-- Absa Fires Baloyi Amid Fidentia Probe; Baloyi to Sue
-- Vernon Wessels
-- 2007-03-20T12:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-20/absa-fires-baloyi-amid-fidentia-probe-baloyi-to-sue-update2-.html

          
          
             Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , South Africa's
biggest retail bank, fired Danisa Baloyi as a director because
of her involvement with Fidentia Asset Management Ltd., the
money manager placed under administration. Baloyi said she plans
to sue Absa for wrongful dismissal.  
 Absa with immediate effect ``terminated the services'' of
Baloyi, a non-executive director of its banking unit and the
holding company, Johannesburg-based Absa said in an e-mailed
statement today. Baloyi said Absa didn't give her the benefit of
the doubt and ``will seek legal recourse'' against the lender,
she said in a separate e-mail.  
 Cape Town-based Fidentia was put under court-ordered
administration on Feb. 1 for allegedly breaching its investment
mandate and stealing client funds. Baloyi is a director of
Living Hands, a Fidentia unit that administered the Living Hands
Umbrella Trust, which may have lost as much as 1.9 billion rand
($257 million) through maladministration, according to court
documents.  
 ``I refused to be pushed off the Absa boards as this would
have given an impression that I have done something wrong,''
Baloyi said. ``I stand guilty of no offence under the Company's
Act, Banks' Act and Absa's regulations. I discharged my
fiduciary duty and my duty of care and skill in a diligently
manner. I was still prepared to continue in this manner until I
was wrongfully removed.''  
 The Living Hands trust, of which Baloyi was a trustee,
managed money on behalf of about 47,000 widows and orphans of
deceased mineworkers, according to court documents filed by
prosecutors.  
 Baloyi's South African Women Investment Holdings Ltd. owns
a 10 percent stake in Fidentia and she is the chairwoman of DB
Consulting International Ltd. She also sits on the boards of  Don
Group (DON)  Ltd., Set Point Technology Holdings Ltd., Enterprise Risk
Management Ltd. and  Metrofile Holdings Ltd. (MFL) , according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Baloyi, South Africa's Businesswoman of the Year in 2003,
was ordered by Fidentia's administrators to repay a loan of 8
million rand she took from Fidentia, Moneyweb, a Johannesburg-based radio and Internet news service, reported on March 8. She
denied there was anything wrong with the loan, repayments on
which hadn't yet started, Moneyweb said.  
 Fidentia Chairman Arthur Brown and director Graham Maddock
were granted bail of 1 million rand each by a Cape Town court
yesterday, pending their trial on charges they stole as much as
2.1 billion rand of clients' funds and violated tax and company
laws. They have denied the allegations.  
 Brown is still in jail after failing to raise bail, the
South African Press Association said, citing Brown's lawyers,
who they didn't identify.  
 Absa is controlled by Barclays Plc, the U.K.'s third-largest bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adrian Cox at   acox2@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        