-- Ex-Citigroup Analyst Is Fined 52,500 Pounds by FSA
-- Megan Murphy
-- 2007-03-20T16:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-20/ex-citigroup-analyst-is-fined-52-500-pounds-by-fsa-update4-.html

          
          
             The Financial Services Authority,
the U.K.'s markets regulator, fined a former  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
equities analyst 52,500 pounds ($103,000) for market misconduct.  
 Roberto Casoni, who headed a team researching Italian
companies, selectively disclosed details of the bank's research
on Italian lender Banca Italease SpA, the London-based FSA said
in a statement today.  
 ``Mr. Casoni failed to observe proper standards of market
conduct by deliberately disclosing his valuation methodology, his
recommendation and target price to external parties prior to its
publication,''  Margaret Cole , the FSA's Director of Enforcement,
said in the statement.  
 While the FSA has fined analysts for  insider trading , this
is the first research-related fine it has imposed, spokesman
David Cliffe said in a telephone interview. The agency said no
one traded on the information received from Casoni and that he
didn't personally profit or intend to manipulate Banca Italease's
share price.  
 Ian Mason, an attorney for Casoni at the London law firm
Barlow Lyde & Gilbert, said the fine was part of a negotiated
settlement and that his client received a 30 percent discount on
the total penalty.  
 Citigroup, which notified the FSA about Casoni's actions,
said that his behavior was a ``clear breach'' of its procedures.
Casoni left the bank in February 2006.  
 ``We're very pleased that the FSA recognizes that we have in
place the appropriate procedures to cover the distribution of
research,'' Citigroup said in a statement. ``We didn't approve
what he did and we don't condone what he did.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Murphy in  London  at 
 mmurphy41@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eamonn Sullivan at 
 esullivan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        