-- Foot Locker Q3 earns flat, to open new chain
-- 
-- Thu Nov 16, 2006 7:19pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/17/businesspro-textiles-footlocker-earns-dc-idUSN1618181820061117

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Foot Locker Inc. ( FL.N ) on Thursday 
posted relatively flat quarterly net income that just beat Wall 
Street earnings and sales estimates and the company raised its 
earnings forecast for the year. 

  Foot Locker also said it plans to open a new retail chain 
called "Footquarters" selling inexpensive footwear for the 
entire family. Some 30 stores will be opened next spring, with 
a possibly rapid expansion to follow.  The world's largest retailer of athletic shoes and apparel, 
which on Wednesday announced a 39 percent increase in its 
quarterly dividend, said net income in its third quarter was 
$65 million, or 42 cents per share, compared with $66 million, 
or 42 cents per share, a year earlier.  Analysts, on average, had expected earnings per share of 41 
cents, on sales of $1.42 billion, according to Reuters 
Estimates.  Foot Locker, Nike Inc.'s ( NKE.N ) largest customer, had 
expected earnings to range between 39 cents and 41 cents per 
share.  Sales rose 1.6 percent to $1.43 billion, while sales at 
established stores, a key gauge of retail performance, fell 0.3 
percent, the New York-based company said.  The company has seen its profit crimped from tepid sales in 
Europe, but Chief Executive Matthew Serra said in a statement 
that the company had stabilized its earnings in that region 
compared to the year-ago period.  Serra said he expects earnings in the fourth quarter to 
increase "several cents per share versus the same quarter last 
year."  Full-year earnings per share from continuing operations are 
expected to range between $1.50 and $1.57, including a charge 
of 8 cents per share related to a write-down of European 
assets.  The company's previous full-year forecast called for 
earnings to range between $1.44 to $1.54 including the charge.  Analysts, on average, are expecting full-year earnings per 
share of $1.55, excluding items, according to Reuters 
Estimates.
  BUYOUT LESS LIKELY?  Foot Locker in August said it had hired Evercore Partners, 
to advise on a range of matters, spurring speculation of a 
buyout.  But some analysts interpreted the higher dividend announced 
on Wednesday as a sign that a buyout would be less likely. The 
resulting less availability of cash on hand would make the 
company less attractive to a potential private equity buyer, 
analysts said in research notes to clients.  The company made no mention of any buyout interest in its 
earnings release. A conference call with analysts is scheduled 
for Friday.  Shares of Foot Locker are down nearly 13 percent from a 
year high of $27.32 set in July after a trade magazine reported 
that a buyout could be imminent.  Shares trade at 14 times full-year 2008 earnings, at a 
discount to rival Finish Line Inc. ( FINL.O ), which trades at 17 
times forward-looking earnings.  After closing at $23.91 on the New York Stock Exchange on 
Thursday, shares of Foot Locker rose 29 cents, or 1 percent, to 
$24.20 in extended trade.