-- Gap quarterly profit down, cuts full-year view
-- By  Chelsea Emery
-- Thu Nov 16, 2006 7:20pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/17/businesspro-retail-gap-earns-dc-idUSN1615929920061117

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Gap Inc. ( GPS.N ) on Thursday posted 
third-quarter earnings that dropped 11 percent as sales fell at 
its Gap and Old Navy stores, and also cut its earnings outlook 
for the year, sending its shares lower. 

  President and Chief Executive Paul Pressler called the 7 
percent decline in same-store sales at Old Navy stores 
"disappointing" and the company also cut its forecast for 
full-year operating margins.  Though the company has rolled out aggressive ad campaigns 
-- including one touting its "RED" T-shirts -- brought in a 
slew of new designers and streamlined its inventory systems, 
sales at many of its stores have continued to slide.  "The holidays are going to be a little difficult for Old 
Navy and Gap is a big unknown," said Pacific Growth Equities 
analyst Christine Chen. "The merchandise has improved but it's 
all about the traffic."  Gap shares dropped to $19.62 in electronic trading after 
closing at $19.80 on the New York Stock Exchange.  Earnings for the company, which also operates the Banana 
Republic chain and Forth & Towne stores geared to women over 
the age of 35, were $189 million, or 23 cents per share, 
compared with $212 million, or 24 cents per share, for the same 
period last year.  Analysts surveyed by Reuters Estimates, on average, had 
expected a profit of 22 cents per share.  For the third quarter, total net sales were flat at $3.86 
billion.  Amid ever-growing competition from a host of companies that 
sell similar casual fashions, shoppers have been passing on 
fashions at Gap's namesake and Old Navy chains.  Discount department stores such as Target Corp. ( TGT.N ) 
have lured away shoppers with their lower clothing prices, 
while Gap's short-lived shift to more fashionable offerings 
like skinny-leg pants, away from jeans and T-shirt basics, 
confused previously loyal customers.  Third-quarter gross margin rose to 37.4 percent, but the 
company cut its full-year operating margin outlook to about 8 
percent, from 8.5 to 9 percent. Analysts scrutinize margin 
trends to help determine how much the company is selling at 
full price.  Same-store sales, a closely watched measure of sales at 
stores open at least a year, fell 7 percent at both Old Navy 
North America and Gap North America. Banana Republic sales rose 
3 percent.  "Our third-quarter results reflect that each brand is at a 
different stage in its turnaround," Pressler said in a 
conference call.
  LOOKING AHEAD  Previously, Gap had forecast full-year earnings of $1.08 to 
$1.12 per share, but the company cut its guidance to $1.01 to 
$1.06, citing the "deceleration of momentum" at Old Navy in 
October and November, and an unexpectedly slow turnaround at 
The Gap stores.  Analysts had forecast full-year earnings of $1.05 per 
share.  "Old Navy's business continues to be challenging 
month-to-date and momentum at Gap brand is slower than we 
expected," Pressler said. "Accordingly, we are lowering our 
earnings guidance for the year."  Analysts have speculated that Gap Inc. shares might rise if 
it spun off units such as Forth & Towne or sold itself to a 
private equity group. In response to a question about possibly 
selling any of its brands, a company representative said, "We 
believe that we can create significant value to our 
shareholders by staying just focused on our turnaround in the 
short run. That's really the focus of the team today."  It was not immediately clear who was speaking.  Gap shares are selling for 16.3 times estimated 2007 
earnings, compared with an average multiple of 17.2 for 
companies in the Dow Jones retail index .DJUSRA.