-- Citigroup wins $3.1 bln battle for Guangdong Bank
-- By George Chen and Brian Kelleher
-- Thu Nov 16, 2006 7:55pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/17/businesspro-financial-china-citigroup-dc-idUSHKG330320061117

 

 HONG KONG  (Reuters) - A Citigroup-led investment team won a 
24.3 billion yuan ($3.1 billion) bid for control of China's 
Guangdong Development Bank, beating out a group led by France's 
Societe Generale ( SOGN.PA ) and giving the U.S. bank a bigger 
foothold in the fast-growing Chinese market. 

  After a year-and-a-half long bidding process, the Citigroup 
( C.N ) team won an 85.6 percent stake in a middle-tier bank with 
billions of dollars of nonperforming loans on its books but 
which has more than 500 branches and a presence in Guangdong, 
China's richest province.  "You could say Citigroup is trying to take a bad house in a 
good neighborhood and fix it up," said John Augustine, chief 
investment strategist at Fifth Third Asset Management, which 
owns 2.6 million Citigroup shares.  Citigroup is hoping to generate more profit 
internationally, and banks globally are scrambling to do 
business in China, whose economy has turned in double-digit 
growth every year for the last five years.  Bank of America Corp. ( BAC.N ), Royal Bank of Scotland 
( RBS.L ), American Express Co. ( AXP.N ) and Allianz ( ALVG.DE ) 
have all booked fat profits from stakes in China's three 
biggest state-run lenders, which have just finished an IPO 
spree worth more than $42 billion.  Citigroup, the largest bank in the U.S., will own 20 
percent of Guangdong Development Bank while U.S. technology 
services company IBM ( IBM.N ) will own 4.74 percent. The 
remaining members of the consortium, all of which are Chinese, 
will own 60.85 percent.  Citigroup is expected to have de facto control of the bank, 
but a source said that decision will not be determined 
definitively until after the sale closes.  Control is a sensitive issue, with China Life Insurance Co. 
( 2628.HK ) ( LFC.N ) and China's State Grid Corp. each taking 20 
percent stakes in the bank. China's CITIC Investment and Puhua 
Investment will respectively take 12.85 and 8 percent stakes.  Guangdong Development Bank said it will work with Citigroup 
on eight areas including risk management, corporate governance, 
asset and debt management, human resources and financial 
innovation.  GDB had more than $6 billion in bad debts at the end of 
last year, according to sources, which makes for a 
nonperforming loan ratio of 25 percent, versus a country 
average of 8 percent.
  OPENING UP  Citigroup's deal comes a day after Beijing released rules 
for the full opening of its banking sector next month as 
required by the World Trade Organization.  China, where individuals hold roughly $2 trillion in 
savings, will allow Citigroup and rivals like HSBC Holdings 
( HSBA.L ) ( 0005.HK ) to incorporate locally and conduct 
yuan-currency business with Chinese retail customers for the 
first time.  Citigroup is also negotiating to increase its stake in 
Shanghai Pudong Development Bank ( 600000.SS ) to 20 percent from 
less than 5 percent, which would give it a sizable presence in 
two of China's wealthiest business hubs.  Citigroup has focused on smaller banks rather than taking 
small stakes in state-controlled behemoths after it missed a 
chance to invest in No. 3 mainland lender China Construction 
Bank ( 0939.HK ), which sold a 9 percent share to Bank of America 
last year for $3 billion.  Citigroup initially sought to buy 40 percent of GDB in a 
move that would have circumvented rules capping individual 
foreign stakes in mainland lenders at 20 percent. Chinese banks 
are also prohibited from being more than 25 percent 
foreign-owned.  Citigroup hopes to generate more than half of its profit 
and revenue outside the United States, up from just over 40 
percent now, Chief Executive Charles Prince has said.  The acquisition will boost Citigroup's expenditures in the 
near term, and by Fifth Third's Augustine's estimates, could 
take five to ten years to really pay off.  Citigroup is under pressure to boost its revenue while 
keeping a lid on expense growth.  Citigroup and SocGen resubmitted scaled-down bids at the 
government's request in June.  SocGen had teamed up with Baoshan Iron and Steel Co. 
( 600019.SS ) and oil refiner Sinopec Corp. ( 0386.HK ).  Deutsche Bank ( DBKGn.DE ) advised GDB during the process.  Citigroup shares rose 19 cents, or 0.38 percent, to close 
at $50.66 on the New York Stock Exchange. In Paris, SocGen 
shares fell 0.69 percent to 130.30 euros.  (Additional reporting by  Tamora Vidaillet ,  Tony Munroe , and 
 Dan Wilchins )  (US$=7.87 yuan)