-- U.S. calls for freer yuan as economic powers meet
-- By Gilbert Le Gras
-- Fri Nov 17, 2006 2:46am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/17/businesspro-group-g20-dc-idUSSP21902120061117

 

 MELBOURNE  (Reuters) - The United States called on China on 
Friday to allow its currency to trade more flexibly as the 
world's biggest economic powers gathered for talks on global 
imbalances and a range of pressing economic concerns. 

  U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Robert Kimmitt, in a 
briefing ahead of Group of 20 (G20) talks due to begin on 
Saturday, said the United States also needs to do its part to 
fix trade imbalances, saying it needed to raise savings rates.  But Kimmitt painted an otherwise upbeat picture of the U.S. 
economy at a time when officials from many other countries, 
which depend on the United States as a vital export market, 
have voiced increasing concern about a possible slowdown in 
growth.  "Let me say this about the U.S. economy, I think it is 
solid in the near and mid-term. There has been some slowdown 
because of the housing market but inflation is low and job 
creation is good," Kimmitt told reporters.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the G20 
countries were due to hold talks on a wide range of economic 
issues, including the Chinese yuan, energy and minerals 
security and the need for more progress on trade 
liberalization.  Kimmitt said Washington's contribution to evening global 
macroeconomic imbalances would be to encourage Americans to 
increase their savings while the government tackled its trade 
deficit with the rest of the world.  But China, which has allowed only a slow and limited 
increase in the yuan's value since Beijing unshackled the 
currency from the U.S. dollar in July 2005, needed to move more 
swiftly, Kimmitt said.  "We believe the Chinese need to accelerate their moves on 
foreign exchange rates," he said.  "I will be meeting with the Chinese central bank governor 
and I expect that issue (foreign exchange flexibility) will 
come up."  Treasurer Peter Costello, from host country Australia, said 
the inflation outlook and its implications for monetary policy 
around the world would be a major topic for the G20, which 
draws together industrialized and developing countries.  "The global economy will be a key issue. Global inflation 
prospects will be discussed, the monetary policy response -- 
not just in Australia but around the world -- where central 
bankers around the world see monetary policy going," Costello 
told reporters.  The meeting will bring together officials from a diverse 
group of countries, including the United States, China, Saudi 
Arabia, South Africa and Indonesia.  Costello said it was natural that issues relating to the 
Chinese yuan would be brought up at such a meeting of finance 
ministers and central bankers.  "But it has to be done delicately. Countries don't 
generally respond to lectures from other countries," Costello 
said.  "But in my experience these issues quite frequently come up 
and I'd be surprised if someone didn't raise it."  While Britain is pressing for global warming issues to be 
discussed at the meeting, Costello said emission questions 
would come up in the context of energy pricing  "We won't be negotiating a Kyoto-type agreement here," 
Costello said.  Two helicopters hovered over downtown Melbourne and streets 
were blocked off around the site of the meeting ahead of 
expected demonstrations.