-- UPDATE 2-John Wiley & Sons to buy Blackwell Publishing
-- 
-- Fri Nov 17, 2006 12:04pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/17/media-blackwell-idUSN1741854620061117

 

  (Recasts, adds Wiley CEO comments, byline, details) 

  By  Paul Thomasch NEW YORK  Nov 17 (Reuters) - Publisher John Wiley & Sons Inc.
( JWa.N ) ( JWb.N ) said on Friday it will buy closely-held Blackwell
Publishing Holdings Ltd. for 572 million pounds ($1.08 billion),
the latest sign of consolidation of academic publishing.  Wiley's purchase of U.K.-based Blackwell, known for its
academic and professional texts, creates a publisher of about
1,250 scholarly peer-reviewed journals in areas ranging from
science and technology to medicine and the humanities.  Class A shares of Wiley fell 64 cents, or 1.6 percent, to
$40.31 in New York Stock Exchange trade.  Several other publishers appear on the brink of
consolidation. Canada's Thomson Corp. TOC.TO plans to put its
education unit up for sale, while Irish educational software
publisher Riverdeep is in talks to buy U.S textbook publisher
Houghton Mifflin.  Wolters Kluwer NV ( WLSNc.AS ), a big publisher of legal, tax
and regulatory and health information, said earlier this month
it has received several expressions of interest in its
education business.  "There's room for more consolidation in the industry and
certainly in higher education," Wiley Chief Executive Officer
William Pesce said in an interview, but added his company had
no current plans for further deals.  As for Blackwell, Pesce said the company has "terrific
relationships" with professional societies and described the
content of its journals and books as "highly regarded."  "Both companies are thriving right now and we became
convinced that we would be even stronger together," he said.  In its latest quarter, Wiley, based in Hoboken, New Jersey,
posted net income of $21.9 million, up about 7.4 percent from a
year earlier.  The deal will be financed through debt and cash, Wiley said.
Together, the companies will have 4,600 employees.  Wiley also said it has received irrevocable commitments
from Blackwell's principal shareholders to sell their
interests.  Blackwell publishes about 825 journals and 600 books a
year. Its Blackwell Ltd. book library service and retailing
business is not part of the deal.



