-- ‘Apple Peel’ Inventors Defend Device Turning IPod Into IPhone
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o n l e y
-- 2010-09-23T07:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/-apple-peel-inventors-defend-device-turning-ipod-into-iphone.html
Pan Lei and Pan Yong, the Chinese
brothers who invented a device to convert  Apple Inc. ’s iPod
Touch into an iPhone, say they are innovators, not copycats.  Their Apple Peel 520 is a case including a circuit board
and battery that wraps around the iPod Touch media player,
allowing calls to be made after software is installed. The
device, which requires breaking into Apple’s operating system,
isn’t a counterfeit iPhone, Pan Lei, 25, told Bloomberg
Television.  “We’re capable of coming up with something original,” Pan
Lei, who quit his job as an interior designer to found Shenzhen,
China-based  Yosion Technology Co.  with his 23-year-old software-
engineer brother, said in an interview broadcast today.  The iPod music player has  sold  more than 220 million units
since it was first released in 2001, according to the company.
Apple first released its iPhone in 2007, climbing to 2.7 percent
of the global market by June this year and sparking copycat
models from Chinese grey market, or Shanzhai, vendors.  “The brothers who invented this Apple Peel probably ran
down a list of how many ways could they annoy  Steve Jobs ,” said
Jonathan Hudis, chairman of the American Bar Association’s
 Trademarks and Unfair Competition  Division. “I could not see
Apple standing by to let this continue, especially if it results
in product shipping into the United States.”  U.S. users can save at least $770 by using the device to be
priced at $60.  Jill Tan , a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Apple,
said any product that’s been tampered with won’t receive
warranty support. Apple is aware of Apple Peel, she said,
declining to comment further.  “Very Creative”  Apple Peel sells for 520 yuan ($78) on  Taobao.com , China’s
largest online shopping site. Yosion agreed to offer the device
in the U.S. with New Orleans-based  Go Solar USA Inc. , whose
 website  teaches users to “jailbreak” the iPod Touch in
preparation for installing Apple Peel software.  U.S. users must sign a two-year contract with  AT&T Inc.  for
the iPhone,  paying  at least $39.99 a month and $99 for the
iPhone 3GS, or a total of $1,059. The  iPod Touch  sells from
$229.  “We’re also very creative,” Pan Lei said. “Not just
getting a Nokia phone and copy, getting Apple and copy, or a
Samsung phone to copy as well. It shouldn’t be like that.”  Apple’s iPod music player has sold more than 220 million
units since it was first released in 2001, according to the
company. Apple first released its iPhone in 2007, climbing to
2.7 percent of the global market by June this year and sparking
copycat models from Chinese grey market, or Shanzhai, vendors.  Apple sold 8.7 million iPhones globally in the second
quarter, taking 2.7 percent of the market and trailing Nokia Oyj
and Samsung Electronics Co., according to  Gartner Inc.  Apple
sold 1.7 million of its latest handset, the iPhone 4, within
three days of its June 24 release, it said in a  statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Conley  in Hong Kong at 
 mconley3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 