-- Madagascar Says May Delay Oil Licensing Until Next Year, After Elections
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 2010-09-23T14:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/madagascar-says-may-delay-oil-licensing-until-next-year-after-elections.html
Madagascar may delay an oil
exploration licensing round until at least next year as the
government focuses its attention on preparing for elections,
Mines and Oil Minister  Mamy Ratovomalala  said.  A decision on whether to go ahead with an auction of
offshore blocks next month will be decided by the Cabinet,
Ratovomalala said in an interview today in the capital,
Antananarivo.  “It’s not sure,” he said. “It’s a governmental decision.
For the moment we are more focused on the elections.”  The Indian Ocean island nation is the world’s biggest
vanilla grower and largest sapphire producer, while its oil and
mineral wealth have attracted investors including London-based
 Rio Tinto Plc ,  Total SA  and Toronto-based  Sherritt International
Corp . A political crisis since  Andry Rajoelina , with military
backing, ousted  Marc Ravalomanana  as President in March last
year has stalled the award of new oil and mining exploration
licenses.  The government will hold local elections in December and a
presidential vote is expected in 2011.  Madagascar postponed an auction of about 50 offshore blocks
until October from 2009 because of the political turmoil. It
planned to issue 1,200 mining exploration permits this year,
Gerard Rakototafika, director general at the ministry of mines,
said on Jan. 11.  The government will eventually offer half of its available
oil blocks and will not rush into a decision on when they will
be made available, Ratovomalala said.  State Share  “We have 296 blocks, and we’re thinking of doing half of
them eventually,” he said. “But we will first have to look at
the international market. We have to be sure because when we
launch this offer to tender, there will be lots of people
interested.”  The country will take back permits from mining companies
that aren’t exploring and will, in future, want the state to own
a share of new mining projects, Ratovomalala said.  “This is what we are doing with speculators,” he said.
“We will take back the permits and put them out to tender.”  This is unlikely to happen before a new government is in
place, Ratovomalala said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at 
1999 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  