-- Swiss Stocks Fall to Three-Week Low; Credit Suisse, UBS Drop
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-09-23T16:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/adecco-petroplus-roche-ubs-xstrata-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks fell to the lowest in
more than three weeks, as banking shares dropped on renewed
concern about the impact of the sovereign-debt crisis,
offsetting a gain in Transocean Ltd.  Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG dropped 3.2 percent and
1.9 percent, respectively as banks declined across Europe.
Actelion Ltd. fell for a second day as Exane BNP Paribas
downgraded the stock. Transocean increased for the first time in
five days.  The  Swiss Market Index  dropped 41.68, or 0.7 percent, to
6,303.2, at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, a third day of
declines and the lowest level since Aug. 31. The broader  Swiss
Performance Index  slipped 0.6 percent.  “The markets remains nervous,” said  Giorgio Mascherone ,
chief investment officer at Deutsche Bank AG in Milan. He noted
that “macro news flow continues to be uneven and gold trades
near record levels, spurring uncertainty.” Still, he
highlighted that “the equity market is undervalued” and he
expects “the fourth quarter not to be negative both for
equities and bonds.”  The cost to protect Ireland’s debt from default climbed to
a record, leading a surge in European sovereign credit-default
swaps, on concern Anglo Irish Bank Corp. won’t pay back
bondholders in full.  Irish GDP  Ireland’s gross domestic product shrank 1.2 percent in the
second quarter from the first quarter and 1.8 percent from the
year-earlier period, the country’s statistics office said in
Dublin today.  The yield on Portuguese 10-year bonds rose to a record
relative to benchmark German bunds today as the central
government shortfall widened in the first eight months.  Stocks pared losses from earlier today after a measure of
U.S. leading indicators rose in August more than forecast,
suggesting the world’s largest economy may keep expanding
through early next year, while a separate report showed existing
home sales grew.  The better-than-estimated data overshadowed a report that
showed an unexpected increase in U.S. jobless claims, a sign
companies remain cautious about hiring as growth slows.      
Credit Suisse , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, dropped 3.2
percent to 43.30 Swiss francs. A gauge for European banks
dropped 0.8 percent, the second-worst performer among the 19
industries in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  UBS, the country’s biggest bank, declined 1.9 percent to
17.27 francs.  ABB Ltd. , the world’s largest builder of electricity
networks, lost 1 percent to 20.50 francs.  Actelion, Richemont  Actelion retreated 1 percent to 43.58 francs. Switzerland’s
largest biotechnology company was downgraded at Exane, which
lowered its recommendation to “underperform” from “neutral.”  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the world’s largest jewelry
maker, fell 1.3 percent to 44.56 francs. Swatch Group AG, the
maker of Omega and Breguet watches, dropped 1.3 percent to
354.90 francs.  Holcim Ltd., the world’s second-biggest cement maker, lost
1.2 percent to 63.60 francs, tracking losses in construction
shares across Europe.  Petroplus Holdings AG  lost 1.7 percent to 11.58 francs.
Output at French refineries owned by Total SA and Petroplus
Holdings is lower due to a strike, a union representative said.  Deliveries to and from the plants is blocked at many sites,
CGT representative  Charles Foulard  said by telephone.  Transocean, the owner of the Deepwater Horizon offshore rig
that sank in April, increased 1.5 percent to 59.30 francs,
ending a four-day loss.  Nationale Suisse  rose 1.9 percent to 29.70 francs. The
company said first-half profit was 49.8 million Swiss francs
($50.4 million). Results were “solid, driven by the Swiss non-
life market,” Vontobel AG wrote in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 