-- Mahindra Denies It Broke Sales Contract, Still Aims to Sell Trucks in U.S.
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-09-23T19:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/mahindra-denies-dealer-s-claims-still-plans-to-sell-light-trucks-in-u-s-.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , India’s
largest sport-utility vehicle maker, said it still plans to
introduce its light trucks in the U.S., rejecting claims that it
broke a distribution contract with a U.S. dealer.  Global Vehicles USA Inc., the Alpharetta, Georgia-based
dealer, asked an Atlanta federal court in June to prohibit
Mahindra from conducting sales in the U.S. through any other
distributor. Mahindra is seeking to have the suit dismissed.  “Mahindra believes that its position will be upheld in the
legal proceedings,” the Mumbai-based company said today in a
 statement  on its website. “Mahindra will endeavor not to allow
this dispute and the changed business circumstances to affect
its plans to introduce its vehicles to the United States.”  The Indian automaker had sought to enter the U.S. by late
2009 with its diesel-powered  Scorpio  pickup, to be followed by
the small Bolero SUV. That plan was held up more than a year
because of delays in obtaining U.S. certification for its
models. Mahindra said in August its truck passed U.S. emissions
requirements.  Mahindra provided no details today on when U.S. sales might
begin. The company, through Global Vehicles, had arranged for
336 U.S. dealers to carry its vehicles.  A call to  John Perez , Global Vehicles’ chief executive
officer, wasn’t immediately returned.  Global Vehicles said in its complaint that Mahindra “in
bad faith” engaged in protracted contract negotiations for
services relating to emission tests prescribed by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and safety tests prescribed by
the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or NHTSA.  The case is Global Vehicles USA Inc. v. Mahindra & Mahindra
Ltd., 110cv1818, U.S. District Court for the Northern District
of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  