-- Thai Court Upholds Injunction Halting Sale of High-Speed Mobile Licenses
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-09-23T11:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/thai-court-upholds-injunction-halting-sale-of-high-speed-mobile-licenses.html
Thailand’s Supreme Administrative
Court upheld an injunction halting the sale of high-speed
mobile-phone service licenses, a delay that sent
telecommunications stocks plunging.  “As there is no bidding yet, the damage will be minimal,”
Judge Pornchai Manassiripen said in his ruling. “By contrast,
if the bidding proceeds and the licenses are issued, there will
be vast damage and more lawsuits.”  The auction now must wait until the Constitutional Court
determines whether the  National Telecommunications Commission 
has the authority to conduct the sale. The regulator first
planned the auction in 2005, a year before the military ousted
former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  in a coup.  The uncertainty surrounding the sale prompted bidders
 Advanced Info Service Pcl , Total Access Communication Pcl and
True Corp. to fall sharply after last week’s injunction.
Thailand is one of the only countries in Southeast Asia without
widespread 3G technology, which allows faster download speeds.  “The company will respect the court’s decision, but we
regret that Thailand is yet to have a 3G system,” Total Access
Chief Executive Officer  Tore Johnsen  said after the ruling. “We
believe Thailand still needs 3G and wireless broadband for the
country’s economic development.”  Advanced Info, Thailand’s biggest mobile-phone company,
fell 1.1 percent today, while  Total Access  dropped 1.3 percent
and True declined 17 percent. Since the Sept. 16 court ruling,
Advanced Info has lost 7.4 percent, Total Access has dropped 14
percent and True is down 40 percent. The  SET Index  has risen 2.4
percent in that time.  Shares May Fall Further  A further drop in share prices presents a “buying
opportunity” for Advanced Info and Total Access because of
their “strong financial position,” Solaya Na Songkhla, an
analyst at Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl, wrote in a report
today.  State-run  CAT Telecom Pcl , the plaintiff, said the current
regulator can’t sell the licenses because its authority derives
from the 1997 constitution, which was scrapped during the 2006
coup. Lawmakers have yet to approve a bill establishing the new
regulator mandated by the 2007 constitution.  The NTC respects the court’s decision and will end the
auction, commissioner  Natee Sukonrat  told reporters.  “We didn’t expect this to happen,” he said. “3G is a
long lesson dating back to 2005. We need to take more time to
look into the details carefully.”  ‘Bad News’ for the Industry  The timing of the 3G auction depends on how quickly the
Constitutional Court rules on the NTC’s authority,  Prasit Sujiravorakul , an analyst at Bualuang Securities Pcl, wrote in a
report today. The sale could be delayed to the second half of
2012 if the court rules that the new regulator must oversee the
process, he said.  “This constitutes bad news for the telecoms sector,” he
wrote. “We have no idea when the Constitutional Court will hear
the case or how long it will take.”  The government plans to expedite a law to set up the new
telecommunications regulator, Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
said Sept. 19. An annual investment of $1 billion in advanced
mobile broadband networks may generate $2 billion in annual
stimulus for Thailand and create 80,000 jobs per year,
consulting firm LECG Ltd. said in a  report  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  