-- Thai Legal Maze After Coup Delays Investments From Telenor, Dow
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-09-24T04:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/thai-legal-maze-after-coup-delays-investments-from-telenor-dow.html
Thailand’s failure to auction
licenses for high-speed mobile-phone services this week may have
been sealed four years ago, when the military ousted  Thaksin Shinawatra  from power and began drafting a new constitution.  The nation’s highest administrative court yesterday said a
constitutional review is needed to decide whether regulators
have authority to conduct a sale, causing phone company stocks
to fall on concern revenue from new services will be delayed.
Last year, shares in industrial companies slumped after a
similar decision halted 76 projects approved by the government.  Southeast Asia’s second-largest economy last year attracted
less foreign investment than Vietnam or Singapore, and the court
decisions may undermine efforts to upgrade infrastructure and
attract more funds. Government and policy instability were cited
as the  biggest concerns  for doing business in Thailand among
13,000 executives surveyed in the World Economic Forum’s  2010-
2011 Global Competitiveness Report .  “This just highlights the economic cost of the coup and
the legacy of military rule that the country is still paying
for,” said  Andrew Yates , head of foreign sales at Asia Plus
Securities Pcl, Thailand’s third-biggest brokerage by market
capitalization. “The biggest loser is the customer.”  Thailand attracted $6.1 billion in foreign direct
investment last year, third in Southeast Asia behind Singapore
and Vietnam, Asian Development Bank  statistics  show. In 2006,
which marked the end of Thaksin’s five years as prime minister,
Thailand drew five times more investment than Vietnam.  ‘Legal Uncertainties’  “The problem is that the laws to implement the
constitutional arrangements haven’t been passed,” said  Alastair Henderson , a Bangkok-based partner at  Herbert Smith LLP . “The
broader impact is foreign investors looking at Thailand and
saying these legal uncertainties make me wonder whether that’s
the place I want to put my major Southeast Asian investment.”  In September 2009, a court halted 76 government-approved
petrochemical, refinery and power projects at the Map Ta Phut
industrial estate because they didn’t comply with Article 67 of
the  2007 constitution . The clause bans all projects that don’t
have environment and health impact assessments, public
consultations and opinions from legal experts.  The ruling hindered the investment plans of  Dow Chemical
Co. , the largest U.S. chemicals maker, and BlueScope Steel Ltd.,
Australia’s largest steelmaker, as well as Bangkok-based  PTT Pcl 
and Siam Cement Pcl. A court lifted the injunction Sept. 3 after
the government completed a list of activities subject to
environmental and health impact studies.  5-Year Delay  Similarly, last week the Central Administrative Court
stopped an auction of licenses to provide third-generation
mobile-phone technology, which allows for faster downloads. The
sale was scheduled to start Sept. 20.  The injunction, which was upheld by the country’s Supreme
Administrative Court yesterday, further delays government plans
for the sale first announced in 2005, leaving Thailand as one of
the only countries in Southeast Asia without widespread 3G
technology.  State-run  CAT Telecom , the plaintiff, said the current
regulator can’t sell the licenses because its authority is
derived from the 1997 constitution scrapped during the coup.
Lawmakers have yet to approve a bill establishing the new
regulator mandated by the 2007 constitution.  “We are now trapped in a vacuum between regulators,” said
 Thana Thienachariya , chief commercial officer of Total Access
Communication Pcl, Thailand’s second-biggest mobile-phone
operator. “The government has to play a bigger role in
supporting the old regulator or pushing ahead the new one. They
need to take some responsibility for this mess.”  Expediting Regulator  The government will expedite a law to establish a new
telecommunications industry regulator, Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said yesterday after the ruling. The 3G bidding may
take place in the second half of next year, he said.  Thailand’s three bidding companies recouped some of their
losses from the court ruling today after Korn’s comments. Since
the Sept. 16 court ruling,  Advanced Info Service Pcl , the
country’s biggest mobile-phone operator, has fallen 6.9 percent.
Total Access, controlled by Norway’s  Telenor ASA , tumbled 12
percent. True Corp. plunged 36 percent.  Since the constitution took effect in 2007, Thailand has
seen four prime ministers and violent street protests. Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who took power in 2008 after a court
disbanded the ruling pro-Thaksin party for election fraud, has
kept Bangkok under a state of emergency since May, when he used
troops to end protests that left 89 dead.  Investment Approvals Rising  The legal uncertainty is limited to a few sectors and
increased investment approvals show that investor confidence
remains strong, said  Kiat Sittheeamorn , the country’s trade
representative and a member of Abhisit’s party. The Board of
Investment approved 942 projects valued at 334 billion baht
($10.9 billion) through August, up from 590 projects worth 127
billion baht in the same period last year, statistics  show .  Thailand’s economy may grow as much as 7.5 percent in 2010,
the fastest pace in 15 years, according to a July 23 forecast by
the central bank. Improving prospects for the economy have
helped to drive a 29 percent gain in the benchmark  SET Index 
this year and lifted the baht to a 13-year high.  Thailand is “slowly moving back to normal” as the
government and courts clear legal hurdles to investments, said
Pongsak Assakul, vice chairman of the  Thai Chamber of Commerce .  “If we have a problem, we can solve it,” Pongsak said.
“Once we set the rules of the game, hopefully we won’t have any
more surprises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  