-- Thailand Attracts Foreign Spending, Boosting Amata, Hemaraj, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-09-23T02:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/thailand-attracts-foreign-spending-boosting-amata-hemaraj-jpmorgan-says.html
Thailand will attract increased
foreign investment and infrastructure spending, a “more
significant driver” of growth that will boost industrial estate
developers such as  Amata Corp. , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Foreign direct investment that increased to $7.4 billion in
the first half of 2010 is poised to accelerate in 2011,  Sriyan Pietersz  and  Adrian Mowat  wrote in a report dated yesterday.
Japan and China may be “key players” in the spending that may
also boost Hemaraj Land & Development Pcl and Rojana Industrial
Park Pcl, the analysts wrote.  Ford Motor Co. and Mazda Motor Corp. said in August they
plan to spend $350 million to expand a jointly owned pickup
truck factory in Thailand, shrugging off the country’s worst
riots in almost two decades. Investment commitments from
automobile and electronics companies that include  Nissan Motor
Co.  and Toshiba Corp. exceed $2 billion, according to JPMorgan.  “The strength of the Japanese yen could drive another wave
of investment into Thailand, historically Japan’s largest
investment destination in Southeast Asia,” the analysts said.
“We also see scope for increasing investment by Chinese
corporates or multinational corporates operating in China as
cost pressures accelerate.”  The increased infrastructure and corporate spending may
help banks and other companies such as  Glow Energy Pcl  and Thai
Tap Water Supply Co., according to the analysts.  Yen’s Strength  Japan’s yen climbed to a 15-year high against the U.S.
dollar, prompting the government this month to sell the currency
for the first time since 2004. In China, foreign companies Honda
Motor Co. and  Foxconn Technology Group  have been forced to raise
wages following strikes and suicide attempts.  As foreign investment accelerates, domestic capital
expenditure is likely to lag behind given the “slack” in
overall capacity, with utilization rates at about 67 percent in
July, according to JPMorgan.  Still, capacity utilization rates in the petroleum,
chemical, pulp and paper, and construction materials industries
are at relatively elevated levels, offering “scope for a modest
recovery” in capital expenditure, the brokerage said.  “Given the relatively large scale of operations and high
capital intensity in these sectors, corporates may seize the
opportunity for expansion given Thai baht strength and cheap
cost of funds,” the analysts said.  Thailand’s economy may grow as much as 7.5 percent in 2010,
the fastest pace in 15 years, according to a July 23 forecast by
the central bank. Improving prospects for the economy have
helped to drive a 29 percent gain in the benchmark  SET Index 
this year and lifted the baht to a 13-year high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  