-- Airgas Reappoints CEO McCausland to Board of Directors a Week After Ouster
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-09-23T16:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/airgas-reappoints-ceo-mccausland-to-board-of-directors-a-week-after-ouster.html
Airgas Inc. , the industrial-gas
distributor fighting a $5.5 billion hostile takeover by  Air
Products & Chemicals Inc. , reappointed Chief Executive Officer
 Peter McCausland  to the board a week after he was ousted.  The board unanimously voted to instate  McCausland  as a
company director and to appoint director  John C. van Roden Jr. 
as chairman, Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas said today in a
statement.  The board  was expanded to 10 members to accommodate
McCausland, the former chairman who lost his seat along with two
other directors to a slate of Air Products nominees at an annual
meeting Sept. 15.  McCausland created Airgas in 1982 by buying a packaged-gas
company for $5.3 million and made more than 400 acquisitions,
grabbing 25 percent of the market for industrial gases such as
argon and oxygen sold in small quantities. He was the only
director to serve as chairman until today.  At a trial scheduled to begin Oct. 4, Air Products will ask
Delaware Chancery Court Judge  William B. Chandler III  to force
Airgas to negotiate a merger. Airgas, which has said the $65.50-
a-share offer is inadequate, is asking Chandler to void a bylaw
change approved by shareholders intended to accelerate Air
Products’ takeover of the board by moving up the next annual
meeting to Jan. 18.  Holding a second annual meeting in four months isn’t
permitted under Delaware corporation law, Airgas argues.  The bylaw change also is invalid because it requires the
support of 67 percent of shares entitled to vote, Airgas
repeated in today’s statement. The measure received 51.8 percent
of votes cast.  Van Roden has been a director since October 2006, Airgas
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 