-- Airlines to Blur Class Distinctions by Selling Perks in Coach, Study Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-09-23T13:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/airlines-to-blur-classes-by-selling-perks-in-coach-study-says.html
Airlines will blur the distinction
between business class and coach in coming years as they offer a
greater variety of ticket options to boost sales and exploit new
communications technology, according to a study released today.  The changes will result in the creation of “virtual
classes” based on optional extras, the report from  Oxford
Economics  and travel-technology provider  Amadeus IT Holding SA 
says. Carriers will also boost cooperation with high-speed rail
providers and seek to tap markets for onward travel.  “The future of the aircraft cabin is set to go through
significant changes as customers are able to share their
preferences with airlines,” the report says. “Business class
is most likely to survive and thrive, but classes in general are
likely to become increasingly fragmented.”  The introduction of premium-economy seats with more space
than coach at significantly less cost than business berths began
the trend toward more personalized flights, according to the
study. Future offerings are likely to include early check-in for
economy travelers, first access to cabin luggage space, more
food choices and paid-for passes to premium lounges.  Full-service carriers have already started to look beyond
ticket sales for revenue, with  UAL Corp.’s  United Airlines and
 AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines bringing in 3 billion euros ($4
billion) between them, according to the report. Airlines will
increasingly have to look beyond flight service to make money,
said Amadeus’s  Philippe Chereque , one of the report’s authors.  “Airlines will make more revenue if they think about
additional services,” Chereque said in an interview today.
“The travel experience itself, before or after the trip, there
you have a lot of things to be either bundled or added.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  