-- Allana Potash May Begin Extracting Mineral From Ethiopian Deposit in 2013
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-09-23T14:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/allana-may-begin-extracting-ethiopian-potash-deposit-in-2013.html
Allana Potash Corp. , a Canadian
explorer for the fertilizer ingredient, may begin extracting the
mineral from  Ethiopia ’s northeastern Afar region in 2013, said
Vice President Nejib  Abba Biya .  The company, based in Toronto, has been exploring the
Dallol Depression in Ethiopia and had “very, very encouraging”
results, Nejib said in a mobile-phone interview today from Addis
Ababa, the capital. Allana expects to extract 1 billion metric
tons from its 150 square-kilometer (58 square-mile) concession.  The depression contains “a few billion tons” of deposits,
he said. “It will last for a long time.”  Ethiopia is the cheapest place to extract potash, after
Jordan, because the deposits are only 100 meters (328 feet)
below the surface, compared with 1,000 meters in Brazil and
Canada where the grade is the same, according to Biya. Potash is
a mineral containing potassium that is used as plant food.  In addition to Allana,  BHP Billiton Plc , Sainik Potash Plc
of India, and G&B African Resources Ltd., based in the British
Virgin Islands, are also prospecting in Afar, Mines and Energy
Minister  Alemayehu Tegenu  said in a mobile phone interview today
from Addis Ababa.  Ethiopia’s government plans to build a railway link to Afar
as part of a five-year economic plan announced last month. The
potential for potash exploration in the region is “huge,”
Alemayehu said.  Mining in the area may last as long as 50 years, during
which time Ethiopia’s government will levy a corporate tax rate
of as much as 30 percent “once Allana’s costs have been
covered,” Nejib said.  “It is a very exciting time for Ethiopia,” he said. “A lot
of investors are looking. It’s one of the least explored
countries in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 