-- AMD Lowers Sales Forecast, Citing Notebook Demand
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-09-23T21:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/amd-lowers-sales-forecast-citing-sluggish-notebook-demand-in-europe-u-s-.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. , Intel
Corp.’s main competitor in computer processors, said third-
quarter sales will be less than it had predicted, citing weaker
demand for notebook computers in Europe and North America.  Sales will decline between 1 percent and 4 percent from the
$1.65 billion it recorded in the second quarter, Sunnyvale,
California-based AMD said today in a statement. In July, the
 company  had said that sales would rise “seasonally” in the third
quarter from the preceding three months.  The announcement follows a similar forecast reduction by
Intel, which cited weaker consumer demand in developed markets.
The outlook also mirrors warnings from other chipmakers,
including  Texas Instruments Inc.  AMD, which has been winning
market share in notebooks, doesn’t have the presence in servers
and business machines to offset the drop in consumer spending,
said  Hans Mosesmann , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates.  “It was a matter of time after Intel,” said Mosesmann, who
is based in St. Petersburg, Florida. He has a “neutral”  rating 
on AMD stock. “After a strong first half, the prospects of
getting to normal seasonality was tough.”  Under the new forecast, sales this quarter would be $1.63
billion at most. That compares with the $1.71 billion average of
 estimate  in a Bloomberg survey, compiled before today’s
announcement.  Intel Cut  On Aug. 27, Intel, the world’s biggest chipmaker, cut its
third-quarter revenue forecast, citing weaker-than-expected
consumer demand for personal computers in mature markets.  That lower forecast highlighted a divergence between
consumers, who are increasingly tightening belts, and companies,
which lifted demand for computers and other technology gear.
Intel said purchasing by business customers will keep  gross
margins  from declining from the near-record 66 percent it is
predicting for the third-quarter.  AMD rose 15 cents to $6.55 in late  trading  after gaining 14
cents to $6.40 on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have
tumbled 34 percent this year.  The company plans to make its full third-quarter report on
Oct. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  