-- Amherst-to-Yale Funding Need Follows Harvard's Crisis Over Cash
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/amherst-to-yale-funding-need-follows-harvard-endowment-s-crisis-over-cash.html
Harvard University, Yale University
and Stanford University, with combined endowments about equal to
the gross domestic product of Lithuania, are among 15 of the
wealthiest colleges and universities that borrowed $7.2 billion
because their highbrow investing left them suddenly strapped for
cash.  The unprecedented borrowing took place as the universities
eliminated at least 2,000 jobs, froze faculty salaries and
scaled back expansion plans. The taxable bonds are also
straining their operating budgets, currently costing the 15
institutions about $360 million a year in interest, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The loans and interest are the continuing price the
colleges are paying for embracing the endowment investing model
pioneered by Yale’s  David Swensen . The approach produced market-
beating profits by loading up on real estate, private equity and
hedge funds. During the worst collapse of credit since the Great
Depression, the reliance on hard-to-sell assets left them short
on cash both to meet investment commitments and run their
campuses.  “They thought they were terribly clever and they took
those risks and now they are paying for them,” said Andrew
Hacker, professor emeritus of political science at the City
University of New York’s Queens College, and co-author of
“Higher Education?: How Colleges Are Wasting Our Money and
Failing Our Kids -- and What We Can Do About It” (Times Books,
2010).  Taxable Bonds  At least 15 private nonprofit colleges and universities
sold bonds to raise cash after the credit collapse, including
six of eight schools in the Ivy League -- a group of selective
institutions in the northeast U.S. -- according to reports from
Moody’s Investors Service. Most of the securities mature in
2019.  The 15 colleges have never sold so much in taxable, long-
term bonds before, according to John Nelson, head of Moody’s
higher education group. The borrowing from December 2008 to
November 2009 left the schools with 25 percent more debt on
their books, Moody’s reports show. Overall, indebtedness of the
287 private, nonprofit universities tracked by the New York
ratings company rose to a record $75.4 billion in 2009, almost
doubling in five years, Nelson said.  The bonds were taxable, rather than tax-exempt, which carry
lower interest rates. That’s because much of the proceeds were
used as working capital to pay for operations and bolster
reserves to guard against another panic, according to bond
documents, rating reports and interviews with school finance
officials. Some colleges also refinanced taxable commercial
paper, which matures within a year.  Harvard’s Dilemma  Harvard, with $36.6 billion in its endowment at the end of
fiscal 2008 -- more than any other institution of higher
education in the world -- was forced to sell $1.5 billion of
taxable bonds in December 2008, three months after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt, in the depths of the
recession, and is paying $87.5 million a year in interest,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based institution raised more than $800 million of
working capital after it retired some debt and paid to end
interest-rate swaps, according to its  annual report  and bond
documents.  No Omelets  The university, which suffered the  biggest drop  in the year
ended June 30, 2009, as its endowment fell 30 percent to $25.7
billion, removed hot breakfasts from weekday dormitory menus,
reduced shuttle bus service between campuses, offered retirement
incentives to staff and cut capital spending by 50 percent,
including shelving an expansion in neighboring Allston, to help
close budget gaps.  John Longbrake , a Harvard spokesman, declined
to comment.  Yale, whose endowment  fell  29 percent to $16.3 billion in
fiscal 2009, borrowed $1 billion in November at a cost of $29
million a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
university, which cut $350 million from its annual budget by
postponing $2 billion in construction, eliminating at least 600
jobs and reducing the number of new graduate students, used the
money to add about “$190 million of additional working capital
liquidity,” and pare existing debt, according to bond
documents.  Steepest Losses  Tom Conroy , a Yale spokesman, and Swensen, the university’s
endowment chief, declined to comment.  Universities with the  biggest endowments  faced the most
severe cash crises because, in addition to suffering the
steepest losses, they were the most dependent on investment
earnings to finance their operating budgets, said William
Jarvis, head of research at the Commonfund Institute, a division
of the Wilton, Connecticut-based money manager Commonfund.
Borrowing to raise cash was cheaper than selling assets tumbling
in value and easier than making even deeper spending cuts, he
said.  Harvard last year  spent  $1.44 billion out of its endowment
to subsidize operations, or 37.6 percent of its total budget.
Yale in fiscal 2009  spent  $1.15 billion of its endowment,
accounting for about 45 percent of its budget, according to
Yale’s website.  “Normally when you have a calamitous event the worst
impacts are on the weakest organizations,” Nelson of Moody’s
said. “In this case, you had the strongest universities have
the most-severe impacts because they were the dependent on
investment income for a higher share of their operating
budgets.”  Highest Rate  Top-rated Harvard borrowed at the highest rate for the 15
schools, selling 30-year bonds as credit markets collapsed that
paid a coupon of 6.5 percent, 3.37 percentage points more the
comparable Treasuries. Yale, which is also rated AAA, paid the
lowest, selling $1 billion of 5-year bonds almost a year later
at an annual rate of 2.9 percent.  Borrowing money was cheaper than the alternative, which was
selling “the really good parts of the private equity
portfolio,” said Tallman Trask, the chief executive officer of
Duke University. The school in Durham, North Carolina, sold $500
million at rates as high as 5.15 percent in January 2009.  The endowment losses marked a reversal after the
universities with the largest endowments produced the  biggest
gains  for more than a decade by shifting investments away from
public stocks and bonds into an  ever-growing share  of
alternative assets. The strategy was popularized by Yale’s
Swensen, who altered the university’s endowment approach after
he was hired in 1985. Yale had the best-performing university
endowment in the decade preceding the recession, growing at an
annual average rate of  16.3 percent  through June 30, 2008.  Plummeting Returns  Colleges were so confident of ever-increasing returns that
they directed their cash on hand into the endowments to make
more money, further fueling the crisis as returns plummeted.
 Harvard  lost $1.8 billion of the $6.5 billion in its general
operating account in the year ended June 30, 2009, because most
of the cash was invested in the endowment.  “The entire structure was based on this idea that
liquidity was free,” said Commonfund’s Jarvis.  As schools manage their money more conservatively to
preserve cash, they will be unable to reproduce the returns they
earned before the credit markets seized up, said Ronald
Salluzzo, a college finance consultant at Attain, LLC, in
Vienna, Virginia.  Harvard said on Sept. 9 its investments rose 11 percent to
$27.4 billion in the year ended June 30, trailing the 13 percent
average earned by a broad group of institutions compiled by
Wilshire Associates.  Princeton, Stanford  Princeton University borrowed $1 billion in January 2009 at
a rate as high as 5.7 percent to fund operating expenses and
expects to spend all the money by the end of this year,
according Emily Aronson, a spokeswoman. She declined to
elaborate. The school, in Princeton, New Jersey, last year
postponed $695 million in construction projects as it sought to
close a budget gap.  Stanford University, near Palo Alto, California, the third-
wealthiest university in the U.S., borrowed $1 billion in April
2009 as its endowment headed to a 27 percent drop. As the crisis
lifted, it placed $800 million of the proceeds into money-
market-like accounts, which provide ready access while earning
next to nothing. It’s paying $36 million a year in interest for
the money.  The average money-market fund paid an annualized  yield  of
0.1 percent as of Sept. 15, according to Crane Data LLC, a
money-fund research company in Westborough, Massachusetts.  “At that point we didn’t know if things would get a lot
worse,” said Randy Livingston, Stanford’s chief financial
officer. “It gives us a great sense of security particularly
given the dramatic continued volatility in the market.”  Stanford’s Cutbacks  Stanford dismissed 412, or 3.2 percent, of its non-faculty
workers last year, froze about 50 faculty searches, postponed
$1.1 billion in construction projects and closed its physics
library.  The other universities and colleges that sold taxable bonds
at the height of the credit crisis were: Brown University in
Providence, Rhode Island; Amherst College in Amherst,
Massachusetts; Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee;
Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore; Emory University in
Atlanta; Cornell University in Ithaca, New York; the University
of Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana; Pepperdine University in
Malibu, California; George Washington University in Washington
and Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, according to
Moody’s. Many of the institutions said in bond documents and
annual reports they used the proceeds for working capital
without disclosing details.  Notre Dame  “We felt like we’re going to be OK but it doesn’t hurt to
have liquidity right now,” said John A. Sejdinaj, vice
president for finance at the University of Notre Dame in South
Bend, Indiana.  Notre Dame put $150 million it borrowed in January 2009
into an existing pool of working capital where the balance is
invested in money-market funds, Sejdinaj said. The university,
is paying about $6 million a year in interest because it felt it
needed an additional source of liquidity beyond lines of credit
and commercial paper, Sejdinaj said.  “We just decided in that environment we should have a
little extra,” Sejdinaj said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net ; 