-- Apple Passes PetroChina to Become Second-Largest Stock
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-09-23T20:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/apple-passes-petrochina-to-become-world-s-second-largest-stock.html
Apple Inc.  briefly overtook
PetroChina Co. to become the second-biggest company in the world
by market value, lifted by  investors  betting on growth prospects
for the iPhone, Macintosh and iPad.  Apple  climbed as high as $292.76 in intraday trading on the
Nasdaq Stock Market, giving it a market value of $267.5 billion,
the second-highest company behind Exxon Mobil Corp. By 4 p.m.
New York time, Apple slipped to $288.92, putting the company’s
value at $263.9 billion, less than PetroChina’s $265.5 billion
valuation.  Since introducing the iPhone in January 2007,  Apple’s stock 
has more than tripled. The device now accounts for almost 30
percent of the company’s  revenue . Earlier this year, Apple
introduced the iPad tablet computer, which is already outselling
the nine-year-old iPod.  “There’s no reason at all Apple can’t grow much, much
bigger,” said  Jane Snorek , an analyst with Minneapolis-based
First American Funds, which has more than $100 billion under
management, with Apple as its largest technology holding. Apple
still has a small portion of the market for phones and
computers, she said.  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in
Minneapolis, said today that Apple will sell 21 million iPads
next year, an increase from his earlier estimate of 14.5
million. The company is expanding distribution channels, selling
more internationally and increasing sales to businesses. Apple’s
stock could reach $390 a share, Munster said. Analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg on  average  predict a share price of $342.81 in the
next 12 months.  Threat From Android  Apple may have a hard time meeting those projections, said
 Keith Goddard , president and chief executive officer of Capital
Advisors Inc., which owns Apple shares. Smartphones and tablet
computers using Google Inc.’s Android operating system will cut
into Apple’s performance, he said.  “We are reaching a point where expectations are starting to
outrun what Apple may be able to deliver,” Goddard said.
“Android is capturing market share much faster than the raging
bulls on Apple are giving credit for.”  The share of smartphones in the U.S. running Android rose
to 17 percent in the quarter ended in July from 12 percent in
the previous three months, according to  ComScore Inc.  data.
Apple’s iPhone software ran on 24 percent of smartphones, down
from 25 percent.  In May, Apple overtook Microsoft as the most valuable
technology company. The company was on the verge of bankruptcy
when CEO  Steve Jobs  resumed leadership in 1997. Apple expanded
beyond its Macintosh line of personal computers with the iPod in
2001, iPhone in 2007 and iPad this year.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  