-- Shares Rise as Silver Climbs to 30-Month High; New Zealand Dollar Declines
-- B y   J a m e s   R e g a n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-09-23T07:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/asian-commodity-shares-advance-as-metals-climb-new-zealand-dollar-falls.html
Asian mining stocks rose and silver
hit a 30-month high as metals prices gained and the U.S. dollar
weakened. New Zealand’s currency fell against major counterparts
after second-quarter economic growth trailed estimates.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  climbed 0.2
percent to a two-year high of 440.60 as of 8:01 a.m. in London,
even as shares retreated in India, Indonesia and New Zealand.
Silver rose as much as 0.3 percent to $21.22 an ounce, gold
traded near a record high and the  Dollar Index  slid to a six-
month low. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  of stocks gained 0.6
percent and futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced
0.3 percent. The New Zealand dollar slid 0.9 percent.  “It still feels like the long risk trade is on and it may
run for a while,” said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about
$1.6 billion at Platypus Asset Management in Sydney. This
September has been very strong for global equity markets, which
are climbing the wall of worry yet again.”  The Federal Reserve this week indicated it’s prepared to
pump more money into the U.S. economy, helping drive precious
metals prices higher as investors seek alternatives to dollars.
U.S. data today and tomorrow are forecast to show existing home
sales were close to a decade-low last month, while durable goods
had the biggest drop in a year. New Zealand’s gross domestic
product rose at a third of the pace forecast by economists.  ‘Stretched’ Valuations  About six shares fell for every five that rose on the  MSCI
Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index , which has jumped 10 percent
this month. The Mumbai Stock Exchange  Sensitive Index  lost 0.2
percent, extending yesterday’s decline from a 30-month high.  “The rally has been spectacular; some investors would like
to take some money off the table,” said  Kishor Ostwal , managing
director of CNI Research (India) Ltd., a Mumbai-based publicly
traded equities research provider. “Valuations are becoming
stretched at these levels.”  New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  fell 0.3 percent after data
showed GDP grew 0.2 percent in the second quarter from the first,
compared with the median forecast for a 0.7 percent gain in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Financial markets were shut for
holidays in China, Hong Kong, Japan and South Korea.  A  measure  of materials producers on the  MSCI Asia Pacific
excluding Japan Index  climbed to a five-month high. BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, rose 0.8 percent and
Rio Tinto Group, the third-biggest, gained 1.5 percent in Sydney.  Silver, Gold  Silver for immediate delivery reached the highest level
since March 2008 as investors sought to protect their wealth
against potential currency depreciation. The metal was trading
at $21.1275 an ounce, about 1 percent below a 30-year high of
$21.3550. Gold for immediate delivery was little changed at
$1,292.73 an ounce, near the record $1,296.30 set yesterday.  “Weakness in the U.S. economy and now talk of quantitative
easing has increased demand” said  Geoff Clear , head of Asia
commodities at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
“Silver is rising alongside gold. That said, gold does look
expensive compared to silver.”  The  Dollar Index , used by InterContinentalExchange Inc. to
measure the greenback against the currencies of six of its major
trading partners, was little changed after yesterday recording
its lowest close since March 17. The dollar was at $1.3396 per
euro, from $1.3405 in New York yesterday, when it fell to
$1.3440, the weakest level since April 21.  Sales of existing U.S. homes rose to a 4.1 million pace in
August, behind only July’s 3.83 million as the weakest in a
decade’s worth of data, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before today’s report. A separate survey predicts
data tomorrow will show U.S. durable goods fell 1 percent.  Weaker Dollar  The U.S. currency has weakened against 13 of its 16 major
counterparts since the Fed said after its Sept. 21 meeting it
“will provide additional accommodation if needed” to spur
growth. Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes yielded 2.56 percent,
according to BGCantor Market Data, compared with 2.5 percent
yesterday, the least since Sept. 1. Two-year notes  yielded  0.43
percent, after falling to a lowest-ever 0.4074 percent yesterday.  “A further deterioration in U.S. economic prospects will
almost certainly push yields lower,” said  Khoon Goh , head of
market economics and strategy in Wellington at ANZ National Bank
Ltd., New Zealand’s biggest lender. “This will spell more
dollar weakness.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 James Regan  in Hong Kong 
 Jregan19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adrian Kennedy at 
 adkennedy@bloomberg.net  