-- Asian Currencies Retreat, Led by Baht, Ringgit, on Intervention Concerns
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-09-23T08:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/asian-currencies-retreat-led-by-baht-ringgit-on-intervention-concerns.html
Asian currencies  fell for the first
time in six days, with Malaysia’s ringgit and the Thai baht
retreating from 13-year highs, on concern recent gains were too
rapid and central banks may intervene to protect exporters.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, slid from
a two-year high. The ringgit declined 0.2 percent to 3.0940 per
dollar as of 4:34 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The baht dropped 0.1 percent to 30.68.
Financial markets were shut for holidays in China, Japan, Hong
Kong and South Korea.  “The appreciation pace has been quite rapid and market
participants could turn cautious as key levels are broken,”
said  Akira Banno , a treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “Trading volumes could be subdued
because of holidays.”  Asian economies are grappling with fund inflows as the
Federal Reserve this week pledged to keep its benchmark interest
rate near zero for “an extended period” to secure a stronger
economic rebound. Stock markets in India, South Korea and Taiwan
have attracted more than $9 billion from abroad this month alone,
exchange data show.  The ringgit snapped a two-day advance as a technical
indicator traders use to predict price swings shows the currency
was poised to fall after it reached the strongest level since
October 1997 this week. A similar gauge showed the baht has been
overbought since Aug. 5.  Baht Curbs  Thailand’s currency has gained 5.6 percent this quarter,
Asia’s best performance, as  overseas investors  pumped more than
$1.4 billion into the nation’s shares. Net purchases yesterday
totaled $138 million, the most since February 2008, exchange
data show. The central bank this week won approval to relax
curbs on capital outflows and there is speculation more measures
will be announced when a new governor takes over on Oct. 1.  “The concern is more about the pace of fund inflows and
the market is a bit cautious about what the new central bank
governor will do,” said  Thanit Satravaha , a currency trader at
Thanachart Bank Pcl in Bangkok. “There is also possible
intervention risk.”  Prasarn Trairatvorakul , former president of Bangkok-based
Kasikornbank Pcl, Thailand’s third-largest lender, will replace
Tarisa Watanagase as central bank governor next month.  Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.5 percent to close at NT$31.60,
earlier touching a four-month high of NT$31.52. Taipei’s
financial markets reopened after a holiday yesterday. Government
reports today showed growth factory output rose 23.4 percent
from a year earlier in August, following a 20.9 percent increase
the previous month, and the unemployment rate fell to 5.11
percent, the lowest level since 2008.  Elsewhere, the Indonesian rupiah weakened 0.2 percent to
8,966 per dollar and the Singapore dollar slipped 0.1 percent to
S$1.3274. India’s rupee dropped 0.1 percent to 45.64, snapping a
six-day rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 