-- Fraser-Kirk Lawyers Must Turn Over Names in David Jones Harassment Suit
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-09-23T02:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/lawyers-ordered-to-provide-names-of-david-jones-sexual-harrasment-accusers.html
Kristy Fraser-Kirk’s lawyers must
give the names of some people accusing  David Jones Ltd. ’s former
Chief Executive Officer  Mark McInnes  of sexual harassment to his
and the company’s lawyers, a judge ruled.  Fraser-Kirk, 27, a David Jones publicist, sued McInnes, 45,
and the company last month, claiming she was sexually harassed
by the former chief executive. Her lawyers have included
allegations of sexual harassment from other employees at David
Jones and Black & Decker Corp., where McInnes worked from 1989
to 1991. Those employees haven’t been named.  “We can’t  litigate  with a blindfold on,” Kate Eastman,
David Jones’s lawyer, said at a hearing in Sydney today. She
urged the judge to order Fraser-Kirk’s lawyers to turn over the
names before the company and McInnes submit their defense papers
tomorrow.  Federal Court Judge Geoffrey Flick ordered Fraser-Kirk’s
lawyers to provide the names of the employees today, with the
exception of three David Jones workers, to McInnes’s and David
Jones’s lawyers on the promise they won’t be given to anyone
else. The judge agreed to hold a hearing tomorrow in Sydney to
decide whether the names should remain secret.  “They shouldn’t be forced to guess” who their accusers
are, Flick said, referring to McInnes and David Jones. McInnes
resigned in June, following Fraser-Kirk’s complaints.  Fraser-Kirk’s lawyer Rachel Francois said she would provide
the judge tomorrow with a psychiatrist’s report to back up her
request to keep the names confidential.  Punitive Damages  Fraser-Kirk’s claim for punitive damages of 5 percent of
the company’s  profit  and McInnes’s earnings from 2003 to 2010
amounts to about A$37 million ($35 million), which she says will
be given to charity.  An unnamed former Black & Decker employee claimed McInnes
had rubbed himself against her and when she told him to stop, he
responded by laughing and saying that she was “overreacting,”
according to the court documents.  McInnes’s conduct continued at David Jones, Fraser-Kirk
claimed.  “These intolerable and wholly unsubstantiated accusations
are an abuse of the legal process,” McInnes said in a Sept. 10
statement. “I totally reject the 20-year-old Black & Decker
allegations.”  The case is between Kristy Anne Fraser-Kirk and David Jones
Ltd. 964-2010. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  