-- Goldman Sachs Says Tax Rise May Erase U.S. First-Half Growth
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-09-23T20:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/tax-cut-expiration-would-erase-first-half-u-s-growth-goldman-sachs-says.html
Failure by Congress to extend Bush-
era tax cuts even temporarily may erase U.S. economic growth in
the first half of next year, according to  Alec Phillips , an
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Gross domestic product would be cut by almost 2 percentage
points if Congress fails to extend the tax cuts, due to expire
Dec. 31, along with temporary tax credits under the 2009
stimulus bill as well as relief from the alternative minimum
tax, Phillips calculates.  Even a temporary lapse in the tax provisions “would
essentially wipe out most of the modest growth we expect in the
first half of 2011,” Phillips wrote in a research note released
yesterday. He said in a phone interview that a higher tax rate
in the first two months of the year would have that effect.  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch’s global strategy group also
issued an update yesterday predicting that “Congress will be
gridlocked through year end.”  “Having consulted BofAML legislative advisers, it is now
the view of U.S. Equity Strategy that Congress is unlikely to
pass any tax package before the Bush tax cuts expire at 2011
start,”  David Bianco , the firm’s chief U.S. equity strategist,
wrote.  ‘Fear of Tax Hikes’  “The fear of across-the-board tax hikes in 2011 is likely to
constrain growth” in both household spending and business
hiring and capital expenditures in the fourth quarter of 2010,
Bianco said. He said the “The setback to confidence is likely
to prevent” the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index from reaching a
forecast target of 1,300 points.  President  Barack Obama  and most Democrats want tax cuts
enacted under former President  George W. Bush  extended for
individuals who earn less than $200,000 a year and couples
earning less than $250,000. Republican leaders in Congress want
the tax cuts extended for all income groups.  Democratic Senators  Dick Durbin  of Illinois and  Tom Harkin 
of Iowa today expressed doubt the Senate will vote on extending
the cuts before leaving to campaign for November elections.  “I see the value of a vote, but given the short time-
frame, it may be difficult,” Durbin, the second-ranking
Democrat, said in Washington. He said legislators are “so
tightly wound up in this campaign” that a bipartisan agreement
won’t be reached as the House may adjourn as early as next week.  Goldman Sachs’s Phillips predicts Congress will allow the
tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans to expire while extending
middle-class tax cuts, the “Making Work Pay” payroll-tax
credit and relief from the alternative minimum tax.  ‘Prospects Uncertain’  “However, with essentially no congressional action to
date, the prospects for such an extension are uncertain,”
Phillips wrote.  Goldman Sachs this month forecast economic growth at a 1.5
percent annual rate in the first quarter of 2011 and 2 percent
in the second quarter, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Delaying a vote on the tax cuts also may hurt confidence
among business owners and consumers, said  Ethan Harris , head of
North American economics at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch in New
York.  “It’s about psychology, and I think it’s already happening
right now,” Harris said in an interview. “Why is the corporate
sector unwilling to engage here? I think the answer is there are
too many uncertainties.”  Most likely, Congress will wait “until the last minute”
this year to reach an agreement, Harris said. If they delay into
February, that would be “enough to put the economy easily into
a recession in the first quarter,” he said.  Cuts Into GDP  Letting all of the roughly $270 billion in tax cuts lapse
would subtract almost 10 percentage points from annualized
disposable income growth in the first quarter of 2011,  Phillips
said in his note. That could reduce final demand by about 2
percentage points in the first half of 2011 and cut gross
domestic product by almost the same amount.  Income tax rates now are at 10 percent, 15 percent, 25
percent, 28 percent, 33 percent and 35 percent. If Congress
doesn’t act, they’ll revert to 15 percent, 28 percent, 31
percent, 36 percent and 39.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  