-- German Stocks Advance, Sending DAX to Weekly Gain, as Adidas, Puma Rally
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-09-24T16:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/axel-springer-siemens-shares-may-move-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks increased as business
confidence in Europe’s largest economy and orders for capital
equipment in the U.S. topped forecasts, easing concern about the
prospects for growth.  Adidas AG  and Puma AG rose more than 5 percent after larger
rival Nike Inc. said orders from China surged 25 percent as
demand for basketball-related sportswear soared.  Merck KGaA , the
German drugmaker seeking to compete with Novartis AG for the
share of a new market, sank the most since July 2009.  The benchmark  DAX Index  gained 1.8 percent to 6,298.3 in
Frankfurt, for a weekly advance of 1.4 percent. The measure has
rallied 16 percent from its low this year on Feb. 5 as investors
speculated that the sovereign-debt crisis won’t choke off the
recovery. The broader HDAX Index also rose 1.8 percent today.  “Northern Europe is doing extremely well economically,”
said  Martin Huefner , chief economist at Assenagon GmbH in
Munich, which has more than $4.7 billion in client assets.
“Germany is the strongest country in Northern Europe. In the
U.S., we still have a mixed picture, but the economy will also
improve, though at a slower pace.”  A report showed German business confidence unexpectedly
rose to a three-year high in September. The Munich-based Ifo
institute said its business climate index, based on a survey of
7,000 executives, increased to 106.8 from 106.7 in August.
That’s the highest since June 2007. Economists had expected a
drop to 106.4, according to the median of 36 forecasts in
Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. Capital Equipment  Another report today showed orders for U.S. capital
equipment rebounded in August, signaling that businesses have
not slowed their rate of investment as much as some economists
projected.  Bookings for goods such as computers and communications
gear climbed 4.1 percent after a 5.3 percent decline in July
that was smaller than previously estimated, figures from the
Commerce Department showed. Total orders dropped 1.3 percent, in
line with the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Adidas, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
gained 5.4 percent to 45.95 euros. Nike said total orders for
athletic shoes and clothes for delivery between September and
January grew 10 percent to $7.1 billion, in its earnings
statement yesterday. The growth in China compares with 15
percent in North America and declines of 7 percent in Western
Europe and 8 percent in Japan.  Puma , Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, rose
5.6 percent to 248.70 euros.  BMW, Daimler Advance  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Daimler AG , the world’s
biggest makers of luxury cars, advanced 4.3 percent to 50.35
euros and 4 percent to 46.13 euros, respectively. European
carmakers posted the biggest gain among 19 industry groups in
the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index, rising 3.4 percent.  Merck slumped 10 percent to 63 euros. The European
Medicines Agency didn’t recommend approval of the medicine
because the benefits don’t outweigh the risks, Merck said in a
statement today. Merck is weighing an appeal and still believes
that cladribine has the potential to generate $1 billion in
revenue a year, said  Elmar Schnee , head of the company’s drug
unit, in a telephone interview.  Merck trails Novartis in the race to provide MS patients
with a pill in the U.S., where the Swiss drugmaker won approval
on Sept. 22 for its Gilenya tablet.  The shares were downgraded to “reduce” from “neutral”
at WestLB AG, which said “sentiment might drag the share price
down even further than this today, and we would recommend
against buying into weakness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 