-- Baltic Household Loan Demand Is Set to Increase, Nordea's Neckmar Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-09-23T12:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/baltic-household-loan-demand-is-set-to-increase-nordea-s-neckmar-says.html
Demand for mortgages and consumer
loans in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is set to grow as the
region’s housing market improves, said Nordea Bank AB’s head of
New European Markets  Thomas Neckmar .  Residential prices are starting to rise in Latvia after a
similar turnaround in Estonia and Lithuania earlier this year,
suggesting the Baltic mortgage market will grow next year,
Neckmar said in an interview while attending the Baltic Economic
Forum in Riga today.  Real estate sales powered an economic expansion in the
three Baltic countries during a lending boom after they joined
the European Union in 2004 until the debt-fueled property bubble
collapsed in 2008, pushing the countries into the deepest
recessions globally in past two years, according to the
International Monetary Fund. Housing prices fell by at least
half from their peak.  “We see an improvement now in Baltic real estate markets
and we will see buyers coming back,” Neckmar said. “From now
on, we think things will turn better.”  Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB  and  SEB AB , the two biggest
banks in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, have seen their shares
jump since March 2009, when Baltic loan defaults threatened to
swell losses.  Nordea, which has grown its Baltic mortgage portfolio
during the whole recession, is eyeing a “careful” expansion in
the region, Neckmar said. The bank didn’t lay off any regional
staff during the crisis, he said, declining to say whether it
plans to increase hiring.  “We are actually growing our market share, that is more
because we are keeping our volumes stable, while the overall
market is shrinking,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  