-- Banks Forsaking Record Low Yields in Pimco's `New Normal': Credit Markets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-09-24T17:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/banks-forsaking-record-low-yields-in-pimco-s-new-normal-credit-markets.html
Banks are sitting out the busiest
September for corporate bond sales in a sign they may refrain
from lending while the Federal Reserve considers how to jolt the
economic recovery.  Microsoft Corp. ,  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and  Ford Motor Co.  led
$124.3 billion of U.S. issuance this month, on pace to beat the
high of $125.1 billion in September 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales by banks and financial companies
account for 16 percent of the total, the lowest proportion since
April and down from 30 percent a year ago.  While industrial companies take advantage of record-low
yields, banks continue to retrench in a sluggish economy that
Pacific Investment Management Co. calls “the new normal.”
Rather than making loans, lenders are plowing cash into
government securities and letting their balance sheets shrink.  “Banks have raised deposits, they’ve got lots of cash and
loans have fallen,” said  Jeffrey Meli , co-head of U.S. credit
strategy at Barclays Capital in New York. “They have less need
for the money and are happy to be negative net issuers.”  Banks pared commercial and industrial lending to $1.24
trillion in the week ended Sept. 8, 11.3 percent lower than a
year earlier, Fed data show. At the same time, their holdings of
government debt rose 14.5 percent to $1.59 trillion.  Floating Rates  Sales of floating-rate notes, preferred by banks, have
almost vanished as demand dwindles on speculation the Fed won’t
raise borrowing costs anytime soon. Companies sold about $5.6
billion of floaters due in at least 18 months in the U.S. this
month, accounting for 6.3 percent of investment-grade issuance,
the smallest share since October 2008, Bloomberg data show.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt rose 1 basis point to 173 basis points, or 1.73
percentage points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad
Market Corporate Index shows. Yields averaged 3.465 percent, the
lowest since Aug. 26.  A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
declined for the first time in four days as a report showed
demand for capital equipment rebounded in August.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 4.6 basis points to a mid-price of 109.6 basis points as of
1:18 p.m. in New York, according to index administrator Markit
Group Ltd. The index typically declines as investor confidence
improves.  Bondholder Protection  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bookings for goods such as computers and communications
gear climbed 4.1 percent after a 5.3 percent decline in July
that was smaller than previously estimated, according to figures
from the Commerce Department issued today in Washington.  Corporate bond sales in the U.S. this week total $33.9
billion, exceeding $30 billion for a third consecutive week,
Bloomberg data show. Microsoft,  KKR  -- the private-equity firm
founded by buyout pioneers  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts  in
1976 -- and  DuPont Co.  led at least $23.4 billion of investment-
grade offerings, the data show.  Slowing Growth?  Concern the economy will slow and curb credit may be
propelling companies to borrow at low rates, said  Leslie Barbi ,
a managing director at Guardian Life Insurance Co. of America in
New York, who helps oversee $23 billion in fixed-income assets.  “If you’re an issuer and you think you might want funds at
any time in the next six or 12 months, I could see how it seems
like a very rational decision to say, ‘Get low rates now,’”
Barbi said.  Newport Beach, California-based Pimco -- manager of the
world’s biggest bond  fund  -- says global growth will be below
historical averages during the next three to five years as
developed economies struggle with mounting deficits and
increased regulation in the wake of the 2008 credit-market
collapse.  Applications for U.S. unemployment benefits unexpectedly
rose last week, a sign companies remain cautious about hiring.
Initial jobless claims increased by 12,000 to 465,000 in the
week ended Sept. 18, according to Labor Department figures. The
total receiving unemployment insurance declined, while those
getting extended payments rose.  ‘More Stringent’  “Bank credit profiles are likely to remain significantly
more challenged and uncertain,” said  Peter Aherne , managing
director and head of capital markets and syndicate at Citigroup
Inc. in New York.  Bank bonds yield 232 basis points more than Treasuries,
compared with of 181 basis points for investment-grade debt
overall in the U.S., according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Index data. Investors have demanded higher relative yields to
own bank bonds than non-financial debt since September 2007.  “I wouldn’t say banks are closed for business, they will
lend, but the conditions for lending are much more stringent,”
said  Pri De Silva , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York.
“Banks are still in the process of shrinking and restructuring
their balance sheets, so the need to come to the market to roll
over their debt has diminished.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  