-- Barker Says Case for More BOE Stimulus Looking `Less Certain'
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/barker-says-case-for-more-bank-of-england-stimulus-looking-less-certain-.html
Former Bank of England policy maker
 Kate Barker  said the case for more economic stimulus through so-
called quantitative easing is looking “less certain.”  “There is still more concern about inflation staying
high,” she said in an interview on CNBC television in London
yesterday. “The outlook for QE looks less certain. As the
economy stands today, it’s an open question.”  Barker’s comments come two days after policy makers
signaled in minutes of their September meeting that they may opt
for more stimulus to kick-start the recovery, aligning
themselves with the Federal Reserve’s stance. Barker, who left
the bank on May 31, said officials are balancing between two
“quite acute” concerns of accelerating inflation and slowing
economic growth.  “Inflation has been above target for 26 of the last 32
months and it’s been quite a long way over that target” of 2
percent, she told CNBC. A concern with  quantitative easing  is
that “the result was that it pushed inflation expectations up.
That’s why inflation has been running higher than expected.”  Policy makers on Sept. 9 kept the benchmark interest rates
unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent, overruling  Andrew Sentance ’s call for a quarter-point increase to prevent
inflation expectations from becoming dislodged. Barker said U.K.
inflation may be “quite low” in two years’ time.  She also said the bank isn’t involved in a “race to the
bottom” on currencies by keeping rates low.  “We certainly, when I was on the panel, never had a policy
to target the currency,” Barker said, adding there may not be
much benefit from a further weakening of the pound.  “We’ve had a very big adjustment already and we are seeing
some benefits,” she said. “I’m not sure that a weaker pound
would be very helpful particularly given the worries we have on
inflation at the moment.”  Barker also said the U.K. housing market was a “worry” as
if it were to deteriorate it would put pressure on banks’
balance sheets. With government measures to aid the property
market expiring, “it’s not surprising to see the market come
back a bit,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  