-- Gold Equities May Beat Metal as Records Drive Earnings
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 2010-09-23T22:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/barrick-newmont-may-outperform-gold-as-record-metal-prices-drive-earnings.html
Barrick Gold Corp. ,  Newmont Mining
Corp. , and  Goldcorp Inc.  will outpace bullion because shares of
gold producers are historically cheap and their profits are set
to surge on record metal prices, fund managers and mining
executives said.  “You win a lot more with the shares,”  John Hathaway , who
manages $2.5 billion as a managing director at Tocqueville Asset
Management LP, said yesterday in an interview at the Denver Gold
Forum. “You’ll see gold stocks becoming much more mainstream”
in the next two to three years, he said.  Shares of gold miners have slumped to the lowest valuations
in 18 months, even as bullion climbed to a record. Companies in
the benchmark  Philadelphia Gold & Silver Index , including
Barrick, are trading at about  23 times profit , compared with 80
times earnings in 2006 when gold averaged $605 an ounce in
London trading. The metal touched a record $1,296.30 yesterday.  “Gold stocks are a good value on a relative basis to where
they were historically,”  Adrian Day , president of Adrian Day
Asset Management, said in Denver. “Gold stocks could easily
outperform in the period ahead.”  Bullion has advanced 28 percent in 12 months, outperforming
global  equities , Treasuries and most industrial metals. The
Philadelphia index gained 19 percent. Higher metal prices should
have an “amplified impact” on gold producers’ earnings and
lift their shares, Barrick Chief Executive Officer  Aaron Regent 
said in an interview in Denver.  ‘Leverage Effect’  “There’s the leverage effect of owning a mining stock.
Miners can get it out of the ground for a few hundred dollars
and that gets multiplied as the price of gold rises,” said
 Barry James , who manages $2 billion as chief executive officer
at James Investment Research Inc. in Xenia, Ohio.  Turmoil in financial markets and the threat of inflation
have attracted investors to gold as a haven. Gold has climbed
more than fivefold since reaching a 20-year low in 1999. Shares
of Toronto-based Barrick, the world’s biggest producer, are up
87 percent in the same period. Newmont, the largest U.S.
producer, has more than doubled.  “I’m confident that over time we will definitely
outperform the gold prices,”  Chuck Jeannes , CEO of Vancouver-
based Goldcorp, said in an interview in Denver. Goldcorp is the
second-largest gold producer by  market value .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 