-- LBBW Starts Marketing Its First Credit-Linked Notes on DAX Index Companies
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-09-23T09:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/lbbw-starts-selling-its-first-credit-linked-notes-on-dax-index.html
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg,
Germany’s biggest state-owned lender, is raising as much as 100
million euros ($131 million) from its first sale of notes linked
to the debt of companies in the DAX stock index.  The so-called first-to-default notes track the debt of the
30 companies in the German  benchmark , including Deutsche Bank
AG, Siemens AG and Volkswagen AG. Holders of the six-month notes
get a 3.5 percent annualized coupon with the risk of losing all
their money if a company in the index defaults.  The notes pool income from credit-default swaps on the
borrowers’ debt to pay a fixed rate based on the price of the
contracts, which are used to bet on corporate creditworthiness.
The cost of insuring European company bonds has risen about 60
percent this year, according to the Markit iTraxx Europe Index
of credit-default swaps on investment-grade companies.  “German investors are interested in getting exposure to
the credit of the 30 biggest and most well-known blue chip
companies,” said  Volker Honold , derivatives product manager at
LBBW in Stuttgart. “The short term of the note makes it easier
for investors to assess the likelihood of a single company
default.”  Investors have until the end of the month to buy the
securities, which are being marketed to retail and institutional
clients, Honold said.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies rose 3
basis points to 119 today, JPMorgan Chase & Co. prices show. The
contracts cost 73.5 basis points at the start of the year.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros ($13 million) of debt
from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  