-- BHP Approves $1.5 Billion Macedon Gas Project to Supply Western Australia
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-09-24T02:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/bhp-billiton-approves-macedon-gas-development-in-western-australia-state.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Apache Corp. 
said they committed to develop the $1.5 billion Macedon natural
gas project in Western Australia to meet increasing demand for
the fuel driven by the state’s mining industry.  Australia’s largest oil and gas producer’s share of the
Macedon costs will be about $1.05 billion, while partner Apache
will pay the rest, Melbourne-based BHP said in a statement today.
BHP and Apache said they target first production in 2013.  “The Macedon development will provide much-needed gas to
meet rising demand and increase the diversity of supply for
Western Australia’s growing resource-based economy,”  Rod Eichler , co-chief operating officer and president of
international operations at Apache, said in a statement.  Western Australia faces a decade or more of gas shortages
as production from existing fields declines and consumption
surges, according to the DomGas Alliance, which represents state
users such as Newmont Mining Corp. and  Alcoa Inc.  The Devil
Creek project now under construction will process gas from
Apache’s Reindeer field with first production expected in the
second half of next year, the Houston-based company said today.  BHP, which has dropped 9.5 percent this year, compared with
the 5.5 percent decline in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index , lost
0.5 percent to A$39.01 at 12:29 p.m. in Sydney trading. The
benchmark fell 0.7 percent.  ‘Supply Security’  The Macedon project “will improve the security for
domestic gas supplies in both the short and medium term for
Western Australia,”  J. Michael Yeager , chief executive officer
of BHP’s petroleum division, said in the statement.  Macedon adds to BHP’s projects off northwest Australia as
the company seeks to increase output. BHP started production
earlier this year at the $1.7 billion Pyrenees project. That
followed the Stybarrow venture off Western Australia.  While BHP’s petroleum production in the year ended June 30
rose 15 percent, output will likely be flat this fiscal year
because of the deep-water drilling moratorium that followed the
BP Plc spill in the Gulf of Mexico, Yeager said last week in New
York.  A proposed liquefied natural gas venture with  Exxon Mobil
Corp.  relying on the Scarborough and Thebe fields off northwest
Australia may cost as much as $20 billion to develop, Yeager
said Sept. 16. BHP is also a partner in the planned Browse LNG
venture, operated by Perth-based Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 