-- Air NZ, Virgin, BHP, Gryphon, Redflex, Transfield, Westfield: Stock Movers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-09-24T06:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/bhp-leighton-transfield-westfield-woodside-australian-equity-preview.html
Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index 
dropped 0.7 percent to 4,601.90 at the close 4:10 p.m. close of
trading in Sydney. The measure slipped 0.8 percent this week.  New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  fell 0.5 percent to 3,211.16 at
the 5 p.m. close in Wellington. The gauge was little changed for
the week.  The following were among the most active shares in the
market today. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company
names.  Airlines:  Air New Zealand Ltd.  (AIR NZ) said it disagrees
with a ruling by Australia’s antitrust regulator blocking its
proposed alliance with Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA AU) for
flights across the Tasman Sea. The regulator is at serious risk
of killing off competition, Air New Zealand Chief Executive
Officer  Rob Fyfe  told the annual meeting in Auckland today.  Air New Zealand fell 0.8 percent to NZ$1.28. Virgin Blue,
Australia’s second-largest airline, dropped 3.4 percent to 43
Australian cents.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  (BHP AU), the world’s largest mining
company, fell 0.5 percent to A$39.04. BHP approved a $1.5
billion Macedon natural gas project in Western Australia to
increase supplies of the fuel to the domestic market. Its share
of the Macedon costs will be about $1.05 billion.  Cabcharge Australia Ltd.  (CAB AU), the operator of
Australia’s largest taxi-payment system, surged 14 percent to
A$5.95, its highest close since May 18.  The company said the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission finalized legal proceedings launched in June,
alleging the company breached the Trade Practices Act and
misused its market power. Cabcharge, which will pay a penalty of
A$15 million ($14.2 million), is “pleased to have avoided a
lengthy trial,” it said in a statement.  Gryphon Minerals Ltd.  (GRY AU), owner of gold mines in West
Africa, jumped 5.5 percent to A$1.53. The company said it raised
A$48.2 million selling shares in a placement to fast-track the
implementation of its exploration projects Burkina Faso and
Mauritania.  Redflex Holdings Ltd.  (RDF AU), a distributor of traffic-
management software, climbed 4.7 percent to A$2.46. Redflex is
in talks with a number of potential bidders for the company, the
Australian Financial Review reported in its Street Talk column,
without saying where it got the information.  Transfield Services Ltd.  (TSE AU), a provider of
maintenance services to mining and infrastructure companies,
declined 3 percent to A$3.57. The company had its stock rating
downgraded to “neutral” from “outperform” at Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Westfield Group  (WDC AU), the world’s largest owner of
shopping centers, lost 0.2 percent to A$12.31. The Auckland City
Council has delayed approving a plan by Westfield to double its
St Lukes center in New Zealand’s biggest city after complaints
by local residents, the New Zealand Herald reported.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 