-- Billionaire Mallya's Fertilizer Company Plans to Build $88 Million Plant
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-09-23T09:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/billionaire-mallya-s-fertilizer-company-plans-to-build-88-million-plant.html
Billionaire  Vijay Mallya’s 
fertilizer unit plans to build a 4 billion rupee ($88 million)
plant to meet a shortfall in crop nutrient supply in India.  Mangalore Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd.’s proposed plant will
make nutrients based on nitrogen, phosphate, potash or
diammonium phosphate,  A. Rudrachary , senior vice president, said
in an interview. The company is in talks with global suppliers
of ammonia and phosphoric acid, key ingredients in making
fertilizer, to form a joint venture.  “From the moment that’s decided, it will take at least two
years” to set up the plant with a daily capacity of 1,500
metric tons, Rudrachary said. “The supply of phosphoric acid is
crucial and we import it now.”  Demand for urea, the most commonly used nitrogenous crop
nutrient, in India is about 27 million tons annually, while
supply is 20 million tons a year, according to the Fertilizer
Association of India. The country is the largest producer and
consumer of fertilizer after China and the U.S. and imports
nearly one third of its total requirement. It is the biggest
importer of potash, according to a July 6 report by  Religare
Technova Ltd .  Shares  of the Bangalore-based company, which have risen 62
percent this year, fell 1.7 percent to 34.90 rupees at 2:32 p.m.
in Mumbai. The new facility will be built on land next to the
company’s existing plant near the southern city of Mangalore.  Mangalore Chemicals  plans to spend another 4 billion rupees
to convert its urea plant running on naphtha to gas, Rudrachary
said. The cost of producing fertilizer with naphtha is more than
double compared with natural gas, for which the government sets
the price and allocates supply.  The conversion will depend on when the company gets supply
of gas from state-run companies, Rudrachary said.  “The timeframe we are looking at is 2013,” he said.  The company will invest 440 million rupees in the year to
March 31 to set up facilities to make water soluble fertilizers
and sulfonated naphthalene formaldehyde, an additive used in
cement, and to upgrades plants, Rudrachary said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell in Mumbai at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  