-- Clinton Says Republicans' Plans Represent `Hysterical Tirades'
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-09-24T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/bill-clinton-says-u-s-republicans-agenda-represents-hysterical-tirades-.html
Former U.S. President  Bill Clinton 
said his fellow Democrats should stop “mealy mouthing around”
and start taking the fight to Republicans in the final weeks
before this year’s congressional elections.  “The Democrats ought to stand up and fight,” Clinton said
in an interview for Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “The Democrats have 30
days to sort of stand up, embrace the challenge, and offer a
worthy alternative,” he said. “If they lay down and let it be
a referendum, our side is going to get whacked.”  The former president, speaking at the Clinton Global
Initiative meeting in New York, criticized the House
 Republicans ’ governing agenda, the “Pledge to America”
unveiled yesterday, which would cut  federal spending , extend
expiring tax cuts and repeal the Democrats’ health-care law.  “They don’t know that the model for success in the 21st
century is a vigorous private sector, an effective government, a
partnership, not these hysterical tirades against government,”
he said.  Clinton, 64, called the Republican plan an “ideological
document” and warned that it would be implemented at the
expense of America’s middle class.  The plan is patterned after the “ Contract with America ,”
which House Republicans unveiled in 1994, during Clinton’s first
term. Six weeks after that platform was presented, Republicans
won enough seats in midterm elections to gain a majority in the
House of Representatives for the first time in 40 years.  ‘People’s Fears’  Clinton accused Republicans of “trying to play on people’s
fears” so they can retake the Senate and the House in the Nov.
2 elections.  “I don’t care if one of them did witchcraft or not; I want
to talk about how the American people are going to be
affected,” Clinton said, referring to Delaware Republican
Senate nominee  Christine O’Donnell , who told television host
 Bill Maher  in 1999 that she had once “dabbled into witchcraft”
when she was younger.  Clinton said the primary motivation behind some of the
attacks on President  Barack Obama , the country’s first black
president, isn’t racial; it is that opponents want to make him
“the other.”  “Are they racist? No,” Clinton said. “They want to turn
him into a space alien. It helps that his skin color is
different. But their motivation is what it always is: power and
money.”  Obama “has got to develop a tough hide,” Clinton said.  On the Middle East, Clinton said that there is a “fair
chance” that peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians
succeed this year. He praised Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who
resumed direct negotiations earlier this month.  ‘Blew’ an Opportunity  Clinton said the two sides “blew a big opportunity” in
2000 when they rejected his proposal for a peace agreement.  “You’ve got two leaders in Netanyahu and Abbas who can do
this deal,” Clinton said. “They get that they need to do this,
and they see now, from not doing it 10 years ago, how much
harder it gets, in some ways, if you wait another 10 years; that
it’s madness.”  Obama brought Abbas and Netanyahu together for discussions
in Washington on Sept. 2 and the two met again last week in
Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, and Jerusalem.  On the midterm election campaign, Clinton said the
Republican agenda would cut aid to middle-class and lower-income
Americans by 25 percent in inflation-adjusted dollars and damage
education initiatives. He said the Republican proposals would
hurt the U.S.’s global economic competitiveness.  ‘Dismantle’ Government  “Their objective for 30 years has been to dismantle the
federal government,” he said. “They have a model for the
future that none of our competitors have embraced.”  Clinton said Republicans also want to “repeal the
financial oversight bill” that Obama signed into law July 21 in
response to the financial crisis that began in 2008. Rolling
back the new protections would “let banks go back to
gambling,” he said. “And that’s a mistake.”  “They want everybody else to pay more for less
government,” Clinton said. “And none of it has anything to do
with our competitive position.”  The Republican plan calls for extending all the tax cuts
passed under President  George W. Bush  in 2001 and 2003 and which
expire at the end of this year. Obama has proposed keeping the
 lower tax rates  for most taxpayers, while letting the cuts
expire for individuals who earn more than $200,000 or couples
earning more than $250,000.  “They want to give 117 percent of all the tax benefits to
the top 5 percent,” Clinton said.  ‘Our Intent’  The Republican plan would repeal the health-care law passed
this year and replace it with longstanding Republican priorities
such as controlling medical-malpractice costs, expanding health-
savings accounts and allowing people to buy insurance policies
across state lines. It would provide health coverage to those
Americans who are most costly to insure by expanding high-risk
pools and reinsurance programs.  The agenda outlines “our intent and how we will stand
together and move this country forward,” Representative  Pete Sessions , a Texas Republican, told reporters yesterday.  House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio was an
architect of the 1994 plan as well as the new version. Democrats
regained the House majority in 2006.  Clinton said Democrats need to articulate what their party
favors so there can be a “real debate.”  “If they can make this election a choice, they’ve got a
fair chance to do better than everybody thinks,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in New York at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  