-- Blackstone Says Banks' Willingness to Lend Makes $10 Billion LBO Possible
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-09-23T19:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/blackstone-group-says-10-billion-company-takeover-a-possibility.html
Blackstone Group LP , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm, said a $10 billion company buyout
is possible with banks’ growing willingness to lend, and that
the real estate market is stabilizing.  Garrett Moran , a senior managing director at the New York-
based firm, said lenders can provide $5 billion in financing,
making such a deal possible.  “We have a very workable market,” Moran said today at a
company investor conference in New York.  Buyout firms have struggled to jumpstart deal-making after
the global financial crisis froze credit markets in mid-2007,
ending the biggest leveraged-buyout boom in history. Managers
have announced $68.1 billion in deals this year through
yesterday, compared with $443.6 billion for the same period in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Blackstone was among the private-equity firms that in May
dropped a plan to bid more than $15 billion for  Fidelity
National Information Services Inc. , a Jacksonville, Florida-
based payment-services provider that sought a higher price, said
people briefed on the talks. The transaction would have been the
biggest LBO since Blackstone’s $20 billion takeover of what’s
now Hilton Worldwide in July 2007.  Blackstone said property deals are also becoming more
likely with the thawing in bank credit.  “We face a very favorable investing environment for
commercial real estate,”  Jonathan Gray , a co-head of the firm’s
real estate business, said at the conference. “Fundamentals
have begun to stabilize.”  General Growth Investment  Blackstone agreed last month to invest $500 million in
 General Growth Properties Inc.  as part of the Chicago-based mall
owner’s plan to reorganize in bankruptcy. The company is
scheduled to seek court approval next month for its plan to exit
bankruptcy.  Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone’s chairman and co-founder,
has expanded non-buyout business such as fund of hedge funds,
merger and restructuring advice and credit funds. The latter
stands to benefit from the so-called Volcker Rule, which limits
banks from engaging in proprietary trading, said  Bennett Goodman , a Blackstone senior managing director and co-founder of
its GSO Capital Partners business.  “Historically one of our biggest competitors was Wall
Street prop desks,” Goodman said at the conference.  Capital Decline  J. Tomilson Hill , who heads Blackstone’s fund-of-hedge-
funds business, said his company estimates the capital managed
by Wall Street banks’ proprietary trading desks has fallen this
year to $250 billion from $800 billion, and will drop more.  “Not only is talent leaving the banks, but there will also
be an absence of proprietary capital,” Hill said.  Schwarzman  and  Peter G. Peterson  formed Blackstone in 1985.
Private-equity firms pool investor money to take over companies,
financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the intention of
selling them later for a profit.  Blackstone declined 42 cents to $10.76 at 3:17 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has dropped
about 65 percent since its 2007 public offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  