-- Blockbuster Can Take Bankruptcy Loan, Pay Studios
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-10-27T16:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/blockbuster-wins-court-s-approval-to-draw-20-million-from-bankruptcy-loan.html
Blockbuster Inc. , the world’s
largest movie-rental company, won court permission to pay film
studios’ claims and take an amended $125 million loan to fund
operations in bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in New York approved
the loan today after it was changed to meet objections from
creditors and landlords. New terms require Blockbuster to have a
business plan approved by secured lenders on Nov. 30, the same
day a description of the company’s reorganization terms is due.  In addition, pre-bankruptcy lenders won’t get potential
proceeds from certain lawsuits, and the amount of pre-bankruptcy
debt that lenders can roll into the new loan was cut to $125
million from $250 million.  “With those primary changes, it resolves the creditors’
committee’s objections,”  Martin Sosland , a lawyer for
Blockbuster, told Lifland.  The judge also approved paying movie studios amounts owed
before Blockbuster filed for bankruptcy. In court papers, the
Dallas-based company estimated it owed $68.5 million to studios
that were secured lenders and $49.6 million to others.  A steady supply of new movies and games is the lifeblood of
Blockbuster’s business, and studios could refuse to deliver
products if not paid, the company’s creditors said in court
papers supporting the motion.  Loan Milestones  Richard S. Kanowitz, a lawyer for the official committee of
unsecured creditors, said changes to the bankruptcy loan will
ensure that lenders can’t end the loan if Blockbuster doesn’t
meet certain milestones every four weeks. He said the committee
plans to pursue an investigation into the liens of secured
lenders.  “It’s not like we’re going to sing ‘Kumbaya’ in the
hallway; there are still things to work out,” Kanowitz told
Lifland.  Lifland approved the hiring of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP,
Sosland’s law firm, as Blockbuster’s bankruptcy counsel.
Lyme Regis Partners LLC, an investor in Blockbuster notes, had
objected to the law firm’s hiring, saying its relationships with
movie studios mean it isn’t “disinterested.”  “Clearly there’s no current conflict,” the judge said.
“It’s dubious whether in the future there would be a
conflict.”  If one arises, another firm can serve as counsel on that
matter, Lifland said.  Rothschild Approved  Alvarez & Marsal LLC was also approved to provide
Blockbuster’s chief restructuring officer,  Jeffery J. Stegenga .
A motion to hire Rothschild Inc. as financial adviser was
approved after Lifland ordered the excision of a clause that
would allow the firm to collect overhead expenses and pay
advisers not approved by the bankruptcy court.  The U.S. Trustee, an arm of the government that oversees
bankruptcies, had objected to Rothschild’s request, noting that
Blockbuster would have to agree to also pay for legal counsel to
Rothschild.  The Rothschild application included a request to be paid a
$125,000 monthly fee, a fee of 1 percent to 4 percent of money
raised for Blockbuster, a recapitalization fee of $3.1 million
payable upon refinancing, and a mergers and acquisitions fee.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York bankruptcy court
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 