-- Blockbuster Files for Bankruptcy After Online Rivals Gain
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y ,   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-09-23T14:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/blockbuster-video-rental-chain-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
Blockbuster Inc. , the world’s
biggest movie-rental company, filed for bankruptcy after failing
to adapt its storefront model to online technology pioneered by
rivals such as  Netflix Inc.   The company listed  assets  of $1.02 billion against debt of
$1.46 billion on a Chapter 11 petition filed today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in New York. The company said it reached a deal
with a group of bondholders on a plan of reorganization and
secured a $125 million loan to finance operations.  “To preserve its three-decade long developed brand value,
Blockbuster seeks a restructuring that permits a significant
deleveraging of its business so that it can move forward at the
digital clip at which its industry and competitors are currently
running,”  Jeffery Stegenga , the company’s restructuring
officer, said in a court filing.  Sales at Dallas-based Blockbuster, with about 3,000 stores
in the U.S., shrank in recent years while  Netflix  grew by
renting movies online and through the mail, and  Coinstar Inc. 
put Redbox DVD vending machines in supermarkets and drugstores.  The $125 million in secured financing from senior
noteholders represents new cash availability. On an interim
basis before final approval, $45 million would be available. The
financing is to have a lien ahead of existing debt. The
financing also calls for converting $250 million of existing
secured debt into a new loan with a lien ahead of existing debt.  Largest Creditors  Under the proposed plan, there will be no recovery by the
holders of the company’s outstanding subordinated debt,
preferred stock or common stock, according to the statement.
Blockbuster anticipates it will pay something to unsecured
creditors, court papers show. Blockbuster Video Italy Inc.,
Blockbuster International Spain Inc., Blockbuster Canada Inc.
and nine other units also sought protection.  The company’s largest trade creditor is Twentieth Century
Fox Home Entertainment with a $21.6 million claim, followed by
Warner Home Video Inc. with a claim of $19 million and Sony
Pictures Home Entertainment with a claim of $13.3 million,
according to today’s filing. Among others waiting to be paid by
Blockbuster are Coca-Cola Enterprises, which is owed $703,412,
and the advisory firm Moelis & Co., owed $254,050.  The filing “provides the optimal path for recapitalizing
our balance sheet and positioning Blockbuster for the future, as
we continue to transform our business model to meet the evolving
preferences of our customers,” Chief Executive Officer  Jim Keyes  said in a statement today. Keyes owns almost 1.4 million
shares and options on another 7.8 million shares.  Icahn Bonds  Billionaire  Carl Icahn  bought about one-third of
Blockbuster’s bonds as of Sept. 17, according to people with
knowledge of the matter. Icahn, 74, a former director of the
company, led a proxy fight in 2005 to put himself and two
nominees on the board. Last March, he cut his  stake  in the
company to 3.5 percent by selling stock. He left the board in
January. He is working with a group of senior creditors in the
reorganization plan, the people said.  Before deciding on a bankruptcy financed by senior lenders,
Blockbuster said it spent “significant time” through the
spring and summer this year discussing potential financing deals
with other companies. They included two “large, financially
capable strategic parties” and other investors. None of them
offered sufficient money for the company to cut its debt enough,
Blockbuster said in a court filing.  Bondholder Support  Blockbuster has support for its reorganization plan from a
group of bondholders holding about 80.1 percent of the company’s
11 3/4 percent senior-secured notes, it said. The notes will be
exchanged for equity in the reorganized company. The company has
secured bonds with a face value of $630 million and unsecured
bonds with a face value of $300 million, court papers show.  Blockbuster asked court permission in its first-day filings
to pay studios on a priority basis, saying its ability to
operate depended on the supply of copyrighted material that came
from major movie studios. Blockbuster owes about $68.5 million
to studios with a secured lien on its assets, and $49.6 million
to studios with an unsecured lien, according to a court filing.  About 80 percent of Blockbuster’s annual revenue relies on
material from Walt Disney Co.; Icahn buyout target Lions Gate
Films Inc.; Paramount Home Entertainment Inc.; Sony Pictures
Home Entertainment Inc.; Summit Distribution LLC; Twentieth
Century Fox Home Entertainment LLC; Universal Studios Home
Entertainment LLC; VPD IV Inc.; and Warner Home Video,
Blockbuster said.  Normal Business  After it emerges from bankruptcy, the only debt expected to
remain on Blockbuster’s balance sheet will be the $125 million
loan, known as a debtor-in-possession loan, the company said. It
will convert to so-called exit financing and a revolving-credit
line of as much as $50 million.  Blockbuster said all of its U.S. operations, including
stores, DVD vending kiosks, by-mail and digital businesses, will
continue to operate normally. Domestic and international
franchisees aren’t part of the Chapter 11 reorganization,
according to the statement. The company said it will no longer
provide funding to support its operations in Argentina.  Intana Management LLC, M.A.M. Investment Ltd., Prentice
Capital Management LP, Michael Zimmerman and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. were all listed as directly or indirectly owning,
controlling, or holding, with the power to vote, 5 percent or
more of the voting securities of Blockbuster.  Accounts Payable  Blockbuster has about $57 million of accounts payable,
excluding leases and debts to studios. Its global capital
expenses are running at $30 million a year, it said in a court
filing. Blockbuster’s weekly payroll for employees is $36.5
million. It expects to pay consultants $200,000 in the next 30
days, and officers, stockholders and directors another $178,000,
according to court papers.  The company has hired Weil, Gotshal and Manges as its legal
adviser, led by  Steve Karotkin , was also was the lead lawyer on
General Motors Corp. bankruptcy.  Rothschild Inc. was named Blockbuster’s financial adviser,
and Alvarez and Marsal was hired as its restructuring adviser.
Lawyers for lenders of the bankruptcy loan are Sidley Austin
LLP. Judge  Burton Lifland  was appointed to handle the case.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
 Tiffany Kary  in New York bankruptcy court at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 