-- Boeing, Airbus Vie for Norwegian Wide-Body Order Next Month
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-09-24T12:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/boeing-airbus-vying-for-wide-body-jet-order-from-norwegian-air-shuttle.html
Norwegian Air Shuttle AS , Europe’s
fourth-largest discount carrier, plans to order wide-body
jetliners from  Boeing Co.  or Airbus SAS next month as the
company gears up to begin its first long-haul flights in 2011.  The airline will choose between Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner and
the  Airbus A350  and has held talks with the two planemakers in
Norway, Chief Executive Officer  Bjoern Kjos  said yesterday in a
phone interview. The carrier already has 63 737 single-aisle
jets on order after adding 15 to a contract with Boeing in July.  Norwegian Air will reach its fleet decision based on “the
prices we can obtain in the market and availability,” Kjos
said. “The Dreamliner is nearest in time with regards to
delivery, but Airbus is a very good product.”  The carrier, based in Fornebu, Norway, plans to commence
flights from Oslo and Stockholm to Bangkok and New York in the
second half of next year and will add about 15 long-distance
routes over the next few years, according to the CEO. The wide-
body order will probably include the introduction of two planes
initially and two more the year after, he said.  Norwegian Air  fell  as much as 4 kroner, or 4.5 percent, to
85 kroner and was trading 3.4 percent lower as of 1:55 p.m. in
Oslo, extending the stock’s decline this year to 25 percent. The
benchmark OBX Index was down 0.6 percent today.  Dreamliner Delay  Boeing postponed delivery of the $178 million  Dreamliner 
for the sixth time on Aug. 27 after  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  was
unable to supply an engine to complete testing, and the first of
the composite-plastic planes will now be handed over in the
middle of the first quarter of 2011.  The Airbus A350-900 is scheduled to enter service in 2013,
followed by the smaller -800 in 2014 and the -1000 in late 2015.
The model has an average list price of about $255 million.  “Of course it’s been worrisome for everybody that we’ve
had delays with Boeing, but on the other hand it’s an incredibly
complicated aircraft,” Kjos said. “We don’t know if the A350
will have delays. This is completely different technology, so it
would almost be surprising if they didn’t.”  Kjos said that, given the in-service dates and delivery
backlogs for both the 787 and A350, Norwegian Air may agree to
take older models that are more readily available on a temporary
basis. That would mean either the A330 in the case of Airbus or
Boeing’s 767, company spokeswoman Aasa Larsson said.  Ties to Boeing  “They’ve used Boeing a lot in the past and they have the
Dreamliner interior in the new planes they ordered, so there’s
no doubt they like the Dreamliner,” said  Thomas Nielsen , a
Pareto Securities AS analyst with a “hold” rating on Norwegian
Air. “But whether they’ll go for that depends on the price. The
company has a significant financing need to be resolved.”  Founded in 1993,  Norwegian Air  has focused on short-haul
flights, almost wholly in Europe, since switching to a discount
model in 2001. Ryanair Holdings Plc, which has its headquarters
in Dublin, is Europe’s biggest low-cost carrier, followed by
Luton, England-based EasyJet Plc and Air Berlin Plc.  The Norwegian company “should be capable of setting up
long-haul flights profitably,” said  Per Haagensen , an analyst
at Fondsfinans ASA with a “buy” recommendation. The new
business is likely to be established as a separate company to as
it seeks external financing, he said.  The carrier is also working on an agreement with Finnair
Oyj to funnel passengers onto the Helsinki-based company’s long-
haul flights to Asia. Finnair said in June that implementation
of the code-share agreement had been delayed by the
incompatibility of the airlines’ information-technology systems.  “They want to enter a code-share deal and we want that
deal, so it’s more a question of system developments that need
to fall into place,” Kjos said. “We don’t want the costs that
the traditional systems entail, so we’re developing others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  