-- Stocks Decline, Dollar Strengthens Amid Growth Concerns
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   R a j   R a j e n d r a n
-- 2010-09-23T21:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/bonds-climb-stocks-retreat-on-weakening-growth-as-germany-cuts-debt-sales.html
U.S. stocks fell the  most  in two
weeks and the Dollar Index rebounded from a six-month low as
concern grew that the global recovery is losing steam and the
outlook for bank profits is worsening. Irish bonds slid after
the nation’s economy unexpectedly shrank.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.8 percent to
1,124.83 at 4 p.m. in New York, its biggest decline since Sept.
7.  The Dollar Index , which tracks the currency against six major
peers, climbed 0.3 percent to 80.08 and gold approached another
record as investors pursued assets considered to be the most
safe. Irish 10-year bond  yields  surged to a record 418 basis
points more than German bunds.  An unexpected jump in U.S. jobless claims and weaker-than-
forecast growth in Europe’s service and manufacturing industries
overshadowed improvement in American home sales and economic
indicators. Financial shares led U.S. equities lower as Bank of
America Corp. cut profit estimates for some of the largest
lenders and former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  said
the mortgage market is “absolutely broken.”  “You get one piece of good news and three pieces of bad
news,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion
as chairman of Holland & Co. in New York. “Volcker’s comments
are definitely having an impact on financial-related stocks as
people listen to what he has to say. On top of that, without a
significant improvement in the jobs picture, the uncertainties
will dominate investors’ perception.”  Financials Slump  The S&P 500 Financials Index fell 2 percent, the biggest
decline among 10 industries. Bank of America cut its third-
quarter earnings estimates for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley, saying that a “severe summer
slowdown” weighed on trading profits. Shares of each of those
banks declined.  Dick Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC, also
slashed his 2010 and 2011 earnings estimates for Morgan Stanley
and cut this year’s profit projection for Goldman Sachs.  The U.S. financial system has yet to be repaired, Volcker
said in prepared remarks to a banking conference.  “We know parts of it are absolutely broken like the
mortgage market,” Volcker said at the 13th Annual International
Banking Conference held at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.  Jobless Claims  U.S. equities opened lower after applications for U.S.
jobless benefits unexpectedly rose by 12,000 to 465,000 last
week. Stocks recovered from their lows of the day as the
National Association of Realtors said purchases of existing
 homes  climbed 7.6 percent to a 4.13 million annual pace. The 0.3
percent gain in the Conference Board’s gauge of leading economic
indicators topped the median forecast of 0.1 percent, according
to a Bloomberg News survey.  The 10-year Treasury note pared an early rally, with its
yield slipping 2 basis points to 2.54 percent after sliding to
as low as 2.48 percent.  About three stocks fell for every two that gained on the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which slipped for a third day. Banks
were the biggest drag on the regional index, as Credit Suisse
Group AG tumbled 3.2 percent and Banco Santander SA, Spain’s
largest lender, lost 1.9 percent. U.K. money manager Henderson
Group slumped 5 percent after Citigroup Inc. cut its
recommendation on the stock.  German, Irish Bonds  Germany’s 10-year  bond yield  lost 6 basis points to 2.29
percent, the least since Sept. 9. Ireland’s 10-year yield surged
18 basis points to 6.47 percent. The cost to protect Irish debt
from default surged to a record in credit-default swaps markets,
according to data provider CMA.  Ireland’s gross domestic product  shrank  1.2 percent in the
second quarter from the first quarter and 1.8 percent from a
year earlier, the country’s statistics office said today.
Ireland auctioned 400 million euros ($533 million) of bills,
less than the maximum sought by the debt agency, fueling concern
that some European governments will struggle to fund budget
deficits as economic growth weakens.  A gauge of Europe’s service and manufacturing industries
weakened more than forecast this month, dropping to 53.8 from
56.2, Markit Economics said today.  “European sovereign debt issues are front and center again
today and are weighing on markets,”  Peter Boockvar , equity
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a note to
clients.  New Zealand Growth  The New Zealand dollar slipped versus 15 of 16 of its major
peers, losing 1.3 percent against the yen, after the nation’s
second-quarter economic growth trailed economists’ estimates.
New Zealand’s gross domestic product increased 0.2 percent, less
than a third of 0.7 percent pace forecast by economists.  Developing nations’  stocks  advanced for a second day, with
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  maintaining a more-than-two-year
high, amid speculation inflows of funds will accelerate amid
faster growth in emerging nations.  Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rallied 0.7 percent as
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Latin America’s largest company by
market value, sells shares in a record $78 billion sale today.  The Brazilian government is buying about $42.5 billion-
worth of stock in return for rights to develop about 5 billion
barrels of reserves. State-run financial institutions such as
the BNDES development bank also will likely buy shares, UBS AG
said Sept. 21.  General Motors Co. will probably seek to raise $8 billion
to $10 billion in an initial public offering in November, a
smaller sale than the automaker originally targeted, said two
people familiar with the matter.  The U.S. Treasury Department, which owns 61 percent of GM,
is more interested in fetching a higher share price to
eventually recoup its $49.5 billion investment than in cashing
out a bigger portion of its position, said the people who asked
not to be identified because the discussions are private.  Crude oil futures gained on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, rebounding from an early decline. Crude for November
delivery rose 47 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $75.18 a barrel, the
highest closing price since Sept. 15. The  S&P GSCI Spot Index  of
24 commodities rose 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Raj Rajendran  at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 