-- Brazilian Stocks Increase as Credit, Job Growth Bolster Economic Outlook
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-09-23T20:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/bovespa-futures-decline-as-unemployment-drop-fuels-interest-rate-concern.html
Brazilian stocks gained for a
second day, erasing this year’s decline, as  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA  surged and investors speculate credit growth and job creation
will keep consumer demand growing.  Lojas Renner SA and  Rossi Residencial SA  advanced as credit
expands and the government said today that joblessness fell to a
record.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  surged the most in almost three
weeks on speculation there will be enough demand for its $78
billion stock offering, which the company should disclose the
price for today.  “There must be speculation that demand is strong for
Petrobras,” said  Felipe Casotti , who helps manage the
equivalent of $346 million in assets at Maxima Asset Management
in Rio de Janeiro. “Credit yesterday came out strong, with less
defaults, which bolsters homebuilders.”  The  Bovespa  stock index jumped 0.7 percent to 68,794.32,
erasing this year’s drop for a 0.3 percent advance. The
 BM&FBovespa Small Cap index  was little changed at 1,335.07. The
real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.7228 per dollar.  Brazil’s unemployment rate fell to 6.7 percent in August,
from 6.9 percent the previous month, the national statistics
agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. Joblessness was lower than
the median forecast of 7 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 35
analysts.  Lending  Brazilian bank lending in August expanded at its fastest
pace since July 2009. The stock of outstanding credit increased
2.2 percent in August from the previous month, led by an
increase in mortgage lending, the central bank said in a
statement distributed yesterday in Brasilia. The total loan
default rate was 4.8 percent in August, down from a revised 4.9
percent in July.  Lojas Renner, Brazil’s biggest publicly traded clothing
retailer, jumped 2.6 percent to 56.70 reais.  Rossi Residencial
SA , Brazil’s sixth-biggest homebuilder by revenue, climbed 2.3
percent to 16.73 reais.  Petrobras  advanced 3.2 percent to 26.80 reais. Demand for
Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s share sale has surpassed the amount on
offer, Reuters reported, citing two unnamed people familiar with
the transaction. Brazilian state pension funds and other
institutional investors helped boost demand.  The company is planning to sell as many as 2.718 billion
common shares and 1.983 billion preferred shares. The government
is buying about $42.5 billion worth of stock in return for the
right to develop about 5 billion barrels of reserves.  Interference  The offshore oil driller, based in Rio de Janeiro, slumped
29 percent this year through yesterday, the second-worst
performing major oil stock after  BP Plc. , on concern the sale
will cut earnings and boost state interference. Petrobras’s
preferred and ordinary shares combined account for 12 percent of
the Bovespa’s weighting, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 12.7 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 12.6 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.6
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  