-- BP Engineer Called for More Questioning Before Disaster Panel
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-09-23T19:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/bp-engineer-called-for-more-questioning-before-panel-probing-rig-explosion.html
BP Plc  engineer John Guide, leader
of the team that oversaw drilling of the well that caused the
largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history, has been summoned to
testify for a second time before a federal investigative panel.  Guide is scheduled to testify Oct. 7 to the U.S. Coast
Guard-Interior Department board investigating the Gulf of Mexico
drilling-rig blast that killed 11 workers and triggered the
spill, according to a witness list reviewed by Bloomberg. The
list was distributed today to representatives of companies and
individuals designated as potential targets of the probe.  Guide, 52, has emerged in testimony as one of the critical
decision makers in the weeks and days leading up the April 20
explosion 40 miles (64 kilometers) off the Louisiana coast. As
wells-team leader, Guide vetoed a proposal to install equipment
that may have prevented the influx of explosive natural gas that
destroyed the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, according to
internal  BP  memos and witnesses at previous hearings.  Guide is the third witness called to reappear out of more
than 50 who’ve testified.  Mark Hafle , a BP engineer who helped
design the well, declined last month to testify a second time,
citing his Constitutional right against self incrimination.
David Sims, a BP drilling vice president, testified by telephone
on May 29 and appeared in person on Aug. 26.  BP  vice presidents Patrick O’Bryan and David Sims told the
eight-person panel on Aug. 26 that Guide held ultimate authority
for decisions regarding the structure and drilling of the
Macondo well.  “If that is true, that is a huge responsibility for one
position and on one man,” panel Co-Chairman Hung Nguyen said on
Aug. 27.  Drilling Decisions  David J. Stetler, a Chicago lawyer representing Guide,
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message seeking
comment. Guide didn’t respond to a telephone message left at his
home in Cypress, Texas, a suburb of Houston.  Guide last testified on July 22. The next round of  hearings 
is scheduled to begin on Oct. 4 in Kenner, Louisiana. The panel
has a Jan. 27 deadline for finishing its probe.  Guide, a University of Pittsburgh-trained engineer, told
the panel in July that he oversaw drilling of 25 deep-water
wells in the two and a half years leading up April’s blast. He
was responsible for vetting each step in the drilling process
from an office at  BP ’s campus west of downtown Houston.  Four days before Macondo erupted, Guide overruled
recommendations by BP engineer Gregory Walz and a Halliburton
Co. technician to more than triple the number of centralizers
used to keep the well’s metal casing pipe centered while cement
was poured around the sides, according to an April 16 e-mail
written by Guide.  Centralizer Issue  Failure to use more centralizers left the well susceptible
to “severe gas flow potential,” a report to BP by Houston-
based  Halliburton  warned that day.  On April 16, Walz told Guide that London-based  BP  should
heed Halliburton’s advice, according to the e-mails entered into
evidence by the panel. Walz wrote to Guide that 15 additional
centralizers would be shipped to the rig from Houston by
helicopter later that day.  Guide objected to using the extra centralizers, saying they
were not of the design described by Walz, the e-mails showed.
During his July 22 appearance before the investigative panel,
Guide said he rejected the recommendation to use 21 centralizers
because he was concerned they could be difficult to retrieve
from the hole if the pipe got stuck on its way down and had to
be removed.  An internal investigation by BP found that using the
smaller number of centralizers increased the risk of gaps in the
cement, according to a report the company released on Sept. 8.
The centralizers “likely did not contribute” to the cement’s
failure to prevent gas from surging to the surface, BP said in
the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 