-- BP Ex-Commodities Head Says Firm Had Atmosphere of Fear
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-09-23T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/bp-ex-commodities-head-quek-says-firm-had-atmosphere-of-fear-.html
(Corrects to add number of defendants accused of misusing
confidential information in third paragraph.)  BP Plc (BP/) ’s former head of commodities
trading Quek Chin Thean, who is accused by the oil company of
misusing confidential information and helping a rival, told a
Singapore court he backed up the data because there was an
“atmosphere of fear” at the firm.  BP had been “conducting oppressive and disproportionate
investigative proceedings against its employees and ex-employees,” Quek, 41, said in papers filed in the Singapore
High Court on Sept. 22. “It was this general atmosphere of fear
in the BP Group that prompted me to back up my working e-mails
and documents as a precaution.”  The London-based oil company sued Quek and five other
former employees. Five of them allegedly wrongfully downloaded
and misused confidential information, including oil-trading
“cheat sheets.” BP accused the group of helping rival Shenzhen
Brightoil Group set up a competing business in  Singapore . Quek
was fired on July 9.  Quek, Clarence Chang, John Foo and Laura Kuan countersued
BP last month for wrongful dismissal and claimed the company
wrongfully withheld money owed to them. The group, including
former head of operations Paul John Bradshaw and legal manager
Simon Cheong, has denied misusing any of BP’s trade secrets.
They were fired after the company said it found evidence of
wrongdoing. BP accused five of them, excluding Cheong, of
misusing confidential information.  Brightoil hired the six to help set up a competing business
to trade petroleum products, crude oil and to provide bunker
cargoes, or marine fuel, according to court papers.  ‘Moral’ Breaches  Andy Milnes, then head of supply and trading for oil in
America, forwarded an e-mail to Quek from one of his employees
that said: “The functions run the company and make trading
difficult at every turn,” according to the court papers.
“Their systems are so slow, we miss trades.”  Lau Lu Ching, a Singapore-based BP spokeswoman, declined to
comment when telephoned by  Bloomberg News .  BP fired 252 employees in 2004 for “moral or legal
breaches,” Quek said in the court papers. The  oil company  in
2006 sacked 642 staff and contractors for “unethical behavior
and for breaking laws and other regulations,” according to the
documents.  About 50 employees have quit BP’s Asian trading operations
this year, Quek said. The unit had employed 200 workers.  The case is BP Singapore Pte v. Quek Chin Thean & Ors
S482/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  