-- Breeden Capital Management Fired by New York City Pension Fund
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-09-23T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/breeden-capital-is-fired-by-new-york-city-pension-fund-after-zale-losses.html
New York City’s $36 billion pension
fund for civil-service employees fired a money management firm
headed by former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
chairman  Richard Breeden , who was stung by losses on his
investment in retail jeweler  Zale Corp .  The Employee Retirement System board of trustees voted via
e-mail May 25 to terminate Greenwich, Connecticut-based Breeden
Capital Management, according to information obtained from the
city comptroller’s office under a public records request by
Bloomberg News.  New York City Comptroller  John Liu , a Democrat who took
office in January, is reviewing the investments of the city’s
five public-employee retirement funds. The pensions have fired
at least six money management companies.  “NYCERS has given notice to Breeden, in accordance with
the terms of its investment agreement, to withdraw from the
fund,”  Lawrence Schloss , the city’s chief investment officer,
said in an e-mail.  Cathy Hanson, a spokeswoman for Liu, declined further
comment.  As of June 30, the value of the city’s $136.5 million
investment was $133.3 million. That was 2.3 percent less than
what it gave Breeden since October 2008. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Stock Index lost 2.5 percent in the period.  The pension fund has paid the firm $6.2 million in fees,
according to the comptroller’s records.  Breeden also manages money for the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers, and  Maryland’s State
Retirement and Pension System . The so-called activist investor
buys stock in publicly traded companies and then presses for
management changes to boost share prices.  Years to Unwind  The city’s withdrawal from Breeden Capital Management will
take from 18 to 24 months, Schloss said. Breeden will remain a
manager for the civil employees’ pension during that time, he
said.  Victoria Weld , a spokeswoman for Breeden, declined to
comment.  Breeden, 60, was chairman of the SEC from 1989 to 1993
under President  George H.W. Bush . Under his leadership, the
commission expanded shareholder rights by requiring more
disclosure in proxy statements of executive pay and making it
easier for dissidents to nominate directors to corporate boards.  After the SEC, Breeden was chairman at accounting firm
Coopers & Lybrand and was the court-appointed monitor for
WorldCom Inc., the telecommunications company that imploded
after an accounting scandal. He opened Breeden Capital
Management in 2005.  Tarnished Diamonds  Breeden, which oversees $1.29 billion in assets, is the
largest shareholder in Irving, Texas-based Zale, the third-
largest U.S. jeweler. Zale was battered by the recession, with 
annual revenue  declining 21 percent to $1.78 billion in July
2009 from $2.15 billion in July 2007, as consumers cut
discretionary spending, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Breeden Capital Management’s stake in Zale, now 28.3
percent, was valued at $14.3 million as of June 30, down from
$201.8 million in September 2008, according to regulatory
filings.  Liu, 42, elected in November after vowing to bring more
transparency to city finances, has delayed naming fund managers
fired by pension funds for as long as six months, saying
“premature disclosure” would harm the value of plan assets.  Disclosure could cause prices of securities held by the
manager to decline before the account was closed, First Deputy
Comptroller  Eric Eve  has said.  Last month, Schloss, New York City’s chief investment
officer, declined to say whether Breeden had been terminated.
Bloomberg News then filed a public records request with the city
comptroller’s office.  Billions in Assets  New York City’s civil employees retirement fund has more
than 300,000 active members and retirees. The five city pension
programs including the civil employees fund had $103.8 billion
in assets as of March 31.  Since investing with Breeden in September 2007, Maryland
has lost 12.8 percent compared with a 7.45 percent decline for
the S&P 500, according to state pension records. The value of
Maryland’s investment with Breeden was $134.1 million as of July
31.  Calpers has lost 4.5 percent investing with Breeden’s U.S.
fund since June 2006, according to investment records for the
quarter ending June 30. The market value of California’s
investment in Breeden’s U.S. fund was $347.9 million.  Wayne Davis , a Calpers spokesman, and Michael Golden, a
spokesman for the Maryland pension fund, declined to comment on
their pensions’ relationship with Breeden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 