-- British Horseracing Plans $20 Million Champions' Series to Boost Appeal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-09-23T23:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/british-horseracing-plans-20-million-champions-series-to-boost-appeal.html
British horseracing will host a new
13 million-pound ($20.5 million) series of races next year in an
attempt to broaden the sport’s appeal.  The 35-event British Champions’ Series will start April 30
at  Newmarket , England, and end with “British Champions’ Day”
at  Ascot  near London on Oct. 15,  Racing for Change  said in an e-
mailed statement.  Racing Enterprises Ltd., the commercial arm of British
horseracing, is trying to use the program to boost the sport’s
appeal amid a decline in betting revenue, a drop in terrestrial
television coverage and reduced racecourse attendances. With
prize money of 3 million pounds, Champions’ Day will become the
richest fixture in British racing history, the group said.  “With Ascot’s prime location, capacity and international
brand, the long-term aim is for the event to create a high-
profile stage to rank with the likes of the U.S.A.’s Breeders’
Cup and France’s Prix de l’Arc de Triomphe,” Racing for Change
said.  Jockey  Frankie Dettori  said the sport in Britain is facing
one of its “toughest periods.”  “Our racing is the best in the world and Ascot is a world-
class venue at any level, so it is fantastic that the industry
is doing everything to help itself at this time,” he said in
the statement.  The move was also welcomed by  Ladbrokes Plc , owner of more
than 2,700 betting shops in the U.K.  Public’s Imagination  “We are supportive of any initiative that increases the
profile of the sport and can lead to increased revenues for all
concerned,” Chris Palmer, corporate development director at
 Ladbrokes,  said in the statement.  Simon Bazalgette , chief executive officer of the  Jockey
Club , said racing “must use this platform to tell our sport’s
brilliant stories and appeal to the public’s imagination.”  “High drama, thrilling competition and big rewards -- I
firmly believe we are creating a catalyst for many more people
to become captivated by our sport,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  