-- Buffett, Gates Check Out China's Gasmask Future: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-09-23T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/buffett-gates-weigh-china-s-gasmask-future-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
China is turning more and more
American, and not necessarily for the global good.  No, China isn’t importing democracy, freeing the Internet
or unshackling the yuan. Its Americanization is accelerating in
two other ways: pollution and a desire to create armies of
 consumers  sooner rather than later.  How will these two phenomena evolve in the years ahead? No
one really knows, which makes many of today’s forecasts,
predictions and gut feelings about China’s economic success and
global influence in the long run rather pointless. Even those in
the know in  Beijing  can’t be sure.  Here’s something we can say with certainty: China’s dual
needs to reduce emissions and boost domestic demand are in
direct conflict. How this standoff plays out will decide the
nation’s future. At the moment, there’s reason for concern.  Take emissions. You don’t need to visit the mainland to
realize China is the biggest polluter. A few days in Hong Kong,
close to thousands of mainland factories, have you reaching for
the Visine and clearing your throat more than usual.  Hong Kong has joined London and New York as one of the
“Big Three” financial centers, according to  Z/Yen Group ’s
latest assessment of 75 candidates. Its proximity to China’s
rise is paying off. Yet this geographic advantage will become an
Achilles Heel if China doesn’t go green faster.  Clean-Up Bill  Cleaning up 30 years of industrial waste will cost at least
2 percent of  gross domestic product  a year, or 680 billion yuan
($101 billion) at 2009 figures, says  Ping He , president of the
Washington-based International Fund for China’s Environment.  Mun
Sing Ho , a visiting scholar at Harvard University, puts the
range at 2 percent to 4 percent.  That doesn’t really account for the next stage of China’s
shopping binge. And here’s where the other part of this story
connects. China plans to increase its minimum wage by at least
20 percent annually in the next five years, more than doubling
it by 2015, the South China Morning Post quoted government
adviser  Huang Mengfu , as saying on Sept. 21.  The idea is to increase domestic demand to ease dependence
on exports and narrow the gap between rich and poor, and it’s a
smart one. Not only do Chinese workers deserve a big raise --
they’re demanding it. Just ask executives at Foxconn Technology
Group and Toyota Motor Corp., targets of recent strikes.  Giving It Away  A widening gap between the mega-rich and the rest of the
population could unleash social unrest. It makes next week’s
visit by  Bill Gates  and  Warren Buffett  especially timely.  The world’s two wealthiest people will get 24/7 coverage in
China as they prod the nation’s rich to give away chunks of
their fortune. By giving more to charity, the fast-growing ranks
of China’s billionaires will create jobs and enterprises and
reduce ill-will directed their way.  The dark side is that increased income will empower Chinese
to buy air conditioners, iPods, mobile phones, computers,
furniture, televisions, motorbikes, cars, vacation packages and
homes. While stellar news for Apple Inc., Ikea and  Honda Motor
Co ., such consumption will exacerbate China’s environmental
crisis. The question is whether, on future trips to China, Gates
and Buffett will need to pack gasmasks.  Who knows, this may be an opportunity for Buffett. Plunging
shares may make him think twice about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
$232 million investment in Shenzhen-based carmaker  BYD Co .
Perhaps investing in gasmask companies is just the thing.  Going Green  Even after massive investments in new technologies, China
is struggling to make its economy green. Imagine the size of the
landfills it will need in the years ahead. China and other
developing-nation powerhouses can’t afford to pollute with the
same abandon Europe and U.S. did during their industrial
revolutions. Our planet couldn’t handle 3 billion  Asians 
consuming like Americans. If you think temperatures are rising
now, just wait.  Balancing growth with fuel efficiency is no academic issue.
It’s central to whether the next wave of economic leadership is
sustainable. Brazil, Russia, India and China, the so-called BRIC
nations, are getting lots of attention from investors, and
rightfully so. So are the next emerging economies.  Take Indonesia. It is home to the world’s fourth-largest
population, is resource-rich and has an economy bigger than
Switzerland’s. How Indonesia manages its carbon footprint will
be of great importance to Singapore, Malaysia and Australia. And
Indonesia’s economy is about a 10th the size of China’s and has
one-fifth the population.  Though China has done a remarkable job reducing poverty,
its rich-poor divide is widening to a dangerous degree. That’s
why plans to increase wages are so welcome. Creating a large
middle class is the key to diversifying the economy and making
it stable in the long run.  It will be a messy process, though. Getting a handle on
environmental degradation to date will cost at least as much in
a year as Gates’s and Buffett’s combined worth, never mind
what’s coming. How China copes isn’t a human-interest story.
It’s, as we Americans like to say, the whole ballgame.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Hong Kong at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  