-- Bulgaria, Romania Aim to Join EU's Schengen Zone in March, Presidents Say
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-09-23T12:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/bulgaria-romania-aim-to-join-eu-s-schengen-zone-in-march-presidents-say.html
Bulgaria and Romania want to join
the so-called Schengen Zone in March, giving the European Union
passport-free travel rights within most of the 27-nation bloc to
the last two of its eastern members.  “Our  European Union  membership priorities include joining
the Schengen Zone by March 2011,” Romanian President  Traian Basescu  said at a news conference in Sofia with Bulgarian
President  Georgi Parvanov .  The two Balkan countries along the Black Sea joined the EU
in 2007 and are set to receive 45 billion euros ($60 billion) of
EU aid to raise living standards and infrastructure to EU
levels. They will join eight other former communist countries
that became Schengen members on Dec. 18, 2007, as the EU expands
its influence east and gives its newest members increased rights
within the Brussels-based group of nations.  The two former Soviet bloc countries signed an agreement
today to step up cooperation between police as part of efforts
to join the 25-nation Schengen area.  Countries in the  Schengen  system, named for the Luxembourg
village where the border-free plans were hatched in 1985, have
linked their police, immigration, customs and visa authorities
in a database to prevent abuse and fight crime.  Roma Issue  “Expulsions of Roma from France should not affect the
Schengen process,” Basescu said. “The Roma have a nomadic
lifestyle and their integration should be an issue treated by
the entire EU, not just by the countries they originate from.”  A decision by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in July to
dismantle 441 illegal Roma camps and expel their inhabitants to
Romania and Bulgaria, sparked a disagreement between Paris and
Bucharest.  In August, 950 Romas were deported to Romania and some 40
to Bulgaria. Bulgarian Prime Minister Boiko Borissov said on
Sept. 21 “Bulgaria has no issue with France over the
expulsions.”  France’s policy has been denounced by the European
Parliament, the Catholic Church, the Romanian Parliament  and
editorials in newspapers such as Le Monde, the Financial Times
and the New York Times.  The two heads of state also said they will seek EU support
for the construction of one or two hydro-power plans on the
Danube river, as well as two more bridges.  There is only one bridge linking the two countries across
their 500-kilometer (310-mile) border along the Danube.  A
second bridge between the Bulgarian port of Vidin and the
Romanian port of Calafat, costing 236 million euros, is under
construction and will be completed by June 2011, Parvanov said.  It has been delayed by previous governments. The bridge
would help complete a transport corridor running from Germany to
Greece and Turkey. Bulgaria and Romania also plan to build a
pipeline connecting their natural gas grids, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  