-- New Burger King Owner Faces $3 Billion Tab to Fix `Blah' Stores
-- B y   B u r t   H e l m
-- 2010-09-23T20:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/burger-king-may-face-3-billion-tab-to-fix-up-blah-stores.html
Once 3G Capital completes its
purchase of  Burger King Holdings Inc.,  the Brazilian-backed
investment fund and the fast-food chain’s franchisees may face a
$3 billion tab to renovate aging U.S. restaurants.  Last month, Chief Executive Officer  John Chidsey  told
analysts that 85 percent of Burger King’s 7,200-plus locations
in the U.S. need to be remodeled. Modernizing stores with the
company’s new “20/20” redesign will cost about $500,000 each,
he said in June, with some going as high as $1.1 million. That
could push the cost past $3 billion.  “The image is 20 years old,”  Charles Fallon , president of
Burger King’s North American business, said in a telephone
interview. “We’re working hard on making the economics work.”  Among Burger King designs still in use is a 1999 layout
featuring metal chairs and bright blue booths. That compares
with newly remodeled McDonald’s Corp. restaurants that showcase
low lighting, cushioned stools and bossa nova music played
through ceiling speakers.  “McDonald’s is more uplifting,” Joyce Jacaruso Castillo,
69, said upon leaving a revamped three-story McDonald’s on New
York’s 6th Avenue. “Burger King is so blah.”  Persuading franchisees to shed that “blah” image may not
be easy. Slowing sales at the world’s  second-largest  hamburger
chain have made many store owners reluctant to spend on
renovations, Steve Lewis, who owns 36 outlets near Philadelphia,
said in a telephone interview.  Extra Funds?  3G Capital may need to chip in funds through Burger King to
spur remodeling, said  Jordan Krolick , president of the Marietta,
Georgia-based consulting firm Tound & Drowth LLC.  “It’s the hidden cost in any restaurant acquisition, and
should be planned for as an addition to the initial
investment,” said Krolick, who previously ran mergers and
acquisitions for Oak Brook, Illinois-based  McDonald’s.   Outlets without drive-throughs will be cheaper to remodel,
and franchisees also can remodel with the old look, which is
less expensive, said Susan Robison, a spokeswoman for Miami-
based Burger King. She declined to provide an estimate for a
total renovation cost.  On Sept. 2,  Jorge Paulo Lemann  and his partners at 3G,
 Marcel Herrmann Telles  and Carlos Alberto da  Veiga Sicupira ,
agreed to buy Burger King for $3.3 billion, the biggest
restaurant  acquisition  in at least a decade. Burger King is
seeking $1.9 billion in loans to back the buyout, according to
people familiar with the discussions.  Lemann, a former financial columnist, tennis champion and
stockbroker, is Brazil’s second-richest man, according to Forbes
magazine. He and his partners own stakes in Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV, the world’s biggest brewer, and Lojas Americanas SA,
Brazil’s largest discount retailer.  Stock Performance  “It’s premature to talk about whether 3G’s going to
provide funding or what the cost will be” for restaurant
upgrades, said  Steven Lipin , a spokesman for 3G Capital.  Burger King fell 1 cent to $23.79 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, while McDonald’s fell 49 cents
to $74.64. Burger King  shares  have gained 26 percent this year,
compared with a 20 percent increase for McDonald’s.  Burger King’s aging U.S. stores put them at a considerable
disadvantage against McDonald’s,  Matthew DiFrisco , an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., said in a telephone interview. McDonald’s,
which owns much of the real estate underlying its franchises,
fuels renovations by matching 40 percent of funds put up by its
franchisees on average, spokeswoman Lizzie Roscoe said in a
telephone interview. Its stores are about 18 years old on
average, she said.  Sales Performance  This year an average  McDonald’s  store generated almost
twice the sales of an average Burger King in the U.S., according
to industry tracker Technomic Inc. In the quarter ended June 30,
sales at U.S. Burger King stores open more than 13 months fell
1.5 percent, while McDonald’s U.S. comparative sales rose 3.7
percent.  Burger King  sales  began flagging in 2002, according to
Technomic, the same year TPG Capital, Bain Capital LLC and
Goldman Sachs Capital Partners bought Burger King from Diageo
Plc for $1.5 billion. The three private-equity firms introduced
a cheaper design for new stores to increase the chain’s
 profitability , according to Fallon. Renovations amounted to
“paint and touch-up work, and repair and maintenance catch-
ups,” he said.  By the time Burger King became a  public company  in May
2006, market share had slipped by 2.7 percentage points against
competitors like McDonald’s, according to Chicago-based
Technomic.  20/20  Burger King introduced its “20/20” redesign two years
ago. The name is intended to set the tone until the year 2020
and beyond.  Since then, more than 300 restaurants worldwide have been
outfitted with chrome-trimmed booths, brick walls, LCD menu
screens, red and black paint and “flame” chandeliers meant to
evoke the chain’s flame-broiled burgers.  Franchisees, who own about 90 percent of Burger King’s
stores, are responsible for their own renovation costs, and must
remodel stores every 10 years to  Burger King’ s specifications.  Some franchise owners say they won’t pay for the extensive
20/20 renovations. Lewis, the Philadelphia-area franchisee, said
three or four of his restaurants have come up for contract
renewals in the past two years, and he has opted for less
expensive renovations, such as adding carpeting in the dining
room and computer terminals with Internet access.  “I’m doing whatever the minimum is,” Lewis said.  Doing the Minimum  At a conference in May, Burger King managers played a video
to motivate franchisees to renovate their stores. In it,
consumers explained why they had just eaten at a remodeled
 McDonald’s , and not the Burger King across the street.
Remodeling stores lifts sales 12 percent, and tearing down a
restaurant and rebuilding it (a $1 million to $1.1 million
investment) results in a 25 percent sales increase, according to
Burger King.  Shoukat Dhanani, who operates 61 Burger Kings in the
Houston area, built the first 20/20 restaurant in the U.S. in
May 2009. So far sales are 40 percent higher than at his other
locations, Dhanani said in a telephone interview. Some customers
couldn’t believe the sleek new location was actually a Burger
King, he said.  “Customers were like ‘Wow, this is nice!’” he said.
“’Are we in the right place?’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  