-- Bush Contrast Will Give Obama Warm UN Reception Even As U.S. Support Wanes
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/bush-contrast-will-give-obama-warm-un-reception-even-as-u-s-support-wanes.html
President  Barack Obama  will receive
a far warmer response in the  United Nations  General Assembly
hall today than his party is likely to get from U.S. voters in
November’s mid-term elections.  “I am not sure there is any region where he is not
popular,”  Vanu Menon , Singapore’s ambassador to the UN, said in
an interview. “It’s because the U.S. is seen to be engaging
with the world, and the response is positive even if there is
not always agreement.”  While the sluggish U.S. economy has cut into Obama’s
popularity at home, and may lead to loss of the Democratic
majority in one or both houses of Congress, he remains admired
overseas and at UN headquarters in New York. Opinions of the
U.S. also are more positive than under President  George W. Bush ,
according to the Washington-based Pew Research Center.  Pew’s 22-nation survey found in June that Obama “remains
popular in most parts of the world,” including approval ratings
of 73 percent in France, 66 percent in India and Japan, 58
percent in China and 57 percent in Russia. Exceptions are Arab
and Muslim nations, where Obama’s popularity has fallen since he
took office.  At home, a Gallup survey taken Sept. 19-21 put Obama’s
approval rating at 43 percent. That is near the worst mark of
his presidency and is down from a high of 66 percent in April
2009. Republicans hold a 3 percentage-point advantage over
Democrats in the RealClearPolitics average of recent
congressional vote polling data.  UN diplomats credit Obama’s standing to a reversal of Bush
policies that they say reflected skepticism about the UN. Bush
appointed an ambassador, John Bolton, who faulted the world body
for inaction and hostility to U.S. interests.  Abortion, Nuclear Threat  The U.S. under Obama joined the Geneva-based  Human Rights
Council , supported a General Assembly declaration urging the
decriminalization of homosexuality and gave government funds to
a UN agency that offers abortion counseling. Obama also backed a
treaty to regulate the trade in conventional weapons and agreed
to strengthen the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.  “We ended the needless U.S. isolation on a range of
issues,” U.S. Ambassador  Susan Rice  said. “We changed and
scrapped a number of outdated positions, particularly on issues
related to women and population, lesbians and gays,
disabilities.”  Rice said the approach paid dividends in UN Security
Council resolutions tightening sanctions against North Korea and
Iran that are intended to block their development of nuclear
weapons and ballistic missiles.  Bolton Criticism  Bolton has challenged Obama’s record on Iran and North
Korea, saying in an article for the Oct. 4 issue of National
Review that the sanctions haven’t worked.  “In matters most directly threatening to America and its
allies, the nuclear-weapons programs of Iran and North Korea,
the UN has performed no better than it did during the Bush
administration,” Bolton wrote. “Obama’s UN strategy regarding
Iran and North Korea has not been much different from Bush’s in
his last two years. Neither has been successful.”  Obama sent a further signal of his UN support yesterday
with his participation in a meeting of leaders on poverty and
hunger-reduction aims.  “President Obama has the conviction that the UN is deeply
flawed, but he understands that it has unique capabilities and
unparalleled international legitimacy,” Stewart Patrick, senior
fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in Washington, said
in an interview. “He’s trying to give critics a little less
ammunition by taking away U.S. unilateralism as an excuse.”  Global Economy  Obama’s speech today will focus on “our efforts to restart
the global economy, to combat al-Qaeda, to advance the cause of
non-proliferation and to pursue Middle East peace,” Deputy
National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes  told reporters on Sept. 20.  The global perception gap also shows up among investors.
While 77 percent of U.S. investors said Obama is anti-business
and expressed pessimism about his policies, only 50 percent of
those questioned outside the U.S. held the same views, according
to a Bloomberg News survey released Sept. 21.  At the UN, Obama “will get a good reception because the
shift in U.S. policies is continuing,”  Maged Abdelaziz , Egypt’s
ambassador, said in an interview. “Everybody feels it.”  Yet Egyptians reflect Muslim disappointment in Obama, who
used a Cairo speech to make a direct appeal last year to the
Islamic world. The Pew poll found that the U.S. favorability
rating in Egypt fell to 17 percent from 27 percent last year.
Declines were also reported in surveys limited to Muslims in
Egypt, Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Indonesia, Pakistan and Nigeria.  Arab Disapproval  A Zogby International poll conducted by  Shibley Telhami ,
professor for peace and development at the University of
Maryland in College Park, last month said only 16 percent of
Arabs in six nations expressed optimism about U.S. policy on the
Middle East, compared to 51 percent last year.  “When we asked what they disliked most, 61 percent said
the Arab-Israeli issue,” Telhami said in an interview.  Obama is attempting to ease that tension by mediating
direct talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority that
resumed this month.  “I don’t think we are going to spend a lot of time
worrying about the ups and downs of polls here or abroad,” Rice
said. “The president is governing in a fashion that is aimed at
supporting and advancing America’s interests. That won’t always
satisfy every country and constituency around the world, nor is
it intended to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  