-- Schwarzenegger, California Lawmakers Agree on Budget Compromise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-09-24T00:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/california-budget-deal-has-been-reached-schwarzenegger-s-spokesman-says.html
California  lawmakers and Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger  agreed on a “framework” to close a $19
billion deficit, ending an impasse that pushed the most-populous
U.S. state near insolvency for a second year running.  The group will hammer out the details of the agreement when
they meet again in Sacramento on Sept. 27, said Schwarzenegger
Press Secretary  Aaron McLear.  He declined to give specifics on
their plan.  “The governor and legislative leaders have reached the
framework of an agreement, will work through the details over
the weekend, and hope to come to a final agreement when they
reconvene Monday,” McLear said.  California, the biggest U.S. issuer of municipal debt, has
been operating without a budget since its fiscal year began July
1, the longest the state’s ever gone without a spending plan.
Schwarzenegger, a Republican approaching the end of his term,
and Democrats who lead the Legislature, disagreed on how much
spending to cut and whether to raise taxes to fill the gap. The
stalemate led state Controller  John Chiang  to warn that he may
have to begin paying some bills with IOUs as soon as next month.  ‘Stark Choices’  “Given the enormity of the deficit and the stark choices
available to us in closing it, it’s vital that we take the time
to get it right in producing a budget plan that protects
Californians from devastating job losses and economically
hurtful decisions,” said Speaker of the Assembly  John Perez , a
Democrat from Los Angeles.  Once a budget is signed, California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer 
plans to borrow as much as $10 billion using short-term notes.
The state typically seeks such financing in the second or third
quarter each year, when cash-on-hand is low, and repays it from
later tax collections. The state sold $8.8 billion of such notes
in September 2009 and paid off the securities in June.  Schwarzenegger’s Department of Finance has identified about
$6 billion of bonding needs through the end of November. Lockyer
has been waiting to sell the debt pending approval of a budget.
He sold $12 billion of securities in October and November last
year after a similar stalemate ended. The state sold more than
$30 billion of debt last year.  Fair Amount  “Once we get a budget, California is going to need to do a
fair amount of issuing, and they’ll have to do that at a higher
rate,”  Scott Minerd , chief investment officer of Guggenheim
Partners, said in a Sept. 17 telephone interview from his Los
Angeles office. “There will be buying opportunities.”  In January, Standard & Poor’s cut California’s credit grade
to A-, its lowest among U.S. states, citing fiscal imbalances
and recurring cash-flow problems. S&P has said it may reduce the
state’s rating again if the budget crisis worsens.  Any progress on a budget agreement “is welcome news,”
said Garin Casaleggio, a spokesman for Chiang, in a statement.
The amount the state owes to organizations including community
colleges and local governments has swelled to about $6.5 billion
since July 1, he said.  California last sold general-fund backed bonds in June,
when it offered about $120 million of debt for veterans’ homes.
The state sold $450 million of public-works bonds in May and
$5.9 billion of debt in March.  Extra Yield  Even with the impasse, the  extra yield  investors demand on
10-year California bonds has declined to 119 basis points above
AAA rated municipal securities from 150 basis points in March,
Bloomberg Fair Value Index data show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “The way munis have priced so far this year, they have
responded far more to the technical factors than to the
underlying credit,” said  Jon Schotz , co-managing partner at
Saybrook Capital in Santa Monica, California. “So much money
has gone into munis this year that funds tend to lose their
discipline.”  California requires a two-thirds vote in both legislative
chambers to pass budgets, and neither Republicans nor Democrats
hold enough seats to meet that threshold. That has forced
lawmakers to agree on a plan before bringing it up for a vote.  The state’s constitution says lawmakers must send a budget
to the governor by June 15, a deadline they’ve met five times in
the last 30 years. The fiscal 2008 budget was sent to
Schwarzenegger on Sept. 16 and signed into law on Sept. 23, the
latest the state went without a spending plan until this year.  The state, with the world’s eighth-largest  economy , issued
$2.6 billion of IOUs last year after a similar budget stalemate.
That was only the second time since the Great Depression that
California had to use warrants to cover costs and conserve cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  