-- Casey's Holders Reelect All Board Nominees; Couche-Tard By-Law Rejected
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2010-09-23T18:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/casey-s-shareholders-reject-couche-tard-directors-hurting-takeover-offer.html
(Corrects full name of Casey’s in first paragraph.)  Casey’s General Stores Inc. 
shareholders rejected all eight directors nominated by
 Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc.  at today’s annual meeting,
hindering the Canadian company’s hostile takeover bid.  Casey’s, which owns more than 1,500 convenience stores in
the U.S., reelected its entire board “by a wide margin” as it
weighs a $38.50 a share offer from Couche-Tard and a preliminary
$40 offer from  7-Eleven Inc. , the company said in a statement.
The Couche-Tard board nominees received less than 10 percent of
shares voted, according to the preliminary results.  Couche-Tard’s offer, valued at about $2 billion, expires
Sept. 30. The failure to get board members elected today won’t
end the company’s chances as long as Couche-Tard improves its
offer, said  Bill Kavaler , an analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.
in New York.  “What part of $40 do the Canadians not understand?”
Kavaler said in a telephone interview before the meeting. “I
don’t think they are going to start even talking about a deal
until Couche-Tard offers at least $40.”  On Sept. 20, Couche-Tard recommended that Casey’s
shareholders elect at least three new directors to its board to
move forward discussions about a takeover.  Tender Offer  Laval, Quebec-based Couche-Tard made its initial tender
offer to buy Casey’s, based in Ankeny, Iowa, in April for $36
and has twice raised its bid. Casey’s announced that 7-Eleven, a
unit of Japan’s  Seven & I Holdings Co. , made a preliminary offer
earlier this month.  Casey’s sued Couche-Tard in June saying the company sold
almost 2 million shares immediately after offering to buy it,
earning more than $10 million in profit, according to lawsuit
documents. The companies sent letters to each other’s boards
this month accusing the other of obfuscation.  Couche-Tard maintained in a Sept. 20 letter that Casey’s
management intentionally hid the terms of 7-11’s proposal to
secure votes at today’s meeting.  The reelection of Casey’s directors may force Couche-Tard
to publicly match 7-11’s bid, said Kavaler. Couche-Tard secured
a $1.5 billion term loan on Sept. 1 to finance a potential deal
and has said it will consider increasing its bid if given full
access to Casey’s financials.  Analysts value Casey’s at $45 a share without pricing in a
takeover, the company said in a Sept. 7 statement. The target
price is $46.29, the average estimate of seven analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Casey’s  rose  2 cents to $42.85 at 12:19 p.m. in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. The shares had increased 34 percent this
year before today. Couche-Tard slipped 15 cents to C$23.22 in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading, and had gained 12 percent this
year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 