-- CBOE Chief Urges SEC to Reconsider Proposed Trading-Fee Limit on Options
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-09-23T22:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/cboe-chief-urges-sec-to-reconsider-proposed-trading-fee-limit-on-options.html
CBOE Holdings Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  William Brodsky  said regulators shouldn’t apply rules
that operate in the stock market to options exchanges because
they would have a different effect in that environment.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in April
 proposed  a trading-fee limit of 30 cents per contract on options
orders, echoing an existing cap of 30 cents for 100 shares in
equities. Such a limit would restrict what CBOE can charge for
products such as options on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
which it has an exclusive license to trade. Other exchanges
would also be affected.  “Too much is at stake to simply graft stock-market
solutions onto options-market dynamics,” Brodsky said at a
Security Traders Association meeting in Washington, adding he’s
“guardedly optimistic” that the SEC understands the potential
effect of such actions. CBOE operates the Chicago Board Options
Exchange, the largest U.S. options market.  Brodsky said he disagrees with the SEC’s proposed ban on
flash orders, which exchanges use to allow a select group of
firms to briefly see orders before they’re sent to other
markets. This is done to try to trade those orders on the market
flashing the order. The commission in July  reopened  the
discussion about whether a ban should apply to options, where
exchanges employ different sets of rules to run their market,
and if there should be exemptions for certain types of products.  “Let the exchanges have the ability to match the prices on
competing exchanges by using flash or so-called step-up
orders,” Brodsky said. “Options markets should be treated
differently and not necessarily as an appendage of the stock
market. It’s not so much about preserving flash as it is about
preserving choice.”  Shares of CBOE Holdings Inc. have fallen 29 percent to
$20.58 since the company’s initial public offering in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 