-- CFS Retail to Pay $473 Million for DFO Shopping Malls in Sydney, Melbourne
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-09-24T01:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/cfs-retail-to-pay-493-million-for-dfo-shopping-malls-in-sydney-melbourne.html
CFS Retail Property Trust  will pay
A$498 million ($473 million) to acquire four shopping malls
owned by  Direct Factory Outlet  in Australia.  The real estate trust that invests in Australian shopping
centers today completed a deal to buy one mall in Sydney and
three in Melbourne from the outlet chain, Sydney-based CFS
Retail said in a statement to the Australian stock exchange.  The trust will fund the purchase through a A$540 million
institutional equity raising, it said in the statement. Austexx
Pty Ltd., DFO’s Melbourne-based parent, has put its A$1.5
billion of shopping outlets up for sale to pay off debt
accumulated before the global financial crisis.  “This is a unique opportunity to enter an increasingly
important, yet immature retail format and sub-sector in
Australia,”  Michael Gorman , fund manager at CFS Retail, said in
the statement.  CFS Retail, managed by  Colonial First State Property Retail
Pty Ltd. , will buy DFO shopping malls in Homebush in Sydney,
South Wharf in the Docklands in Melbourne, and at domestic
airports in the Melbourne suburbs of Moorabinn and Essendon, it
said in today’s statement.  The South Wharf purchase is contingent on CFS Retail’s
joint venture partner The Plenary Group’s ability to get
financing to double its interest to 50 percent, according to the
statement.  Investment Tide  “The investment tide is clearly turning,” Simon Rooney,
head of retail investments at real estate broker Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc., who is handling the DFO portfolio sale, said in an
e-mailed statement. Local property trusts “ have largely re-
emerged as buyers due to extensive capital raising over the past
two years, while many superannuation funds are also in a
position to buy again because their portfolios have rebalanced
and they are no longer overweight in property.”  CFS Retail will offer eligible Australian and New Zealand
unit holders a unit purchase plan following the institutional
raising, with expected proceeds of as much as A$10 million used
to retire debt, CFS Retail said.  CFS Retail shares have been suspended from trading since
Sept. 22 after closing at A$1.95.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  