-- Ricketts May Cut Cubs’ Player Payroll After Disappointing Year
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-09-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/chicago-cubs-finances-met-expectations-owner-thomas-ricketts-says.html
The Chicago Cubs, who last won the
World Series 102 years ago, will probably cut the player payroll
next year, Chairman  Thomas S. Ricketts  said in an interview at
Wrigley Field.  The club’s opening-day payroll was the third-highest in
Major League Baseball after the Boston Red Sox and New York
Yankees. While a final decision hasn’t been made for spending in
2011, “my gut tells me it’ll be off some,” said Ricketts, the
 Incapital LLC  chairman who led an ownership group that acquired
the team and ballpark last year from Chicago real estate magnate
 Sam Zell  for about $900 million.  The Cubs claimed back-to-back World Series titles in 1907
and 1908 and haven’t won the championship since. While the team
began the 2010 season with an optimistic slogan -- Year 1 --
Chicago’s north-side franchise was mathematically eliminated
from a playoff berth on Sept. 13.  “Fans are disappointed. The family’s disappointed. The
players are disappointed,” Ricketts said yesterday. “For any
fan, this season is just not what you wanted to happen.”  Building an effective organization is needed to end the
longest drought in baseball, not spending unlimited dollars,
said Ricketts, a Cubs admirer since childhood who became a full-
fledged follower after moving to the city in 1983 to attend the
University of Chicago.  “As a fan, if there was one dollar amount that guaranteed
you a World Series, I would spend that dollar amount,” said
Ricketts, 45. “Unfortunately, it doesn’t work that way. What
you want to do is make sure you’re building an organization that
wins.”  Meeting Expectations  The Cubs met Ricketts’s financial expectations in his first
year of ownership, he said, declining to disclose specific
revenue numbers.  “The Cubs are a positive cash flow sports team,” he said.
“If we’d had a better season on the field, we probably would
have done a little better on the business side.”  The team’s 96-year-old  ballpark , which Chicago gave
landmark status in 2004, is the oldest in the major leagues
after Boston’s Fenway Park. Wrigley Field will remain the
franchise’s home, Ricketts said.  “One of the most important things to the Ricketts family
ownership is doing everything we can to save the experience at
Wrigley Field for the next generation and maybe the generation
after that,” Ricketts said. “We’re very, very committed to
Wrigley.”  While naming rights are a “very profitable” way for some
sports teams to partner with sponsors, changing the name at the
Friendly Confines is not something Ricketts is considering.  Wrigley Field  “I don’t think it’s really a practical option for us to
rename Wrigley Field,” Ricketts said. “We have no intention of
doing that.”  The new ownership has brought in sponsors including  BP Plc ,
 Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Kraft Foods Inc. , said Dennis Culloton, a
spokesman for the Ricketts family.  While Ricketts wouldn’t specify how he plans to increase
revenue, he cited the Red Sox as a good “model” for the Cubs
to study. Increasing amenities and seating options for Red Sox
fans while “reinforcing the structure of the park” also make
sense for the Cubs, he said.  The Ricketts family, the eighth ownership  group  in the 133-
year history of the Cubs, acquired a 95 percent controlling
interest in the team, Wrigley Field and 25 percent of Comcast
Sportsnet Chicago last year. Family members Pete, Tom, Laura and
Todd Ricketts are on the team’s board, with Tom serving as
chairman.  Night Classes  Tom grew up in Omaha, Nebraska, and met his wife in the
bleachers at Wrigley Field. He worked as a trader at the Chicago
Board Options Exchange and attended classes at night to earn a
graduate business degree in 1993 from the University of Chicago.  One measure of his team’s continued struggles is the price
of tickets on the resale market.  The Sept. 7 home game against the Houston Astros sold for
as low as $1.99 a ticket on StubHub, a unit of  EBay Inc. , the
online reseller. The paid attendance was 31,596, 23 percent
below the field’s official capacity of 41,210, Jason Carr, a
Cubs spokesman, said in an e-mail this month.  “Baseball prices do tend to fluctuate a lot, and it’s not
unusual to see ticket prices that run the gamut,”  Glenn Lehrman , a spokesman for StubHub, said in an e-mail.  Through Sept. 22, average Cubs home-game attendance this
season is 37,852, down 4.7 percent from 39,698 at the same time
last year, according to MLB data. The Cubs weren’t eliminated
from a playoff berth last year until Sept. 29.  ‘Team’s No Good’  “We have difficulty giving them away at this point in the
season,” Stephen Skardon, 37, an attorney in Chicago who has a
share of season tickets, said in an interview outside Wrigley on
Sept. 7. “The team’s no good.”  At Vivid Seats, a Chicago-based secondary ticket
marketplace, average Cubs ticket orders in September were about
$37 this year, down about 20 percent from last season, said
Brittney Thomas, a spokeswoman.  “It’s a sign of the times,” said Danny Matta, 48, owner
of  GreatSeats.com , a national ticket broker based in Beltsville,
Maryland. “The internet has made it so you can see what the
true value of a ticket is at the end of a day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 