-- China Denies Japan Rare-Earth Ban Amid Diplomatic Row
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-23T09:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/china-denies-japan-rare-earth-ban-amid-diplomatic-row-update1-.html
China denied reports it banned the
export of rare earths to Japan in retaliation for the detention
of a Chinese fishing boat captain, threatening supplies of a raw
material vital to hybrid cars, laptops and iPhones.  “China does not have a trade embargo on rare earth exports
to Japan,” Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economics Co-operation
spokesman  Chen Rongkai  said in a telephone interview today.
Industrial Minerals Co. of Australia, an industry publication
and consultancy, first reported the ban yesterday, citing an
unidentified “leading Japanese rare earth buyer.”  “The Chinese government has requested exporters to
demonstrate support for the Chinese situation and suspend
exports of rare earths to Japan until the end of the month when
the situation will be reviewed,” said Industrial Minerals owner
and former mining executive  Dudley Kingsnorth . “It’s very
regrettable if we have the effective suspension of commercial
contracts for political reasons.”  True or false, the reports may fuel concerns over China’s
control of more than 95 percent of the global supply of rare
earths. The U.S. Department of Defense is this month due to
complete a review of its dependency on the minerals for missile
guidance systems, smart bombs and satellites.  Japan and China are both on national holidays today.  Cut Exports  China cut export quotas for the minerals by 72 percent for
the second half of this year, citing a shortage of supply for
domestic manufacturers. The accusations of further restrictions
to Japan come as Asia’s two biggest economies are embroiled in a
diplomatic row over the Sept. 7 detention of the skipper in
waters around a group of uninhabited islets and outcrops about
200 miles (322 kilometers) off the northeast coast of Taiwan.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  this week demanded Japan
“immediately and unconditionally” release the skipper or face
retaliatory action. Japan has refused to let him go, saying that
the case is being handled in the country’s court system.  China said this week it had severed senior-level government
contacts after Japanese prosecutors extended the captain’s
detention until Sept. 29. Japan’s foreign ministry on Sept. 20
said China had revoked an invitation for 1,000 youths to attend
the Shanghai World Expo, and ticket sales for two concerts in
the city by pop band SMAP were suspended, Asahi newspaper
reported.  Alternative Supplies  Kingsnorth, who managed the Mount Weld rare earths project
for Ashton Mining of Canada Inc. for 10 years and has worked for
 BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Rio Tinto Group  and Alcoa Inc., said China’s
actions to restrict trade in rare earths would only spur buyers
to develop alternative supplies.  Rare earths are a group of chemically similar metallic
elements, including lanthanum, cerium, neodymium and europium.
They are used in radar, high-powered magnets, mini hard-drives
in laptop computers, catalytic converters for vehicles,
electric-car batteries and wind turbines. Many are difficult to
substitute with alternatives.  While relatively abundant in the earth’s crust, finding
deposits of rare earths significant enough to mine is less
common, the U.S. Geological Survey  says . China, the countries
that made up the former Soviet Union and the U.S. have the
largest reserves.  Shipments Capped  China’s shipments will be capped at 7,976 metric tons, down
from 28,417 tons for the same period a year ago, according to
 data  from the Ministry of Commerce on July 8.  Rising demand for hybrid cars and music players such as
Toyota Motor Corp.’s Prius and Apple Inc.’s iPod have already
driven up demand and prices for rare earths, even without
China’s export restrictions.  “Toyota has a stockpile of the rare earths and minerals
used in hybrid cars and electrics parts, so an embargo is
unlikely to affect its production anytime soon,”  said  Koji Endo , an auto analyst at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo. “If
China keeps an embargo on sales for more than a year, Toyota
might not be able to produce hybrids.”  Still, any disruption to trade may drive prices of the raw
material higher, damaging profit, he said.  Chinese Cuts  The cuts in quotas have already driven prices “up by
anything between 50 and 400 percent,” Kingsnorth said.  Shares of  Lynas Corp. , the Sydney-based company that’s
developing a rare earth mine in Australia, have more than
doubled this year. The stock gained 3.8 percent today to A$1.235.
 Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. , the biggest
Chinese producer, has also more than doubled this year and
closed at 64.44 yuan in Shanghai on Sept. 21.  Lynas plans to bring its Mount Weld project in Western
Australia and processing plant in Malaysia into production by
the third quarter next year. The refinery would be the first
outside of China “in about 50 years,” Executive Chairman
 Nicholas Curtis  said in an interview last week.  A rare-earth mine in the U.S., in Mountain Pass, California,
that was once the world’s dominant producer, shut down most
operations in 2002.  Molycorp Inc. , which owns the mine, plans to
reopen it this year.  The U.S. military depends on China for the metals required
to build smart bombs, night-vision goggles and naval radar,
according to a report to Congress obtained by Bloomberg News in
April.  China’s hold on global production gives it “market power”
against the U.S., the Government Accountability Office said in
the report. The materials are found in weapons including  General
Dynamics Corp. ’s M1A2 Abrams tank and Aegis SPY-1 radar made by
 Lockheed Martin Corp.   Below is a table of Chinese rare earth export quotas for 2009
and 2010. The numbers are in metric tons.  -- Liza Lin  in Shanghai,  Jason Scott  in Perth and  Maki Shiraki  in
Tokyo. Editors:  Ben Richardson ,  Mark Williams .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Ben Richardson in Tokyo at 
 brichardson8@bloombeg.net . 