-- China Guts Dollar, Crushes U.S. in Alarming Financial War Game
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-09-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/china-sabotages-dollar-defeats-u-s-in-alarming-financial-war-game-books.html
On a rainy Tuesday in March 2009,
U.S. military and intelligence officials gathered in a war room
north of Washington to watch a simulated conflict flicker across
a bank of video screens.  The struggle was pitting the U.S. against China. And China
was winning hands down, writes  Eric J. Weiner  in “The Shadow
Market,” a bleak survey of how flush authoritarian governments
deploy financial means to achieve geopolitical ends.  The weapons were dollars, stocks and bonds, not bullets and
bombs. The soldiers were Wall Street bankers, hedge-fund traders
and economists. For two days, they explored what would happen if
the world sank into  economic warfare . The outcome was alarming.  “There was no way for America to win,” Weiner says.  Whenever the U.S. did something Beijing didn’t like, China
began dumping a fraction of  its dollar-backed assets , driving
down the currency, sowing economic chaos and prompting U.S.
leaders to appease the Chinese. America didn’t have as much
leverage with its Asian banker as had been assumed -- a lesson
reinforced this week when Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  rebuffed
U.S. complaints that the yuan was undervalued.  Weiner, to his credit, is wrestling with a giant squid of a
topic -- how China and Mideast oil powers project their cash,
tentacle-like, to grab whatever they want. Unfortunately, the
subject is as elusive and amorphous as the world’s largest
invertebrate. Weiner, a former Dow Jones Newswires columnist,
struggles to pin it down.  “The shadow market,” he writes, “is a collection of
unaffiliated, extremely wealthy nations and investors that
effectively run the international economy through their
prodigious holdings of stocks, bonds, real estate, currencies,
and other financial instruments.”  Digital Mercantilism  What we’re witnessing, of course, is mercantilism in the
Internet age. The wealth of these nations slithers through the
digital depths and surfaces around the globe as purchases of
land, commodities and securities.  Though hedge funds and private-equity funds participate in
this plot to “secretly dominate the world” (as the
conspiratorial subtitle puts it), Weiner focuses on sovereign
wealth funds and government-owned holding companies that are
buying swaths of the planet, parcel by parcel. While the rest of
us shop for junk bonds and value stocks, the Chinese lock in
Vietnamese bauxite and the Saudis gain access to some 2 million
hectares of Indonesian land for  rice-farming .  Much of the information compiled in these pages has been
reported elsewhere, from Abu Dhabi’s $1.35 billion investment in
the  Carlyle Group  buyout firm to China’s willingness to do
business with Iran and Venezuela. What Weiner brings to the
debate is a determination to connect the dots.  Striking Gold  Consider gold. The spot price, after falling below $715 an
ounce in November 2008, started surging and eventually rose to
more than $1,290 an ounce this week. Buyers, it turned out,
included China and Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by
billionaire  John Paulson . Were the Chinese and Paulson acting
independently? Or were they in communication? We can’t say for
sure, Weiner says, and that’s his point.  “Even though we can see the shadow market’s symbiosis
right in front of our eyes, the truth is that we really don’t
know what these countries and investment funds were up to and
why,” he writes.  The evidence, in short, is more suggestive than conclusive,
meaning we journalists must dig deeper. Sovereign wealth funds
prefer to keep their trades secret; rivals, regulators and
reporters peer through the murk, struggling to see where the
money is flowing.  ‘Chess Match’  Weiner devotes considerable space to reconstructing two
notorious cases of big-money hardball: China’s arrest of four
 Rio Tinto Group  employees during iron-ore price negotiations in
2009 and Libya’s campaign to win the release of  Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi , the only person convicted of the 1988 Lockerbie
bombing. After marshaling the facts into sensible chronologies,
he draws an important if unsurprising conclusion.  “The groups with access to capital and natural resources
hold the power,” he writes. “And everyone else is just a pawn
in a much larger chess match going on above their heads.”  Europe ‘Collapsed’  Like many writers these days, Weiner seems overawed by the
clout of authoritarian thugs and underwhelmed by the strengths
of our battered democracies. He dismisses Europe with hyped talk
about how it almost “collapsed” during the Greek debt crisis.
Nor is there any guarantee, he says, that the U.S. can
“straighten itself out financially and buy back its empire.”  I would neither underestimate democracy nor overestimate
China, a Communist country awash with corruption, pollution and
a shortage of home-grown innovation. Nor would I forget the
lesson the Chinese may have learned from  Benjamin Franklin .  “A Penny sav’d is Twopence clear,” the American founding
father wrote in an aphorism usually quoted as “a penny saved is
a penny earned.”  China’s “pennies saved” have become  $2.5 trillion  in
foreign reserves “earned.” That’s a lot of pennies to pelt at
U.S. President  Barack Obama  whenever he suggests that Beijing
keeps the yuan cheap to buoy exports.  “The Shadow Market: How a Group of Wealthy Nations and
Powerful Investors Secretly Dominate the World” is published by
 Scribner  (304 pages, $26). To buy this book in North America,
click  here .  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 