-- Christie Inspires `Baker's Dozen' Candidate in Massachusetts Governor Race
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2010-09-23T20:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/christie-inspires-baker-s-dozen-candidate-in-massachusetts-governor-race.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
has a “toolkit” for 33 changes he wants in state government.
Republican  Charlie Baker , running for governor of  Massachusetts ,
has his own 13, which he calls a “Baker’s Dozen.”  Asked whether Christie inspired him, Baker said, “He’s a
Republican governor in a blue state with a Democratic
legislature that hasn’t generated any net jobs in 10 years and
has really high property taxes. Why would I pay attention to
that?”  “I certainly pay attention to him,” Baker said in an
interview with Bloomberg editors and reporters.  Eight months in office, Christie, a 48-year-old former
federal prosecutor and lobbyist, is attracting national
attention. Republican strategist  Ed Rollins  dubbed him a star.
In his first six months, the rookie governor closed an $11
billion budget gap and won the Legislature’s approval for a 2
percent limit on property-tax increases and a reduction in
public-employee retirement benefits.  Baker said he shares Christie’s vision for solving tough
financial issues.  “He ran saying we can’t spend our way out of this, we have
to reform the way we run government,” Baker said. “And I’ve
made it pretty clear during the course of this campaign that I
don’t think Massachusetts can afford to continue to operate the
way it has operated.”  Government and Business  Baker, 53, is a Harvard graduate who served as secretary of
administration and finance under two Republican Massachusetts
governors,  Bill Weld  and  Paul Cellucci . He later became chief
executive officer of  Harvard Pilgrim Health Care , a non-profit
system. He left the job in 2009 to run.  In the Nov. 2 election he faces Governor  Deval Patrick , a
Democrat running for a second term, and state Treasurer  Tim Cahill , who left the Democratic Party to run as an independent.  In a Sept. 21 Suffolk University  poll , Patrick had the
support of 41 percent of the 500 registered voters surveyed.
Baker had 34 and Cahill 14. The poll had a margin of error of
plus or minus 4.4 percentage points.  Christie has said he plans to campaign for Republicans this
fall. Baker spokesman Rick Gorka said there were no immediate
plans for Christie to come to Massachusetts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Moroney  in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 