-- Cisco, Duke Plan Energy-Saving Project Linking Buildings to Smart Grid
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-09-23T13:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/cisco-duke-plan-to-link-north-carolina-buildings-to-smart-grid.html
Cisco Systems Inc.  and  Duke Energy
Corp.  plan to link office towers such as the Bank of America
Corp. headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, to a so-called
smart grid to cut energy use.  Cisco , the largest maker of networking systems, will pay 20
percent of the estimated $5.3 million project cost, the
companies and former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  said today in a
statement from the Clinton Global Initiative in New York. The
companies aim to cut energy use in the buildings by 20 percent
in five years.  Owners or managers of more than 12 million square feet of
office space have signed up, including  Wells Fargo & Co.  and the
city of Charlotte, according to the statement. The project
targets 60 buildings in Charlotte’s city center.  “No one has actually tried to link together in any major
city all the commercial buildings,”  James E. Rogers , chief
executive officer of Charlotte-based Duke, said in an interview.
“You can deal with fewer parties and make more bang for the
buck.”  Duke  expects to recover its 80 percent share of the
investment under the state’s energy-savings tariff, Rogers said.  Cisco’s equipment will monitor energy use and help building
managers fine-tune consumption, said  Gianna Manes , Duke’s chief
customer officer.  Cisco estimates the market for such energy-related computer
and switching systems at $15 billion to $20 billion within seven
years,  Laura Ipsen , smart grid general manager at the San Jose,
California-based company, said in an interview.  Cisco ’s sales
for the fiscal year ended July 31 were $40 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 