-- Citigroup Opens Malaysia Brokerage, Seeks to Expand in Vietnam
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-09-23T07:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/citigroup-opens-malaysia-brokerage-seeks-to-expand-in-vietnam.html
Citigroup Inc.  opened its Malaysian
brokerage operations and plans to expand into Vietnam to take
advantage of rising inflows of funds.  Southeast Asia “has become increasingly important to the
global investor base,” Citigroup’s Asia Pacific head of
equities  Adrian Faure  told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today.
“Our regional and global clients are increasingly looking to
invest in Asian equities, given the region’s growth potential.”  Flows into emerging-market equity funds and high-yield
bonds reached a six-week high in the week to Sept. 15 as higher
risk appetite sustained a global rally, EPFR Global said last
week. Developing-nation equity funds received about $3.3 billion,
EPFR said. Flows into Asia excluding-Japan equity funds hit a
seven-week high.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has gained 6.1 percent this
year, outpacing the MSCI World Index’s 0.3 percent increase.
Emerging-market stocks may be headed for a “boom” amid a surge
in liquidity toward the end of the year, HSBC Private Bank said
today.  Citigroup started its Malaysian brokerage operations today,
after commencing in Indonesia last month, it said in a statement.
Talks to acquire a minority stake in a Vietnam brokerage may be
concluded before the yearend, Faure said at a media briefing.  In Malaysia, Citigroup said it wants to tap Middle Eastern
funds seeking to invest in Malaysia and other parts of Asia.  “Middle East funds are becoming increasingly a good ground
for capital,” Citigroup’s Asia-Pacific Chief Executive Officer
 Shirish Apte  said. These investors are “very keen” to look at
opportunities in Asia, he said.  Commercial Bank  Citigroup has had a commercial bank presence in Malaysia
since 1959, with 11 branches, according to the statement. It
also had a equities research unit operating in Kuala Lumpur. The
company in January won regulatory approval to set up a stock
broking company in Malaysia after the Southeast Asian nation in
June 2009 eased rules governing overseas investors in a bid to
attract more foreign competition.  Malaysia’s government on Sept. 21 said it plans to develop
a nuclear energy industry, build a mass rail network and create
a shopping district to rival Singapore’s Orchard Road. The plans
are part of the $444 billion worth of potential projects it has
identified to accelerate growth and draw investors.  “We see this as a big opportunity for us to essentially
take Malaysia’s story global,” Apte said. It “demonstrates our
commitment to the Asian market, and to Malaysia.”  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index  has surged 17 percent since
the May 26 low, surpassing levels before the start of the global
financial crisis in 2008.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  