-- Cleaning House Starts at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave.: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-09-23T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/cleaning-house-starts-at-1600-pennsylvania-ave-caroline-baum.html
With the departure of  Larry Summers , President  Barack Obama  has lost three-quarters of his
economic team and much of its heft.  White House budget director  Peter Orszag  resigned in June.
 Christina Romer , chairman of the president’s Council of Economic
Advisers, left earlier this month to return to her teaching post
at the University of California at Berkeley -- one job that
wasn’t created or saved by her econometric modeling.  Now comes Summers, who will return to Harvard University
for the spring 2011 semester in order to maintain his tenured
professorship.  That leaves Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner . Is he next?  It doesn’t matter. Cleaning house starts at the top, with
the resident of the White House. Everything else is secondary.  Obama didn’t design the $787 billion fiscal stimulus
program that was enacted shortly after he took office or the
various mortgage modification programs intended to reduce the
rate of home foreclosures. He didn’t write the 2,454-page
health-care reform act (we’d sure like to know who did) or the
trim 848-page financial reform and consumer protection act,
better known as “ Dodd-Frank .” He didn’t provide the scientific
research for the bill to limit carbon emissions, better known as
cap and trade, which passed the House last year.  What he did was provide the vision behind these major
initiatives and pieces of legislation. A president hires others
to transform that vision into reality. So short of a religious
revelation for Obama -- or a veto-proof majority in Congress
after the November election -- a changing of the guard doesn’t
imply a changed chief.  Mid-Course Correction  It’s not unusual for a president to shake-up his economic
team midstream, or for top officials to bail on him after a few
years of the grueling work pace.  In some cases, the change may be a statement or represent a
new direction. In others it may be a sacrifice, a sign that
things haven’t gone so swimmingly well and a new beginning is in
order.  Clearly the landmark fiscal stimulus fell short of
expectations. The  unemployment rate  is still stuck at 9.6
percent. Banks aren’t lending.  Consumer  and business sentiment
remain at recessionary levels.  A new direction is certainly in order, but it’s hard to see
Obama changing his views about the role of government.  As for his economics team, Summers and Geithner were always
considered market-friendly centrists. Obama could do worse.
Imagine if  Robert Reich , President  Bill Clinton ’s Labor
Secretary, had been crafting the stimulus.  Appeasement Strategy  The early handicapping is that Obama will appoint a
businessman or woman -- or both -- to replace Summers as
director of the National Economic Council. According to press
reports, one of the leading candidates is  Anne Mulcahy , former
chief executive of Xerox Corp.  I read that such a gesture would be akin to an outstretched
arm to the  business community  Obama has managed to alienate in
record time.  Nonsense. Symbolism isn’t what we need. A token
businesswoman, satisfying two quotas at once, isn’t going to
change the president’s view on how a capitalist system works or
enlighten him on how goods and services are produced and jobs
created. If it didn’t rub off on him in his days at the
University of Chicago, it’s not about to now in Washington.  Geithner’s Remorse?  As far as Geithner’s future is concerned, his appointment
was controversial from the start. He cheated on his taxes, which
should have immediately disqualified him for a post whose
oversight responsibilities include the Internal Revenue Service.
It’s as if New York Congressman  Charlie Rangel , accused of 13
House  ethics violations , including failure to pay taxes, had
been tapped to chair the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.
(Oh, right, he was.)  Geithner was fiddling at the helm of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York when the New York banks he was supervising and
regulating were burning. He said he recused himself from matters
related to the bailout of American International Group Inc.
after he was nominated for the cabinet post on Nov. 24, 2008,
only to admit in congressional testimony there was no recusal
document. Still under investigation is the New York Fed’s
request that AIG withhold information about its counterparties
to credit-default swaps being paid out in full.  That said, Geithner comes off as a competent bureaucrat.  In a speech in Cleveland last month, House Minority Leader
 John Boehner  encouraged Obama to fire Summers and Geithner. The
speaker-in-waiting would probably complain if Obama appointed
 Art Laffer , the father of supply side economics, to his team.  Boehner got half his wish. What about the other?  Geithner is unpopular with the left for his perceived cushy
relationship with Wall Street and unpopular with the right
because he’s part of a Democratic administration.  The Treasury secretary could please both constituencies by
stepping down. Just don’t expect Obama’s vision to go out the
door with him.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  