-- Canada Extends Review of BHP-Potash Bid, Clement Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-09-23T23:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/clement-says-canada-extends-bhp-potash-review-timeline.html
Canada extended the deadline to
review  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile takeover offer
for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  to give the country’s
Competition Bureau more time for its own study, Industry
Minister  Tony Clement  said.  “The deadline has shifted a little bit as a result of this
review going on by the competition panel as well,” Clement told
reporters today outside Parliament in Ottawa. “I don’t know the
exact date off the top of my head.”  The industry department is reviewing BHP’s $130-a-share bid
for Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp. to determine if
the takeover proposal by Melbourne-based BHP will have “net
benefits” for Canada. The government had until Oct. 4 to review
the bid, unless it extended the review for another 30 days,
according to an Aug. 23 Potash Corp. filing.  There has been no official change to the Oct. 4 deadline,
Erik Waddell, Clement’s director of communications, said in a
telephone interview.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest producer of its namesake
crop nutrient, has rejected BHP’s offer as too low and said it
was expecting competing bids.  “It’s not unusual to see the two agencies, Investment
Canada and the Competition Bureau, working hand in hand,”  Mark Nicholson , a lawyer with Cassels Brock & Blackwell LLP in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “It allows Investment
Canada to rely on the bureau to conduct the competition element
of the net-benefit test.”  Nicholson specializes in competition law, antitrust issues
and foreign investment.  Potash Corp. fell 96 cents to $145.37 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . BHP, the world’s largest
mining company, was unchanged at 2,000 pence in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  