-- Clinton Bemoans Scant Hedge-Fund Support for Global Initiative
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-09-23T19:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/clinton-bemoans-scant-hedge-fund-support-for-global-initiative.html
Former U.S. President  Bill Clinton 
said he has noticed that few hedge-fund managers attend his 4-
day conference aimed at linking philanthropists with groups
working to spur economic development around the world.  “There should be more,” Clinton said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With Al Hunt.”  Clinton said he knew of only two hedge-fund firms
represented at the  Clinton Global Initiative  annual meeting this
year, which President Barack Obama will address today. He didn’t
name the firms.  The initiative this year so far has spurred 291 commitments
valued at about $6 billion. Actors  Demi Moore  and  Ashton Kutcher 
today announced a campaign called “Real Men Don’t Buy Girls”
that their DNA Foundation is undertaking to raise awareness of
child sex slavery.  Procter & Gamble Co.  Chief Executive Officer
 Bob McDonald  on Tuesday announced plans to distribute two
billion packets of a water-purification product that Clinton
said could save one life every hour.  The former president has focused the meeting largely on
ways to improve the standing of women and girls around the
world.  “It’s clear that in every culture, without regard to
region of the world or religion or ethnicity, once you put all
the girls in school, give all the young women access to the
labor market, the economy grows and the modernization of the
country takes hold,” he said in the interview.  Some progress is already being made. Women now represent
more than half the students in higher education in Saudi Arabia,
Clinton said, after the Saudi king set up the  King Abdullah
University of Science and Technology . Bahrain has set up an
economic commission where women are fully represented, Clinton
added.  ‘A Big Deal’  “Everybody has figured out that if women are half your
country, you can’t exactly expect to make the most of your
future if they’re not a part of it,” Clinton said. “So it’s a
big deal.”  Women make up about two-thirds of the illiterate people in
the world and 55 percent of out-of-school children.  “It sent chills up in my spine that we were talking about
actually stoning a woman to death in the 21st century.”  Clinton said supporting programs for women and girls in
countries including Afghanistan may antagonize Islamic
fundamentalists who spurn women’s rights. Still, the program
must proceed.  “You can’t not do the right thing because somebody may
take it and twist it,” he said. “You have to do what you think
is right.”  Wall Street Support  Clinton said the CGI has had a “a fair amount” of support
from Wall Street firms such as  Morgan Stanley  and  Deutsche Bank ,
which are represented at this year’s meeting at Manhattan’s
Sheraton Hotel New York.  Morgan Stanley  said Tuesday that it will be a founding
partner of the  Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves , a private-
public partnership that seeks to stop the use of open fires for
cooking. Such fires cause respiratory diseases and mostly affect
women and children. Last year, Goldman, Sachs & Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  was part of a panel exploring
ways to empower women and girls around the world.  Clinton said U.S. business should also pay attention to the
lack of women at the top. On Wall Street, where no firms are
headed by women and few women are in the executive suites,
“they ought to correct that,” he said. “I think part of it is
there has been so much money involved in finance in the last 10
years that a lot of people were holding on for all they were
worth because there was a lot of money involved.  “There were almost no women involved in the terrible
(financial) meltdown we had,” Clinton said. “The reason is
because there are almost no women in higher posts at this very
visible sector.”  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 