-- Australia's `Big Wave' of Coal Mergers Is Over as Targets Taken, UBS Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-09-23T00:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/coal-mining-takeovers-in-australia-set-to-slow-down-ubs-says.html
The pace of coal mining takeovers
in Australia, the world’s  biggest exporter  of the fuel, is set
to slow after the ranks of potential targets were thinned by a 
surge in acquisitions, UBS AG said.  “The big wave of coal deals we’ve seen is over,” Campbell
Stewart, head of metals and mining at UBS’s investment banking
unit in Melbourne, said in an interview. “We expect some
slowdown in activity because of lower supply.”  Coal mergers and acquisitions in Australia reached the
highest in at least five years in 2009, according to Bloomberg
data, headed by  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co Ltd. ’s A$3.5 billion
($3.3 billion) takeover of Felix Resources Ltd. Global producers
are looking to expand in the developing world, UBS said.  “There’s more interest in the emerging coal basins,
whether that’s in Africa or whether that’s in Indonesia,”
Andrew Phillipps, executive director of UBS’s M&A origination,
said in an interview. UBS, which advised on the Yanzhou deal, is
the top coal M&A adviser this year in Australia, followed by
JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to the data.  There were $3.9 billion of announced and completed coal
takeovers last year in Australia, according to the data. That
compares with $3.35 billion so far this year and $2.23 billion
in 2008.  Demand Outlook  The demand outlook for steelmaking and power station coal
is “robust” because of the urbanization of China and India,
Xstrata Plc said last month.  “Demand has actually been pretty constant,” though
targets are becoming harder to identify, Campbell said on Sept.
15. Global companies, Chinese and Indian companies, as well as
steel producers and trading houses seeking smaller stakes, also
have kept inquiries at a consistent level this year, he said.  Potential targets in Australia include  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. ,
 Macarthur Coal Ltd.  and  Aquila Resources Ltd. , Southern Cross
Equities Ltd. said this month. Macarthur this year rejected
takeover offers from  Peabody Energy Corp.  and New Hope Ltd.  “Australia is becoming more difficult and less productive
as a place to search for opportunities,” said Campbell. Also,
new deposits will be harder to find and in locations further
away from rail and port infrastructure, he said.  Anglo American Plc , whose coking coal mines are in
Australia, said last month said it’s looking for an acquisition
in Russia, Indonesia, Mozambique or Mongolia to more than double
output of the fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  