-- Coal From South Africa Seen Rebounding on India: Energy Markets
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2010-09-23T06:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/coal-from-south-africa-seen-rebounding-on-sales-to-india-energy-markets.html
Coal prices from  South Africa  are
poised to reverse a four-month decline and may rise to a near a
two-year high as sales surge to India and  China , the world’s
fastest-growing major economies.  Prices at  Richards Bay , the world’s second-biggest export
harbor for the power-station fuel, may climb more than 12
percent to $95 a metric ton this winter, according to a survey
of six traders and analysts in India, South Africa’s biggest
customer for the fuel. Coal from the east coast port was at
$84.80 in the week ended Sept. 17, and has averaged $87.71 this
year, according to IHS McCloskey data.  India’s thermal coal imports surged 16 percent in the year
ended March as the country’s near double-digit growth boosted
demand for electricity. China, which passed Japan as the world’s
second-biggest economy in the three months to June, turned to a
net importer of coal last year. South African exporters are
benefiting, with shipments to India rising 14 percent in the
year to August and jumping 10-fold to China.  “India will be importing in a big way and we expect a rise
in demand from the Pacific area, which includes Japan, Korea and
China,” said T.K. Chatterjee, procurement manager at  NTPC Ltd .,
Asia’s second-largest power producer. “This will lead to an
increase in prices.”  South Africa accounts for about 30 percent of India’s
thermal coal imports, according to coal ministry data. Shipments
in the first eight months of this year increased to 13.3 million
tons, while China’s purchases surged to 4.7 million tons,
according to mjunction Services Ltd., a Kolkata-based trader
backed by  Tata Steel Ltd . and Steel Authority of India Ltd., two
of the country’s three biggest coking-coal consumers.  Monsoon Ends  “We expect Richards Bay prices to pick up over the next
few months as the monsoon season in India comes to an end and we
see them return to the market,” said Amrita Sen, a London-based
analyst at  Barclays Capital . “Underlying Indian demand for coal
remains extremely strong as India continues to industrialize,
reflected in its rising power generation.” Prices at Richards
Bay may average $90 a ton this year and $92 in 2011, she said.  Richards Bay prices are below those from competitors in
Asia. Coal from Australia’s Newcastle port, a benchmark for  Asia ,
averaged $96.02 this year and was at $94.70 for the week ended
Sept. 17. Indonesian prices may rise to $100 a ton by the end of
this year because of bad weather, which has disrupted mining,
Bob Kamandanu, chairman of the Indonesian Coal Mining
Association, said at a conference in Jakarta Sept. 21.    Indonesia ’s reference price for fuel with a gross energy
value of 6,322 kilocalories a kilogram was $90.05 a ton for
September, the Directorate General of Coal, Minerals and
Geothermal said on its website.  China Prices  Domestic prices in China have gained over the past 18
months, as the world’s biggest producer and consumer shut small
mines to improve safety standards. Coal prices at Qinhuangdao
port, a benchmark for China, rose as high as $122 a ton in
February and were at $111.45 for the week ended Sept. 17, about
31 percent higher than Richards Bay, according to IHS McCloskey.  India’s thermal coal imports rose to 44 million tons for
the year ending March 2010 from 38 million a year earlier,
according to data from  India ’s coal ministry. Purchases from
overseas may climb to 72 million tons in 2011, according to Tata
Power Co., which is setting up a coal-fired power plant with a
capacity of 4,000 megawatts.    India’s economy  will expand 9.4 percent in 2010 and 8.4
percent next year, the  International Monetary Fund  said July 7.  China’s economy , which surpassed Japan’s as the world’s second-
largest in the quarter ending June 30, will grow 10.5 percent
this year and 9.6 percent in 2011, according to the IMF.  European Demand  In addition to India and China, “European demand will pick
up by the end of the year as winter intensifies,” said Rahul
Bhandare, chairman of New Delhi-based Knowledge Infrastructure
Systems Ltd., a coal trader, which imports South African grades.  Not all analysts agree that coal is heading higher. There
will be less demand from  Europe  in the second half of the year
because most countries have coal stocks, and excluding  Germany ,
no country has spoken about importing coal, said a trader at  Adani Enterprises Ltd ., India’s biggest coal importer, who
declined to be named because he isn’t authorized to speak to the
media.  Indian companies will have increased orders for coal by
year end, and as Indonesia is saturated any excess demand from
India will have to be met from South Africa, pushing prices
higher, said a trader from  MMTC Ltd ., India’s biggest trading
company, declining to be named because of company policy.  Freight Rates  Transport bottlenecks and monsoon rains reduced imports by
14 percent in the April to July period from a year earlier,
according to data by the Indian Ports Association.  Lower freight rates have enticed India back into the market
after being absent during the monsoon season,  Australia  & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a note e-mailed today.  NTPC, India’s operator of coal-fired plants, plans to buy
as much as 27 million tons of the commodity by 2013 to help fuel
a doubling in its capacity to 75,000 megawatts by 2017,
according to the company’s purchase plans.  South Africa, the world’s fifth-largest coal producer, is
selling more to Asia than to Europe for the first time,
according to mjunction. Purchases by Asia in the first eight
months totaled 29 million tons as Asian economies rebounded
while Europe brought in 5.8 million tons, mjunction said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  