-- College Football Playoff Backer Files Tax Complaint Against Bowls
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-09-23T20:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/college-football-playoff-backer-files-tax-complaint-against-bowls.html
Playoff PAC , a political action
committee opposing college football’s  Bowl Championship Series ,
filed a complaint with the Internal Revenue Service, alleging
the Fiesta, Orange and Sugar Bowls are violating their tax-
exempt status.  The PAC claims the bowls provide excessive compensation to
executives, spend an undisclosed amount on lobbying, intervene
in political campaigns and provide substantial private benefits
to organizational insiders.  The Fiesta, Orange and Sugar Bowls represent three of the
five bowls that make up the BCS. The others are the Rose Bowl
and the BCS championship game. The bowls operate as 501(c)3
charities, whose operations are tax-exempt and contributions to
the organizations are tax deductible.  Playoff PAC , which wants the sport to change its system of
using polls and computer rankings to determine a national
champion in college football to a playoff system, claims the
bowls are violating their tax-exempt status and need to make
their finances more transparent.  “We hope to raise awareness,” said Matt Sanderson, an
attorney with Caplin & Drysdale in Washington, D.C., and a co-
founder of Playoff PAC. “A lot of the public will be surprised
to learn that these bowls are public charities that get the same
benefits as the American Red Cross and Salvation Army.  “Once you raise awareness, the need for change will become
apparent. And we think the IRS will take the complaint
seriously,” he said.  Executive Pay  According to the complaint:  The  Sugar Bowl  paid Executive Director Paul Hoolahan
$645,386 in 2009, more than 5 percent of total revenue that
year.  “Playoff PAC is an organization which is dedicated to
ending the bowl system, playing loosely with figures in order to
sensationalize to suit their own agenda,” said John Sudsbury, a
spokesman for the Sugar Bowl. “We’re audited every year and we
have always complied with all IRS regulations.”  Sudsbury said a 24-member board sets compensation with the
help of an outside compensation analyst.  The  Fiesta Bowl  says on its tax returns that it doesn’t
engage in lobbying activities, yet it gave $1.2 million for
consulting to one registered Arizona lobbying firm and retained
two other registered lobbying firms for undisclosed sums. The
complaint didn’t identify the firms.  “These are dated, tired and discredited allegations by an
entity whose sole purpose is to destroy the college football
bowl system,” said Fiesta Bowl spokesman Andy Bagnato. “The
Fiesta Bowl is confident that it has always fully complied with
tax laws and rules in its operations and activities.”  The  Orange Bowl  spent $331,938 on “parties” and “summer
splash” in fiscal 2004, according to the complaint.  “The information provided by the Playoff PAC is misleading
and inaccurate,” said Larry Wahl, spokesman for the Orange
Bowl. “We will continue to be accountable to our community as
we continue to support youth sports, scholarship funding and
year-round activities that make South Florida the great place
that it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  