-- Concussions in Youngsters Targeted by U.S. Congress in Bill Backed by NFL
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2010-09-23T19:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/concussions-in-youngsters-targeted-by-u-s-congress-in-bill-backed-by-nfl.html
Katherine Brearley will never
know for sure why her 21-year-old son, Owen Thomas, hung
himself in April. She does know his autopsy revealed the
onset of chronic traumatic encephalopathy on his brain, a
degenerative disease caused by repeated head trauma.  Thomas played football at the University of
Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, and never complained of
having a concussion, Brearley told the U.S.  House Education
and Labor Committee  today. His mother assumes he wouldn’t
have admitted having one, for fear of being made to sit out
by coaches.  The committee was convened by chairman  George Miller ,
a California Democrat, to discuss legislation he introduced
yesterday that would require students suspected of having
concussions sit out sports that day and be evaluated by a
health professional. Students recovering from a concussion
also must have access to special-education services.  “The attribution of bravery to this issue is
tragically misdirected and it will require a cultural
shift,” Stanley Herring, a member of the  National Football
League ’s head, neck and spine committee, said during the
hearing.  Any movement on the bill would not occur until after
mid-term elections in November at the earliest, Melissa
Salmanowitz, a spokeswoman for Miller, said in an e-mail.
Along with Miller, the bill is co-sponsored by 10 members
of Congress, including  Timothy Bishop , a New York Democrat.  In an attempt to change the culture, every school
would have to put up posters on managing concussions under
the bill, a plan similar to one the NFL implemented for its
players.  Goodell Supports Bill  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  wrote Miller yesterday
to support the bill. Goodell wrote that the league worked
with the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  to
develop concussion education posters targeting youngsters
that will be up on the agency’s website for free.  Herring, who also is the team physician for the NFL’s
Seattle Seahawks and Major League Baseball’s Seattle
Mariners, said the NFL has raised awareness of concussions
and now behavior must be shifted so players will begin
reporting symptoms.  “I think a lot of people think it’s a badge of honor
to play through a concussion,” Sean Morey, executive board
member of the  NFL Players Association , the union for the
league, said in testimony before the panel.  Alison Conca-Cheng, an Ellicott City, Maryland, high
school senior, suffered a concussion last month while
playing soccer on her school team. She told the committee
she now takes breaks in the nurse’s office during the
school day and 10-minute breaks every half hour while doing
homework to ease her headaches.  Worsening of Symptoms  Current  Children’s National Medical Center  research
found 90 percent of students reporting “significant
worsening of post-concussion symptoms when they attempt
school tasks,” Gerard Gioia, chief of the division of
pediatric neuropsychology at the center in Washington,
D.C., told the committee.  The symptoms persisted “well beyond a month for many
students” and most schools were not prepared to support
them. The center treated more than 1,000 children in its
concussion clinics in the last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Edney  in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  