-- Education Stocks Rally After Signal Hill Says Shares Bottomed
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-09-23T17:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/corinthian-for-profit-education-stocks-jump-as-analyst-urdan-calls-bottom.html
Corinthian Colleges Inc.  and  Career
Education Corp . led a gain in for-profit U.S. education stocks
after an analyst said the industry is likely to rally because
short sellers are closing their bearish bets.  Corinthian shares surged 9.6 percent to $6.76 while Career
Education jumped 6.9 percent to $22.18 at 1:44 p.m. Signal Hill
Capital Group LLC’s  Trace Urdan  said the bears’ exit will
encourage investors who shun shorted companies.  “We believe the bulk of the buying to date has consisted
of short sellers covering positions,” Urdan, who is based in
San Francisco, wrote in a note to investors today. “If true,
this would begin to create conditions that allow longs to begin
to reinvest.”  A stock  index  of 12 for-profit colleges lost 22 percent
this year through yesterday as President  Barack Obama ’s
administration and some legislators called for greater
regulation of the industry, which get as much as 90 percent of
revenue from federal funding, according to Senator Dick Durbin,
a Democrat from Illinois.  The U.S. Education Department hasn’t ruled out delaying the
proposed rules on for-profit schools, The Hill reported
yesterday, citing Education Secretary  Arne Duncan .  “We are keeping our options open,” Duncan told the
newspaper when asked about a possible delay. The deadline for
the new rules is Nov. 1. The paper, which focuses on news
related to Congress, reported last  week  that for-profit schools
are working with several Democratic members of Congress to lobby
against the regulation.  ‘The Big Short’  Hedge-fund manager  Steven Eisman  told CNBC on Sept. 15 that
he wouldn’t short the industry if regulators weren’t proposing
stronger rules. Eisman, who according to “The Big Short” by
Michael Lewis was one of the few investors to profit from the
collapse of the U.S. housing market, told Bloomberg News in
August that he was betting against  Strayer Education Inc .  Short sellers borrow stocks and sell them in the hope of
profiting by repurchasing the securities later at a lower price
and returning them to the holder. Short covering occurs when an
investor buys a security to close the bearish position.  The proposed regulatory overhaul includes the gainful
employment rule, which may restrict or disqualify for-profit
schools from participating in government-aid programs when fewer
than 45 percent of their graduates are repaying principal on
their loans. Government data show the average rate among for-
profit schools is about 36 percent, according to  Jarrel Price ,
an analyst at Height Analytics LLC in Washington.  “While we believe we may have seen the bottom, we’re not
entirely convinced that we may not approach that bottom again
before the regulatory and potential legislative onslaught is
over,” Urdan wrote.  The  index  of for-profit colleges rallied 4.7 percent,
cutting its year-to-date loss to 19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  