-- Cotton Futures Decline Most Since June on Opposition to India Export Ban
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-09-23T20:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/cotton-futures-fall-on-opposition-to-india-export-ban-orange-juice-slumps.html
Cotton futures fell the most since
June, after touching a 15-year high yesterday, as India’s farm
minister came out against the government’s proposed limits on
exports.  Farmers in India, the world’s second-biggest cotton grower
and shipper, should get the “higher prices” exports may bring,
the minister,  Sharad Pawar , told reporters today in New Delhi.
Limits on exports are scheduled to start next week.  “There’s talk of India getting back into the export
market,” said  Keith Brown , the president of Keith Brown & Co.,
a brokerage in Moultrie, Georgia. Right now, “we don’t have any
new supplies coming on board to alleviate the shortness.”  Cotton for December delivery declined 2.45 cents, or 2.5
percent, to settle at 97.17 cents a pound at 2:43 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York, the biggest drop for a most-active
contract since June 4. The price has gained 50 percent in the
past year.  India’s exports will be limited to 5.5 million bales in the
year beginning Oct. 1 in a bid to meet domestic demand, Commerce
Secretary  Rahul Khullar  said on Sept. 4. The plan will be
reviewed on Nov. 15, he said. Exports in the current year will
reach 8.3 million bales, according to an estimate from the
Cotton Advisory Board.  Bigger Indian Crop  India may boost output by 17 percent to a record 34.5
million bales in the next season, according to Nayan Mirani, the
vice president of the Cotton Association of India, a trade group
that represents 450 growers, ginners and traders. The government
may lift export limits as soon as November, he said earlier this
week.  A bale of cotton in India weighs 170 kilograms (375 pounds.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture uses a different measure, a
218-kilogram bale (480 pounds).  Global cotton use will rise to 120.5 million bales in the
year that began Aug. 1, the USDA estimates, outpacing production
of 117 million bales. Inventories in  warehouses  monitored by ICE
were down 96 percent this year as of yesterday.  U.S. export sales of upland cotton totaled 505,096 bales
for the week ended Sept. 16, up 46 percent from the previous
four-week average, the USDA said today. The U.S., the world’s
biggest exporter, shipped 50,552 bales in the same week last
year.  “The higher the market price goes, the more sales we
make,” said  Rogers Varner , the president of brokerage Varner
Bros. in Cleveland, Mississippi. “The high prices were actually
scaring mills into buying more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 