-- Hedge Fund Crackdown May Snare European Real Estate Investors
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-09-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/crackdown-on-hedge-funds-may-snare-european-commercial-property-investors.html
Europe’s commercial  real estate
owners , saddled with 1.9 trillion euros ($2.5 trillion) of debt,
may be forced to make billions of euros in cash payments under
planned laws that would treat them like hedge funds.  Property fund managers could face demands for cash
collateral to cover bets on interest-rate movements, under
European Commission proposals to regulate the derivatives
industry. Interest-rate swaps were attached to about 130 billion
pounds ($204 billion) of U.K. real estate debt at the end of
2009, according to a De Montfort University study. Most would be
subject to such a payment.  “There is a perfectly genuine risk at this point that the
commission will win the day and, not only real estate funds, but
also European real estate investment trusts will be caught.”
said  Peter Cosmetatos , finance director at the British Property
Federation.  The EU aims to lower economic risks caused by derivatives
after instruments such as contracts insuring mortgage-backed
bonds fueled losses that led to the worst recession since the
Great Depression. The  current proposals  cover businesses
including real estate, private equity and hedge funds.  Real-estate buyers use swaps to secure a fixed interest
rate when taking out a floating-rate loan to buy a building.
That helps ensure that the property’s rental income will be
enough to service the loan, even if rates rise unexpectedly.
Under the EU plan, a demand for payment, or margin call, could
result if rates go the opposite way than the swap anticipates.
Businesses unable to pay could be declared to be in default.  ‘Catastrophic’  “That would be a catastrophic result for property
businesses using derivatives like interest-rate swaps,”
according to a  European Property Federation  study on the
proposals. “Some would be unable to fund margin requirements
and could default on their borrowings and risk insolvency.”  The British Property Federation wants to determine whether
all European property companies, including REITs such as  Land
Securities Group Plc  and Unibail-Rodamco SE, would be governed
by the proposals, Cosmetatos said. Members of the commission and
real-estate industry representatives will meet in the “next few
weeks” to clarify the issue,  Chantal Hughes , a commission
spokeswoman said by e-mail.  The new laws, which must be approved by the European
Parliament and member states, would probably come into force by
the end of 2012, Hughes said.  Swaps Common  Most of the investors that bought shops, offices and
warehouses during a five-year spree through mid-2007 used
interest-rate swaps to protect their mortgage repayments from
rising interest levels. The rates fell instead, triggering
liabilities to the other party in the swap. If the proposed
regulations had been in place, U.K. borrowers would have needed
to put up collateral of about 10 billion pounds to cover swaps
that moved the wrong way,  William Newsom , head of valuation at
Savills Plc, estimated in June.  “Virtually all interest rate swaps are out of the money,”
said  Nicholas Scarles , the London-based finance director for
Grosvenor Group Ltd., which manages 10.2 billion pounds of
global properties. “To have to suddenly find that cash is not
only unexpected, but it could be a reasonably large
requirement.”  Currently, real estate borrowers aren’t required to post
collateral on interest-rate swaps that have moved the wrong way
unless they break the contract. While the liabilities are
reported on company accounts, they aren’t usually paid if the
swap is held to its maturity date.  “They’re potentially including organizations that
shouldn’t be there,” Scarles said. “By including them,
additional risk would be created.”  Higher Risks  If the proposals are adopted, property investors could
choose to take out fixed-rate loans instead if banks make them
available, said  Bill Bartram , head of property risk at finance
broker JC Rathbone Associates Ltd. Such agreements offer less
flexibility than floating-rate loans with swaps, he said. Most
banks give floating-rate loans against commercial real estate.  “If property companies choose to leave their exposure un-
hedged because of this, it will make them a more risky
proposition,” Bartram said. “It means the property sector’s
currently very low contribution to global systemic risk will
increase.”  The EU’s proposals require most derivatives trades to be
processed through third-party clearing houses that will also
hold the collateral put aside by companies. That will give
regulators greater ability to monitor the market.  The total amount of debt secured against European
commercial properties was about 1.9 trillion euros at the end of
last year, according to DTZ Holdings Plc. While there is no
available estimate for the portion of debt hedged by interest-
rate swaps, the De Montfort study said that more than half of
the U.K. portion is attached to them. About 85 percent of the
surveyed lenders required swaps to be in place on new loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Bourke  in London at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 