-- Crude Oil Advances as U.S. Leading Indicators Beat Expectations
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-09-23T20:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/crude-oil-declines-for-a-third-day-as-jobless-claims-unexpectedly-increase.html
Oil settled above $75 a barrel for
the first time in more than a week as the index of U.S. leading
indicators beat economists’ estimates in August and existing
home sales grew, signaling an economic expansion into next year.  Oil increased for the first time in three days after the
Conference Board’s gauge of the economy’s prospects for the next
three to six months gained the most since May. Sales of
previously owned homes rose after falling to a record low in
July, the National Association of Realtors in Washington said.  “The biggest factor for crude was the leading economic
indicator data,” said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “It’s
a fairly good proxy for how the economy is going to perform. It
was significantly better than expected.”  Oil for November delivery gained 47 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to settle at $75.18 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the highest closing price since Sept. 15. Prices have
gained 9 percent in the past year.  The leading indicators index increased 0.3 percent in
August, more than the 0.1 percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 56 economists before the report by the New York-based group.  Purchases  of existing U.S. homes climbed to a 4.13 million
annual pace, in line with the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  $75 Oil  New York futures have ranged from $70.76 to $78.04 for the
past 30 trading days.  King Abdullah , the ruler of Saudi Arabia,
OPEC’s largest oil producer, said beginning in 2008 that he sees
$75 a barrel as a fair price for oil.  “King Abdullah said he wanted $75 oil,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
Washington. “It’s good to be king. When you’re Saudi Arabia and
have the ability to put oil on the market and take it off in the
quantities you want, you can pretty much have what you want.”  Brent crude for November settlement gained 16 cents to
$78.11 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Oil also strengthened as gasoline climbed after
ConocoPhillips shut a pipestill at its Linden, New Jersey,
refinery. Maintenance on the unit will last 40 days, according
to a person with knowledge of the situation. Gasoline for
October delivery gained 1.6 cents, or 0.8 percent, to settle at
$1.9174 a gallon.  The ConocoPhillips news “scooted the gasoline up for sure,
and then we had the crude following suit,” said  Rich Ilczyszyn ,
a market strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in Chicago.  A tropical depression formed in the southwestern Caribbean
Sea, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said at about 1:30 p.m.
Miami time. The storm is forecast to make landfall in Central
America Sept. 25 before tracking north across Mexico’s Yucatan
Peninsula and into the Gulf of Mexico, the biggest U.S. oil-
producing region.  Jobless Claims  Earlier, oil dropped as much as 1.5 percent after the Labor
Department reported that initial jobless claims rose for the
first time in a month as the  unemployment rate  holds near a 26-
year high.  Claims  increased by 12,000 to 465,000 in the week
ended Sept. 18, figures released today in Washington show. Fewer
workers means less demand for fuel.  Total consumption  of petroleum products averaged 19.2
million barrels a day last week, down 1.8 percent from the seven
days ended Sept. 10, the Energy Department reported yesterday.
Petroleum supplies gained 3.3 million barrels, or 0.3 percent,
to 1.14 billion, a record.  “We rebounded after crude fell to the $73 area,” said
 Michael Fitzpatrick , a broker with MF Global in New York. “I’m
guessing that $72 to $77 is going to be the trading range. It
just seems like it makes sense right here. I don’t think people
are looking for a big run-up.”  OPEC Shipments  OPEC will increase crude shipments by 0.9 percent in the
month ending Oct. 9, the first increase in 10 weeks, according
to Oil Movements, a tanker-tracker.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
supplies about 40 percent of the world’s crude oil, will ship
23.42 million barrels a day in the period, up from 23.21 million
in the four weeks to Sept. 11, the Halifax, England-based
consultant said in a report. The data exclude OPEC members
Ecuador and Angola.  U.S. oil stockpiles rose 970,000 barrels to 358.3 million
last week. They were forecast to drop 1.75 million barrels,
according to the median of analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Gasoline supplies were 15 percent higher than their
five-year average, and distillate stockpiles are 23 percent
above the five-year mean.  “We’re basically distorting the economic price signals and
bidding for more fuel in an oversupplied market,” said  Tim Evans , an analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 568,515
contracts as of 3:15 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 682,225
contracts yesterday, 7.3 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.33 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 