-- Cuomo Leads Paladino in New York Governor Race by 33 Points, Siena Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-09-23T13:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/cuomo-leads-paladino-by-33-points-in-new-york-s-governor-race-siena-says.html
New York ’s Democratic candidate for
governor,  Andrew Cuomo , leads Republican  Carl Paladino  by 33
percentage points, according to a  Siena Research Institute  poll.  The lead for Cuomo, 52, contrasts with a Quinnipiac
University survey published yesterday which showed him leading
by 6 percentage points. The Siena  survey  covered registered
voters while Quinnipiac  polled  registered voters who said
they’re likely to cast a ballot.  Cuomo was backed by 57 percent of those surveyed, with 24
percent favoring Paladino and 8 percent for  Rick Lazio , the
Conservative Party candidate. Lazio said yesterday he hasn’t
decided how vigorously he will campaign for governor. Republican
gubernatorial candidates usually have Conservative Party
backing.  “Voters see Cuomo as much stronger on issues, including
the three issues voters most want the next governor to address -
- jobs, state budget deficits and education,” Siena pollster
 Steven Greenberg  said in a statement.  Paladino’s campaign manager, Michael Caputo, said this
month that polls of likely voters were more accurate because
they account for the enthusiasm of his supporters. Republican
turnout in this year’s primaries exceeded Democrats’, indicating
that “Democrats will suffer major losses” in the Nov. 2
election, according to an American University  report .  ‘Mad as Hell’  Paladino, 64, is a Buffalo real estate developer and Tea
Party supporter. He won an upset victory in the Republican
primary, beating Lazio, the candidate selected by party leaders.
With an “I’m Mad as Hell” campaign slogan, he has promised to
clean up Albany with “a baseball bat” and cut taxes by 10
percent and spending by 20 percent in his first year as
governor.  The Tea Party movement, which opposes taxes and government
spending, is viewed unfavorably by 49 percent of New Yorkers,
and favorably by 34 percent, the poll said. Tea Party supporters
favored Paladino over Cuomo by 53 percent to 23 percent with 14
percent for Lazio. Those with an unfavorable view of the Tea
Party favored Cuomo over Paladino by 82 percent to 6 percent,
the poll showed.  Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans in New York by
5.79 million to 2.91 million, according to the Board of
Elections.  In an August Siena poll, before the publicity surrounding
Paladino’s win in the primary, Cuomo led Paladino by 56 percent
to 14 percent, with 16 percent supporting Lazio as the
Conservative Party candidate.  Campaign Promises  Cuomo, son and adviser to a former governor, has been
 attorney general  since 2007, and is campaigning with promises to
cut state spending. New York, the third-most populous state,
faces an $8.2 billion budget gap next year, and the Legislature
wasn’t able to agree on a plan to close this year’s $9.2 billion
gap until four months after the fiscal year began April 1.  “Voters don’t think that Cuomo is too much of an Albany
insider to effectively reform state government,” Greenberg
said. “They also don’t believe that Paladino, coming from
outside Albany, will be able to whip the Legislature into
shape.”  Paladino says he represents a change from the “status
Cuomo” in New York government and has called his rival “Prince
Andrew” for his lineage.  The telephone survey of 801 registered voters on Sept. 16-
17 and 19-21 has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  