-- Czech Central Bankers Voted 6-1 to Leave Rates Unchanged; Risks Balanced
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-09-23T15:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/czech-central-bank-keeps-main-interest-rate-on-hold-for-a-third-meeting.html
The Czech central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record low as one board
member cast the first vote for an increase following two years
of policy loosening.  All 16 analysts in a Bloomberg survey forecast the two-week
repurchase rate to stay at 0.75 percent, a quarter-point lower
than the  European Central Bank’s  main rate. The Ceska Narodni
Banka cut its main rate by 3 percentage points between August
2008 and May 2010 as the country suffered its worst recession in
two decades, with the last quarter-point reduction in May.  Since an Aug. 5 meeting, data have shown accelerating
economic growth with a rebound in household consumption in the
second quarter, and two policy makers have suggested rates may
need to rise before the second half of 2011 as signaled by the
bank’s latest forecast.  The board member who voted to raise rates “may hint at the
formation of a hawkish wing within the board,” said Martin
Lobotka, an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna, the Czech unit of Erste
Group Bank AG. “This wing is still not large, but given
previous comments in the press of some bankers and solid second
half data, it may get larger at the next meeting in November
when the new prognosis will be unveiled.”  ‘Bad Allocation’  Board member  Eva Zamrazilova  said a rate increase should be
discussed as soon as possible because low borrowing costs create
a “bad allocation of capital,” according to an Aug. 24
interview in the newspaper Lidove Noviny.  Robert Holman , another of the seven policy makers, told
Tyden magazine on Aug. 30 that the bank will probably raise the
main rate to 1 percent at the end of this year or at the
beginning of 2011.  Voting of individual board members will be revealed in the
minutes of the meeting to be published on Oct. 1.  “A strong majority of the board members perceived risks”
to the inflation forecast “as balanced,” Governor Miroslav
Singer told a news conference. “Some board members expressed a
view that pro-inflationary risks may be slightly prevailing
because of continued economic recovery here and in Europe.”  The main anti-inflationary risks included prepared cuts in
budget spending, which may tighten the “policy mix” more than
the central bank currently expects and influence future rate
decisions, Singer said. A labor-market recovery as the
 unemployment rate  declines may be a risk of faster price growth,
he said.  The Czech economy is showing “practically non-existent”
inflationary pressures stemming from demand and price growth
will probably undershoot the central bank’s 2 percent target,
while fiscal cuts combined with Europe’s debt crisis are a
downside risks to economic recovery,  Stanislava Pravdova , an
analyst at Danske Bank A/S said in a report.  “We see no major reason why the bank should worry about
inflationary pressures getting out of hand din the immediate
future,” Pravdova said.  Budget Cuts  Prime Minister  Petr Necas ’ government approved earlier
today a 2011 budget draft, which sees a 17 percent reduction in
the deficit to 135 billion koruna ($7.3 billion). The Cabinet
wants to reduce money allocated for wages, investments and
social spending to narrow the fiscal gap.  The Czech koruna was trading at 24.629 against the euro 
after the rate announcement, down 0.2 percent as of 5:03 p.m. 
in Prague. It has been the world’s best-performing currency
in the past three months.  Inflation  was at 1.9 percent in August, unchanged from a
16-month high in July. The bank sees headline inflation
exceeding its 2 percent target this year before dropping to 1.9
percent in the third and fourth quarters of 2011.  The Czech  economy , where exports account for about 70
percent of output, last year emerged from the worst recession
since the end of communism in 1989.  Gross domestic product 
expanded an annual 2.4 percent in the three months through June,
the  fastest pace  in eight quarters.  GDP data showed 0.8 percent growth of household consumption
in the second quarter, which the central bank said was a
“surprising” increase.  Economic growth will probably slow “in the months ahead”
and the fiscal tightening is likely to keep the interest rates
on hold until the end of the first quarter of 2011, Anne-
Francoise Bluher, an analyst at Komercni Banka AS, the Prague-
based unit of Societe Generale SA, wrote in a report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  