-- DBS to Invest $188 Million on Treasury, Markets Unit With Asian Focus
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-09-23T05:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/dbs-group-holdings-to-invest-188-million-on-treasury-markets-businesses.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. , Southeast
Asia’s biggest bank, plans to spend S$250 million ($188 million)
over the next five years to expand its treasury and markets
business in the region with a focus on China and India.  DBS, which plans to boost the unit’s workforce by about 50
percent to 600 employees over the same period, will build
operations offering yuan-denominated foreign exchange, bonds and
client advisory services,  Andrew Ng , head of treasury and
markets, said in an interview today. The bank also plans to set
up debt capital markets operations in India, he said.  Revenue from its treasury and markets  business , which
handles the company’s fixed income and currency operations, may
reach as much as S$2.5 billion in five years, after growing
fivefold to S$1.7 billion in the 10 years to 2009, DBS said.
More than 55 percent of the revenue is expected to come from
outside Singapore by 2013, from 35 percent currently, Ng said.  “With the low-interest rate environment, fixed income
products will be an area that investors will be chasing after,”
Ng said. “In China, there is going to be a quickening in the
pace of renminbi relaxation, and we see there is a big demand in
the renminbi business.”  DBS transacted 9 billion yuan ($1.3 billion) of business
last month. Ng said he expects the volume to grow by at least
three times over the next two years. The bank’s yuan business
will span foreign exchange, bonds, structured products and
hedging solutions, he said.  The bank, which now employs the bulk of its treasury and
markets staff in Singapore, will hire mostly for its sales,
structuring and support teams in China, Hong Kong and India. DBS
plans to hire 60 people in Hong Kong and China, as well as 40 in
India over the next three to five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at   jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  