-- Priest Abuse Victim Lawyers Reject Delaware Church Bankruptcy Payout Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-09-24T17:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/delaware-diocese-to-pay-abuse-victims-up-to-75-000-under-bankruptcy-plan.html
Alleged victims of sexual abuse by
priests in Delaware rejected an offer of as much as $75,000 each
to settle claims against the  Catholic Diocese of Wilmington , the
victims’ lawyer said.  “This plan is a mean-spirited, vindictive, hypocritical
act, maliciously intended to prolong the suffering of
survivors,” said  Thomas Neuberger , an attorney who represents
98 of the 151 sex-abuse victims with claims against the diocese
in bankruptcy court.  The payment was one of three settlement options the diocese
offered sex-abuse claimants under a plan to exit bankruptcy.
Diocese attorney Anthony Flynn said today he expects only a
“small percentage” of victims to accept that amount, which
would require that a mediator appointed by the diocese verify
the abuse.  “We expect the average payment will be far greater than
$75,000,” Flynn said in an interview. To help raise money, the
diocese has proposed selling the house occupied by Bishop W.
Francis Malooly, along with other real estate, he said.  Last year, the Roman Catholic diocese became one of at
least six in the U.S. to file for bankruptcy to settle lawsuits
from current and former parishioners who say they were sexually
molested by priests.  Settlement Trust  The Wilmington diocese didn’t say how much money it would
put into a trust to pay the settlements, or whether the fund
would have enough money to cover all claims. In five other
diocese bankruptcies, victims were paid, on average, from
$33,000 to $410,000 each, according to figures provided by the
Wilmington diocese.  Under the proposal filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Wilmington, sex-abuse victims who sued the diocese in state
court in Delaware would have their cases closed and moved either
to federal court or put before the mediator.  The plan must be approved by a bankruptcy judge after a
vote of creditors, including the alleged victims. If approved,
victims would have three choices: accept the $75,000 option and
submit their claim to the mediator, seek a bigger amount from
the mediator in a court-like proceeding, or file a lawsuit in
federal court.  “While the plan is not supported by all creditors at this
time, its filing comes after months of negotiations with the
official creditor committees and other constituencies,” Malooly
said in a statement yesterday.  The diocese will seek money from insurance companies and
parishes to help cover the settlements, Flynn said. About $76
million may come from a pooled investment account. The diocese
is appealing U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi ’s
decision to give creditors, including abuse victims and church
employees with pension claims, access to those funds.  The case is In re Catholic Diocese of Wilmington Inc., 09-
13560, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware,
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 