-- Dividend Tax Cut Caught in Dilemma Over Obama's Deficit Controls
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/dividend-tax-reduction-caught-in-dilemma-over-obama-s-deficit-control-plan.html
President  Barack Obama , offering a
consolation prize to high-income Americans whose taxes he wants
to raise next year, is proposing to scale back a scheduled tax
increase on their dividends. A budget law Obama signed this year
may keep the Democratic president from meeting that goal.  A cut in the dividends rate to its current 15 percent, from
rates as high as 39.6 percent, was among tax measures enacted
under Republican President  George W. Bush . All those cuts are
 scheduled to expire  Dec. 31, and unless Congress acts, the
previous higher rates would return next year.  While Obama’s proposed 20 percent dividend rate is an
increase from this year’s levy, it qualifies as a tax cut
because it’s less than the rate scheduled to take effect for
2011. Under the budget rules, any tax cuts benefitting
individuals earning more than $200,000, or couples earning more
than $250,000, must be offset with new tax revenue or spending
cuts elsewhere.  Passing Obama’s plan under the so-called paygo rules would
require lawmakers to find a combination of revenue and spending
cuts of about $100 billion over 10 years. This would be
difficult to achieve in an election year, tax experts said. The
alternative -- finding the 60 senators required to vote for
waiving the budget rule -- would be equally challenging in the
100-seat chamber, they said.  ‘Virtually Impossible’  Paygo “could make it virtually impossible” to cap the
dividend rate at 20 percent, said  John “Buck” Chapoton , a
former top tax official in President  Ronald Reagan ’s
administration who is now a partner in Washington at Brown
Investment Advisory & Trust and supports the lower dividend
rate. The budget-balancing law, he said, “just makes Congress
dysfunctional in a lot of ways.”  The same conundrum doesn’t apply to Obama’s proposal on
capital-gains rates, which would also increase to 20 percent
from 15 percent for high incomes. That measure wouldn’t have to
be offset by new revenue or tax increases because 20 percent is
the rate that prevailed before the Bush-era tax cuts were
enacted.  The paygo rules were first enacted under President  George H.W. Bush  in 1990 to require Congress to rein in deficit
spending. The rules expired in 2002, months before Congress set
the lower rates for dividends and capital gains that expire this
year.  Scaled-Back Legislation  Paygo was reinstated in February, and has delayed or caused
Democrats to scale back legislation extending jobless benefits
for the long-term unemployed, help states provide health
insurance to the poor, and provide pay increases to doctors
participating in  Medicare . They’ve also impeded renewal of about
75 expired tax breaks known as the “extenders” that include a
research credit for businesses and personal deductions for state
and local sales taxes paid.  Congress has begun deliberation on extending $4 trillion in
expiring Bush-era tax cuts under the shadow of a U.S. deficit
forecast by the White House budget office to be a record $1.47
trillion for 2010 and $1.42 trillion for fiscal 2011, which
starts Oct. 1.  Paygo allows  specific pieces  of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts
totaling about $3 trillion to be financed with deficits. They
include sustaining the lower 10 percent, 25 percent and 28
percent income-tax brackets; relief from the so-called marriage
penalty that used to tax couples more than if they were two
single; the $1,000 per child tax credit; and subsidies for day
care, college tuition, and adoption.  Alternative Minimum Tax  The law also doesn’t require offsets for the next two years
to prevent the alternative minimum tax from subjecting 30
million households to $65 billion in additional taxes. And it
would allow the top estate tax rate to be set at 45 percent in
2011 only. The estate tax is repealed for 2010 alone, though it
would return with 55 percent rate if Congress doesn’t act.  Republicans and Democrats agree on the need to extend the
vast majority of the Bush-era cuts.  The biggest area of contention is over the $700 billion of
higher taxes that would be paid by 3 percent of tax filers who
earn more than $200,000, if Congress lets their Bush tax cuts
expire. Lost revenue from extending those tax reductions would
have to be paid for unless budget rules are waived.  Republicans want the cuts extended along with rates for
lower incomes and have indicated they may block the entire
package if it doesn’t include the high-income measures.  Top Rates  In addition to higher rates for capital gains and
dividends, under Obama’ plan the top marginal income-tax rates
would increase to 36 percent and 39.6 percent from 33 percent
and 35 percent now. Proposals to limit the estate tax on large
estates would also need to be paid for.  For Republicans to obtain the 60 Senate votes required to
waive the rules, they would need the support of at least 20
Democrats. Democrats control 59 seats and Republicans have 41.
So far, Republicans have the support of four Democrats and
 Joseph I. Lieberman , a Connecticut independent who usually votes
with Democrats. One Republican, Senator  George Voinovich  of
Ohio, has said he won’t vote to extend any tax cuts that aren’t
paid for.  Mark Bloomfield , president of the American Council for
Capital Formation, a Washington group that advocates lower taxes
on investments, said he expects lawmakers to ultimately waive
the rules.  “Paygo is paygo, but it’s got termites in it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  