-- Dodd-Frank Ban on Ratings Delays U.S. Implementing Basel Rule
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2010-09-24T19:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/dodd-frank-ban-on-credit-ratings-delays-u-s-adopting-basel-trading-rules.html
A 24-line section of the 848-page
 Dodd-Frank Act  is delaying U.S. implementation of international
rules for how much capital banks need to hold against
securitized assets.  The financial-overhaul legislation, signed by President
 Barack Obama  in July, requires regulators to remove all
references to credit ratings of securities from their rules.
Revised standards on how much capital banks need to hold against
such assets in their trading books, approved by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  in 2009, rely on such ratings.  That means the U.S. will have to develop another mechanism
that doesn’t depend on firms such as Moody’s Investors Service
and Standard & Poor’s, a process that threatens to slow adoption
of the Basel rules on  market  risk as well as a separate package
of regulations on bank capital and liquidity agreed to this
month, known as Basel III, bankers and lawyers say. The delay
also gives ammunition to European regulators and politicians who
have criticized the U.S. for dragging its feet on compliance
with previous standards while pushing for their approval.  “Implementation in the U.S. is going to be more
complicated than other places,” said  Scott Anenberg , a former
attorney for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and now co-head
of the financial-services practice at law firm Mayer Brown LLP
in Washington. “One reason will be complications raised by
capital provisions in the Dodd-Frank bill. It can make things
difficult when politicians attempt to legislate on matters that
for good reasons have traditionally been left to regulators.”  Market-Risk Rules  The Federal Reserve, the  FDIC , the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision
were on the verge of completing a draft rule on market risk when
the Dodd-Frank bill was passed in July, said three people with
knowledge of the work. The ban on ratings forced them to go back
to the drawing board, the people said. The search for an
alternative will be a significant undertaking for the
regulators, two of the people said.  Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act reflects criticism of
Moody’s and S&P for giving  mortgage -related securities
investment-grade ratings they didn’t deserve. The ratings helped
inflate a U.S. housing bubble, as trillions of dollars of risky
home loans were packaged into bonds and sold to investors as
safe, lawmakers and economists have said.  Current Basel trading-book rules treat all top-rated bonds
the same, allowing banks to hold as little capital against AAA
rated mortgage-backed securities as they do against Treasuries.
The trading book is a subset of the balance sheet where banks
park assets they intend to trade in markets, as opposed to the
banking book where assets are meant to be held until maturity or
at least for a longer period.  ‘Nonsense’  At a meeting with reporters in Washington today,
Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank  said concern about the
conflicting rules was “nonsense.” Frank, a Democrat who chairs
the House Committee on Financial Services, co-authored the bill
with Senate banking committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a
Connecticut Democrat.  “I haven’t heard that from any of the regulators,” Frank
said. “Nobody with an official responsibility has ever said
that was a problem.”  The new rules require higher capital charges for
securitized bonds than for corporate or sovereign debt, bringing
the trading-book standards in line with the banking book.
Ratings scales of outside firms are used to calculate how much
capital is required for different securities. The change will
increase banks’ capital charges by as much as 4 percentage
points, according to a Basel study.  Implementation Delayed  The Basel committee decided in June, a month before passage
of the Dodd-Frank bill, to push back implementation of the new
trading-book rules by a year, to the end of 2011, after U.S.
regulators pleaded for more time to complete their domestic
proposals, according to people familiar with the discussions.
The European Parliament, the lawmaking body of the European
Union,  approved the changes  in July. They will go into effect at
the end of next year.  The Basel committee, made up of regulators and central
bankers from 27 countries, sets capital and liquidity
requirements for banks worldwide. Each country then translates
those standards into domestic rules. While the EU writes them
into law, the U.S. typically does it through rulemaking by the
Fed and other regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the agencies
authority to strengthen capital and liquidity requirements.  Alternatives to Ratings  One solution under consideration by U.S. regulators is to
let banks devise their own ratings for securities they own,
loosely based on external ratings, one of the people involved in
the discussions said. Another is to ask Congress to revise the
law to remove or soften the ban, according to another person
briefed on the talks.  Last month, the Fed and the other U.S. agencies issued a
rulemaking  proposal  to comply with the Dodd-Frank requirement on
the elimination of external ratings from their regulations. The
document lists possible ways of replacing ratings in banking
rules, including capital charges on holdings of securitized
products, and asks the industry for alternatives.  The open solicitation of ideas means regulators are far
from agreeing on a solution, said an official from one of the
agencies, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are private. Many of the options being considered give banks
more leeway in how they calculate the riskiness of their
securitized assets, which conflicts with the Basel committee’s
recent attempts to decrease banks’ autonomy in assessing risk,
the official said.  European Suspicion  European suspicion that the U.S. would delay or fail to
adopt new capital rules colored debate in Basel, Switzerland,
this year. The wariness surfaced again this month, when the
committee was divided between those seeking higher capital
ratios and those arguing for lower figures. Germany, which
wanted lower ratios and more time to implement them, accused the
U.S. of pushing for tougher rules that it probably wouldn’t
adopt, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.  European Central Bank Governing Council member  Axel Weber ,
who’s also president of Germany’s Bundesbank, said on Sept. 8
that the U.S. needs to follow through.  “It can’t be that we’ll implement Basel in Europe and not
in the U.S.,” Weber said before a weekend meeting where the
committee reached agreement on higher ratios while giving the
banks more than eight years to comply.  Peter Sands , chief executive officer of London-based
Standard Chartered Plc, also expressed concern whether new Basel
rules “will be implemented in a consistent manner globally.”  Basel II  “We shouldn’t expect everybody to move in sync, but the
degree of difference and contradictions should be kept to a
minimum as much as possible,” Sands said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  The U.S. has still not fully implemented the current
capital regime, known as Basel II, which was promulgated in 2004
and implemented by most European countries three years later.  After U.S. regulators agreed to the rules, community banks
lobbied lawmakers, saying the new standards would give large
banks an unfair advantage because they were the only ones able
to invest in the complicated risk-management systems on which
Basel II was based. Those rules allowed banks to use their own
mathematical models to measure the riskiness of their assets,
resulting in some firms reducing the amount of capital they had
to hold by as much as 29 percent, according to data compiled by
the Basel committee.  Basel III  Under pressure from Congress, which held hearings in 2005
and 2006, regulators set up hurdles that needed to be cleared
before banks would be allowed to reduce their capital. While the
largest U.S. banks are on schedule to complete the process by
the first quarter of 2011, regulators have told them not to
lower their capital now that new rules, known as Basel III, are
on the way. There isn’t a schedule for smaller banks to comply
with the older regime.  After the Basel committee completes its work on the new
rules at the end of the year, their implementation in the U.S.
will face obstacles too, said Mayer Brown’s Anenberg. The
procedure the Fed and other U.S. regulators follow with Basel
compliance is to propose rules along the lines of the framework
and ask for comments from the industry. U.S. banks will oppose
parts of Basel III they’re not happy with, such as the
restrictions on the use of mortgage-servicing rights in capital
calculations, Anenberg said.  ‘Battle by Banks’  “There will be a battle by banks to change some of it,”
he said. “And U.S. regulators already face a huge task in
implementing Dodd-Frank in the next couple of years. So
implementation of Basel changes may not be an immediate
priority.”  The Dodd-Frank Act requires 67 studies and 243 new rules to
be created by regulators, according to a paper by New York-based
law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP. Basel member countries will
have until the end of 2012 to draw up national regulations to
comply with Basel III, which is scheduled to go into effect
between 2013 and 2023.  Other elements of Dodd-Frank contradict Basel III rules. A
clause in the act that bans counting hybrid bonds as capital has
different time frames than Basel III. It gives larger banks less
time to phase out the bonds and smaller banks more time. The
Dodd-Frank rule against external ratings also runs counter to
sections of Basel III, which rely on such ratings to determine
capital charges for certain assets. U.S. regulators will have to
reconcile the two, bankers and lobbyists say.  Unlike Basel II, which was pushed by banks when politicians
weren’t paying attention to capital rules, the post-crisis
environment will help regulators overcome hurdles and implement
Basel III, says  Brett Barragate , a partner at law firm Jones Day
in New York.  “They might struggle with finding solutions to such
conflicts, but regulators can’t drag their feet too much on
implementing Basel,” said Barragate, who represents JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. among other lenders. “If
the political environment changes in the next few years, this
resolve could dissipate, but at this stage the pressure seems to
be on for implementation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 