-- McCourts to Resume Trial After Mediation Fails in Dodgers Ownership Fight
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-09-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/dodgers-owner-s-lawyer-testifies-he-wasn-t-california-marriage-law-expert.html
Frank  and  Jamie McCourt ’s divorce
trial will resume after the couple failed to resolve their fight
over ownership of the Los Angeles Dodgers through mediation
yesterday, a court spokesman said.  “The parties and their lawyers left the courthouse at
about 6:30 p.m.,” Allan Parachini, a spokesman for the Los
Angeles Superior Court, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“They will not be returning tomorrow and no specific date has
been set for another session, although the parties believe they
will be setting such a date.”  The divorce trial, which was interrupted for the one-day
mediation session, will resume with witness testimony as
scheduled on Sept. 27, Parachini said.  In the trial, Judge Scott M. Gordon must decide the
validity of a 2004 marital property agreement signed by the
McCourts when they bought the Major League Baseball team and
moved to California from Boston.  Frank McCourt claims to be the sole owner of the Dodgers
under the postnuptial agreement, while his estranged wife
contends she co-owns the Major League Baseball team, which
Forbes valued at $727 million. The McCourts and their lawyers
have given conflicting testimony about the substance and
significance of the legal advice they received about the
agreement.  Jamie McCourt, 56, claims the marital property agreement is
invalid because she wasn’t advised of its consequences in a
divorce under California law, which differs from Massachusetts
law.  Shielding Homes  Frank McCourt, 57, has argued that his wife sought the
agreement because she wanted to shield the homes that were in
her name from liabilities he assumed to acquire the team,
including $330 million in new debt. The couple had held the
homes in Jamie McCourt’s name and businesses in Frank McCourt’s
name before they moved to California.  Jamie McCourt filed for divorce Oct. 27, six days after her
husband fired her as chief executive officer of the baseball
team. Frank McCourt accused her of insubordination and of
“inappropriate behavior with regard to a direct subordinate.”  The $421 million acquisition of the Dodgers from  Fox
Entertainment Group Inc.  closed on Feb. 13, 2004.  Jamie McCourt testified earlier this month that it was
“preposterous” that she knowingly would have given up her
rights to the Dodgers in the event of divorce.  The case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309, Los Angeles
County Superior Court (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 