-- Dragons' Den Host O'Leary Says Corporate Debt Is Expensive: Canada Credit
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-09-23T04:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/dragons-den-host-o-leary-says-corporate-debt-is-expensive-canada-credit.html
Kevin O’Leary , the money manager
and co-host of the Canadian reality television show “ Dragons’
Den ,” says he’s avoiding Canadian corporate bonds because they
don’t provide the returns he can receive in other countries.  “Corporate debt is now the most expensive it’s ever been
in the last hundred years,” O’Leary said in an interview in
Toronto. “It is a not good place to put money to work.”  Yields on Canadian corporate debt are hovering near the
lowest level in at least 18 years, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data, as inflation remains in check even as the
economy expands. The extra yield that investors demand to own
Canadian corporate bonds relative to government debt remained at
1.46 percentage points yesterday, a four-week low.  The  O’Leary Advantaged Global Corporate Bond Fund  has
outperformed the  Merrill Lynch Canadian Corporate Index  since it
started in July because it looks outside Canada, O’Leary said.
The fund, which trades as an income trust on the Toronto Stock
Exchange, has returned 3.2 percent over that time, compared with
2.2 percent for the index.  “Asia, South Korea, India, China -- that’s where the
excitement is because the growth is there,” said O’Leary, who
sold his educational software business Learning Co. to Mattel
Inc. for about $3.7 billion in 1999 and now manages about C$1
billion ($970 million) in Montreal. “We’re fat and old in North
America.”  Debt sold by Canadian companies yielded 3.73 percent on
average yesterday, compared with a 10-year average of about 5.07
percent, according to Merrill Lynch Bank of America’s Canadian
Corporate Index.  Rogers’ Sale  Elsewhere in credit markets, Rogers Communications Inc.,
Canada’s largest wireless carrier, sold C$900 million of 4.7
percent senior notes due in September 2020 at a spread of 1.82
percentage points over benchmark government securities. The sale
was led by Scotia Capital and TD Securities. Rogers will use the
proceeds to repay bank loans. Rogers sold C$500 million in 10-
year notes almost a year ago and paid a coupon of 5.38 percent.  The spread between U.S. Treasuries and the 2-year Canadian
government bond narrowed after a government report showed retail
sales unexpectedly fell 0.1 percent in July, calling into
question the strength of the economic recovery.  The spread between the U.S. and Canadian 2-year notes
narrowed to 99 basis points yesterday, from 105 basis points the
day before, the biggest decline in about two weeks.  Interest Rate Expectations  Investors are betting there is a 36 percent chance the
 Bank of Canada  will lift its benchmark rate to 1.25 percent at
the next meeting Oct. 19, according to a calculation by Credit
Suisse Group AG based on overnight index  swaps.  That’s down from
52 percent Sept. 16.  Provincial bonds’ relative yields were unchanged at 56
basis points. The debt of the 10 Canadian provinces, with about
C$277 billion outstanding, has gained 0.1 percent in September,
compared with losses of 0.3 percent for governments and 0.2
percent for corporates.  Nova Scotia cut its deficit forecast for the fiscal year
that started April 1 to C$203.2 million, or C$18.9 million less
than initially estimated, the Canadian province’s finance
department said in a  statement .  Government bond yields dropped for a second day, tracking
U.S. rates. The 10-year yield fell 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.86 percent. It touched 2.83 percent, the
lowest level in two weeks. The price of the 3.5 percent security
maturing in June 2020 increased 38 cents to C$105.39.  ‘Makes No Sense’  O’Leary, 56, said “it makes no sense” to invest in the
debt of Canadian telecommunications companies such as  BCE Inc. ,
Rogers and Telus Corp. when global competitors provide better
yields.  “The same sector in Brazil, India, China, South Korea
yields 20 percent more and the companies are larger with less
debt and growing faster in GDP environments that are 20 percent
higher than Canada,” said O’Leary, who also hosts the ABC-TV
show “ Shark Tank .” “Why would you invest in a Canadian telco?
It makes no sense.”  The debt of BCE, Canada’s largest phone company, yields 183
basis points, or 1.83 percentage points, over government
benchmarks, compared with 852 basis points for Cairo-based
 Orascom Telecom Holding SAE , the biggest mobile-phone operator
in the Middle East by users. O’Leary’s global corporate bond
fund owns the debt of Wind Telecommunications SpA, the Italian
wireless company run by Orascom owner  Naguib Sawiris .  Investment Grade  BCE has an investment grade rating of BBB+ at Standard &
Poor’s, compared with the junk rating of B- at Orascom. Non-
investment grade borrowers have to pay higher yields to attract
investors, reflecting the increased risk.  Digicel Group Ltd., a phone company in Jamaica and a
“major holding” of the O’Leary Global Bond Yield Fund, pays
647 basis points over benchmarks.  O’Leary, a native of Montreal, started his career by
building a software company in his basement. He turned to
investing in other technology and storage businesses after
selling the Learning Co. and serves on the investment committee
of Boston-based  Hamilton Trust .  “Dragons’ Den,” which started its fifth season this week,
awards capital to Canadian entrepreneurs in exchange for
ownership or royalties in their business. O’Leary and four other
Canadian investors decide whether to put their own money in the
businesses after hearing pitches by company owners.  TV Anchor  Until last year, O’Leary was an anchor on a  Business News
Network  program in Canada, making stock picks and offering
commentary much like  Jim Cramer ’s “Mad Money” program on CNBC
in the U.S. O’Leary currently appears on the “Lang & O’Leary
Exchange” on the Canadian Broadcasting Corp., Canada’s national
broadcaster.  “Dragons’ Den” averaged 1.8 million viewers last season
on  CBC , said Erin Richards, a spokeswoman at Veritas
Communications in Toronto.  The investments made on the show reflect trends in
investment world: Company debt is favored over equity stakes.  ‘Debt is the new equity’, O’Leary said.  “We’re a microcosm of what’s happening in the overall
venture-capital community,” said Robert Herjavec, 48, a co-host
and founder of a software security company. “You’ll see that on
the show this year; some of the deals -- especially Kevin’s --
structure a way for us to get that money back.”  The awards typically range from C$50,000 to C$250,000,
although the “Dragons” will award a record C$3 million
investment this season, O’Leary said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; 