-- Dubai Government to Seek $1 Billion From Bond Sale Next Week, Bankers Say
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-09-23T16:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/dubai-to-seek-1-billion-from-bond-sale-next-week-bankers-say.html
Dubai’s government will seek to
raise about $1 billion from a bond sale next week, according to
two bankers familiar with the plan, tapping the market for the
first time since Dubai World’s $24.9 billion debt restructuring.  HSBC Holdings Plc ,  Deutsche Bank AG  and  Standard Chartered 
Plc were hired to manage the sale of five- to seven-year bond,
the bankers said, declining to be identified because the plan is
yet to be made public. The deal is likely to be completed on
Sept. 27, one of the two bankers said.  “Yield chasers may jump on the offer,”  Ahmad Alanani ,
director of fixed-income sales at investment bank Exotix Ltd.,
said in a telephone interview from Dubai. “There is some cash on
the sidelines.”  Dubai’s government last sold bonds in October, when the
Department of Finance raised $1.93 billion from five year,
fixed- and floating-rate Islamic notes. The Persian Gulf’s
financial hub that same month set up a $2.5 billion Islamic
medium-term note program and a $4 billion plan to sell regular
bonds, although it has still not sought a credit rating.  A Dubai government spokeswoman declined to comment. Michael
Lermer, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank also declined to comment
as did spokesmen for HSBC and Standard Chartered.  Meeting investors  The Dubai Department of Finance held a series of non-deal
fixed-income investor meetings in Asia in August and in Europe
in June. The meetings were aimed at providing regular updates to
both existing and prospective fixed-income investors around the
world on the emirate’s economy, it said then.  Dubai Electricity & Water Authority, known as Dewa, was the
last government-owned entity to tap capital markets since state-
owned Dubai World announced plans to alter terms on its debt.
Dewa sold $1 billion bonds with a yield of 8.5 percent in April.  Dubai World announced Sept. 10 that creditors holding more
than 99 percent of the value of its loans approved its debt
restructuring plan. The cost to protect against a default by
Dubai dropped to its lowest in more than four months since the
announcement, falling 39 basis points to 419.63, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are more comfortable with Dubai risk, especially
after the announcement of the Dubai World deal with creditors,”
said Anas el Maizi, an Abu Dhabi-based fund manager at Royal
Capital PJSC, in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  