-- Dubai Shares Advance as Axiom Telecom Said to Sell Shares in Initial Offer
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-09-23T11:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/dubai-shares-advance-as-axiom-telecom-said-to-sell-shares-in-initial-offer.html
Dubai’s  shares  gained the most in a
week as a proposed initial public offering from mobile-phone
retailer Axiom Telecom LLC, the first such sale from the United
Arab Emirates in more than a year, boosted investor confidence.
       Emaar Properties PJSC , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, rose 1.1 percent and  Emirates NBD PJSC , the U.A.E.’s
biggest bank by assets, advanced to the highest since May 18.
The  DFM General Index  increased 0.9 percent to 1,689.45 at the 2
p.m. close in Dubai, bringing its gain for the week to 2.6
percent.  The IPO news “is positive for the market” and has helped
improve investor sentiment, said Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief
investment officer at financial services company CAPM Investment
PJSC. “The market endured a lousy period where volumes were
reaching a low point, there was over-pessimism. IPOs are
important for us to recover.”  Companies from the Middle East had delayed share sales
because of the global credit crisis. Dubai-based Axiom may sell
shares next month and plans to offer 35 percent of its shares, a
person familiar with the plan said yesterday.  Shuaa Capital PSC, 
the U.A.E.’s biggest investment bank, is the book-runner for the
transaction, said the person, who declined to be identified.  About 117 million shares traded in Dubai today compared
with a three-month daily average of 92 million. Dubai’s stock
index has lost 6.3 percent this year.  Emaar rose to 3.77 dirhams, the highest since Sept. 21.
Emirates NBD advanced 2.8 percent to 2.93 dirhams.  Qatar’s  gauge  and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  climbed 0.3
percent. Oman’s  measure  and the  Kuwait SE Price Index  slipped
0.1 percent. Bahrain’s  measure  advanced 0.4 percent. Saudi
Arabia’s market was closed for the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 