-- Congress Delays Tax-Cut Battle Until After November's Election
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-09-24T21:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/durbin-says-senate-won-t-pass-tax-cut-extension-before-november-elections.html
House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  said the
House may vote next week on extending Bush-era tax cuts for most
Americans in a pre-election showdown with Republicans over rates
that expire at year’s end.  “We will retain the right to proceed as we choose,”
Pelosi said today to reporters following the decision by Senate
Democratic leaders to postpone a Senate vote on the issue until
after the Nov. 2 election. “We will take it one day at a
time,” Pelosi, a California Democrat, said in Washington when
asked about a possible House vote before the election.  Democrats and Republicans are locked in a dispute over who
should be covered by a tax-cut extension. Democrats want to
continue the lower rates for individual income up to $200,000
and up to $250,000 for couples filing jointly, which accounts
for about 97 percent of taxpayers, according to Internal Revenue
Service data.  Republicans want to keep the cuts for those in the higher
income brackets as well, saying that would help sustain a U.S.
economy still struggling to grow after the longest recession
since the end of World War II.  Holding a vote on the Democratic plan before the election
would give Republicans a choice to pass it or face attacks for
opposing it.  Special Rules  Pelosi is considering using streamlined rules requiring a
supermajority of two-thirds of those present, said a Democratic
aide who briefed reporters. That procedure would keep
Republicans from offering an amendment to extend the tax cuts
for all income levels.  Such a Republican amendment might attract enough votes from
Democratic lawmakers to pass, given that 31 House Democrats have
called for a one-year extension of all tax rates.  House Republican Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio “has always
believed we need to stop all of the tax hikes on American
families and small businesses,” spokesman  Michael Steel  said in
an e-mail. If Pelosi “allows a free and fair debate there is a
bipartisan majority in the House to do just that,” he said.  Pelosi told reporters “there isn’t a person in our caucus
who isn’t for tax cuts for the middle class.”  Some House Democrats have voiced a preference for voting on
the issue after the election. “If the Senate’s not going to act
anyway, I don’t see any need for us to act” before the
election, Representative  Lloyd Doggett , a Texas Democrat, said
yesterday.  Senate Postpones Action  Pelosi’s comments followed yesterday’s postponement by
Senate leaders of floor action on the tax-cut extensions until
Congress returns to Washington after the election.  “The reality is we’re not going to pass” the tax cuts
before the election, Illinois Senator  Richard Durbin , the
chamber’s No. 2 Democrat, said yesterday. Blaming politics, he
said, “We are so tightly wound up in this campaign” that
Democrats and Republicans won’t be able to reach an agreement.  All of the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 during
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, including lower rates
on wages and investments for all Americans, are scheduled to
expire Dec. 31.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  said in a research note
released Sept. 22 that even a temporary failure by Congress to
extend the cuts may erase U.S. economic growth in the first half
of next year.  Polls have shown Republicans poised to make significant
House and Senate gains in this year’s election.  ‘Wavering’ Democrats  “I suspect the Democratic leadership thinks that wavering
members will feel freer” after the election to support
legislation that allowed the tax cuts to lapse for higher-income
brackets, said  Henry Aaron , a senior fellow at the Brookings
Institution in Washington who studies congressional tax, health
and economic policy. “The risk in that strategy is that the
Democrats will emerge from the election shell-shocked and
running for the hills.”  Senate Democrats said they hit an impasse on whether to
hold a vote before the election during a meeting yesterday.  “There’s a divided caucus on the issue,” said Connecticut
Senator  Christopher Dodd , who is retiring. Senate Budget
Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, said,
“It’s clear there aren’t 60 votes for any proposal, so no
proposal is going to pass at this point.”  Sixty votes would be needed for a tax-cut extension to
advance in the Senate. Durbin and Conrad spoke to reporters as
they emerged from a closed-door meeting of Senate Democrats on
the issue. “No bill was presented” on the tax cuts, said
Senator  Byron Dorgan , a North Dakota Democrat.  Holding ‘Hostage’  White House spokeswoman  Amy Brundage  accused Republicans of
“holding middle-class tax cuts hostage in order to borrow $700
billion for tax breaks to the millionaires and billionaires at a
time of record deficits.”  “The American people will be reminded of that every day,”
Brundage said.  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Republican Senate leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, blamed the delay on division within the
Democrats’ ranks.  “If anyone can show me where there’s a Democratic bill to
hold hostage, I’ll buy them lunch,” he said.  Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, the ranking Republican on
the Finance Committee, called the move to delay grappling with
the tax-cut extension a “dereliction of duty” by Democrats.  The Senate “will come back in November and stay in session
as long as it takes to get this done,”  Jim Manley , a spokesman
for Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada, said in a statement
late yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  