-- Hedge Fund Women, Credit Suisse Aid Kids With School Supplies
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/hedge-fund-women-credit-suisse-aid-kids-with-school-supplies.html
It looked as if 8-year-old Raven
Rivera would start third grade without a book bag, and then a
truckload of backpacks came to her rescue, thanks to a nonprofit
formed by women executives from the financial world.  In its fifth annual drive,  High Water Women  collected about
5,800 backpacks this summer and distributed them through other
organizations to needy children in the New York area. Raven’s
bag, which came through the  Iris House : A Center for Women
Living with HIV Inc., also had notebooks, pens and pads.  “It makes me feel good to have a backpack because I’ve
waited a long time for it, and it’s worth the wait,” said
Raven, a bubbly student at Manhattan’s  Corpus Christi School ,
during an Iris House distribution party held at  Riverbank State
Park .  Her grandmother, Casilda Rivera, watched with a smile as
the girl surveyed the plump bag’s contents. The elder Rivera,
who is  HIV-positive , receives assistance from Iris House.  “You can see the excitement in her eyes,” Casilda Rivera
said. “She’s very, very curious. She could become a lawyer one
day.”  High Water Women’s school-supplies drive has became popular
among local nonprofits aiding needy children because the items
give them an emotional boost, said  Kathleen Kelley , High Water’s
co-founder. High Water also has given more than $3 million to
nonprofits that serve the disadvantaged.  Women in Shelters  Kelley, a portfolio manager for global macro investments at
Kingdon Capital Management LLC in New York, launched the
backpack drive after Iris House Executive Director  Ingrid Floyd 
told her how difficult it is for low-income single parents and
women living in shelters to provide school supplies for their
children.  “I saw a girl who cried because she had never owned a
dictionary,” Kelley said. “Some of them slept with their
backpacks the first night they received them because they never
had a backpack.”  The nonprofits and organizations that distributed the bags
and supplies this month include Iris House;  Good Shepherd
Services  in Brooklyn, a social-services agency; Women in Need,
which provided shelter for 10,000 homeless children and women
last year; the  Child Center of NY ; and  Partnership with
Children , which aids at-risk children.  More than half the backpacks collected by High Water were
given out by  the After School Corporation  in New York, which
develops after-school learning models for schools and teachers;
 Newark Now , which helps improve neighborhoods in New Jersey’s
most populous city; and Women in Need.  Backpacks Stacked  Kelley helped organize the first backpack drive in two
empty offices at Kingdon Capital’s West 57th Street headquarters
in Manhattan.  “We literally had backpacks stacked from floor to ceiling,
and they just kept coming,” she said. “We couldn’t stop the
flow of donations.”  Credit Suisse  in New York came forward three years ago to
offer dozens of volunteers and a warehouse-like space at its New
York office where 150 volunteers fill the bags. About 300 people
and companies donated money to buy the bags and supplies, she
said.  Ricky Jones, 6, beamed and clutched his backpack when he
got it from Iris House.  “This is awesome, this is really
awesome,” said the boy, whose brother cares for him since his
mother died a few years and his father vanished. “I’m going to
take this bag everywhere I go.”  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 