-- El Nasr Clothes & Textiles of Egypt Is Seeking Funds for Restructuring
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2010-09-23T11:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/el-nasr-clothes-textiles-of-egypt-is-seeking-funds-for-restructuring.html
El Nasr Clothes & Textiles , an
Egyptian knitwear company that produces clothes for clients
including Marks & Spencer Group Plc, said it is seeking funds
for restructuring and plans to export to the U.S.  “We’re considering raising funds; these funds could come
from the sale of an asset, capital increase or a loan and the
board will decide,” Chairman and Managing Director  Amr El Sharnoubi  said in an interview at his Cairo office on Sept. 21.
“We will present our proposal at the next board meeting on
Sept. 28 for restructuring and investment for upgrading our new
machinery.”  El Nasr, also known as Kabo, is qualified to export clothes
to the U.S. under an agreement that includes incorporating
Israel-made components, El Sharnoubi said. “That’s what we’re
trying to do now; to export to the U.S..” he said. “Of course
we will make use of the QIZ.”  Egypt garment exports to the U.S. doubled since 2005 when
the U.S. allowed goods made in the so-called Qualified
Industrial Zone in Egypt, using Israeli inputs, to benefit from
duty-free access to its market.  Machinery at El Nasr hasn’t been upgraded in at least 10
years and has led to wasted fabrics and increased costs, El
Sharnoubi said. The machinery only works at 50 to 60 percent of
capacity because there isn’t a market for smaller size knitwear
that they can produce, he said. “I think we will reach 70
percent by January.”  The company has a capacity of 15 tons per day for both
knitting and dyeing, he said.  Sales Increase  El Nasr’s sales may increase 15 percent to 180 million
Egyptian pounds ($31.5 million) in the financial year that ends
June 30, 2011, because of better administration, he said. El
Sharnoubi declined to say how much money the company was seeking
to raise for investment.  El Nasr had a net loss of 13.3 million Egyptian pounds in
the financial year that ended in June, compared with a loss of
7.2 million pounds in the same period last year, the company
said in a regulatory filing to the Egyptian Exchange on Sept. 8.  Shares of El Nasr increased 2.4 percent to 1.27 Egyptian
pounds at 1:37 p.m. in Cairo, valuing the company at 430 million
pounds. The shares have dropped 14 percent this year, compared
with an 8.3 percent gain in the country’s benchmark EGX30 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mahmoud Kassem  in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  