-- Telefonica Pulls Part of Its Pound Bond Sale Amid Resurgent Europe Concern
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   H y d e   a n d   S o n j a   C h e u n g
-- 2010-09-23T17:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/telefonica-cancels-part-of-pound-bond-sale-as-concerns-over-europe-return.html
Telefonica SA , Europe’s second-
biggest phone company, cancelled a bond sale as concerns
resurfaced about creditworthiness in the region’s most indebted
nations.  Telefonica ’s pulled seven-year note issue was part of a
financing in the U.K. currency, which included 400 million
pounds ($627 million) of 19-year securities that priced today,
said two people involved in the deal. A Telefonica spokeswoman
in Madrid, who declined to be identified, wouldn’t comment on
the cancellation.  “After a few weeks of beautiful plain sailing, the waters
are now looking choppier,” said  Norval Loftus , chief investment
officer at Allegra Asset Management in London.  The owner of Britain’s O2 mobile network pulled a portion
of its bond issue as yields on Portuguese and Irish government
debt rose to records versus benchmark German bunds. Weaker-than-
forecast economic data raised concern Europe’s so-called
peripheral nations, including Spain, will struggle to trim
budget deficits.  Telefonica’s seven-year notes were being marketed at a
yield of 190 basis points more than U.K. government debt, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the details
aren’t public. That’s equivalent to an absolute yield of about
3.98 percent, Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Pulled Deals  The Spanish telecommunications company became the latest
European borrower to pull a bond sale.  Comunidad de Madrid postponed a sale of three-year bonds in
euros on July 30 after Moody’s Investors Service put Spain’s top
credit rating on review for possible downgrade, Bloomberg data
show. Ceva Group Plc, the world’s largest transporter of auto
parts for carmakers, scrapped a plan to extend about 750 million
euros of loans May 12.  KCA Deutag Drilling Group Ltd., an oil-services drilling
firm that’s a unit of private-equity investor First Reserve
Corp., delayed a $500 million junk-bond sale on Aug. 9 that
would have helped refinance debt.  Telefonica’s 19-year bonds, its first benchmark sale in
pounds in almost a year, were priced at a spread of 170 basis
points, the wide end of the initial marketing range, the people
familiar with the matter said. That’s an absolute yield of about
5.3 percent, close to the average 5.4 percent that investors
demand to hold long-dated, similarly rated corporate debt in
pounds, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The bonds due 2029 extend the average life of Telefonica’s
debt and will help refinance obligations falling due next year,
the company said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Lookout for Yield’  “The issuer probably pulled its seven-year tranche due to
technical and value reasons, rather than because clients have a
real problem with the credit,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of
credit research at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “People
are on the lookout for yield and that’s what the 19-year
securities are offering.”  Sales of bonds due in 10 years or more reached $24 billion
in Europe this month, the most in a year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. GDF Suez SA, owner of Europe’s biggest
gas network, raised 700 million pounds from 50-year bonds
yesterday, while Dutch lender Rabobank Nederland NV sold $350
million of 100-year senior bonds last week, Bloomberg data show.  “There remains demand for longer dated deals from buy-and-
hold investors such as the pension funds looking to match their
long-term liabilities,” Loftus said, referring to the pound
market.  Slowing Recovery  Growth in Europe’s  services and manufacturing   industries 
weakened more than economists forecast in September, adding to
evidence the recovery in the region is losing steam.  A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries declined to 53.8 from 56.2 in
August, London-based Markit Economics said today. Economists
expected a reading of 55.7, according to the median of 15
forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey . A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  The cost of insuring Telefonica’s debt from default rose
after the bond sale was pulled. Credit-default swaps tied to the
Spanish company’s bonds climbed 5 basis points to 145, according
to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Telefonica is rated A- by Standard & Poor’s, seven steps
below the highest investment-grade ranking, and one step lower
at Baa1 by Moody’s. The bonds are being issued through its
Telefonica Emisiones unit.  “Companies from the peripheral countries are going to find
it harder to tap the market amid peripheral sovereign-driven
volatility,” said  Maureen Schuller , a credit strategist at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  