-- Emerging Markets Provide Refuge for Equity Cult: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2010-09-23T14:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/emerging-markets-provide-refuge-for-equity-cult-chart-of-the-day.html
“The ‘cult of the equity’ appears
to be alive and well in emerging markets” even though it has
died off elsewhere, according to Geoffrey Dennis, a strategist
at Citigroup Inc.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that emerging-market stocks are
a growing percentage of the total market value of companies in
the MSCI All-Country World Index, a global benchmark, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging markets are 13.1 percent of the index’s value,
more than triple their 3.8 percent weighting in June 2002, the
report said. The percentage differs from what’s depicted in the
chart because MSCI indexes are based on float, or the number of
shares available for trading, rather than market value.  Changes in the amount of stock outstanding accounted for
about four percentage points of the 9.3-point jump, according to
Dennis. Share sales by companies based in developing countries
added more stock than repurchases and cash takeovers subtracted,
leading to “equitization,” he wrote. The opposite was true in
developed markets.  The rest stemmed from bigger gains among emerging-market
stocks, the report said. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has
climbed about eight times as far as the MSCI World Index of
developed markets since the end of June 2002.  Dennis, an emerging-markets strategist, presented his
research as a follow-up to a Sept. 1 report by Robert Buckland,
Citigroup’s chief global equity strategist. The equity cult that
started in the 1950s is dead, Buckland wrote, as investors no
longer favor stocks at the expense of bonds.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  