-- Most Emerging-Market Stocks Decline as Index Retreats From Two-Year High
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-09-23T13:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/emerging-market-stocks-fall-after-u-s-jobs-data-slower-european-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, with
the benchmark index retreating from a two-year high, as euro
zone growth slowed more than expected and applications for U.S.
unemployment benefits rose.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slipped 0.2 percent to
1,045.69 as of 1:39 p.m. in London. Earlier the index advanced
as much as 0.2 percent to the highest level since July 2008.
Turkey’s benchmark ISE National 100 Index slid 1.6 percent after
the central bank raised reserve requirements for banks. Poland’s
WIG20 fell 1.5 percent. The forint and the rand depreciated
against the dollar.  U.S. initial jobless claims increased by 12,000 to 465,000
in the week ended Sept. 18, more than the 450,000-claim median
projection by economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Growth in
Europe’s services and manufacturing industries weakened more
than economists forecast in September, London-based Markit
Economics said today, and Ireland’s gross domestic product
unexpectedly contracted in the second quarter. A slowing euro
zone economy would reduce demand for goods and services produced
by emerging markets.  “This reiterates the story about Europe still being in
difficulty and, can the countries at the fringes of Europe take
the pain indefinitely?” said  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging
markets strategist at RBC Capital in London, “If they can’t
it’s going to have repercussions for stocks and currencies in
the emerging markets.”  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , Turkey’s biggest bank by market
value, lost 3.5 percent, its largest intraday retreat in six
weeks. Akbank TAS, the lender part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
dropped 1.2 percent. Turkiye Is Bankasi AS, the country’s
biggest listed lender by assets, slid 2.5 percent.  Turkish Central Bank  Turkey raised the level of reserves banks must deposit with
its central bank. It boosted the foreign currency reserve
requirement to 11 percent from 10 percent and the lira reserve
requirement to 5.5 percent from 5 percent, according to a
directive in the Official Gazette in Ankara today.  Oil declined as an increase in U.S. crude supplies added to
concern that the recovery isn’t fast enough to use up excess
supply, sending emerging-market energy stocks down.  Poland’s biggest oil refiner,  PKN Orlen SA , slid 1.6
percent, and in Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, the
 Micex  share index fell 0.7 percent.  The forint depreciated 0.9 percent against the dollar to
210.41 and weakened 0.8 percent versus the euro to 280.77. The
zloty fell 0.9 percent against the dollar.  Missing Forecasts  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing declined to 53.8 from
56.2 in August, Markit said. Economists expected a reading of
55.7, according to the median of 15 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey. Ireland’s GDP shrank 1.2 percent in the second
quarter, compared with a median forecast of 0.4 percent
expansion.  The rand weakened as much as 1.1 percent against the dollar
as traders speculated the central bank is buying foreign
currency to stop it from falling below 7 per dollar. South
Africa’s currency depreciated 0.9 percent to 7.0873.  “Movements on dollar-rand appear constrained above seven,
perhaps signaling South African Reserve Bank participation,”
 John Cairns , head of foreign-exchange research at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a client note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  