-- Emerging-Market Equities Advance for Second Day on Inflows, Faster Growth
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-09-23T15:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/emerging-equities-climb-to-highest-since-july-2008-amid-fund-flow-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a second day amid speculation inflows of funds will accelerate
amid faster growth in developing nations.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.2 percent to
1,049.69 at 11:07 a.m. New York time, maintaining its highest
level since July 2008. Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index headed to
the highest level in five months, led by  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ,
the state-controlled oil company. Thailand’s  SET Index  rose for
a third day after JPMorgan Chase & Co. said infrastructure
spending and foreign investment will boost industrial estate
developers. Markets in Japan, Hong Kong, China and South Korea
are shut for holidays.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said this week it’s willing to
ease monetary policy further to spur growth and support prices
after a slowdown in the pace of recovery, adding to indications
from central banks from Japan to the U.K. that further economic
stimulus may be in store. A surge in liquidity toward the end of
the year may lead to a “boom” for  emerging-market stocks ,
according to HSBC Private Bank.  “There’s clearly a lot of excess liquidity that’s going to
slosh around the global markets,”  Arjuna Mahendran , HSBC
Private Bank’s Singapore-based head of investment strategy for
Asia, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “All of that is
headed in the direction of emerging markets because the growth
in these regions is superior to what you find in the West.”  Chinese stocks may be among the beneficiaries of the rally,
as government restrictions on property investment may channel
funds to the equity market, Mahendran said. Indian stocks may
also extend their rally even as the central bank is poised to
add to five interest-rate increases this year, he said.  Amata, Memaraj  Amata Corp. , Thailand’s largest industrial land developer,
climbed 1.9 percent. Foreign direct investment is poised to
accelerate in 2011, JPMorgan’s  Sriyan Pietersz  and  Adrian Mowat 
wrote in a report dated yesterday. Japan and China may be “key
players” in the spending that may also boost  Hemaraj Land &
Development Pcl , they wrote. The stock jumped 6.7 percent.  Brazilian stocks climbed 1.3 percent after Petrobras
advanced 3.9 percent.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , Turkey’s biggest bank by market
value, lost 1.2 percent. Akbank TAS, the lender part-owned by
Citigroup Inc., dropped 1.2 percent. Turkiye Is Bankasi AS, the
country’s biggest listed lender by assets, slid 1.7 percent.  Reserves  Turkey raised the level of reserves banks must deposit with
its central bank. It boosted the foreign currency reserve
requirement to 11 percent from 10 percent and the lira reserve
requirement to 5.5 percent from 5 percent, according to a
directive in the Official Gazette in Ankara today.  U.S. initial jobless claims increased by 12,000 to 465,000
in the week ended Sept. 18, more than the 450,000-claim median
projection by economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Growth in
Europe’s services and manufacturing industries weakened more
than economists forecast in September, London-based Markit
Economics said today, and Ireland’s gross domestic product
unexpectedly contracted in the second quarter. A slowing euro
zone economy would reduce demand for goods and services produced
by emerging markets.  Oil declined as an increase in U.S. crude supplies added to
concern that the recovery isn’t fast enough to use up excess
supply, sending emerging-market energy stocks down. Poland’s
biggest oil refiner,  PKN Orlen SA , slid 1.6 percent.  The difference between the yield investors demand from
bonds sold by emerging-market governments and U.S. Treasuries
advanced 1 basis point to 291, according to the JPMorgan Chase &
Co. EMBI+ index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net 
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  