-- England Names Monty Panesar, Chris Tremlett in Ashes Cricket Tour Squad
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-09-23T14:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/england-names-monty-panesar-chris-tremlett-in-ashes-cricket-tour-squad.html
England recalled spinner  Monty Panesar  and fast-bowler  Chris Tremlett  in a 16-man squad for the
Ashes cricket tour of Australia, starting in November.  Left-armer Panesar hasn’t played in a Test since his
resolute batting helped secure a draw in the first Ashes match
last year, when England went on to win the series 2-1.  He’s recovered from a dip in form, switching his county
career from Northamptonshire to Sussex and taking 52 wickets
this season at an average of 25.5. He’s played 39 Tests, taking
126 wickets at 34.4.  “We feel that, following an excellent season with Sussex,
Monty Panesar deserves his opportunity to assume the role as
England’s second spinner behind  Graeme Swann ,” national
selector Geoff Miller said in a statement from the England and
Wales Cricket Board.  Tremlett, who moved to Surrey from Hampshire this season,
took 48 county wickets at an average of 20.2. He’s taken 13
wickets in his three Tests at an average of 29.7. He won the
last of his Test caps against India in 2007.  “We feel that Chris Tremlett’s inclusion will add a real
threat of pace and bounce to our bowling attack, given the
conditions in Australia,” Miller added.  Surrey’s Steven Davies, named as England’s deputy
wicketkeeper behind Sussex’s  Matt Prior , is the only member of
the squad uncapped at Test level.  5-0 Sweep  England won the Ashes for the first time in 18 years in
2005 with a 2-1 home victory, then suffered the first 5-0 sweep
in 86 years when the teams met in Australia in 2006-07. That was
followed by the home success for England last year. The last
time England won a series in Australia was 1986-87.  Australia is the 4-6 favorite with bookmaker Ladbrokes Plc
to win the Ashes this time, meaning a successful six-pound
($9.42) bet would yield a four-pound profit. England is 9-4 and
a drawn series 9-2.  “I firmly believe we have a number of match winners across
all areas of the squad,” England captain  Andrew Strauss  said.
“It’s exciting to have the Ashes as our sole focus from this
point on, and I know every member of this Ashes squad will be
relishing the challenge.”  The board also named a 16-man England Performance Program
squad, which will be based in Australia until the start of the
third Test. Four of the players, Michael Carberry, Craig
Kieswetter, Ajmal Shahzad and  James Tredwell , have played for
the senior England side over the past year.  In addition, the cricket board said  Jonathan Trott  and
Steven Finn have been awarded 12-month England central
contracts.  The Ashes started when Australia beat England, its former
colonial ruler, at the Oval in London in 1882. To symbolize the
“death” of English cricket, the Sporting Times printed a mock
obituary. A wooden bail from the match stumps was burnt, its
ashes were taken to Australia and a replica of the 4-inch clay
urn now goes to the victor of the series.  England Ashes squad: Andrew Strauss (Middlesex), Alastair Cook
(Essex), James Anderson (Lancashire), Ian Bell (Warwickshire),
Tim Bresnan (Yorkshire), Stuart Broad (Nottinghamshire), Paul
Collingwood (Durham), Steven Davies (Surrey), Steven Finn
(Middlesex), Eoin Morgan (Middlesex), Monty Panesar (Sussex),
Kevin Pietersen (Hampshire), Matt Prior (Sussex), Graeme Swann
(Nottinghamshire), Chris Tremlett (Surrey), Jonathan Trott
(Warwickshire).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  