-- Eni Said to End EU Antitrust Case With Sale of Pipelines Stakes
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-09-23T11:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/eni-said-to-end-eu-s-antitrust-case-with-sale-of-stakes-in-gas-pipelines.html
Eni SpA ’s offer to settle European
Union antitrust charges by selling stakes in natural gas
pipelines will be formally accepted by the EU regulator next
week, two people briefed on the case said.  Eni’s proposal to sell stakes in three pipelines will be
made legally binding Sept. 29, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the EU discussions are private. Under the
settlement, Italy’s largest oil and gas company will avoid
possible antitrust fines for restricting access to its
transmission network.  The case is the latest in a series of European Commission
probes of energy companies including RWE AG,  E.ON AG  and
 Electricite de France SA . The Brussels-based commission, the 27-
nation EU’s antitrust regulator, said last year that Eni may
have abused its dominant position by limiting its investment in
a network that brings Russian gas into Italy from Germany and
Austria.  After 2003 EU laws gave customers the right to choose
suppliers, the commission has sought to make it easier for gas
and power companies without their own grids to compete.  The people did not give details of Eni’s final agreement,
which may differ slightly from its  Feb. 4 offer  to sell off
shares in the German TENP gas pipeline and in Switzerland’s
Transitgas pipeline and to transfer a stake in the Trans-Austria
Gas, or TAG, pipeline to the Italian government.  Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for the commission, declined
to comment. Erika Mandraffino, a spokeswoman for Eni, referred
all questions on the case to the EU regulator.  The commission’s other probes led RWE to sell its gas-
transmission network, E.ON to shed its power grid in Germany and
Electricite de France, Europe’s biggest power producer, to make
changes to long-term electricity supply contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 