-- Merck KGaA Liquid-Crystal Unit Targets 3-D TV Without Glasses
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-09-23T05:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/merck-kgaa-s-liquid-crystal-unit-targets-3-d-television-without-glasses.html
Merck KGaA  is developing liquid
crystals for 3-D televisions that don’t require special glasses
as the company seeks to bolster sales of the fastest-growing use
for the product.  Glasses-free 3-D TVs may be ready for the market in three
to five years, said Michael Heckmeier, senior vice president of
research and development in Merck’s liquid-crystals unit. Merck
is working with “all the major display manufacturers” on the
technology, Roman Maisch, head of marketing and sales at the
unit, said in a telephone interview with both executives.  “The road map for this right now is the shutter glasses,”
Heckmeier said, referring to 3-D television glasses that use
shutters to toggle between a viewer’s eyes. “Next will be a
glass that’s not actively shutting anymore. The third generation
would be a technology without glasses at all.”  Growing demand for liquid crystals helped boost Darmstadt,
Germany-based Merck’s second-quarter  profit  by 69 percent. The
business accounted for 9.5 percent of the  drug and chemical 
company’s sales last year. Investors are concerned that “a
downturn is due from around mid-2011,” London-based analysts
for Piper Jaffray & Co. wrote in a note to investors Sept. 21.  A thin layer of liquid crystals is used to make displays
for flat-screen televisions, tablet computers, telephones and
other electronics. Merck has about 50 percent of the liquid
crystals market and aims to reach 60 percent, the Piper Jaffray
analysts wrote, citing a Sept. 20 presentation by the company.
Competition and how much of the crystals producers already have
on hand may affect sales, the analysts wrote.  Sales Growth  Merck expects sales of liquid crystals to grow by 50
percent this year to 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion), with a
return on sales of 54 percent, according to a  presentation 
posted on the company’s website on Sept. 21.  Demand for the crystals is “quite stable” now, Maisch
said, declining to be more specific about the company’s
forecast.  Sales for 3-D televisions and tablets are driving growth,
he said. Within five years, 20 percent to 30 percent of all
televisions sold will likely be 3-D, he said.  Sony Corp.  and  Toshiba Corp.  both said in August they are
developing 3-D TVs that don’t require glasses.  To view three-dimensional images, the picture the right eye
sees has to be separated from the picture the left eye sees.
Shutters in the current generation of glasses for 3-D television
accomplish that. Without glasses, the technology used in the
screen has to separate the images at every point in the room,
Heckmeier said.  Side Effects  3-D television glasses can sell for more than $150. Samsung
has warned that side effects may include dizziness, nausea or
convulsions. The irritation may stem from the shutters in the
glasses going on and off, Maisch said.  Merck expects to start selling crystals for next-generation
glasses in 2011 that solve that problem by eliminating the
shutters, Heckmeier said. Instead, they work in combination with
a layer of liquid crystals laminated on top of the television
screen.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel will attend the
inauguration of Merck’s new liquid crystals research facility in
Darmstadt today. The 47 million-euro center will house labs for
liquid crystals, light-emitting diodes and other Merck chemical
research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.netnet  