-- EU Will Propose Scoreboard to Monitor Macroeconomic Imbalances, Rehn Says
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2010-09-23T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/eu-will-propose-scoreboard-to-monitor-macroeconomic-imbalances-rehn-says.html
European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said he will next week
propose a new way to monitor macroeconomic imbalances in the
region.  Under the proposal, part of a package to strengthen
economic governance, the European Commission would “operate a
scoreboard of economic and financial indicators” to give an
early warning on imbalances, Rehn said in the text of a speech
in London today. The package also will include proposals for
earlier sanctions and more scrutiny of overall debt levels, in
addition to annual budget deficits.  “We have seen severe macroeconomic imbalances building up
while the political level was not ready to address them early
on,” Rehn said. The Brussels-based commission, the 27-nation
EU’s regulator, would carry out in-depth country analysis and
issue recommendations where necessary, he said.  Resistance has grown to German pleas for tough penalties
against high-deficit countries as policy makers seek ways to
prevent a repeat of the sovereign-debt crisis. EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy , who will lead a meeting on the issue in
Brussels on Sept. 27, said last week that “more work is
needed” on sanctions.  Indications the economy is recovering from the debt crisis
have lessened the pressure on officials to protect the euro from
future fiscal shocks. The  euro-area economy  expanded 1 percent
in the second quarter, the fastest pace in four years, with
exports surging 4.4 percent, the biggest jump in the euro area’s
history.  ‘Gained Momentum’  “Recent data proves clearly that Europe’s economic
recovery has gained momentum and we are exiting from the
economic crisis,” Rehn said in the speech. “But there is
certainly  no room  for complacency,” he said, adding that it is
“still necessary” to restore confidence in the economy.  Expansion in Europe’s  services and manufacturing   industries 
slackened more than economists forecast in September, data
showed today. Europe’s expansion will slow to a more
“moderate” pace in the second half, the commission forecast
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jones Hayden  in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  