-- European Services, Manufacturing Growth Slows Again
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-09-23T14:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/european-september-services-manufacturing-growth-slows-more-than-forecast.html
Growth in Europe’s  services and
manufacturing   industries  weakened more than economists forecast
in September, adding to evidence the recovery in the region is
losing steam.  A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries declined to 53.8 from 56.2 in
August, London-based Markit Economics said today. Economists
expected a reading of 55.7, according to the median of 15
forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey . A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  Growth in Europe is slowing as the global economy cools and
austerity measures aimed at reducing budget deficits and reining
in borrowing costs undermine the recovery. Europe’s expansion
will slow to a more “moderate” pace in the second half, the
European Commission projected last week.  “It’s clear that cracks are emerging in the recovery
story,” said  Martin van Vliet , a senior economist at ING Bank
in Amsterdam. “People were hoping that domestic demand would
offset the drag from slower exports, but fiscal tightening is
limiting the scope for domestic demand to pick up the baton.”  European stocks fell for a third day and the euro weakened
against the dollar. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slid 0.5 percent
to 259.88 at 3:06 p.m. in London and the euro declined 0.7
percent to $1.3317.  Industrial Orders  Euro-area growth  probably slackened to 0.5 percent in the
current quarter from 1 percent in the previous three months, the
Brussels-based commission forecast on Sept. 13.  Industrial
orders  declined more than forecast in July, the European Union’s
statistics office said yesterday.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, investor confidence
dropped to a 19-month low this month, the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research in Mannheim said on Sept. 14. German
 business sentiment  probably declined in September after an
unexpected increase in August, according to the median of 36
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The Munich-based Ifo is
scheduled to publish the indicator at 10 a.m. tomorrow.  Pernod Ricard SA , the maker of Chivas Regal whiskey and
Absolut vodka, on Sept. 2 reported  full-year profit  that missed
analysts’ estimates as sales declined in western Europe and the
U.S., while the company said it saw “persisting difficulties”
in western Europe.  Diageo , the world’s largest spirits maker,
said on Aug. 25 that it is “cautious” about  the outlook  for
the European and North American consumer markets.  Fastest Pace  Reviving exports helped the euro-area economy  expand  1
percent in the second quarter, the fastest pace in four years.
The Brussels-based commission said last week that growth may
weaken to 0.5 percent in the current quarter and 0.3 percent in
the year’s final three months. Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Joseph Stiglitz  said on Sept. 20 that he sees “very limited
growth” in Europe.  The recovery is “uneven” among European countries as
financial markets have only “partly recovered” from tensions
in May when European leaders created a rescue package to stem
contagion from the Greek fiscal crisis, the commission said.
While German GDP jumped 2.2 percent in the second quarter from
the previous three months, Spain expanded 0.2 percent. Growth in
Portugal, which is facing a surge in borrowing costs, slowed to
0.3 percent in the second quarter.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Portuguese debt
rather than German equivalents rose to 392 basis points on Sept.
20, a euro-era high, while the premium on  Irish debt  surged to
401 basis points, as investors questioned those nations’ ability
to rein in their budget deficits with the austerity measures
already in place.  “Continued tension on markets underlines the fact that
more is needed and as the  fiscal squeeze  tightens we’ll see
 domestic spending  in those countries weaken further,” said
 Jennifer McKeown , a European economist at Capital Economics in
London. “Even in the stronger countries like Germany the fiscal
squeeze is going to start from next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  