-- Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Gold May Advance to Record on Dollar Weakness
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-09-23T06:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/europe-commodity-day-ahead-gold-may-advance-to-record-on-dollar-weakness.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  Metal Prices: ($/ton)  Last  % Chg RSI
Copper         7,843     -0.0  66
Aluminum       2,240     +0.2  66
Zinc           2,204.50  +2.3  58
Lead           2,235     +0.5  60
Nickel         22,640    +0.3  55
Tin            23,300    +1.3  68  Other Markets:  Last  % Chg % YTD
 U.S. Dollar Index     79.814   -0.0  +2.5
Crude Oil            $74.77   +0.1  -5.8
Gold              $1,291.30   -0.1  +18
 MSCI World Index    1,169.98   00.1  +0.1 *T  TOP STORIES:  Gold May Climb to Record; Silver Declines From 30-Month High  Gold traded near a record as the dollar slumped on
prospects for a further easing of monetary policy by the U.S.
central bank to safeguard the economic recovery. Silver reached
a 30-month high before declining.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:
Jarislowsky Prefers Canada Block BHP’s Potash Bid  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.’s third-largest
shareholder would prefer that Canada block BHP Billiton Ltd.’s
$130-a-share bid because the price is too low and a deal would
make his job as fund manager more difficult.  Tyson May Raise Chicken Prices Amid Corn Rally  Tyson Foods Inc., the largest U.S. chicken processor, said
higher costs for corn may spur the company to raise prices for
the meat.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:
Copper May Advance for a Second Day in London as Dollar Weakens  Copper, trading near a five-month high, may climb for a
second day as the dollar weakened on prospects for a further
easing of U.S. monetary policy by the Federal Reserve. Zinc,
nickel and lead advanced.  China Denies Rare-Earth Export Ban to Japan Amid Diplomatic Spat  China denied reports it has banned the export of rare
earths to Japan, which is the biggest buyer of the minerals used
in a wide range of high-technology products.  Hindustan Zinc Cuts Zinc Prices by 1.4% to 111,700 Rupees a Ton  Hindustan Zinc Ltd., India’s largest producer, cut zinc
prices by 1.4 percent to 111,700 rupees a metric ton starting
today, according to a statement on the company’s website.  MINING:
Potash Corp. Sues BHP to Block Takeover ‘On the Cheap’  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. sued BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s largest mining company, in Chicago federal court to
prevent it from acquiring the fertilizer maker with a $40
billion hostile offer.  Uranium Miners Need 25% Price Gain to Expand, Rio’s Beyer Says  Uranium must rise 25 percent to give mining companies an
incentive to start or expand projects outside of top producer
Kazakhstan, said Clark Beyer, managing director of Rio Tinto
Uranium Ltd.  Vale to Start Shipping Iron Ore From Simandou in 2012  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, expects to
make the first shipments of the mineral from Guinea’s Simandou
project by the end of 2012.  PRECIOUS METALS
Navigator Gold Mine to Resume Within 2 Days After Wall Collapse  Navigator Resources Ltd., a Perth-based mineral explorer,
said mining at the central pit at Bronzewing gold mine should
resume within two days after being closed by a partial wall
failure.  U.K.’s OFT Says Some Postal Gold Firms May Have Breached Rules  The U.K.’s Office of Fair Trading said it is consulting
with some companies that buy gold from customers through the
mail which it says may have breached “a number of consumer
protection laws.”  AGRICULTURE:
Soybean Crop in India May Reach Record, Boosting Meal Exports  Soybean output in India, Asia’s top supplier of animal feed
made from the oilseed, may increase to a record as above-normal
rainfall boost yields, according to Adani Enterprises Ltd., the
country’s biggest trader of farm goods.  Palm Oil Advances as Rival Soybean Oil Reaches Two-Year High  Palm oil climbed for a second day, tracking gains in rival
soybean oil which jumped to the highest level in almost two
years after the dollar weakened, increasing the appeal of U.S.
commodities to overseas buyers.  Wheat Slumps on Concern Feed Users May Switch to Cheaper Grains  Wheat futures slumped in Chicago on speculation that the
recent rally has prompted feed millers to substitute the grain
with cheaper alternatives.  SHIPPING:
Mols-Linien May Start Ferry Purchases This Year, Borsen Says  Mols-Linien A/S will expand its fleet by three ferries by
2020, doubling its capacity to about five million cars, and may
buy the first this year, Dagbladet Borsen reported citing Chief
Executive Officer Prebel Wolff.  Baltic Dry Index Drops for Eighth Session as Ore Ships Decline  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping costs,
fell for an eighth session in London as a surplus of iron-ore
carrying vessels caused charter rates for the carriers to
decline.  ECONOMIES:
Wen Says Structure, Not Yuan, Causes Trade Surplus  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said the yuan’s value isn’t
causing the U.S. trade deficit with his country, rejecting
President Barack Obama’s assessment that China is keeping the
currency cheap to aid exports.  Central Banks Have Tough Time Finding Exit as Recovery Weakens  The world’s major central banks are finding it tough to
exit crisis mode, dusting off unconventional stimulus tools
shelved earlier this year or prolonging aid as the global
recovery loses momentum.  N.Z. Economy Expands Less Than Forecast, Dollar Falls  New Zealand’s economic growth unexpectedly weakened even
before the nation’s worst earthquake in eight decades crippled
infrastructure in the south of the country. The local currency
snapped a four-day rally.  Feldstein Says U.S. Economy in ‘Holding Pattern’  Harvard University economics professor Martin Feldstein
said more bond purchases by the Federal Reserve probably
wouldn’t do much to spur the slowly growing U.S. economy.  OTHER MARKETS:
Dollar Trades Near 5-Month Low Before Home Sales; Kiwi Slides  The dollar traded near a five-month low against the euro
before a report today that may show U.S. home sales were close
to the weakest in 10 years, adding to signs the world’s largest
economy is struggling to recover.  Asian Mining Stocks Advance on Higher Prices as TSMC Declines  Asian mining stocks rose after metal prices gained, while
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. fell after a newspaper
said the chipmaker will boost spending.  Oil Trades Below $75 After Unexpected U.S. Crude Stockpile Gain  Oil traded below $75 a barrel in New York after a
government report showed that U.S. crude inventories
unexpectedly increased, adding to signs of slowing economic
growth.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  