-- Euro Drops From Five-Month High Versus Dollar on Signs Economies Sluggish
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a v i a
-- 2010-09-23T20:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/euro-declines-versus-dollar-after-u-s-weekly-jobless-claims-show-increase.html
The dollar rose from a five-month
low against the euro as reports from the U.S. and Europe
reinforced investors’ views of a sluggish economic recovery,
adding demand for the perceived safety of the greenback.  The U.S. currency strengthened for the first time in four
days versus the common currency as the number of Americans
seeking unemployment benefits unexpectedly rose, U.S. existing
home sales were the second-lowest level on record and Europe’s
services and manufacturing industries slowed more than forecast.
The yen strengthened for a fourth straight day against the
dollar, paring declines that followed Japan’s Sept. 15 sales
designed to weaken its currency to protect an export-led
economic recovery.  “General market risk appetite appears more vulnerable
today so that’s contributing to the overall strength in the
dollar,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at
Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “This weaker data has triggered
some profit-taking on those long euro positions that the market
had built up over recent days.”  The dollar strengthened 0.7 percent to $1.3320 at 4:11 p.m.
in New York from $1.3406 yesterday, when it weakened to $1.3440,
the lowest level since April 21. The dollar traded at 84.34 yen,
compared with 84.50 yen yesterday when it touched 84.28, the
lowest level since Japan’s intervention on Sept. 15. The euro
depreciated 0.5 percent to 112.34 yen, from 113.27.  U.S. Data  Sales of U.S. previously owned homes rose in August to the
second-lowest level on record, indicating housing remains
depressed a year after the economic recovery began.  Purchases  of existing houses climbed to a 4.13 million
annual pace, in line with the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and second only to July’s 3.84
million rate as the weakest in a decade’s worth of data, the
National Association of Realtors said today in Washington.  U.S. initial  jobless claims  increased by 12,000 to 465,000
in the week ended Sept. 18, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. Jobless claims were forecast to stay
unchanged at 450,000, according to the average estimate of 47
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “With rising risk aversion in play before today’s data
that theme is going to continue,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior
market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,
Connecticut. “The dollar will back some the euro’s gains over
the past three sessions.”  Leading Look  The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in August more
than forecast. The 0.3 percent gain in the New York-based
Conference Board’s gauge of the prospects for the economy in the
next three to six months follows a 0.1 percent increase in July.
The index was forecast to rise 0.1 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 56 economists.  “The story from the Eurozone periphery, most notably
Ireland, is suggesting that bid into the euro are somewhat
misguided,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at National Bank of Canada in Toronto.  A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both services and manufacturing fell to 53.8 from
56.2 in August, London-based Markit Economics said today. The
median forecast of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a reading of 55.7. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Ireland’s economy unexpectedly shrank in the second quarter
as gross domestic product fell 1.2 percent, after expanding 2.2
percent in the previous quarter.  China Policy  The Chinese yuan appreciated to 6.689 to its strongest
level since a two-year was ended in June as Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  met with President  Barack Obama  at the United Nations in
New York today.  The yuan has strengthened about 2 percent against the
dollar since June 19, when the central bank said it would pursue
a more flexible exchange rate. U.S. lawmakers have demanded a
stronger Chinese currency with Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  saying that pace is ‘too slow’ on Sept. 15.  Obama and Jiabao pledged closer cooperation on economic
issues and did not address currency valuation and trade.  “Obviously we continue to have more work to do on the
economic front,” Obama said. More discussions are needed to
achieve “balance and sustained economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net 
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  