-- European Stocks, U.S. Futures Advance; Adecco, Luxottica Climb
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-09-23T15:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/european-stock-index-futures-advance-royal-dsm-luxottica-group-may-move.html
Most  European  stocks fell, dragging
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lower for a third day, as bank shares
retreated on rising concern that the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis is harming the economy.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of Ireland paced a retreat
among financial shares. Eiffage SA tumbled 2.4 percent as
construction and materials stocks fell. AstraZeneca Plc declined
1.1 percent after Exane BNP Paribas advised selling shares of
the U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 0.1 percent to 261.07 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, extending yesterday’s 1.4 percent
slump, as two shares fell for every one that gained. The measure
has dropped 4.1 percent from this year’s high in April on
mounting evidence of a slowdown in the economy as European
governments slash spending and China moves to cool its growth.  “People massively underestimated these sovereign risks
last year and it’s been like opening Pandora’s box,” said
London-based  David Hussey , head of European equities at MFC
Global Investment Management, which manages about $287 billion
in assets. “It is serious and at some point in the future the
likes of Ireland and Greece will probably restructure their
debts.”  U.S. Economy  Stocks pared losses from earlier today after a measure of
U.S. leading indicators rose in August more than forecast,
suggesting that the world’s largest economy may keep expanding
through early next year, while a separate report showed existing
home sales grew. The better-than-estimated data overshadowed a
report that showed an unexpected increase in jobless claims, a
sign companies remain cautious about hiring as growth slows.  National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets except Norway. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 0.1 percent,
Germany’s DAX fell 0.4 percent and France’s CAC declined 0.7
percent.  Growth in Europe’s services and  manufacturing  industries
weakened more than economists forecast in September, adding to
signs the recovery in the region is losing steam.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries declined to 53.8 from 56.2 in
August, London-based Markit Economics said today. Economists
expected a reading of 55.7, according to the median of 15
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  Separate reports showed U.K. mortgage approvals fell to a
16-month low in August as the housing market weakened, while
Ireland’s gross domestic product shrank 1.2 percent in the
second quarter.  Budget Deficits  Portuguese, Italian and Spanish 10-year bond yields rose
relative to benchmark German bunds as the weaker-than-forecast
economic data raised concern the nations may struggle to trim
their budget deficits as growth slows. The Irish-German spread
widened to a record 418 basis points, or 4.18 percentage points.
The Portuguese-German spread also reached a record 402 basis
points.  German bunds rose for a third day as the government said it
will sell less debt than previously planned, highlighting the
widening gulf in the fiscal health of euro-region nations.
Germany cut scheduled issuance of bonds and bills for the fourth
quarter by 33 percent to 60 billion euros ($80 billion) after
“favorable developments” in the federal budget reduced the
need to borrow.  Banks Fall       Credit Suisse  dropped 3.2 percent to 43.3 Swiss francs.
Bank of Ireland lost 5.5 percent to 60 euro cents, the largest
drop on the Stoxx 600. A measure of bank shares on the Stoxx 600
index declined 0.7 percent, the second-biggest decline among 19
industries.  Eiffage lost 2.4 percent to 35.34 euros as a gauge of
construction shares fell 0.8 percent. CRH, the world’s second-
largest maker and distributor of building materials, fell
1.1 percent to 12.68 euros.  AstraZeneca  retreated 1.1 percent to 3,313 pence. Exane
downgraded its recommendation on the shares to “underperform”
from “neutral.”  Henderson Group dropped 5 percent to 123.7 pence, the
second-worst performer on the Stoxx 600, as Citigroup Inc.
lowered its recommendation for the asset manager to “hold”
from “buy.”  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc , the U.K.’s largest
independent fund-management company, climbed 2.4 percent to
152.4 pence after the FT Alphaville blog reported Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. may raise its stake in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 