-- Former ACPI Officer Sues U.K. Hedge Fund for Underpaying Bonus, Bullying
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-09-23T13:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/ex-acpi-partner-greene-sues-on-bonus-bullying-at-london-hedge-fund-firm.html
The former chief investment officer
of  ACPI Investments Ltd. ’s fund-of-hedge-funds business sued the
firm for underpaying his bonus and claimed he was bullied by
management.  Stephen Greene , who joined ACPI’s predecessor in early 2008
as a partner, said in the suit filed in a London court this
month that he was “bullied, harassed and threatened.”  “There was a ‘culture of aggression’ within the defendant
in which partners shouted, swore and bullied staff on a regular
basis,” Greene said in the suit. The company said the claims
are based on “fallacy.”  ACPI, which is based in London and says it manages more
than $2.75 billion, was formed last year by the merger of ACP
Partners LLP and TriAlpha Investment Advisors Ltd. Former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  partner  Alok Oberoi  helped found ACP in
2001 with a former Goldman colleague.  Brett Lankester , the
former head of Goldman’s U.K. private client business, joined
ACP in 2007 and is now co-CEO of ACPI with Oberoi.  Lankester said in an interview today that the company was
defending the suit “extremely vigorously, and the truth will
come out in court.”  “The whole case is completely baseless, it’s nonsense,”
Lankester said. “There’s not a single one of his assertions
which is based in fact.”  Bonus, Equity Stake  Greene was suspended in March last year after repeatedly
complaining about his treatment and challenging management
decisions and resigned in April, according to the suit. He is
seeking 70,000 pounds ($109,600) for an unpaid bonus as well as
unspecified damages for his 4 percent equity stake in ACPI and
for damage to his career for whistle-blowing.  Greene “was threatened by Oberoi, who stated that he would
like to throw the claimant through the fourth-floor glass window
of Oberoi’s office,” according to the lawsuit. Oberoi also
threatened to beat up the claimant while “acting out the
process of punching or slapping,” according to the suit.  Greene alleges ACPI double-charged investment management
and brokerage fees and overcharged administration fees, in
violation of securities regulations. The firm also overruled
Greene’s suggestion to sell off investments in funds including
 Kingate Global Fund Ltd. , one of the largest feeder funds to
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC. Madoff pleaded
guilty last year and is serving a 150-year sentence for running
the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  Oberoi and Lankester “were prepared to overrule the
claimant when it was in their financial interest to do so,”
according to the suit.  Previous Jobs  Greene joined RMG Wealth Management LLP in London last
month, according to the  Financial Services Authority ’s  register .
He was hired as a partner and will work on investment
management. Prior to working at ACPI he was a director and
global head of hedge-fund research for  Deutsche Bank AG  Private
Wealth Management, according to the  RMG website .  Oberoi joined Goldman Sachs in 1988 and became a partner in
the firm in 1996, according to the  ACPI website . In 1998 he
became chief operating officer of the firm’s global private
client services in New York. He left the firm in 2000. Lankester
began working in Goldman Sachs’ private wealth-management
division in 1993, becoming a managing director in 2005.  The case is Stephen Greene v. ACPI Investments Ltd., High
Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division (London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 