-- Ex-EBay Chief Whitman, Brown Tied in California Governor's Race, Poll Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-09-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/ex-ebay-chief-whitman-brown-tied-in-california-governor-s-race.html
Meg Whitman , the former  EBay Inc. 
chief executive officer who has spent $119 million of her own
money running for governor of California, remains tied with her
Democratic opponent,  Jerry Brown , in the race to succeed  Arnold Schwarzenegger , according to an opinion poll.  Whitman, 54, and Brown, 72, who was governor from 1975 to
1983 and is now attorney general, each garnered support from 41
percent of likely California voters, according to a Field  Poll 
released today. A Field survey released in July found a similar
split, with Brown at 44 percent and Whitman at 43 percent.  “We know there will be many polls during this race,”
Whitman’s spokesman,  Darrel Ng , said in a statement. “We’re
confident that on Election Day in November, Californians will
choose Meg’s leadership to create jobs, cut spending and improve
education.”  Brown and Whitman, a Republican, are competing to replace
Schwarzenegger, a 63-year-old Republican who has to leave office
in January because of term limits. The successor will run a
state hobbled by a $19 billion budget deficit and a 12.4 percent
unemployment rate, the third-highest among U.S. states and well
above the national level of 9.6 percent.  Whitman has spent $119 million of her own fortune and is
receiving $25 million in donations for a total of $144 million,
according to data on the California Secretary of State’s
 website . Brown has raised $28 million in this race and hasn’t
donated any of his own funds to his campaign, his spokesman,
Sterling Clifford, said yesterday in an interview.  Record Spending  “We are tied even after record-setting spending by Meg
Whitman,” Clifford said. “It’s an indication that the voters
are understanding that her ads are false.”  Brown may have an edge as a Democrat in a state where 44
percent of registered voters identify with that party.
Republican voters make up 31 percent, according to a Sept. 3
 report  by California’s Secretary of State’s office.  Among Whitman supporters, 49 percent said their choice
reflects a vote for her candidacy, while 48 percent said it’s
more a vote against Brown. Among Brown supporters, 53 percent
said their choice was a vote for his candidacy, while 45 percent
said it’s a vote against Whitman, the poll results showed.  John Pitney, who teaches government at  Claremont McKenna
College  in Claremont, California, said the results of the poll
are in line with others showing a tight race between the two
candidates.  Money Versus Advantage  “On the one hand, you have Meg Whitman spending a great
deal of money and being able to capitalize on her status as a
business leader and job creator,” Pitney said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “On the other hand, you have Jerry Brown
who has the best brand name of any politician in California,
vast experience and a very large Democratic advantage in party
registration and party identification.”  The outcome of the race is likely to come down to which
candidate can mobilize the most voters, Pitney said.  The survey by San Francisco-based Field Research Corp. of
599 California residents likely to vote in the Nov. 2 election
was conducted Sept. 14 through Sept. 21 and has a sampling error
of plus or minus 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 