-- Texas, Iowa, Illinois Investigate GMAC Foreclosures
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k ,   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-09-24T20:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/texas-iowa-attorneys-general-probe-foreclosure-actions-by-ally-s-gmac.html
Attorneys general in Texas, Iowa
and Illinois, following Florida, have started investigations
into mortgage practices at  Ally Financial Inc.’s  GMAC unit while
California has ordered the company to prove its foreclosures are
legal or halt them.  California Attorney General  Jerry Brown  said today in a
statement that he is “demanding that Ally Financial, the fourth
largest home loan institution in the country, demonstrate its
compliance with California law or else halt all foreclosure
operations in the state.”  Iowa, which leads an 11-state working group of attorneys
general and bank examiners exploring ways to prevent
 foreclosures , opened an inquiry yesterday.  “The integrity of the foreclosure process is of utmost
importance and we are very concerned by the issues that have
been raised regarding Ally Financial’s treatment of
affidavits,” Iowa Assistant Attorney General Patrick Madigan
said.  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  opened an investigation
“early this month,” said  Tom Kelley , a spokesman for the
office. Illinois Attorney General  Lisa Madigan  asked for a
meeting with the company and requested information about how
homeowners in the state have been affected, according to a
statement.  The action by officials in the four states follows an
announcement by Florida Attorney General  William McCollum , who
 last month  said he was investigating three Florida law firms
handling foreclosures.  Florida Subpoenas  Florida investigators issued subpoenas in the case to the
Law Offices of Marshall C. Watson PA; Shapiro & Fishman LLP; and
the Law Offices of David J. Stern P.A., according to a news
release posted on the attorney general’s  website .  The law firms were hired by loan servicers to begin
foreclosure proceedings when consumers were behind on their
mortgages, according to McCollum’s office.  Homeowners facing eviction have accused the companies of
filing foreclosure actions without verifying that borrowers
actually defaulted or who owns the loans.  GMAC Mortgage notified agents and brokers on Sept. 17 that
it had suspended evictions in 23 states. This week, Ally, the
Detroit-based auto and home lender, said it found a
“technical” deficiency in its foreclosure process allowing
employees to sign documents without a notary present or with
information they didn’t personally know was true.  GMAC said today in a statement that the problem was
identified and then corrected “a few months ago.” The defects
didn’t occur in all foreclosure cases in the 23 affected states,
according to the statement.  ‘Procedural Error’  “Regrettably, a procedural error was found to have
occurred in certain affidavits required in certain states,” the
company said. “The error is not related to the accuracy of the
underlying transaction or the ultimate decisions to have
exercised the foreclosure proceedings.”  California wasn’t on the list of states where Ally halted
foreclosures. These 23 states have a system that requires a
court order for foreclosure, unlike California, Brown’s office
said in its statement. Ally has continued its foreclosure
operations in California, the state said.  California law prohibits lenders from recording defaults on
mortgages made from Jan. 1, 2003, to Dec. 31, 2007, unless, with
some exceptions, the lender and borrower determine eligibility
for a loan modification, Brown said in the statement. Brown
cited reports that Ally approved foreclosure documents without
confirming that they complied with state law.  Consumer Fraud Act  Illinois’ Madigan said GMAC Mortgage may have violated the
state’s consumer fraud act. Madigan requested information about
Illinois homeowners affected by GMAC’s suspension and the names
of law firms in the state that work with the company on
processing foreclosures.  “If I determine that Ally is rubber-stamping affidavits
and filing them with our courts as evidence, I will take
appropriate action,” Madigan said in the statement. “The law
demands that lenders prove their case in foreclosure actions,
and Illinois homeowners demand the same.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 