-- Mexico's Opposition May Propose Wider Deficit, Higher Oil Price to Cut Tax
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o
-- 2010-09-23T16:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/mexico-s-pri-may-widen-deficit-raise-oil-price-to-cut-tax-videgaray-says.html
Mexico’s  largest party  in the lower
house of congress may propose a wider deficit and increased oil
price estimate for next year’s budget as it aims to cut the
sales tax, the head of the budget committee said.  The opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI,
may call for a “modest” increase in the deficit from President
 Felipe Calderon ’s “overly conservative” proposal of 0.3
percent of gross domestic product, said committee head and PRI
member Luis Videgaray.  Mexico can cut the value-added tax and still avoid a credit
downgrade from ratings agencies, Videgaray said. The PRI on
Sept. 7 submitted a bill to cut the value-added tax to 15
percent from 16 percent just a year after it was increased to
help boost government finances.  “A lowering of the value-added tax and an increase in
public debt could be a bad recipe, but we’re going to be
careful,” Videgaray said in a telephone interview late
yesterday. “I’m convinced that we are going to have a
responsible fiscal package.”  By law, Mexico can set the budgeted oil price as high as
around $67 a barrel for next year according to a formula used to
calculate the price, Videgaray said. Still, the PRI will
probably propose a price lower than $67, he said.  The government, whose 2011 budget proposal includes no
changes to tax laws, says it’s opposed to lowering the levy and
that the decrease would cost the country 33 billion pesos ($2.6
billion).  Absorbing the Tax Cut  A third of the 33-billion peso reduction resulting from the
tax cut would be absorbed by lower revenues going to states and
municipalities and the rest would be compensated by spending
cuts, Videgaray said.  Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said yesterday that
foreign companies may pare investment in Mexico if the sales tax
is reduced.  “It could be considered an act of little responsibility
that without a doubt would have important consequences for us,”
Cordero told reporters following a congressional hearing on next
year’s budget proposal.  Carlos Perez, the deputy coordinator for President Felipe
Calderon’s  National Action Party  in the lower house, said on
Sept. 20 that the PRI proposal to lower the sales tax would
jeopardize the country’s credit rating.  Standard & Poor’s in December cut Mexico’s foreign-currency
debt rating to BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, from
BBB+, with a stable outlook, saying the government failed to
broaden the tax base significantly. Fitch Ratings downgraded the
country in November. Moody’s rates Mexico at Baa1, the third-
lowest investment grade rating.  No Unanimous Support  There isn’t unanimous support for the value-added tax
proposal among PRI members.  Fidel Herrera , outgoing governor of
Veracruz state and PRI member, on Sept. 21 said on the social
networking website Twitter that he favored maintaining the
value-added tax at its current level.  Last year’s tax increases were key to restoring confidence
in Mexico’s finances this year and helped the country avoid
following others into a “world of sovereign stress,” former
Deputy Finance Minister  Alejandro Werner  said in February.  Videgaray said the PRI will likely go along with Calderon’s
proposal to increase security spending. He said the PRI wants to
increase spending on infrastructure and waterworks from the
government’s proposal.  The lower house must approve the income portion of the
budget by Oct. 20, and the spending portion by Nov. 15.  Videgaray said he will propose a bill to eliminate a
business tax, known as the IETU, for small businesses that have
annual revenue of less than 1 million pesos a year. The tax
would still apply to medium and large businesses.  Thousands of businesses have submitted court appeals in
recent years arguing that the IETU is unconstitutional, a claim
that was rejected by the Supreme Court in February.  Some legislators and business groups in the past have
called for congress to combine the IETU, which went into effect
in 2008, and the income tax into a single levy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adriana Lopez Caraveo  in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Roeder  in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  