-- U.S. Economy: Sales of Existing Homes, Leading Index Increase
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-09-23T20:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/existing-u-s-home-sales-rise-to-level-indicating-market-remains-depressed.html
Sales of U.S. previously owned
homes climbed from a record low in August and a gauge of the
outlook for the economy increased, confirming the Federal
Reserve’s forecast for a “modest” pace of expansion.  Purchases  of existing houses climbed to a 4.13 million
annual pace, the second-lowest on record, the National
Association of Realtors said today in Washington. The New York-
based Conference Board said its index of leading economic
indicators rose 0.3 percent, exceeding forecasts.  “Growth should start to gather momentum again by the
fourth quarter,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief economist at
MF Global Ltd. in New York. “Housing is not going to be a big
contributor to growth.”  An unexpected increase in claims for unemployment benefits
reported today by the Labor Department was a reminder of
weakness in the job market that will hold back the pace of
recovery from the worst recession since the 1930s. Fed policy
makers this week said they are prepared to further ease monetary
policy to support growth and stabilize prices.  Stocks dropped on mounting concern the global recovery will
slow. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.8 percent to
1,124.83 at the 4:00 a.m. close in New York. Treasuries gained,
pushing the 10-year note’s yield below 2.50 percent for the
first time since Sept. 1 on speculation the Fed may increase
purchases of U.S. debt to support the economy.  More Claims  Initial  jobless claims  rose by 12,000 to 465,000 in the
week ended Sept. 18. The total number of people receiving
unemployment insurance declined, while those getting extended
payments increased.  Economists forecast home sales at a 4.1 million pace,
according to the  median  of 72 projections in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates ranged from 3.8 million to 5 million.  Compared with a year earlier, sales were down 17 percent
before adjusting for seasonal patterns. The  median price 
increased 0.8 percent from August 2009 to $178,600 last month.  A government tax credit of up to $8,000 gave housing a
temporary lift late last year and into 2010. Demand plunged in
July, the month after buyers were originally required to close
deals in order to get the incentive. The deadline has since been
extended to the end of this month.  The end of the homebuyer credit, joblessness and sagging
confidence prompted a decline in orders at  Hovnanian Enterprises 
Inc., the largest homebuilder in New Jersey said on Sept 1. The
company said its net orders dropped 37 percent in the quarter
ended July 31 from a year earlier.  Jobs are ‘Key’  “Job creation is the key to a housing recovery, which
makes it difficult to predict how improvements in the economy
and housing market play out,” Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said in a statement.  The Obama administration has said it plans to announce
proposals in the next few weeks for an emergency loan program
for the unemployed to avert default, and a government mortgage
refinancing effort to lower monthly mortgage payments to avoid
foreclosures.  The unemployment rate will average more than 9 percent
through 2011, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. That will undermine confidence and signals foreclosures
will hinder real estate as households struggle to make mortgage
payments.  Textron Inc., a Providence, Rhode Island-based maker of
airplanes, said Sept. 21 it is cutting 700 jobs and adjusting
production schedules at its Cessna unit because of continued
weakness in new orders.  Business Jets  “While we are seeing solid performance in most of our
other businesses, we have not yet seen a discernable improvement
in business-jet order activity,” Chief Executive Officer  Scott Donnelly  said in a statement.  The Fed kept its benchmark interest rate in the range of
zero to 0.25 percent this week, where it’s been since December
2008, and said the pace of recovery and job growth have “slowed
in recent months.”  The central bank said it will “continue to monitor the
economic outlook and financial developments and is prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed.”  The 0.3 percent gain in the leading index, a gauge of the
prospects for the economy in the next three to six months,
follows a 0.1 percent increase in July. The index was forecast
to rise 0.1 percent, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 56 economists.  Seven of the 10 indicators in the index contributed to the
gain, led by the spread between the federal funds rate and the
yield on the 10-year Treasury note and an increase in money
supply. Components weighing on the index included rising jobless
claims and a drop in manufacturing supplier deliveries.  Consumer Goods  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, was unchanged in August
after a 0.1 percent gain the previous month. The coincident
index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and production -- the
measures used by the National Bureau of Economic Research to
determine the beginning and end of U.S. recessions.  The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based group this week said the
worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in June
2009, lasting 18 months.  Automakers including Ford Motor Co. are among manufacturers
seeing sales picking up while holding below pre-recession
levels.  “The auto business is pretty steady and coming back up a
little bit,” Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  told
reporters in Ann Arbor, Michigan on Sept. 17. The economy “is
coming back slower than past recessions. We just need a little
bit more consumer confidence to know we’re growing the
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  