-- Facebook CEO Plans to Donate $100 Million to Newark's Schools
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2010-09-24T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/facebook-s-zuckerberg-giving-newark-schools-100-million-to-back-merit-pay.html
Facebook Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  will donate $100 million to assist
schools in  Newark , New Jersey’s largest city, an education
advocate said.  Derrell Bradford, executive director of Excellent Education
for Everyone, said yesterday the money will help give teachers
merit pay and expand charter schools. He said he learned about
the gift from the office of Governor  Chris Christie . A person
within Christie’s administration confirmed the gift. The person
declined to be identified before a planned announcement today on
the  Oprah Winfrey  show.  Zuckerberg, 26, chose Newark because of the persuasive
powers of Mayor  Cory Booker , Bradford said. Booker, a 41-year-
old Democrat, is a co-founder of  Excellent Education for
Everyone .  “The mayor is a magician,” Bradford said. “This
experiment is as high a stakes experiment in school reform as
you can do. If they’re not successful, it might never happen
again.”  The district, with about 39,000 students, has been under
state control since 1995. Christie will give Booker a larger
role in running the schools, and the mayor will also get a major
say in picking a new superintendent, the New York Times
reported.  Living in Poverty  About 1 in 4 residents of Newark, a city of about 280,000,
live in poverty, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Booker has
proposed firing as many as 350 police and firefighters and
another 600 city employees in the face of a deficit of as much
as $83 million. The city’s annual education budget is about $940
million, according to the school district website.  Of the 164 chronically failing public schools in New
Jersey, 38 are in Newark, Bradford said. Excellent Education for
Everyone defines such schools as those where 40 percent or more
of the students fail state math and language tests for two
years, or 65 percent fail either test.  Booker didn’t respond to a phone call seeking comment. He
will appear with Christie and Zuckerberg on the show tomorrow
afternoon, according to the mayor’s public schedule.  Larry Yu , spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based
Facebook, declined to comment. The company owns the world’s
largest social network.  ‘Economic Distress’  “Any time government or a public entity gets a
philanthropic donation like this, it’s something that right now
in this economic distress you’d have to welcome,” said Senator
 Teresa Ruiz , a Democrat from Newark who chairs the Senate
Education Committee, at a hearing yesterday in Trenton.  Newark may be able to extend the class day or the school
year, bolster enrichment programs or fund other initiatives, she
said.  Zuckerberg is tied for No. 35 on the 2010 list of the 400
wealthiest Americans, according to Forbes magazine’s ranking.
His wealth jumped 245 percent to $6.9 billion, the largest
percentage increase on the annual list, the magazine said.  A former resident of Dobbs Ferry, New York, he started
Facebook in 2004 in his Harvard University dorm room. The
service has grown to more than 500 million members and is valued
at $26.3 billion on SharesPost Inc., a marketplace for closely
held companies.  The gift was reported earlier by newspapers including the
New York Times, the Wall Street Journal and the Star-Ledger of
Newark.  Christie, 48, a Republican who took office in January, made
his first appearance following his November defeat of Democrat
 Jon Corzine  at a Newark charter school. He has called for using
student performance in determining teacher salaries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Staley  in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  