-- Facebook Said to Be Working on Phones With INQ for AT&T
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f ,   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-09-23T00:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/facebook-is-said-to-be-working-with-inq-on-smartphones-that-at-t-may-carry.html
Facebook Inc. is working with
mobile-handset manufacturer  INQ Mobile Ltd.  on two smartphones
that may be carried by  AT&T Inc. , according to three people
familiar with the matter.  The devices, which will feature Facebook social-networking
services, are due to be introduced in Europe in the first half
of 2011 and the U.S. in the second half, said one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the plans haven’t been
made public.  AT&T , the second-largest U.S. wireless service
provider, is still considering whether to carry the devices and
hasn’t made a deal, another of the people said.  Facebook, the world’s most popular social network, is
redoubling efforts to reach mobile users, many of whom access
the site on smartphones. About a fourth of the company’s more
than 500 million users log on to Facebook from wireless devices.
The phones also would present fresh competition to  Apple Inc. ’s
iPhone and  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry.  “People are increasingly updating their status when
they’re on the go,” said Augie Ray, an analyst at  Forrester
Research Inc.  in San Francisco. “Facebook is a very popular
application on every single smartphone in the country.”  The new phones are slated to run Google Inc.’s Android
operating system and will probably carry the  AT&T  brand in the
U.S., according to one of the people. Facebook hasn’t decided
whether its name will be used on the devices, the person said.  Getting More Social  While Facebook declined to comment on plans for specific
phones, the company said it continues to work with  INQ Mobile ,
which has previously sold phones with Facebook features, along
with other companies. London-based INQ, backed by Hong Kong
telecommunications carrier  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. , declined to
comment.  Li Ka-Shing , the billionaire who serves as chairman of
Hutchison Whampoa, also has invested in Facebook.  “We’ve been working with INQ for a couple of years now to
help them build a deeply integrated Facebook experience on their
devices,” Palo Alto, California-based Facebook said in an e-
mailed statement. “While we can’t speak for their future
product development plans, we can say that our view is that
almost all experiences would be better if they were social.”  One of the new phones is expected to feature a Qwerty-style
keyboard and a touch screen, while the other would only have a
touch screen and resemble the iPhone, one of the people said.  Europe First  The devices will go on sale first in Europe, where INQ has
closer ties, through  Carphone Warehouse Group Plc  and several
European carriers, said the person, who predicted a release in
March or early April 2011. In the U.S., the phones may carry a
price of less than $100 after  AT&T  subsidies and could reach
stores in July or August, according to the person.  While Facebook will provide many of the features on the
phones, the handsets will also offer other social services, the
person said.  Facebook aims to add to the number of users who access its
pages and view advertising, which generate much of its revenue.
The company may double its sales to at least $1.4 billion in
2010 from $700 million to $800 million last year, two people
familiar with the company said in July.  While Facebook’s mobile apps don’t currently feature ads,
they probably will in the future, Forrester’s Ray said. Earlier
this year, the company rolled out a faster mobile version of its
site in about 45 countries and territories. And last month, it
started a service that lets users share locations via handsets.  Tighter Links  Facebook said this week that it aims to better integrate
its services with existing mobile software on devices. The
social network is already on devices, including earlier INQ
phones. Applications that provide access to the site are ranked
among the top free apps on the iPhone and Android phones. The
iPhone, which runs Apple’s iOS operating system, faces
increasing competition from Android devices.  Hutchison Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Ltd., a
unit of Hutchison Whampoa, is open to selling new devices,
spokeswoman  Frances Ng  said. She wouldn’t say whether the
subsidiary plans to sell a Facebook handset. Hutchison’s mobile
businesses serve more than 40 million customers through carriers
in countries such as United Kingdon, Ireland, Austria and Italy.  Technology blog TechCrunch  reported  on Sept. 19 that
Facebook is building software for a mobile phone and working
with a third party to create the hardware.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Olga Kharif  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  