-- Vacant TV Airwaves Opened for $4 Billion Wireless Market by U.S.
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-09-23T15:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/fcc-votes-to-open-vacant-tv-airwaves-for-4-billion-wireless-market-by-u-s.html
Federal regulators cleared the way
for technology companies to use vacant television channels for
wireless data and Internet services that may be worth more than
$4 billion a year.  The Federal Communications Commission voted 5-0 today to
adopt rules for using the airwaves, known as white spaces.
 Microsoft Corp. ,  Google Inc .,  Hewlett-Packard Co .,  Motorola Inc .
and  Sprint Nextel Corp . are laying plans to exploit the
airwaves, which exist in all U.S. cities.  “Today we open a new platform for American innovation”
that will lead to billions of dollars in private investment,
said FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski .  The radio waves travel in the spectrum between television
channels known as white spaces, and like TV signals they carry
far and penetrate walls. Uses may include wireless Internet
connections, remote monitoring of industrial systems such as
power plants, and taking over some mobile-phone traffic to ease
sluggishness for users of devices such as  Apple Inc .’s iPhone.  White-space applications may generate $3.9 billion to $7.3
billion in economic value each year, according to a September
2009 study funded by Microsoft and written by Richard Thanki, a
London-based analyst with Perspective Associates.   New York and Los Angeles, the nation’s two biggest media
markets with multiple TV stations, may have few vacant channels
for the devices, according to an FCC fact sheet. Most markets
have five or more empty channels.  Users of the white-space airwaves won’t need an FCC
license, leaving them free to create devices for applications
yet to be developed, Genachowski said in an interview before the
vote.  Broadcaster Objections  The FCC in 2008 approved white-space use over objections of
television broadcasters who said their signals might be
disrupted. The agency left final rules on technical standards
for later, and these are the matters that came to a vote today.  The FCC also was to vote on easing rules for schools and
libraries to use federal funds for high-speed Internet
connections. Schools and libraries could use the funds to
connect to networks or to fiber that has been installed nearby
and is ready to carry Internet service, Genachowski said in a
 Sept. 21 speech .  AT&T Inc .  opposed  the proposal, saying Congress intended
subsidies to spent on communications providers and not directly
on fiber.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 