-- Fonterra Raises Its Minimum Full-Year Milk Price Forecast
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-09-23T02:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/fonterra-increases-milk-payout-to-new-zealand-dairy-farmers-as-prices-rise.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. ,
the world’s largest dairy exporter, raised its minimum farmer
payout payment forecast after full-year collections and exports
rose to a record as global prices gained.  The company expects to pay its 10,500 farmers between
NZ$7.00 ($5.11) and NZ$7.10 in the year to May 31, Auckland-
based Fonterra said today in a statement. That compares with its
Aug. 20 forecast of NZ$6.90 to NZ$7.10.  Growth in demand for dairy produce is expected to help
underpin global prices this fiscal year, the Australian Bureau
of Agricultural and Resource Economics-Bureau of Rural Sciences
said in a report this week. Fonterra Chairman  Henry van der Heyden  said the farmer payout will provide a “positive spin”
to the economy, which unexpectedly weakened last quarter.  “The world is buying dairy products at higher prices and
that tends to be good for the economy,”  Doug Steel , an
economist at Bank of New Zealand in Wellington said today.  The New Zealand dairy company accounts for about 40 percent
of the global trade in butter, milk powder and cheese, selling
product in 140 countries. This year’s payout estimate includes
an unchanged forecast milk price of NZ$6.60 per kilogram of milk
solids, the company said in the statement.  “Fonterra has come through the recession well,” said van
der Heyden in the statement. “Although business conditions
remained volatile, customer demand returned and international
dairy prices rose sharply.”  Milk Collections  The company collected 1,286 million kilograms of milk
solids in the 12 months ended May 31, up from 1,281 million a
year earlier, and exported 2.1 million metric tons of products.
The NZ$6.70 payout last year was its second-highest and included
a NZ$6.10 milk price, a 27 cents a share dividend, with 33 cents
a share in earnings retained by the company, it said.  “It’s good for our farmers and it gets spent in the rural
communities, so it has a positive spin on the national
economy,” van der Heyden told a briefing. “To put a number on
that is virtually impossible other than to say it has got to be
positive.”  New Zealand’s gross domestic product increased 0.2 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three months, less than
the 0.7 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12
economists and the 0.9 percent forecast by the central bank,
Statistics New Zealand figures showed in Wellington today.  The New Zealand dollar traded at 73.19 U.S. cents at 12:15
p.m. in Wellington from 73.63 cents just before the GDP release.  Market Volatility  There are signs that international dairy supply and demand
are “moving more in balance at prevailing prices” amid
international market volatility, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Ferrier  said in the statement. A negative effect from a higher-
than-expected currency was partly offsetting the positive effect
from pricing, he said in the briefing.  Fonterra reported net income for the year ended July 31 of
NZ$669 million, up 12 percent from NZ$599 million. Sales rose
4.3 percent to NZ$16.7 billion.  Fonterra said it was too early to forecast New Zealand milk
production this season, with wet weather causing adverse
conditions for farmers in the past month in the North Island.  “We do expect to end up in a reasonable position around
milk production when it comes to year’s end but over the last
month it has been quite trying on farm,” van der Heyden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 