-- Sarkozy, Unions Head for Showdown on Retirement-Age Increase
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-09-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/french-unions-protest-turnout-suggests-fight-on-sarkozy-pensions-flags.html
The French government and labor
unions held their ground over President  Nicolas Sarkozy’s  plan
to raise the retirement age after the second national protest
against the proposal this month.  Labor Minister  Eric Woerth  said there were fewer strikers
yesterday than in a Sept. 7 demonstration, a sign of declining
opposition. Unions, which claimed more protesters, are meeting
today to plan their next move.  “There is a deceleration of the protests,” Woerth said on
France 2 television. “There were fewer demonstrations, fewer
strikers. These measures will be voted in parliament, and they
will be enacted.”  The  National Assembly  this month passed Sarkozy’s pension
bill, which raises the minimum retirement age to 62 from 60 and
the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. The bill is headed to
the Senate. Unions want the retirement age to remain at 60.
Sarkozy’s government says it has already made concessions and
won’t bow to demands to scrap the increase.  Nationwide, police said 997,000 people marched in more than
200 demonstrations, down from 1.1 million two weeks ago. Unions
said 3 million people marched, up from 2.7 million.  “If the government continues in its intransigence, then we
will enter a standoff,” said  Bernard Thibault , head of the CGT,
France’s largest union. “This government is not listening.”  The  Paris metro system  said operations were close to
normal, with service at 85 percent. The number of strikers among
postal workers and teachers fell.  ‘Fewer People’  “There were fewer people in the street and less train
traffic disrupted,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist at BNP
Paribas in Paris. “We can conclude that the government will be
able to push the reform through with relatively minor
amendments.”  SNCF , the national railway, said about half its high-speed
trains ran. The agency said 37.1 percent of its workers struck
yesterday, compared to 42.9 percent two weeks ago.  Eurostar 
service to London and Thalys trains to Brussels weren’t
affected.  Air France  cancelled half of its medium-and short-haul
flights while maintaining long-distance service. France’s  civil
aviation authority  asked airlines to cancel 40 percent of
flights from Charles de Gaulle airport and 50 percent from the
capital’s smaller Orly airport.  La Poste , the state-owned mail and banking system, reported
16.5 percent workers struck, down from 23 percent on Sept. 7.
The Ministry of Education reported 25.8 percent of teachers on
strike, down from 29 percent.  Walkouts  Excluding teachers, about 8 percent of government workers
stayed away, down from 18.6 percent two weeks ago, the Labor
Ministry said.  The state pension fund will lose 10.7 billion euros ($13.6
billion) this year, with the shortfall reaching 50 billion euros
in 2020 without a change in policy, according to the Budget
Ministry. Unions and the opposition Socialist Party want to plug
losses through higher taxes on capital and on high earners.  The Socialists advocate keeping the retirement age at 60.
“We have to use all means to put pressure on the government,”
 Martine Aubry , the party’s first secretary, told RTL radio.
“It’s not that we don’t want a reform, we do want a pensions-
system reform but one that will solve the problem lastingly,”
 she said . The current reform is due to balance the system until
2018.  Opposition to tighter pension rules sparked extended
strikes in 2003 and 2007. In 1995, President  Jacques Chirac 
dropped an attempt to eliminate retirement privileges for
transport workers after walkouts crippled the country.  France’s legal retirement age has been 60 since Socialist
President  Francois Mitterrand  cut it from 65 after his 1981
election. Germany decided in 2007 to raise its retirement age
gradually to 67 from 65. Spain and Italy have also increased
their retirement ages to 65 to address the squeeze of longer
life expectancies and declining birth rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  