-- Garbage Mountains Slowly Morph Into $160 Million New York Park
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/garbage-mountains-slowly-morph-into-160-million-new-york-park-commentary.html
Eloise Hirsh turns her well-worn
Jeep off the highway onto a rutted road and past a plant that
scrubs goo piped from decaying trash.  We’re in Staten Island’s Fresh Kills landfill, one of the
largest garbage dumps in the U.S. and a blight to the eyes and
nose for more than half a century -- and many years from now
perhaps one of the nation’s greatest and strangest city parks.  Hirsh, the park’s administrator, says it will be almost
three times the size of Central Park.  Construction is beginning to turn four mounds of trash that
rise as high as 225 feet and hold 150 million tons of trash into
the 2,200-acre Freshkills Park. The mounds need to settle, a
slow process, and then be capped with more than 2 feet of soil.
Though a small part will open in 2011, the completion of the
park, part of the  New York City Department of Parks &
Recreation , may be 30 years away.  Giant dump trucks rumble across an inlet at what will
become The Confluence, with restaurants, picnic piers, sports
fields, a kayak launch and floating barges turned to gardens.
 James Corner Field Operations , the New York-based master plan
landscape architect, has tucked these facilities amid the tidal
creeks, marshes and lowland forests that make up more than half
the park’s acreage.  The tawny, grass-covered slopes of the trash mounds rise
out of the area’s blue water and lush greenery like primordial
mesas. A high-tech liner under the garbage and a closed drainage
system keep pollutants out of the marshes and streams, Hirsh
explains. The water is clean enough that blazing white egrets
alight to snack on slimy appetizers exposed by the receding
tide.  Hikers, Horses Path  We bumped up the side of the South Mound along a rutted
service road that will become a 2.4-mile path for hikers,
bikers, horses and cross-country skiers in the 425-acre South
Park by 2014. Pipes poking crookedly out of the ground are part
of a system to collect methane and other gases emitted by
decomposing garbage. The gas is processed onsite and sold.  “The work costs about $1 million per acre,” Hirsh says.
That’s why the first-phase projects will develop only a fraction
of the park acreage and take seven years. “We were promised
$200 million, but only $160 million is funded due to cuts, so
we’ll have to be creative about how we spend.”  We cross a land bridge that divides a freshwater wetland
from a tidal one. Birds welcome this diversity, from ducks and
swallows to increasingly rare meadow lovers like grasshopper
sparrows and bobolinks. Grasses grow in a dozen Impressionist
washes of yellow and green. They will turn brown, gold, and red
as fall sets in. Turkey vultures cruise for carrion overhead.  Screeching Hawk  From a high point, I can see the arches and cable
suspensions of the island’s four major bridges. Winding
waterways link to a network of older surrounding parks and
preserves. The screech of a marsh hawk makes the concrete
canyons and skyline of Manhattan, looming to the north, seem
very far away.  After 9/11, barges brought crushed vehicles and twisted
steel to the West Mound. Technicians have been sifting the
debris for human remains. Field Operations principal James
Corner has designed a splayed earthwork evocation of the towers
aligned to Lower Manhattan, but it cannot be completed for
years, until the mound is capped. The landfill was closed to
household waste in 2001.  Left alone, the mounds would ultimately revert to forest,
but the Parks Department will curate the landscape to maintain
the soft meadows growing out of the mounds’ raw geometries so
that they contrast with the luxuriant greenery of the spaces in
between. Corner plans to use the park’s long gestation to farm
trees and shore up the meadows with grasses grown onsite.  ‘Not Just Beautifying’  “It’s the way to take something that’s about waste, death,
decay and stench, and turn it into something productive -- not
just ‘beautifying,’” he says.  When I find my eye drawn to a lonely construction trailer
interrupting the sharp ridgeline of the East Mound, I see how
Corner creates a friction between the sublime beauty of natural
spectacle and our fascination with ruins and emptiness. I hope
Freshkills Park can retain this evocative power over its long
evolution.  Visitors can see the Freshkills Park site only on guided
tours in good weather. For more information:
 http://www.nyc.gov/parks/freshkillspark .  ( James S. Russell  writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 