-- GE’s Immelt Calls for Long-Term U.S. Energy Policy
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-09-23T20:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/ge-s-immelt-calls-for-u-s-energy-policy-to-counter-green-green-china.html
The U.S. needs a national energy
policy that puts a long-term price on carbon pollution as China
and other nations surge ahead in green technology,  General
Electric Co.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said.  “China is green, green, green, green -- four greens,”
Immelt said today during a presentation with New York Times
columnist  Thomas Friedman  at the Gridwise Global Forum in
Washington. He cited demand, innovation funding, supply chain
and public policy as advantages for China over the U.S.  Immelt helps lead the U.S. Climate Action Partnership, a
coalition of companies backing stalled legislation that would
establish a cap-and-trade system based on carbon-emission
credits. He has urged new laws in part so that manufacturers can
build to uniform specifications. The failure to set new rules
promoting “clean” technologies puts the U.S. at risk, he said.  “You actually have to have an energy policy,” Immelt
said. “It’s stupid what we have today.”  China and industrialized counties such as Canada are
pulling ahead of the U.S. in the race to lead in clean energy
because policy makers in Washington have been caught up in
debates on issues such as the effects of climate change, Immelt
said.  “The rest of the world is moving 10 times faster than we
are, and that’s going to mean someday fewer jobs, it’s going to
mean less energy security, it’s going to mean lots of other
things other than just climate change,” he said.  Efforts to pass legislation limiting carbon-dioxide
emissions collapsed in the Senate, and Democratic leaders say
they have no plans to take on the issue this year.  EPA’s Efforts  The Environmental Protection Agency is moving to impose
less stringent carbon limits over the objections of lawmakers
seeking to bar it from acting and companies challenging the
agency’s authority in lawsuits. Immelt, who also called for a
national standard requiring the use of renewable energy, said GE
won’t give up on pushing to change U.S. energy policy.  “This is just not the jihadist debate that people are
making it out to be,” he said.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, is the world’s  biggest
maker  of power-generation equipment, jet engines, locomotives
and medical-imaging machines. GE power-generation equipment
provides one-third of the world’s electricity.  The U.S. needs to establish a “long-term price signal” on
carbon emissions, in order for companies to provide
“appropriate funding for innovation” regardless of fuel, as
well as revive nuclear energy. Such moves would create jobs
rather than shift them overseas, Immelt said today.  ‘Nuclear Renaissance’  “I personally believe there should be a nuclear
renaissance in this country,” he said.  The GE Energy Infrastructure division includes gas, wind,
steam, nuclear, smart-meters and transmission equipment as well
as oil-and-gas exploration machinery.  In July, GE called for entries in a 10-week contest to
speed updates of global power grids, promising investment and
marketing help for the best submissions from a $200 million
fund. The company is spending about $10 billion on
environmentally friendly products by 2015 through Immelt’s five-
year-old “ecomagination” program.  Other GE divisions include appliances, lighting, aircraft
leasing, real estate, consumer finance and lending to small and
mid-sized businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   or  lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  