-- GM IPO Target Said to Be Reduced to $8 Billion to $10 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-09-23T18:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/general-motors-ipo-target-said-to-be-reduced-to-8-billion-to-10-billion.html
General Motors Co. will probably
seek to raise $8 billion to $10 billion in an initial public
offering in November, a smaller sale than the automaker
originally targeted, said two people familiar with the matter.  The U.S. Treasury Department, which owns 61 percent of GM,
is more interested in fetching a higher share price to
eventually recoup its $49.5 billion investment than in cashing
out a bigger portion of its position, said the people who asked
not to be identified because the discussions are private.  A larger deal at a lower price would place more pressure on
the government to win higher prices in future offerings, the
people said today. GM and its investment banks have been
considering a deal as large as $16 billion, people familiar with
the plans said in August.  “They’re taking a more sober view,” said  Joe Phillippi ,
principal of AutoTrends Inc., a consulting firm in Short Hills,
New Jersey. “The real question is what’s the price? There are
questions in people’s minds about the market and the world’s
economies.”  Chairman  Ed Whitacre , who handed CEO duties to  Dan Akerson 
on Sept. 1, had favored an IPO that would sell as much of the
government’s position as possible, the people said. GM’s banks
also sought a larger deal because it would generate higher fees.  Noreen Pratscher, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based GM, and a
Treasury spokesman,  Mark Paustenbach , declined to comment.  Government Position  The department could offer as little as $6 billion in
shares, though that is unlikely because the government and GM
want investors to have more shares available for trading, the
people said. Later offerings will be used to sell bigger
portions of the government’s position, the people said.  The size and price of the IPO is fluid and market
conditions could change the offering significantly, the people
said.  GM will split the stock to a price around $20 a share as is
routine in many IPOs, one of the people said.  China’s  SAIC Motor Corp. , which runs a joint venture with
GM in Shanghai, is likely to buy a stake of 1 percent or less,
the two people said. SAIC would buy the shares to show support
and firm up ties with GM. The Treasury Department wouldn’t be
willing to sell the company more shares, the people said.  GM said the government will own some common stock after its
initial public offering, without specifying the number of shares
or percentage of stock outstanding. The company added the
disclosure today in a re-filing of its S-1, the prospectus
companies submit to register shares they want to sell.  Treasury’s Control  GM said the Treasury will have the ability to “exert
control, through its power to vote for the election” of
directors as a result of owning some of GM’s common stock.  As a government entity, Treasury’s interests “may differ
from those of our other stockholders,” GM said in the filing.  Morgan Stanley ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America Corp.
and Citigroup Inc. will lead the offering, according to the
filing. Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Royal Bank of Canada and UBS AG were
also listed as underwriters on the prospectus.  Goldman Sachs didn’t get a top role even after the New
York-based securities firm offered to accept a fee of
0.75 percent, which was then imposed by the government on all
underwriters, people familiar with the matter said last month.  A $10 billion share sale by GM would be the biggest U.S.
IPO since Visa Inc.’s $19.6 billion raised in March 2008. The
offering would be the third-largest all-time in the U.S., also
trailing AT&T Wireless Group’s $10.6 billion offering in 2000.  Break-Even Price  GM shares must be sold at an average of $133.78, before
splits, if the U.S. is to recoup its investment,  Neil Barofsky ,
the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, said in a letter to Senator  Charles Grassley ,
Republican of Iowa.  Including dividends and interest GM already has paid the
government, the stock must sell for $131 before splitting for
the U.S. to break even, said one of the people familiar with the
situation.  Whitacre, who remains chairman through the end of the year,
said during an automotive conference in August he was eager for
the U.S. to sell its shares because it would boost employee
morale and help GM sell more vehicles.  ‘Government Motors’  “We don’t like this label of Government Motors,” said
Whitacre, 68.  Akerson, a former Carlyle Group managing director, said
during a Sept. 16 briefing with reporters that it would be
“unrealistic” for GM to repay the government in “one fell
swoop.”  “We have to post those numbers and provide some consistent
results and over the next couple years that will happen,” said
Akerson, 61. “I am sure the taxpayers of America would like to
see a return on their investment or at least a return of the
amount of money they invested in this company, and that’s one of
the goals that we have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 