-- Government Trims Fourth-Quarter Debt Issuance Citing `Favorable' Budget
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-09-23T10:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/germany-trims-fourth-quarter-debt-sale-target-on-reduced-borrowing-needs.html
The German government trimmed the
amount of debt it plans to sell in the fourth quarter after
“favorable developments” in the federal budget reduced the
need to borrow.  Germany will sell 60 billion euros ($80.4 billion) of bonds
and bills in the fourth quarter, 29 billion euros less than
forecast in December, the Federal Finance Agency said today. The
issuance plan includes 37 billion euros in bonds and 23 billion
euros in bills, or securities that mature within 12 months.  Investor concerns about the fiscal health of some euro-
region nations are resurfacing just four months after the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund crafted an
unprecedented worst-case rescue package. German  bonds  have
outperformed U.S. Treasuries this year as the spreading euro-
region debt crisis drove investors to the safest European
assets.  “There’s lots of risk aversion -- and a strong demand for
German bonds,” said  Carl Heinz Daube , the head of the debt
agency. “We’re seeing strong, stable demand for our bonds.”  The adjustment brings the planned government debt sales
this year to 312 billion euros from 343 billion euros projected
in December 2009, according to data from the debt agency. That’s
less than a record 323 billion euros sold last year.  Inflation-Linked Securities  German tax revenue rose 3.6 percent in August from a year
earlier, the  Finance Ministry  said Sept. 20. Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Sept. 17 federal borrowing may be as
low as 50 billion euros in 2010, down from an initial forecast
of 86 billion euros at the beginning of the year.  The federal government intends to sell inflation-linked
securities of 2 billion euros to 3 billion euros in the last
three months of the year and may sell foreign-currency bonds
“as market conditions allow,” the Finance Agency said.  The debt agency said it will cancel a sale of 3 billion
euros of a 30-year bond in October. It will also reduce auction
sizes of bonds maturing in 2012, 2015 and 2020.  The German economy grew 2.2 percent in the second quarter,
the fastest pace since the country’s reunification two decades
ago. Its gross domestic product may expand more than 2.5 percent
this year, Economy Minister Rainer Bruederle said today.  German bonds, the region’s benchmark, handed investors a
8.8 percent return this year compared with a 17 percent loss
from Greek debt and a 6.4 percent decline in Portuguese
securities. Concern that some of Europe’s most indebted nations
may struggle to finance their budget deficit stoked demand for a
refuge, enabling a country with top credit ratings like Germany
to raise money at record-low borrowing cost.  “I really don’t know whether the worst is over on the
markets,” Daube said. “There’s still a reasonable amount of
volatility around.”  German bonds stayed higher after the announcement. The
yield on 10-year German bunds fell 3 basis points to 2.31
percent as of 9:30 a.m. in London. The two-year yield declined 2
basis points to 0.73 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 