-- German Business Sentiment May Wane as Recovery Slows
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-09-24T06:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/german-business-confidence-may-wane-as-economic-recovery-slows.html
German business confidence probably
fell from a three-year high in September as a global slowdown
damped the country’s export-driven recovery.  The  Ifo institute  will say its  business climate index ,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, eased to 106.4 from 106.7
in August, the highest since June 2007, according to the median
of 36 forecasts in Bloomberg News  survey . Ifo releases the
report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  After expanding at the fastest pace in two decades in the
second quarter, data show Germany’s economy is losing momentum.
 Factory orders  unexpectedly declined in July and  manufacturing
activity  eased for a second month in September. Even so, the
Bundesbank said this week the recovery “remains intact” as
companies including truck maker MAN SE raise profit forecasts.  “Companies have reached the high plateau of the recovery
and from up there you can only look down,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at DekaBank in Frankfurt. “That’s not a
catastrophe and no reason to sing the blues. The slowdown
doesn’t come as a surprise.”  The euro has gained five percent against the dollar in the
last two weeks to trade at $1.3339 today.  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations will decline to
104 from 105.2, the survey of economists shows. The gauge of the
current situation will probably rise to 108.7 from 108.2. That
would be the highest since May 2008.  Slowing Recovery  Weaker growth and low inflation in the U.S. prompted the
Federal Reserve to signal this week that it may embark on a
second wave of unconventional monetary stimulus to support a
recovery. Expansion in the world’s largest economy will ease to
2.5 percent next year from 2.7 percent this year, according to
another survey of economists.  The Bundesbank predicts Germany’s economy, Europe’s
largest, will grow 3 percent this year after it expanded 2.2
percent in the second quarter.  German companies are looking east to boost profits. SAP
AG’s co-Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said on Sep. 3
the software maker aims to make China “a second home” as local
companies seeking management tools and real-time business
intelligence will provide “limitless growth.”  Car Exports  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, said on Sep. 16 it plans to add models and start a
vehicle-leasing business in China to help boost its presence in
the world’s biggest auto market. Car exports from Germany to
China tripled in the first half of the year to 128,000, the
Federal Statistics Office  said  on Sep. 21. That exceeds the
122,000 cars shipped to China in 2009.  Germany’s strength contrasts with the weakness in some
periphery euro-area countries that have been hit by the region’s
sovereign debt crisis. Ireland’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in
the second quarter, a report showed yesterday. The premium
investors demand to hold  Irish  and  Portuguese  government bonds
over their German equivalents rose to records this week.  Even as export growth slows, Germany’s recovery may be
bolstered by rising consumer spending.  To help fill orders, companies are adding staff.  Daimler
AG , which raised its 2010 operating forecast on July 27, has
taken on 1,800 temporary workers, while  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s
largest car maker, will offer permanent employment to 400 short-
term hires.  Unemployment  dropped for a 14th month in August, pushing
consumer confidence to an 11-month high in September. Germany’s
HDE retail association yesterday raised its 2010 sales growth
forecast to 1.5 percent from zero.  “We can assume that private consumption is falling into
step as impulses from foreign trade are weakening,” said  Jens Kramer , an economist at Nord LB in Hanover, Germany. “The
economy is doing well. We won’t see an output slump.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  