-- German Lawyers Call for Merger Restrictions to Curb Too-Big-to-Fail Banks
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-09-23T16:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/german-lawyers-calls-for-merger-limits-to-curb-too-big-to-fail-banks.html
German and European lawmakers
should adopt specific merger controls to prevent the creation of
banks that are too big to fail, a national lawyers’ panel
concluded.  Legislators should, as a last resort, also create a
mechanism that allows breaking up such banks, a resolution today
from Germany’s national lawyers’ convention said. The group also
called for Europe-wide mandatory stress tests for banks which
should be forced to publish the results.  “It should be the guiding principle of financial
regulation and supervision to prevent situations where
government intervention in favor of financial institutions seems
inevitable,” according to the conference’s resolutions on
financial market regulation.  About 2,800 lawyers, including judges, regulators and
prosecutors, are meeting at their bi-annual conference this week
in Berlin. The  Association of German Jurists  has held the
meeting since 1860 and offers reform proposals developed at the
conference to the government. Over the 150 years of its history,
many of the group’s proposals have later become law.  The government should also create claw-back rules allowing
banks to reclaim bonuses paid to bankers if their employers
fail, another proposal from the financial-market regulation
section said. That group also said hedge funds should have the
same reporting requirements as other financial institutions.  The labor law section approved a proposal to introduce a
mandatory minimum wage. The resolution was adopted by a majority
against the votes of lawyers representing employers.  Lawyers shouldn’t allow outside capital investments in law
firms, attorneys at the meeting discussing reform within the
legal profession said, adopting a resolution calling to keep the
current rule banning non-lawyer stakeholders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net ; 