-- Ghana's Central Bank May Lower Key Rate for Fifth Time to 13% Tomorrow
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2010-09-23T12:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/ghana-s-central-bank-may-lower-key-rate-for-fifth-time-to-13-tomorrow.html
Ghana ’s central bank may cut its
key lending rate tomorrow, the fifth consecutive reduction,
after inflation slowed to the lowest rate in eight years.  Three of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the Bank
of Ghana to lower its policy rate by half a percentage point to
13 percent. Two forecast the rate would be unchanged while
another analyst gave an unspecified reduction. The decision will
be announced at 11 a.m. in the capital, Accra.  “There is room for moderate monetary stimulation without
undermining the inflation outlook,”  Stephen Bailey-Smith , head
of Africa research at Standard Bank Plc in London, said in e-
mailed comment today. He said he expects a 50 basis-point
reduction.  Inflation eased for the 14th consecutive month in August to
9.4 percent as strength in the domestic currency helped cut the
cost of imports. Since inflation reached a five-year peak of
20.7 percent in June, the cedi has risen 4.5 percent against the
U.S. dollar.  Razia Khan , head of Africa research at Standard Chartered
Bank Plc and  Sebastian Spio-Garbrah , chief analyst for frontier
markets at New York-based DaMina Advisors, both said a reduction
in the rate to 13 percent is likely.  “Given that the prime rate is at 13.5 percent and inflation
eased to 9.4 percent in August, there is still room for further
easing,” Khan said in an e-mail Sept. 15.  The bank may hold the rate tomorrow “with a view to cutting
them next time if inflation remains stable in the interim,” said
Lisa Lewin, head of sub-Saharan Africa Analysis at Business
Monitor International.  The stability in the cedi will be supported by Ghana’s
increase in its international reserves to $4 billion by early
2011, from $3.3 billion in June, Finance Minister  Kwabena Duffuor  said yesterday. The influx comes as Ghana is set to
become Africa’s newest crude exporter when production from its
Jubilee oil field begins by the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Moses Dzawu  in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 