-- Glaxo's Avandia to Be Pulled From EU Market, Restricted in U.S.
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-09-23T20:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/glaxo-s-avandia-diabetes-pill-to-be-pulled-from-europe-restricted-in-u-s-.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc ’s Avandia, once
the world’s best-selling diabetes drug, will be withdrawn in
Europe and restricted in the U.S. after a three-year review of
the medicine’s heart risks.  Glaxo said it will stop promoting the drug in all countries
after the decisions announced today by the  European Medicines
Agency  and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Regulators
disagreed on the reliability of the data and whether potential
risks could be contained. Glaxo’s American depository receipts
fell the most in a month in New York trading.  Avandia’s sales have fallen by two-thirds since an analysis
released in May 2007 tied it to a 43 percent increased risk in
heart attacks. Glaxo said sales will be minimal after this year.
The financial impact on Glaxo will also be limited because
Avandia’s patent expires in 2012, said  Eric Le Berrigaud , an
analyst at Raymond James in Paris.  “We struggled with it, and colleagues in other
jurisdictions struggled as well,” Hans-Georg Eichler, the EMA’s
senior medical officer, said on a conference call with
reporters. “There’s no single perfect tool to study this
risk.”  In the U.S., the medicine will carry new warnings after a
three-year battle that divided staff at the FDA. London-based
Glaxo must add new cautions to Avandia’s prescribing
information, the agency said today. The decision to allow
continued sales of the treatment follows the recommendations of
an FDA advisory panel in July.  Heart Attack Risk  The FDA advisers called for stronger warnings on the label
after re-examining a 2007 decision to keep the medicine on the
market. Glaxo has said  “extensive clinical data”  have shown
the treatment to be safe.  “Ninety-nine percent of drug use should go away,”  Steven Nissen , chairman of the Cleveland Clinic’s department of
cardiovascular medicine and author of the 2007 analysis, said in
a telephone interview. “The drug will essentially disappear
from use in the U.S. and will disappear in Europe.”  Glaxo’s ADRs fell 72 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $39.43 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, their
biggest percentage decline  since  Aug. 24. Each receipt
represents two ordinary shares.  ‘Important Treatment’  “The company continues to believe that Avandia is an
important treatment for patients with Type 2 diabetes and is now
working with the FDA and EMA to implement the required
actions,” according to Glaxo’s statement.  “Our primary concern continues to be patients with Type 2
diabetes and we are making every effort to ensure that
physicians in Europe and the U.S. have all the information they
need to help them understand how these regulatory decisions
affect them and their patients,”  Ellen Strahlman , Glaxo’s chief
medical officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  Avandia and Avandamet, which both contain the active
ingredient rosiglitazone, last year garnered revenue of 771
million pounds ($1.2 billion), down from 1.6 billion pounds in
2006. Actos, from  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. , is the world’s
best-selling diabetes medicine, generating 387 billion yen ($4.6
billion) in the year ended March 31, according to the Osaka,
Japan-based company’s  annual report .  ‘Minimal’ Revenue Ahead  Glaxo said it expects Avandia sales of 100 million pounds
to 150 million pounds in the second half, and “minimal”
revenue from the drug after that. The drugmaker said it will
have one-time costs of 100 million pounds this year to write off
Avandia and inventories of the medicine.  Le Berrigaud, the analyst at Raymond James, will cut his
revenue estimates by 300 million pounds to 400 million pounds
for the next couple of years, he said.  “That’s not very meaningful when you have annual sales of
30 billion pounds and as the drug will go off patent in 2012
anyway,” Le Berrigaud said.  Avandia already had restrictions in Europe, limiting use to
patients that had failed to respond to another treatment, the
EMA said. The regulators said they couldn’t identify another way
to limit the risk to patients other than suspending sales. The
drug will stop being available in Europe in a few months, the
agency said.  “I am not happy with this decision,” said Gregor M. Hess,
a physician from Worms, Germany, who specializes in diabetes.
Pulling the medicine from the market doesn’t make sense
“because it could always be an option for some patients,” he
said in Stockholm, where he was attending the European
Association for the Study of Diabetes annual meeting.  A Decade to Decide  The EMA’s Eichler said it took the agency a decade to be
sure that the heart risk seen in studies was linked to the drug
and not merely a result of diabetes.  “Are we happy with the fact it took 10 years? Of course
not,” Eichler said on the conference call. “Could there have
been a better way to handle this? I don’t think there would have
been many other opportunities to handle this faster.”  Glaxo conducted a study of Avandia, dubbed Record, at the
request of European regulators. The 4,447-person, five-year
trial found that Avandia more than doubled the risk of heart
failure without increasing the rate of hospitalization or death
from cardiovascular causes, compared with older diabetes
medicines. The data, presented in June 2009, are limited because
more people in the group receiving Avandia were taking
cholesterol medications and patients and doctors knew which
diabetes drug was prescribed.  Increased Danger  “Data from clinical trials, observational studies and
meta-analyses of existing studies that have become available
over the last three years have suggested a possibly increased
risk of ischaemic heart disease associated with the use of
rosiglitazone,” the EMA said today.  A study published last month found that Actos, which is
the same type of treatment as Avandia, causes as many heart
problems as the Glaxo medicine. Takeda says the drug is safe.
Eric Abadie, the chairman of the EMA’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use, said on a conference call that Actos
doesn’t appear to have the same risks as Avandia.  FDA reviewers were divided about the Record study,
according to documents released on July 9. Thomas A. Marciniak,
a medical team leader at the agency, said Record “was
inadequately designed and conducted,” while Ellis Unger, deputy
director of the FDA’s Office of Drug Evaluation, called the
results of the study “reassuring.”  Considerable Uncertainty  “We are not withdrawing the drug at this time because
there is considerable uncertainty about this signal and whether
it is valid,” said  Janet Woodcock , head of the FDA’s Center for
Drug Evaluation and Research, on a conference call today with
reporters. The next step is for independent doctors to review
Glaxo’s Record study.  The FDA ordered Glaxo to develop a program where doctors
will register patients who are prescribed Avandia and document
why they need the drug. Patients will have to review statements
describing the cardiovascular safety findings and acknowledge
that they understand the risks. Physicians will have to prove
that people prescribed Avandia for the first time haven’t been
helped by other diabetes drugs and choose not to take Actos
because of medical reasons.  The new risk-management program will take “several
months” to implement, the FDA said.  Warring Factions  “This is clearly a compromise between warring factions in
the FDA,” said  Diana Zuckerman , director of the National
Research Center for Women & Families in Washington, whose father
had taken Avandia. “For FDA to say they can manage this
restriction seems overly optimistic, not evidence-based.”  European regulators may reconsider their decision if new
data emerges on Avandia, said FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg .
The agencies came to different conclusions on how best to
protect patients because the U.S. is comfortable relying on
restricted access programs to manage risks, Hamburg said.  Patients should consult their doctors before they stop
taking any treatment for diabetes, said  Ulf Smith , president of
the European diabetes group.  “Physicians have an array of drugs that they can replace
rosiglitazone with,” Smith said in an interview in Stockholm.  Earlier this year, Glaxo agreed to settle about 10,000
lawsuits alleging the drugmaker hid Avandia’s heart-attack risk
for about $460 million, or an average of $46,000 a case, people
familiar with the settlements said. Those people sought
anonymity because the accords are private.  The company still faces about 3,000 suits over Avandia,
analysts say. Those cases are consolidated in federal and state
courts in Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Hallam  in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 