-- Global Wind Power Capacity May Rival Nuclear Within Four Years
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2010-09-23T11:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/global-wind-capacity-to-reach-200-gigawatts-in-2010-gwec-says.html
Installed power capacity from wind
turbines around the world will probably rival the potential
generation of electricity from nuclear plants within four years,
the Global Wind Energy Council said.  Installed wind capacity by 2014 will probably reach 400
gigawatts,  Steve Sawyer , secretary-general of the council, said
in an e-mailed statement. Current nuclear power capacity is
about 376 gigawatts, according to the World Nuclear Association.  Investments in wind power last year exceeded money spent on
all other energy technologies including nuclear power, according
to the International Energy Agency. Fifty-nine reactors are
presently under various stages of construction globally, the
World Nuclear Association said on its website.  Growth of wind power in China and elsewhere is offsetting a
decline in the U.S. and is little changed in Europe this year,
GWEC said. China, the world’s most populous nation and second-
biggest economy, will likely more than double the amount of wind
power potential this year to about 18 gigawatts, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance estimates.  “As wind power is becoming more competitive, it is rapidly
expanding beyond the traditional markets in North America and
Europe,” Sawyer said. “In fact, around half of the growth is
now happening in emerging economies and developing countries.”  China is leading the world in clean-technology investments.
It attracted $11.5 billion in financing for wind turbines and
other low-carbon equipment in the second quarter, 72 percent
higher than the year-earlier period, New Energy Finance said.
That’s more than the U.S. and Europe combined, it said.  This year wind capacity will reach close to 200 gigawatts
with 40 gigawatts of new capacity added. By 2020, there may be
as much as 1,000 gigawatts of wind power installed around the
globe, GWEC, which promotes wind development, said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  