-- Gold May Gain This Week on Wealth Protection, Weaker Dollar, Survey Shows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-09-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/gold-may-gain-next-week-on-wealth-protection-weaker-dollar-survey-shows.html
Gold, which reached a record this
week, may extend gains as investors seek a protection of wealth
and an alternative to a weakening dollar, a survey found.  Sixteen of 23 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 70 percent, said the metal will rise next week.
Six forecast lower prices and one was neutral. Gold for December
delivery was up 1.3 percent for this week at $1,293.60 an ounce
at 11 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in New York. Futures climbed
to a record $1,298 on Sept. 22.  The dollar slipped to a five-month low against the euro on
Sept. 22 after the Federal Reserve left its benchmark interest-
rate target at a record low and pledged to take more steps to
spur growth if necessary. Holdings of bullion through exchange-
traded products were at a record 2,089.74 metric tons as of
Sept. 22, data compiled by Bloomberg from 10 providers showed.  “The U.S. currency is clearly still paying the price for
the latest statement by the U.S. Fed,” said  Eugen Weinberg ,
head of commodity research at Commerzbank AG. “As long as the
U.S. dollar remains weak, gold prices should remain well
supported.”  Gold gained 18 percent this year as investors sought a
protection of wealth. While a report yesterday showed U.S. home
sales were slightly stronger than economists had forecast, the
number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits unexpectedly
rose in the week ended Sept. 18 and Europe’s services and
manufacturing industries slowed this month more than economists
forecast.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling that most respondents expect a
decline. The green line shows the gold price. The data shown are
as of Sept. 17.  The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 189 of 329 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 16  Bearish : 6  Neutral : 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 