-- Goldman, Morgan Stanley Diverge on Purchasing Junk Bonds: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-09-23T14:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/goldman-sachs-morgan-stanley-split-on-junk-as-prices-soar-credit-markets.html
Morgan Stanley says investors
should buy the lowest-rated corporate debt, while Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. says stay away, underscoring the dilemma faced by
investors as junk-bond prices rise to the highest since 2007.  Bonds graded CCC in the U.S. are the “cheapest” high-
yield securities with “economic data once again beginning to
surprise to the upside,” Morgan Stanley told clients yesterday
in a report. Goldman Sachs says higher-rated speculative-grade
debt is the way to go as the economy decelerates.  Bondholders faced with near-zero  interest rates  and record-
low yields are turning to higher-risk notes to boost returns,
betting growth will be strong enough to keep defaults in check.
Investors poured $480.2 billion into mutual funds that focus on
debt in the two years ended June 30, more than went into stock
funds during the Internet bubble, according to the Washington-
based Investment Company Institute. That has helped companies
sell a record amount of junk bonds in 2010 with three months
still left in the year.  “A lot of very mediocre to marginal deals have been able
to get out of the gate over the last few months because there’s
still tremendous risk appetite,” said  Margaret Patel , who
oversees about $1 billion of assets at Wells Fargo & Co.’s
Advantage Diversified Capital Builder Fund and Advantage
Diversified Income Builder Fund in Boston. “The economy is at
least growing slowly, but it’s growing positively, so that’s a
very, very favorable backdrop for high yield.”  Prices Climb  Prices of U.S. corporate bonds rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s closed
at an average of 100.4 cents on the dollar yesterday, up from 55
cents in December 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  The lowest-ranked debt, rated CCC and lower, has done even
better, rising to 89.2 cents from 31.6 cents. The securities
have returned 3 percent this month, with relative yields
averaging 10.9 percentage points more than Treasuries.  While the securities are beating BB debt by 0.94 percentage
point this month, they’re trailing for the year. The highest
tier of junk debt has gained 12.4 percent this year compared
with 10.4 percent for bonds rated CCC and lower, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt rose 1 basis point to 172 basis points, or 1.72
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged 3.476
percent, the lowest since reaching the same level Aug. 31.  The cost of insuring Irish debt against default surged to a
record as the government auctioned bills, while  Microsoft Corp. 
sold bonds yesterday at the lowest interest rates on record as
September issuance continued to surge. Private equity firm KKR &
Co. issued notes for the first time.  Microsoft Offering  Microsoft, one of only four non-financial companies rated
AAA by S&P and Moody’s, issued $4.75 billion of debentures one
day after boosting its dividend and getting board approval to
sell debt. The world’s biggest software maker, based in Redmond,
Washington, raised $1 billion from 0.875 percent three-year
debt, $1.75 billion from 1.625 percent five-year debentures, $1
billion from 3 percent notes due 2020 and $1 billion from 4.5
percent bonds maturing in 2040, Bloomberg data show.  The coupon on the three-year security is less than the 1
percent on a similar-maturity note issued last month by
 International Business Machines Corp. , which was previously the
lowest of the more than 3,500 securities in the Barclays Capital
U.S. Corporate Index of investment-grade company debt.  KKR Bonds  KKR, which began trading on the New York Stock Exchange in
July, boosted its offering of 10-year senior unsecured notes to
$500 million from $350 million. The notes yield 387.5 basis
points more than Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  The New York-based firm, founded by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts  in 1976, raised the cash as it expands beyond
traditional buyouts, in which it pools money from investors to
take over companies, and into capital markets, underwriting
equity and bond offerings.  Credit-default swaps insuring Ireland’s sovereign debt
surged 31 basis points to an all-time high 495.5, according to
data provider CMA.  Ireland sold 300 million euros of securities due February
2011 today at an average yield of 1.907 percent, compared with
1.925 percent at a Sept. 9 sale, according to the nation’s debt
agency. It also issued 100 million euros of April 2011
securities at an average yield of 2.231 percent, up from 2.19
percent.  Corporate Risk  A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
climbed for a third day. Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 1.6 basis points to a mid-price of
112.95 basis points as of 10:07 a.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting
$10 million of debt.  Concern the U.S. economy will falter led the Federal
Reserve to say Sept. 21 it’s willing to ease monetary policy
further to spur growth. Fed policy makers said the pace of
recovery and job growth have “slowed in recent months.” The
central bank has kept its target rate for overnight loans
between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  Gross Domestic Product  Morgan Stanley forecasts annualized growth in gross
domestic product of 2 percent to 2.5 percent in the second-half
of this year.  “That typically has been an ideal environment for
credit,” Adam Richmond, a credit strategist at Morgan Stanley
in New York, said yesterday. “Unless you really think that
we’re going to double dip, even in zero to 2 percent growth, we
find that high yield holds up OK, even the lower quality
bucket.”  Moody’s said this week the number of U.S. companies at
greatest risk of default dropped to the lowest level in two
years. Companies rated at or below B3 with a negative outlook
declined to 195 as of Sept. 1 from a high of 288 in June 2009.
Clear Channel Communications Inc. and Energy Future Holdings
Corp., formerly named TXU Corp., were among the biggest
companies on the list.  Goldman Sachs economists estimate growth at 1.5 percent on
an annualized basis this quarter, next quarter and in the first
period of 2011, said  Alberto Gallo , a credit strategist for the
firm in New York. Goldman Sachs has favored BB corporate bonds
over CCC debt since the end of 2009.  ‘Deceleration’  “We do like high yield much more in the BB and B space,”
Gallo said. “Because of the potential for deceleration in the
economy in the second half of the year, as well as relatively
compressed valuations, we prefer to be in the upper end of high
yield.”  The average yield on CCC bonds is 12.3 percent, compared
with BB debt that pays 6.5 percent, or a spread over Treasuries
of 465 basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  “Lower-quality high yield to us is cheaper on a risk-
adjusted valuation than higher-quality high yield,” Richmond
said. “Over the next year or so, the right trade is to be long
credit risk and short or neutral on rate risk. The best way to
get the most credit exposure with the least rate exposure is in
lower-quality high yield.”  Morgan Stanley estimates the 10-year Treasury note yield
will rise to 3 percent this year and to 4.25 percent by the end
of 2011, while Goldman Sachs forecasts 2.5 percent in December
2010 and 3.3 percent a year later. The yield closed at 2.56
percent yesterday in New York.  Sales Booming  Junk bond sales are booming. Speculative-grade debt
issuance in the U.S. jumped to $187.3 billion this year compared
with $100.1 billion in the same period of 2009, Bloomberg data
show. Companies rated Caa1 or lower by Moody’s have issued at
least $2.63 billion of bonds this month, compared with $2.56
billion in August and the most since April.  Goldman Sachs has underwritten 84 issues totaling $12.95
billion of high-yield U.S. offerings this year, 6.9 percent of
the market and the sixth-highest amount, Bloomberg data show.
Morgan Stanley is seventh, having helped manage 81 offerings for
$12.7 billion of sales, or 6.8 percent of the market.  The firms helped underwrite Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International’s two-part, $1.2 billion  sale  of senior notes on
Sept. 21, Bloomberg data show.  Demand for the lowest debt is evident with  Freescale
Semiconductor Inc. , bought in a 2006 leveraged buyout led by
Blackstone Group LP, selling $750 million of notes yesterday
after increasing the size of the offering from $500 million. The
10-year, 10.75 percent debentures are rated Caa2 by Moody’s and
the equivalent CCC by S&P. The Austin, Texas-based chipmaker’s
$1.265 billion of 8.875 percent notes due 2014 rose 2.94 cents
to 100 cents on the dollar, Trace data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  