-- Greek Repayment Delay to EU, IMF Isn't Being Discussed, Germany, EU Say
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-09-23T12:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/greek-repayment-delay-to-eu-imf-isn-t-being-discussed-germany-eu-say.html
Greece, Germany and the European
Union said an extension of the loan package for the government
in Athens isn’t being discussed, denying a newspaper report.  “What we have at the moment is a clear program with
timetables, with milestones, with growth -- and we’re sticking
to that,” Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  told
reporters in Berlin today after attending a conference.  Papaconstantinou rejected a report in Greece’s
Eleftherotypia newspaper that he and German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  discussed extending repayment of the 110
billion-euro ($146 billion) EU and International Monetary Fund
loan in Berlin yesterday.  “There was no such discussion” with Schaeuble, the Greek
minister said.  The repayment issue has come to the fore after IMF
officials said the fund wouldn’t abandon Greece if it needed
assistance after 2013,  Eleftherotypia  said, without saying how
it got the information. The Wall Street Journal reported on
Sept. 17 that the IMF hasn’t ruled out giving Greece more aid if
needed.  A spokesman for the German Finance Ministry, Bertrand
Benoit, and the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm,
said giving Greece more time isn’t on the table.  “There is no discussion, there is no plan, no preparations
for any eventual extension of the current loan arrangement with
Greece,” commission economics spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told
reporters in Brussels.  EU officials are saying the issue has taken on a new
dimension after a worsening of the European economy, according
to Eleftherotypia.  Lucas Papademos , the former vice president of the European
Central Bank and now adviser to Prime Minister George Papandreou , is assisting in examining various methods of
extending the loan, the newspaper said.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said there will be no sovereign debt restructuring in Greece,
Ireland or other European member states.  “I’m certain that we will be able to avoid it,” Rehn said
in remarks to the Berlin conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Czuczka  at   aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 