-- Green Party's Trittin Hit in Yoghurt Attack at Hanover Anti-Nuclear Event
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-09-23T11:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/green-party-s-trittin-hit-in-yoghurt-attack-at-hanover-anti-nuclear-event.html
A masked man splattered German
Greens parliamentary leader  Juergen Trittin  with yoghurt after
jumping on stage during a panel discussion on nuclear power.  The suspect, dressed in a white body suit, fled after the
attack late yesterday in the city of Hanover, according to a
statement on the police website. Trittin, 56, wasn’t hurt and
left the podium after the attack, police said.  The opposition Greens have soared to a record in polls as
voters desert Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government amid public
disputes between the coalition parties over policy from tax cuts
to health care. Trittin was pictured on the front page of the
Financial Times Deutschland newspaper today under the headline
“Trittin Could Be Chancellor.”  The Greens are leading opposition to Merkel’s plans to
extend the running time of Germany’s 17 nuclear reactors beyond
a phase-out date of about 2022. Backing rose two percentage
points to 24 percent in a weekly Forsa poll published yesterday,
putting the Greens even with the Social Democrats. With 48
percent support, the two parties could topple Merkel if
elections were held now. The Greens ruled as junior coalition
partner under Social Democratic Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder 
from 1998 to 2005, when the nuclear phase-out was approved.  The event in Hanover was part of a nine-day anti-nuclear
festival that includes music, theater and puppet performances.
When the host condoned the attack, Trittin got up and left, the
 Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung  newspaper reported.  “This is no basis for me to have a discussion,” Trittin
was heard saying in video broadcast on N-TV television. Images
showed the back of his suit jacket spattered with white.  The attacker used yoghurt inside what may have been a cake,
Hanover police spokeswoman Katrin Meier-Ziegenbein said by
telephone. Police are looking for the assailant, she said.  In 1999, an antiwar protester flung a bag of red paint at
Greens leader  Joschka Fischer , then Germany’s vice chancellor
and foreign minister, during a party convention debating NATO’s
airstrikes on Yugoslavia in the war over Kosovo. Fischer
suffered a perforated eardrum. 