-- IBM Unveils Atom Process That May Boost Memory in PCs
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-09-23T20:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/ibm-unveils-atom-process-that-may-boost-memory-in-pcs-correct-.html
International Business Machines
Corp.  is developing a process that may pack more music on  Apple
Inc. ’s iPod Nanos or make solar panels more efficient.  IBM scientists are unveiling today a technique for
observing atomic reactions in real-time. It may help
manufacturers make smaller devices with greater memory, Spike
Narayan, an IBM researcher, said in a phone interview.  “It’s easy to make things on a small scale, but to
understand how things behave going down to the smaller scale,
that’s really what’s needed,” said Narayan, who manages science
and technology at IBM’s Almaden Research Center in San Jose,
California.  IBM, the world’s largest computer-services provider,
invested about $6 billion, or about  6 percent  of its sales, in
research projects last year. The company is aiming to design
more efficient methods to process and store information as
customers demand more computing power.  The technique may enable manufacturers to make hard-drives
that hold 1,000 times more data than now, said  Rob Enderle , a
principal analyst at Enderle Group. One version of the iPhone 4,
Apple’s newest model with features including video calls, Web
surfing and a music player, has a capacity of 32 gigabytes.  “Think of iPhones that, instead of having gigabytes, have
terabytes -- that’s what this could mean,” Enderle said. One
terabyte is equivalent to about 1,000 gigabytes. “It allows
them to put vastly more data in a vastly smaller space,” the
San Jose-based analyst said.  Atom Magnetism  Using a special microscope that images atoms, scientists
moved an atom with voltage and measured its magnetism at various
points, observing how it acted at a speed 1 million times faster
than has been possible. The study enabled them to time how long
an atom can hold 1 byte of data. For an iron atom on a copper
surface, it was 200 nanoseconds, comparable to typical dynamic
random access memory, which is used in personal computers,
Narayan said.  Now scientists may use the technique to see how certain
combinations hold data, and how few atoms are needed for various
functions.  Observing atom’s reactions in real-time also has
implications outside the storage industry, Narayan said.
Scientists could manipulate how atoms react to light, helping
make solar panels more efficient, he said. The technique could
help study how atoms in bodies consume energy, he said.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, makes about $1 billion a
year in licensing revenue, according to regulatory filings.  This month, IBM Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano 
criticized rival  Hewlett Packard Co.  for cutting investments in
research and development, saying it forces them to pay more for
 acquisitions . HP agreed to pay $2.35 billion this month for
data-storage maker 3Par, after a bidding contest with Dell Inc.  IBM fell 90 cents to $131.67 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares are little changed this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 