-- Middle East Dredging Bids for Energy Projects in Abu Dhabi, Shunning Dubai
-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-09-23T12:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/middle-east-dredging-bids-for-energy-projects-in-abu-dhabi-shunning-dubai.html
Middle East Dredging Co., a
Belgian-Qatari joint venture, is bidding on two new oil and gas
projects in Abu Dhabi as it shifts away from a softening market
in neighboring Dubai, senior executives said.  The dredging and port construction company is helping to
expand the Ruwais Refinery in Abu Dhabi, capital of the United
Arab Emirates and home to 90 percent of the country’s oil
reserves. Middle East Dredging is currently bidding for an
additional two “big-sized projects,” in Abu Dhabi, said  Alain Bernard , chief executive officer of the venture’s Belgian
parent, Dredging, Environmental & Marine Engineering NV.  “They’ve got a lot of oil, so it’s a moment to invest,”
Bernard said in an interview.  Middle East Dredging , whose Qatari
parent is  United Development Co. , is also seeking opportunities
in energy-rich Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.  The venture, formed in 2004, began operating in Qatar and
diversified into the U.A.E. The company participated in a 600-
million euro ($800-million) development at Port Rashid in Dubai
until the financial crisis forced the emirate’s government to
suspend the project in 2008.  “That’s why we went to find a job in Abu Dhabi and
elsewhere,” Bernard said, while visiting Abu Dhabi from his
company’s headquarters in Zwijndrecht, Belgium. The Abu Dhabi
government and the U.A.E. central bank together provided $20
billion in support funds for Dubai after the emirate announced
plans last year to restructure debts of the Dubai World group.  Middle East Dredging  has worked also on Abu Dhabi’s Yas
Island development and the new Khalifa Port Industrial Zone.  The venture expects to post revenue of 1.2 billion riyals
($330 million) this year, said Frank Elskens, area director of
its Belgian parent, which itself is owned jointly by  Ackermans &
van Haaren NV  and  Cie. d’Entreprises CFE SA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  