-- Illinois's $25 Billion of Bonds Receive Negative Outlook From Moody's
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-09-23T22:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/illinois-s-25-billion-of-bonds-get-negative-moody-s-outlook-amid-deficit.html
     Sept. 23 (Bloomberg) --  Illinois , facing the worst
financial crisis in its history, received a negative outlook on
$25 billion of general obligation bonds from Moody’s Investors
Service after failing to address a deficit that almost tripled
in one year.  A negative outlook may indicate another cut to the state’s
rating, which was lowered to A1, fifth-highest, on June 4,
Moody’s said today in a release. Lower ratings can increase the
cost of borrowing as investors demand higher returns to
compensate for increased risk.  “We see risks that could trigger a downgrade in the next
18 months to two years,”  Ted Hampton , an analyst with Moody’s,
said in an interview from New York. “In June these risks were
less apparent.”  The company’s release cited a negative fund balance for
fiscal 2009 and questions about whether the state will meet
pension funding obligations.  Governor  Pat Quinn ’s office said the report shows that
lawmakers must cooperate with him to create jobs, cut spending,
raise revenue and borrow responsibly.  The ratings company’s decision “underscores why the General
Assembly must work with Gov. Pat Quinn to address the state’s
unprecedented financial situation,” the office said in a
prepared statement.  Yield Spread Widens  The yield of taxable Build America Bonds issued by Illinois
in June has risen to almost 2.5 percentage points above
benchmark 30-year Treasury bonds from just over 2 percentage
points on June 24.  Illinois’s budget deficit in 2009 widened to $7.7 billion,
almost tripling, Moody’s said. The debt burden may increase
because of continued borrowing for the state’s capital program
and contributions to its pension plans, the company said.  State pensions in Illinois, Kansas and New Jersey all have
assets insufficient to cover benefits, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Illinois ended fiscal 2010 on June 30 “in the worst fiscal
position in its history,” Comptroller  Daniel Hynes  said in a
report.  The state’s backlog of unpaid bills rose to $4.7 billion
from $2.8 billion a year earlier and its general fund balance
fell to negative $4.7 billion, the lowest level in the state’s
history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  