-- Independents Who Backed Obama Shifting Support to Republicans, Poll Shows
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-09-23T20:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/independents-who-backed-obama-shifting-support-to-republicans-poll-shows.html
Independent voters who helped elect
President  Barack Obama  in 2008 and give Democrats control of
Congress have shifted their support to Republicans,  a new poll
shows.   Independents who are likely to vote say they prefer
Republican candidates over Democrats in the Nov. 2 elections to
determine control of Congress by a margin of 49 percent to 36
percent, according to the poll by the  Pew Research Center for
the People & the Press .  “For the third national election in a row, independent
voters may be poised to vote out the party in power,”  Andrew Kohut , Pew Research Center president, said in a statement.
“Political independents now favor Republican candidates by
about as large a margin as they backed Barack Obama in 2008 and
congressional Democratic candidates four years ago.”  Likely voters overall favor Republican candidates by a 50
percent to 43 percent margin. When the sample is widened to
registered voters the race is even.  The poll shows that independent voters, especially those
who plan to vote for a Republican, are also more engaged in this
year’s election than in previous midterm races. Sixty-four
percent of independents who plan to vote Republican say they are
giving a lot of thought to this election, compared with 40
percent who plan to vote for the Democrat.  Obama’s 2008 Advantage  Exit polls showed Obama with an 8 percentage point
advantage among independents in 2008, and Democrats had an 18-
point advantage with independents in 2006, the Pew survey said.  On the issue of reducing the federal budget  deficit ,
independent voters favor Republicans by a margin of 44 percent
to 29 percent. These voters also prefer Republicans on the
economy and foreign policy.  Independents favor Democrats on social issues by a margin
of 39 percent to 33 percent. They also say the Democratic Party
is more concerned with their needs than are Republicans by a
margin of 49 percent to 32 percent.  The two parties come in about equal on the question of
which can bring about change the country needs.  The poll of 2,816 registered voters, of whom 2,053 are
likely voters, was conducted Aug. 25 to Sept. 6. The margin of
error is plus or minus 2.5 percentage points for registered
voters and 3 percent for likely voters. The sample of likely
independent voters is 734 and has an error margin of plus or
minus 4.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  