-- India's Airlines May Narrow Combined Losses to $400 Million This Year
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-09-23T12:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/indian-airlines-may-lose-as-much-as-400-million-this-year-bisignani-says.html
India’s airlines may narrow their
combined losses to $400 million this year as air travel demand
rises, according to the International Air Transport Association.  The number of domestic air travelers in India is increasing
by 20 percent, and will help shrink industrywide losses at the
nation’s carriers from $1.7 billion in 2009, IATA Chief
Executive Officer  Giovanni Bisignani  said in New Delhi today.  Rising disposable incomes and faster economic expansion
have spurred more air travel in the world’s second-most populous
nation, helping  Jet Airways (India) Ltd.  post its third
consecutive quarterly  profit . While the number of passengers is
set to increase, the airlines need to find ways to reduce their
combined $13 billion debt, Bisignani said.  “Indian spending power is set to triple over the next two
decades,” he said. “In a market as rich in potential as India,
this precarious financial situation indicates that structural
weaknesses must be addressed.”  Boeing Co.  last month raised its 20-year forecast for
Indian aircraft demand by 15 percent. The nation’s airline
passenger numbers may climb to a record 50 million this year
from 44 million in 2009, Chicago-based Boeing said.  India expects a fourfold surge in domestic air traffic to
180 million passengers annually by 2020, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said July 3. New Delhi’s airport opened a new terminal in
July, more than doubling the facility’s capacity.  Jet Airways and  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd.  are among the
carriers that aim to raise funds to pare debt. Jet Airways last
month said it plans to raise as much as $400 million selling
shares to institutional investors. Kingfisher said Aug. 31 it
plans to raise $356 million selling shares.  Domestic airlines in India carried 33.9 million passengers
in the first eight months, 19 percent more than the year-earlier
period,  according  to the Ministry of Civil Aviation.  India’s gross domestic product grew  8.8 percent  in the
three months ended in June from a year earlier, the fastest pace
in more than two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  