-- India Raises Overseas Investment Limit in Government, Corporate Securities
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-09-23T13:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/india-raises-overseas-investment-limit-in-government-corporate-securities.html
India raised the overseas
investment limit in government securities and corporate bonds
by $5 billion each after international holdings of the South
Asian nation’s debt more than doubled.  The foreign investment limit on government bonds has been
doubled to $10 billion, while the limit for corporate debt was
raised to $20 billion, the Ministry of Finance said in an e-
mailed statement today.  India, which wants to spend $1 trillion to build
infrastructure projects in the five years ending March 2017,
expects the new rules to attract  overseas funds  into building
roads, ports and power plans. The additional money can only be
used to buy government bonds maturing in over five years,
according to the statement. Investors have to use the extra $5
billion to purchase debt of infrastructure companies.  The increase in the limit “would help investment in
infrastructure sector and the development of government
securities and corporate bond markets in the country,” the
ministry said in the statement. The change was made because of
India’s “increasing attractiveness as an investment
destination and need for additional financial resources.”  India’s  10-year bonds  advanced, pushing the yields to their
lowest level in more than a month. The yield on the 7.8 percent
note due May 2020 fell 4 basis points to 7.90 percent, the
lowest level since Aug. 17, as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai,
according to the central bank’s trading system. The price rose
0.29, or 29 paise, per 100 rupee face amount, to 99.35.  International holdings of government and corporate debt
climbed 116 percent this year to $16.4 billion as of Sept. 13,
according to data from the Securities & Exchange Board of India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 