-- India Food Inflation Quickens to 6-Week High; Record Crops May Cool Prices
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2010-09-23T06:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/india-food-inflation-quickens-to-6-week-high-record-crops-may-cool-prices.html
India’s food inflation rate climbed
to a six-week high, a pace that may ease as above-normal
rainfall this season boosts harvests.  An  index  measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including lentils, rice and vegetables compiled by the
commerce ministry rose 15.46 percent in the week ended Sept. 11
from a year earlier, a report showed in New Delhi today. It
gained 15.1 percent the previous week.  “There is very little doubt that food prices will come
down,”  Dharmakirti Joshi , chief economist at Mumbai-based
Crisil Ltd., the Indian unit of Standard & Poor’s, said before
the report. “It will be visible by December when the harvest
comes into the market.”  Food prices may ease as the June-September monsoon rains
have been sufficient to expand cultivation, reducing pressure on
inflation that has prompted India’s central bank to raise
interest rates five times this year. Rainfall this month has
been 122 percent of the 50-year average as of Sept. 14,
according to the  weather office , in contrast with last year when
rains were the least since 1972.  India may have a record corn crop in excess of 20 million
metric tons in the year through June 2011, according to  Adani
Enterprises Ltd. , the country’s biggest non-state trader of farm
goods. The wheat harvest may be a record 82 million tons in the
same period, Farm Secretary  P.K. Basu  said last week.  The Reserve Bank of India boosted the repurchase rate to 6
percent from 5.75 percent, and the  reverse repurchase rate  a
half point to 5 percent on Sept. 16. The bank said then its
actions have brought the “monetary situation close to normal,”
two days after a report showed benchmark wholesale-price
inflation slowed to 8.5 percent in August from July’s 9.8
percent pace.  Still, inflation remains the “dominant” concern for the
central bank and will determine any future rate increases,
Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said on Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 