-- India Cuts Planned Bond Sales by 6% for Second Half as Cash Inflows Rise
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2010-09-23T14:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/india-cuts-planned-bond-sales-by-6-for-second-half-as-cash-inflows-rise.html
India cut its planned debt sales
for the second half of the fiscal year by 6 percent as revenue
from taxes and phone license fees bolstered its finances.  The federal government plans to raise 1.63 trillion rupees
($35.7 billion) selling bonds in the six months ending March 31,
lower than an earlier plan for 1.73 trillion rupees, Finance
Secretary  Ashok Chawla  told reporters in New Delhi today. India
will sell 100 billion rupees to 110 billion rupees of debt every
week and may complete its borrowings by the second week of
February, he said.  “Looking at the projected cash flows and funding
requirements, it seems it will not be necessary to raise the
whole amount,” Chawla said.  India expects revenue from government asset sales, auction
of third-generation mobile-phone spectrum and tax collections to
help it cut the deficit by the sharpest in 19 years. Finance
Minister Pranab Mukherjee aims to narrow the government’s  budget
deficit  to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product by March 31
from 6.9 percent in the previous year.  Benchmark bonds gained, pushing 10-year yields to the
lowest level in more than a month. The yield on the 7.8 percent
note due 2020 fell 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
7.90 percent as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the
central bank’s trading system.  The  Reserve Bank of India , which conducts debt sales for
the government, will manage the borrowings in a non-disruptive
manner while ensuring adequate funds are available for companies,
Deputy Governor Shyamala Gopinath said in New Delhi.  The government has borrowed 2.62 trillion rupees this
fiscal year that began April 1, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, while the rest for the first half will be completed
tomorrow when it sells 110 billion rupees in debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
 Anto Antony  in New Delhi at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  