-- Italian Stocks: Luxottica, Mediolanum, Molmed, Piaggio, Saipem Shares Move
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-09-23T07:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/intesa-molecular-medicine-piaggio-may-move-today-italian-stock-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index was
little changed, rising less than 0.1 percent to 20,383.05 at
9:52 a.m. in Milan.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Astaldi SpA  (AST IM) increased for a third day this week,
gaining 1.4 percent to 5.38 euros. UniCredit Research, which has
a “buy” rating on the stock, said in a note that “in the last
five years, Astaldi doubled its revenues and order backlog even
in an unfavorable macroeconomic scenario, therefore we believe
that the new industrial plan is challenging but definitely
achievable.” Italy’s second-biggest builder is due to present
its 2010-2015 industrial plan today.  Luxottica Group SpA  (LUX IM) advanced 1.4 percent to 19.86
euros, ending a two-day loss. The world’s biggest maker of
eyewear was upgraded to “buy” from “neutral” at Nomura
Holdings Inc.  Mediolanum SpA  (MED IM), the financial-services company
partly owned by Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, lost
1.1 percent to 3.21 euros after climbing 4.8 percent yesterday
on speculation regarding a potential merger with  Assicurazioni
Generali SpA  and Mediobanca SpA (MB IM).  Generali Chairman  Cesare Geronzi  doesn’t plan a merger with
the insurer’s biggest shareholder Mediobanca, the executive told
la Repubblica in an interview. Mediobanca shares slid 1.1
percent to 6.8 euros.  Molecular Medicine SPA  (MLM IM) climbed 3.3 percent to
47.95 euro cents. The Italian biotechnology company said the
“positive results” of a clinical study of its anticancer NGR-
hTNF drug were published on Annals of Oncology.  Piaggio & C. SpA  (PIA IM) sank 3.9 percent to 2.38 euros,
snapping a two-day increase. The scooter company, which is
scheduled to hold a presentation on strategic guidelines and
business developments, targets earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 285 million euros and 1.9
billion euros revenue in 2013, according to a statement
distributed by the Italian exchange.  Cheuvreux, which has an “underperform” rating, said in a
note that the plan looks aggressive.  Saipem SpA  (SPM IM) retreated for a third day, losing 1
percent to 28.12 euros. JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded Europe’s
largest oilfield-services provider to “neutral” from
“overweight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 