-- Ireland Hasn't Applied for Funds, Fiscal Measures `Appropriate,' IMF Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-09-23T15:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/ireland-hasn-t-applied-for-funds-fiscal-measures-appropriate-imf-says.html
Ireland has not applied for any
funding from the International Monetary Fund and its government
is taking “appropriate” fiscal measures, an IMF spokeswoman
said.  “There have been no requests for financing support or any
special request to the IMF,”  Caroline Atkinson , the
institution’s director of external relations, said today at a
press conference in Washington when asked about Portugal and
Ireland.  “We do believe that the fiscal measures that the
government has announced and is implementing and discussing in
its budget are appropriate and the right thing to do given the
financing and fiscal pressures in Ireland,” she said.  Investors are fleeing Irish bonds on concern bank bailout
costs and a shrinking economy will hurt efforts to tame the
European Union’s biggest budget deficit. Ireland’s economy
unexpectedly contracted in the second quarter, as consumers cut
spending and a rise in imports outweighed higher exports.  Governments in Europe need to both implement fiscal
tightening plans that they announced and measures to boost
growth in coming years, Atkinson said.  She said the IMF supports Portugal’s goal to bring its
budget gap to within European Union limits by 2013. She also
said that Greece, which received a 110-billion euro ($147
billion) package from the IMF and the EU, may return to debt
markets in 12 to 18 months.  She refused to comment on Japan’s intervention on the yen,
adding that it’s important that the government continues
spurring growth. “They have been clear on their monetary policy
in that regard and that’s where we think the focus should be,”
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 