-- Ireland Auctions Less Than Maximum Amount Sought at Bill Sale
-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2010-09-23T13:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/ireland-auctions-533-million-of-bills-less-than-maximum-as-growth-slows.html
Ireland auctioned 400 million euros
($533 million) of bills, less than the maximum sought by the
debt agency, as concern mounted that growth in the region is
slowing, making it harder for governments to cut their deficits.  The Dublin-based National Treasury Management Agency sold
300 million euros of securities due Feb. 14, 2011, at an average
yield of 1.907 percent, compared with 1.925 percent at a  Sept. 9 
sale. The debt agency also sold 100 million euros of bills
maturing April 18, 2011, at an average yield of 2.23 percent, up
from 2.19 percent at the previous sale. Ireland sold less than
the 500 million-euro maximum set for the sale.  Borrowing  costs  for the most indebted euro-region nations
jumped today after European manufacturing growth slowed more
than economists forecast, raising concern the nations may
struggle to trim their budget gaps as the economic expansion
slows. Ireland’s economy shrank 1.2 percent in the second
quarter, a report showed today.  “It is unlikely the government will achieve its growth
target this year, putting pressure on the budget and
international sentiment,” said  Austin  Hughes, chief economist
at KBC’s Groep NV’s Irish unit in Dublin. “The headline numbers
are disappointing, although there are some signs of light in the
underlying data.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Irish
bonds over German bunds widened 17 basis points to a record 417
basis points today. Ireland’s government said in July the
economy would expand 1 percent this year.  The government is sticking to its target of reducing its
deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by the end of
2014, Finance Minister Brian Lenihan said.  “The longer time scale for the plan would denude this
country of any credibility in world markets,” Lenihan said in
an interview with RTE radio today. “If we abandon that target,
we will lose credibility and we will not be in a position to fund
this state.”  Today’s auction came two days after Ireland sold 1.5
billion euros of four- and eight-year bonds, in an auction
described by  Willem Buiter , chief economist at Citigroup Inc.,
as “horrible” for the government and “great” for investors.
Ireland sold the four-year debt to yield 4.767 percent, a jump
from 3.627 percent at the previous auction on Aug. 17.  Demand for Bills  Investors bid for 4.1 times the amount of the Irish bills
maturing February 2011 and 11.7 times the debt due in April
2011. That compares with 9.4 times and 5.4 times at the Sept. 9
sale, respectively. Ireland is next scheduled sell bonds on Oct.
19.  Investors’ concerns about the fiscal health of some euro
nations are resurfacing four months after the EU announced an
almost $1 trillion rescue package to stamp out contagion from
Greece’s debt crisis. Ireland’s efforts to trim its deficit with
austerity measures such as wage cuts and higher taxes have been
complicated by the costs of shoring up its banking system.  The government has already earmarked more than 30 billion
euros to rescue banks and building societies after the collapse
of the real-estate market triggered the country’s worst
recession. Two-thirds of that went to  Anglo Irish Bank Corp .,
which was nationalized last year. While Anglo executives say the
lender may need a total of about 25 billion euros, Standard &
Poor’s said the figure may be as high as 35 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  