-- IMF's Vinals Says Ireland Won't Trigger European Debt Crisis
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-09-23T21:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/irish-banks-won-t-trigger-another-debt-crisis-in-europe-imf-s-vinals-says.html
International Monetary Fund
official  Jose Vinals  said Ireland won’t spark another European
debt crisis and he sees no reason for the government to tap into
a special aid mechanism established in May.  “Irish authorities are taking all the necessary
measures,” Vinals said during an interview today at a banking
conference in Chicago. “They have very strong fiscal strategies
in place and I certainly think problems are being handled.”  The cost to insure Ireland’s debt climbed to a record
earlier today, leading a surge in European sovereign credit-
default swaps, on concern Anglo Irish Bank Corp. won’t pay back
bondholders in full. Investors are fleeing Irish bonds on
concern bank bailout costs and a shrinking economy will hurt
efforts to tame the European Union’s biggest budget deficit.  The remarks by Vinals, director of the IMF’s monetary and
capital markets department, buttressed those also made today by
 Caroline Atkinson , the fund’s director of external relations.
Vinals declined to comment on the IMF’s next global financial
stability report, which will be released next week, or on
whether enough losses or writedowns have been taken by firms
worldwide.  Stress tests conducted on European firms this year “did
something which was very important, which was to introduce a
degree of transparency” that “wasn’t there,” Vinals said. The
disclosure of sovereign holdings by European banks was a “huge
step forward” and “something that worked well.”  Government guarantees covering some of the subordinated
debt sold by Ireland’s banks come to an end next week, while
Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said in June he
didn’t know if junior bondholders in Anglo Irish will be “made
whole.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  