-- Ireland Credit Risk Jumps to Record on Anglo Irish Bond Repayment Concerns
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-09-23T12:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/irish-10-year-bond-yield-spread-over-bunds-reaches-record-411-basis-points.html
The cost to insure Ireland’s debt
climbed to a record, leading a surge in European sovereign
credit-default swaps, on concern Anglo Irish Bank Corp. won’t
pay back bondholders in full.  Contracts on Ireland jumped 23 basis points to 487 basis
points at 12:50 p.m. in London, according to data provider CMA.
Swaps on subordinated debt of Anglo Irish, which was
nationalized last year, now cost 5 million euros ($6.7 million)
in advance and 500,000 euros annually to insure 10 million euros
of debt for five years.  Investors are fleeing Irish bonds on concern bank bailout
costs and a shrinking economy will hurt efforts to tame the
European Union’s biggest budget deficit. Government guarantees
covering some of the subordinated debt sold by the nation’s
banks come to an end next week, while Irish Central Bank
Governor  Patrick Honohan  said in June he didn’t know if junior
bondholders in Anglo Irish will be “made whole.”  Although forcing some bondholders to share the pain “may
ultimately be in the best interest of the sovereign, in the very
short term it causes unease in the market,” said  Peter Chatwell , a strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank in London. “It would damage perceptions of Irish credit
risk in general.”  Ireland’s original banking guarantee, covering all banks’
liabilities aside from undated subordinated debt, is due to come
to an end on Sept. 29. A second guarantee in January 2010, the
so-called Eligible Liabilities Plan, allows banks to issue bonds
of up to five years in duration. The ELG is subject to review
every six months, and is currently due to expire at the end of
December.  Government Guarantee  Lenders can continue to issue ELG-covered bonds until then
and notes will be government-guaranteed until maturity. The
European Commission approved on Sept. 21 an extension of the ELG
to include short-term bank liabilities, including corporate
deposits and interbank deposits, which were not originally
included in the plan. The ELG does not include any subordinated
debt or asset-covered securities.  Ireland’s economy unexpectedly shrank in the second
quarter, as consumers cut spending and a rise in imports
outweighed higher exports. The government’s borrowing costs rose
as it sold 400 million euros of bills today, less than the
maximum sought by the debt agency.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
countries from France to Greece climbed 3.5 basis points to 165,
the highest level since June 7, and approaching the record of
168.5 on June 4.  Crossover Index  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings climbed 14 basis
points to 533, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The index is a
benchmark for the cost of protecting bonds against default and
an increase signals a deterioration in the perception of credit
quality.  The Markit iTraxx Europe index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 4 basis points to 118.5, JPMorgan
prices show. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on 25
banks and insurers jumped 9 basis points to 155.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.4 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  