-- Israel Broke Human Rights Law in Gaza Strip Flotilla Action, UN Panel Says
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-09-23T02:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/israel-broke-human-rights-law-in-gaza-strip-flotilla-action-un-panel-says.html
Israel’s May 31 efforts to stop a
flotilla of ships from reaching the Gaza Strip broke
international human rights and humanitarian law, and more such
incidents may occur, a United Nations human rights panel said.  The assault on the ship Mavi Marmara constituted “grave
violations of human rights law and international humanitarian
law,” according to a  report  by a three-person panel of experts
appointed by the UN Human Rights Council.  “Lethal force was employed by the Israeli soldiers in a
widespread and arbitrary manner which caused an unnecessarily
large number of persons to be killed or seriously injured,” the
report said. “Less extreme means could have been employed in
nearly all instances of the Israeli operation, since there was
no imminent threat to soldiers.”  Israel’s Foreign Ministry called the report “as biased and
as one sided as the body that has produced it,” and said its
own inquiries had sufficiently investigated the raid.  Israel has said that in the confrontation, which followed
numerous warnings for the ships to change course, its soldiers
were attacked with knives and clubs after boarding the Mavi
Marmara, one of the six vessels in the flotilla, and seven were
wounded, including by gunfire after volunteers aboard the ship
managed to grab Israeli firearms.  Activists have said they threw the firearms into the sea.
There was no violence on the other five ships.  Naval Blockade  The Israeli raid on vessels attempting to breach a naval
blockade of the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip left nine Turkish
citizens dead, generated international criticism and led Turkey
to suspend diplomatic and security cooperation. Turkey was once
Israel’s closest ally in the region.  “There was no legal basis for the Israeli forces to
conduct an assault and interception in international waters,”
the report said.  Israel refused to cooperate with the UN inquiry, and video
and photographic evidence obtained from Israel, mostly through
the Internet or published proceedings from Israeli inquiries,
couldn’t be relied on, the report said.  While it was clear that the Israeli soldiers who tried to
take control of the ship were attacked, the panel found no
evidence that passengers used firearms to shoot at the soldiers.  Similar incidents are likely to occur unless “there is a
dramatic shift in the existing paradigm,” the UN said. “Might
and strength are enhanced when attended by a sense of justice
and fair play. An unfair victory has never been known to bring
lasting peace.”  UN Panel Report  The UN panel’s report was prepared by Karl Hudson-Phillips,
a former attorney general of Trinidad and Tobago;  Desmond de Silva , former chief prosecutor of the UN-backed Special Court
for Sierra Leone; and Mary Shanthi Dairiam, a Malaysian women’s
rights activist.  Israel has been blockading Gaza since Hamas ousted forces
loyal to President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah group and seized full
control in 2007 after winning Palestinian parliamentary
elections the previous year. Hamas is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Israel launched an operation in the Gaza Strip in December
2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of rockets into
its territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict. Since the end of the three-week
operation, some 330 rockets have been fired from Gaza into
Israel, killing one foreign worker last March, the Israeli army
said.  The Israeli government says its blockade of Gaza is legal
because it is in “a state of armed conflict” with Hamas. Some
countries, such as Turkey, dispute the legality of the blockade.  Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  