-- Italian Unemployment Rate Rises as Recovery Lags Behind Europe
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-09-23T09:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/italian-jobless-rate-rises-to-highest-since-2003-as-recovery-trails-europe.html
Italy’s  jobless rate  rose in the
second quarter to the highest since 2003 as the recovery in
Europe’s fourth-biggest  economy  trails the rest of the region.  The unemployment rate climbed to a seasonally adjusted 8.5
percent from 8.4 percent in the first quarter, Rome-based
statistics institute  Istat  said today. Economists had predicted
a rate of 8.6 percent, according to the median of 11 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Italy’s recovery from the worst recession in 60 years is
lagging behind that of its European partners, and the country’s
biggest companies such as Telecom Italia SpA and UniCredit SpA
continue to shed workers to contain costs. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development forecast on Sept. 9 that
the Italian economy would be the only one of the Group of Seven
industrial nations to contract in the third quarter.  Italy’s  gross domestic product  rose 0.5 percent in the
three months through June, sustained by a 3.3 percent increase
in exports, as  consumer spending  remained flat. That was half
the pace of the economic expansion in the euro region.  UniCredit , the country’s biggest bank, plans 4,700 job cuts
in Italy in the next three years as it looks to reduce costs
after the global financial crisis led to a slump in profit.  Last month,  Telecom Italia  agreed with unions on cutting
3,900 jobs as the country’s biggest phone company seeks to trim
costs and debt. An additional 2,200 employees will get
“solidarity contracts” involving reduced hours and lower pay.  Revised Growth  Employers’ lobby  Confindustria  forecast in a report last
week that unemployment will climb to 8.7 percent at the end of
2010 and to 9.3 percent next year. Confindustria reiterated its
previous forecast of 1.2 percent growth this year, while
lowering the projection for 2011 to 1.3 percent from a previous
estimate of 1.6 percent.  The recovery may be held back by Italy’s efforts to rein in
its budget deficit. In July, the government passed 25 billion
euros ($33.4 billion) of spending cuts for the next two years to
reduce the shortfall after Greece’s near-default led euro-region
governments to adopt measures to protect the  single currency .
The austerity plan contributed to Italian consumer confidence
falling to a 15-month low in August.  The $2.3 trillion economy will contract an annualized 0.3
percent in the three months through September, the OECD said in
a Sept. 9 report. The forecast compares with a projected 1.1
percent expansion in Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, while
the French economy will grow 0.3 percent, the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  