-- J&J Faces Shareholder Fraud Lawsuit Over Recalls
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-09-23T19:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/j-j-faces-shareholder-fraud-lawsuit-over-recalls-update1-.html
Johnson & Johnson was sued for
fraud over claims it lied to investors about contamination at
manufacturing plants and about the repurchase of defective
Motrin tablets from store shelves by J&J-hired consultants.  The complaint by shareholder Ronald Monk claims  J&J  made
misleading statements before disclosing contamination at plants
in Puerto Rico and Pennsylvania, and the Motrin recall is now
under investigation by Congress. Monk’s complaint also cites the
April 30 recall of more than  40 types  of children’s medicines.  “As a result of the blatant, systemic, and repeated
failure of defendants to maintain proper manufacturing practices
at their facilities, defendants have been forced to issue over
eight separate recalls including dozens of products and hundreds
of millions of individual packages,” the complaint alleges.  The lawsuit, filed Sept. 21 in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey, comes amid a U.S. criminal investigation of the recalls
and a probe by a congressional panel that has scheduled a
hearing on J&J for Sept. 30. The company’s lawyers told the
 House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform  in a letter
yesterday that U.S. regulators knew its McNeil Consumer
Healthcare unit was recalling Motrin caplets last year.  Carol Goodrich , a spokeswoman for New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  J&J shares fell 4 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$61.93 at 2:36 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Class Action  Monk seeks to proceed as a class-action, or group, lawsuit
for investors who bought shares between October 2008 and July
2010. The suit was filed by Barroway Topaz Kessler Meltzer &
Check LLP of San Francisco.  The complaint claims J&J withheld material information
before its decision in April to shut down a plant in Fort
Washington, Pennsylvania, where contamination led to the
unpublicized recall of defective Motrin tablets in 2009.  Company lawyers said that its McNeil unit informed the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration it was using a contractor to buy
defective Motrin from store shelves, according to a letter
obtained by Bloomberg News. Lawmakers investigating J&J and FDA
in the matter have dubbed the actions a “phantom recall.”  The case is Monk v. Johnson & Johnson, 10-cv-4841, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   Rgake5@bloomberg.net  