-- Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Decline on Economy; HSBC May Be Active
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   K o t a r o   T s u n e t o m i
-- 2010-09-23T23:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/japanese-australian-stock-futures-decline-on-economy-hsbc-may-be-active.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  fell on concern a deteriorating profit outlook for U.S.
banks and a rise in U.S. jobless claims will slow a global 
economic recovery.  American depositary receipts of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc., Japan’s biggest bank by market value, declined 1.2
percent from the closing share price in Tokyo on Sept. 22,
before a holiday yesterday. ADRs of  Toyota Motor Corp. , a
Japanese carmaker that gets about 70 percent of its sales abroad,
lost 1.5 percent as the yen strengthened. ADRs of National
Australia Bank Ltd. lost 1.3 percent from the closing share
price in Sydney. HSBC Holdings Plc may be active in Hong Kong
after a person familiar with the situation said the bank’s chief
executive officer will step down at yearend.  “Investors are focusing more on the macro economy,” said
 Kazuhiro Takahashi , a general manager at Tokyo-based Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Co. “The stronger yen is boosting
concern about company earnings.”  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
December closed at 9,365 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,440 in Singapore. They were  bid  in the pre-market at 9,350 at
8:05 a.m. in Osaka, Japan. Futures on Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index  fell 1 percent today. New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  slid 0.1
percent in Wellington.  U.S. Market  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed today. The index slipped 0.8 percent yesterday in New
York, a third day of decline. Applications for unemployment
benefits unexpectedly rose last week, a sign companies remain
cautious about hiring as economic growth slows. Initial  jobless
claims  increased by 12,000 to 465,000 in the week ended Sept. 18,
Labor Department figures showed yesterday in Washington.  Lenders retreated after Bank of America Corp. cut its
third-quarter earnings estimates for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,
Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley, saying that a “severe summer
slowdown weighs on trading.”  The yen appreciated to as high as 84.34 against the dollar
today in Tokyo from 84.90 at the close of stock trading on Sept.
22. Against the euro, Japan’s currency strengthened to 112.28
from 112.85. A stronger yen reduces overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  The  Baltic Dry Index  of shipping rates for commodities sank
for a ninth consecutive day yesterday, bringing its slump during
the period to 18 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has fallen 2.7 percent from its
high this year on April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis, China’s
steps to curb property prices and concern about the pace of U.S.
economic growth have hurt confidence in a global recovery.
Stocks in the index trade at 14.2 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.5 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 11.8 times for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index .  HSBC Chief Executive Officer  Michael Geoghegan  will step
down at the end of the year and be replaced by investment-
banking head  Stuart Gulliver , according to a person who spoke
anonymously because the changes haven’t been announced. Finance
Director Douglas Flint, 55, will take over as chairman of the
company, Europe’s biggest bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
 Kotaro Tsunetomi  in Tokyo at 
 ktsunetomi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 