-- Japan's 10-Year Bonds Advance on Speculation Central Bank Will Ease Policy
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-09-24T06:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/japan-s-10-year-bonds-may-rise-for-third-day-on-u-s-economy-yen-concerns.html
Japanese government  bonds  rose for
a third day on speculation the central bank will ease monetary
policy amid signs of slowing global economic growth.  Ten-year bonds extended a weekly gain after data yesterday
showed applications for jobless benefits unexpectedly increased
last week in the U.S., Japan’s second-biggest export market.
Demand for  bonds  was tempered after the yen slid, bolstering
stocks. Japan intervened in the currency market today, Kyodo
News said, citing an unidentified market source, after the
nation sold yen on Sept. 15 for the first time since 2004.  “People are paying close attention to possible easing by
the Bank of Japan,” said  RuiXue Xu , a strategist in Tokyo at
RBS Securities Japan Ltd., a unit of Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. “There is enough possibility that 10-year yields
will fall to 0.9 percent.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond dropped two basis
points to 0.995 percent at 3:02 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1
percent debt due September 2020 rose 0.181 yen to 100.045.
Yields have fallen 7.5 basis points since Sept. 17, set for a
second weekly slide. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery gained 0.23 to
142.88 at the close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Japan’s
financial markets were closed yesterday for a national holiday.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slumped as much as 1.6 percent
after a Labor Department report said U.S. initial jobless claims
increased by 12,000 in the week ended Sept. 18. Economists had
projected applications stayed unchanged from initial figures.  Intervention Speculation  The Bank of Japan won’t rule out any policy options,
including increasing its bond purchases, BOJ board member Ryuzo
Miyao said on Sept. 22. “We’re entering a situation where we
need to pay more attention to downside risks,” he said.  Gains in bonds were limited after the Japanese currency
dropped as much as 1.2 percent. A stronger yen reduces the value
of overseas income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  “Intervention moves the currency market strongly, so stock
and bond markets react quickly to the possibility of
intervention,” said  Hiroshi Morikawa , a strategist in Tokyo at
MU Investments, which manages about $14 billion in assets.
“Nobody disputes that Japan’s growth depends on exports, and
the currency’s appreciation can wreck the country’s recovery,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net  