-- Repsol's Brazil Unit IPO to Help Realize `Fuller Valuation,' JPMorgan Says
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-09-23T11:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/jpmorgan-says-repsol-s-brazil-unit-ipo-is-positive-trigger-for-valuation.html
Repsol YPF SA ’s planned sale of
shares in its Brazilian unit is a “positive trigger” for the
valuation of Spain’s biggest oil company, JPMorgan said.  “It will help to realize a fuller valuation for its pre-
salt discoveries,” London-based analysts  Fred Lucas  and  Nitin Sharma  wrote today in a note. “Concerns on potential demand
weakness in the local market are overdone. We believe that the
company’s good exploration track record, pure upstream bias and
well appraised resource base ought to be an attractive
preposition for investors.”  Repsol , which plans to sell about 40 percent of its
Brazilian business through an initial public offering, filed to
sell voting shares in the unit on Aug. 9. The Madrid-based
company is seeking to raise about $4 billion from the stock
sale, valuing the unit at about $10 billion, two people familiar
with the plan said in July.  The JPMorgan analysts have an “overweight” rating on
 Repsol  and increased the share-price estimate to 23 euros from
21 euros. The shares have advanced 0.4 percent in Madrid so far
this year, giving Repsol a market value of 23 billion euros ($31
billion).  Repsol has stakes in blocks in Brazil’s Santos, Campos and
Espirito Santo basins, and will invest as much as $5 billion
there from 2010 through 2014, and as much as $9 billion from
2015 through 2019.  Since 2007, Repsol and partners  BG Group Plc  and Brazil’s
state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  have found hydrocarbons
in the offshore Carioca, Guara and Iguacu fields in the Santos
Basin’s BM-S-9 block. These are ultra-deep deposits beneath a
salt layer under the seabed.  Petrobras, as Brazil’s state-controlled oil company is
known, estimated in November 2007 that the Santos Basin’s pre-
salt Tupi field may contain as many as 8 billion barrels of oil,
the largest find in the Americas since Mexico’s Cantarell field
in 1976. Repsol doesn’t own a stake in Tupi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 