-- Kenyan Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Rate at 6% on Renewed Inflation Threat
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-09-23T13:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/kenyan-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-rate-at-6-on-renewed-inflation-threat.html
Kenya’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged, following six reductions
since the start of 2009, as the risk of inflation increased and
the economy’s recovery gained speed.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the key lending rate at
6 percent, the Nairobi-based  Central Bank of Kenya  said in an e-
mailed statement today. The decision was expected by all three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Nerves are beginning to fray with the price of fuel
rising,” Aly-Khan Satchu, an independent financial analyst,
said by phone from Nairobi, the capital, today. “There also may
be an upturn in inflation because of food prices.”  The threat of a pick-up in food and energy prices surfaced
after the weather agency this month forecast poor rainfall
during the October-to-December short rainy season. Dry weather
could crimp farming output and reduce levels in hydroelectric
dams that provide Kenya with three-quarters of its installed
power capacity, the  Kenya Meteorological Department  said on
Sept. 7.  Kenya’s inflation, which has remained below the government
target of 5 percent since March, slowed to 3.2 percent in August
from 3.6 percent a month earlier, according the data from the
 Kenya National Bureau of Statistics.   Kenya’s shilling strengthened as much as 0.3 percent to
80.83 per dollar after the decision, before trading 0.3 percent
weaker at 81.15 by 4:35 p.m. in Nairobi today.  Economic Growth  East Africa’s largest economy may expand faster this year
than the government’s target thanks to higher tea production and
growing tourist arrivals, Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said
on Sept. 20. Kenyatta, in his June 10 budget speech, targeted
economic growth of 4.5 percent for 2010, up from 2.6 percent in
2009 and 1.7 percent the year before.  The central bank unexpectedly cut the benchmark rate by
three-quarters of a percentage point at its previous meeting on
July 28 in an effort to persuade commercial banks to charge
lower lending rates.  Since January 2009, the bank’s key lending rate has fallen
2.5 percentage points. Kenyan commercial banks have left rates
little changed over the same period, with the average lending
rate rising to 14.29 percent in July from 14.22 percent in
 January 2009 , according to the central bank’s data.  The bank is trying to find new ways to persuade banks to
boost Kenyans’ access to lower-cost credit after commercial
banks failed to pass on previous benchmark interest rate cuts,
according to today’s statement.  “The committee noted that following its previous decisions
credit growth responded and bank lending rates declined
slightly,” the bank said. “However there is still scope for
further reduction in lending rates.” Banks, many sitting with
excess reserves, are pricing the risk of default into borrowing
costs in an uncompetitive manner, a practice that must end, it
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 Smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 