-- KFC Executive Cries Fowl on Charge He Favors Grilled Over Crispy Chicken
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-09-23T20:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/kfc-executive-denies-he-is-favoring-grilled-products-over-crispy-chicken.html
The president of  Yum! Brands Inc. ’s
Kentucky Fried Chicken unit told a judge today he’s being
wrongly accused of favoring grilled products over crispy fare,
and said franchisees are trying to dominate company advertising.  Roger Eaton , who earlier supervised restaurant operations
in the South Pacific, testified that he took over the U.S. job
in 2008 and is trying to help make improvements at the chain.  Grilled chicken “is a very important part of KFC’s
future” but crispy fried chicken “is the most popular” and
the cornerstone of the business, Eaton told Delaware Chancery
Court Judge  Leo Strine Jr.  in the fourth day of a nonjury trial
in Wilmington.  The KFC National Council and Advertising Cooperative Inc.,
the designer of marketing programs for the world’s most-popular
chicken restaurant chain, sued KFC in January contending that
Eaton is slighting the original product and the ads he favors
are “lopsided towards grilled chicken.”  The council has 17 board members, 13 from franchisees.
Strine is being asked to decide whether KFC “has the sole
authority” to direct advertising, and whether the council can
“modify or suggest changes” to KFC proposals, according to
court papers.  The case “is not about grilled versus fried,” it’s about
control, and if the council prevailed, it would be
“disastrous” for the brand, Eaton said.  ‘Very Hurtful’  He said the council “is trying to take control of
marketing and advertising,” which would affect KFC’s
accountability to franchisees, suppliers, consumers and Yum
shareholders.  The ad council’s allegations in the lawsuit “are very
hurtful,” Eaton testified.  The executive said the company needs to move quickly in a
highly competitive business, that “fast decision-making is very
important” and that it may be slowed by the council.  Some of the improvements Eaton foresees include “increased
portability” of products for people who eat in their cars,
better value pricing and modernizing the look of KFC
restaurants.  Employee recruitment is also a problem in the U.S., Eaton
said, and the company needs to build its reputation “as a good
place to work.”  Louisville, Kentucky-based Yum, with $10.8 billion in 2009
revenue, fell 65 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $45.82 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
risen 31 percent this year.  The case is KFC National Council v. KFC Corp., CA5191,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 