-- Nakheel Debt Restructuring to Be Completed by Year-End, CEO O'Donnell Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-09-23T12:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/nakheel-debt-restructuring-to-be-completed-by-year-end-ceo-o-donnell-says.html
Nakheel PJSC, the developer of
palm-tree shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, will finish
restructuring its debt by the end of this year, according to
Chief Executive Officer  Chris O’Donnell .  “The restructuring is well advanced,” O’Donnell said.
“We are in good discussions with banks and we’re working with
customers on consolidation. We had 85 percent acceptance and
we’re waiting for the 95 percent target.”  Nakheel is renegotiating debt terms after the deepest
financial crisis since the 1930s roiled Dubai’s real-estate
market and left companies unable to raise money. Property prices
have fallen more than 50 percent in the sheikhdom as banks cut
mortgage lending.  Earlier this month, Dubai World, Nakheel’s parent and one
of Dubai’s three main holding companies, said it secured
approval from creditors to change the terms on $24.9 billion of
debt. Nakheel is seeking to alter the terms on more than $10
billion of bank debt and contractors’ claims.  The company said it has resumed construction work in its Al
Furjan project with Al Shafar Transport and Contracting Co.
Arabtec Holding Co. earlier this year stopped work on the 800
villa development because of unpaid bills. About 4,000 homes
were initially planned in the project.  Lawsuit  Construction Delivery Group FZE, a facilities manger in
Dubai, has filed a 50.4 million dirham ($13.7 million) claim
against Nakheel at the Special Tribunal Related to Dubai World.  The company is demanding compensation for unpaid fees, loss
of profit and other expenses incurred on 1,224 villas and 114
Canal Cove homes on the Palm Jumeirah island from March 2007 to
January 2009, according to a filing on the court’s website.  “Nakheel will vigorously defend this isolated case and has
a solid and substantial counter claim against the creditor,”
the developer said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Al Shafar Transport and Contracting Co. is the first
contractor to resume construction work on Nakheel’s Al Furjan
project.  “We expect by the end of October all agreements with
contractors will be in place,” O’Donnell said. The company
expects construction to resume immediately after agreements have
been reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 