-- Natural Gas Advances as Storm in Caribbean Threatens to Disrupt Production
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-09-23T19:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/natural-gas-advances-as-storm-in-caribbean-threatens-to-disrupt-production.html
Natural gas futures rose for a
third day as forecasts showed a strengthening storm over the
Caribbean Sea that may threaten energy producing regions of the
Gulf of Mexico.  Tropical Depression 15 has formed east of Nicaragua and may
grow into a hurricane by next week, moving toward the Gulf,
according to the National Hurricane Center. Gas pared steeper
gains after a government report showed a U.S. stockpile increase
that was near the five-year average.  “We’ve been moving higher undoubtedly on expectations of
shut-ins in the Gulf,” said  Stephen Schork , president of Schork
Group Inc., a consulting company in Villanova, Pennsylvania.
“The storage number is within historical parameters, so the
market sold off immediately and we seem to be finding a balance
right now.”  Natural gas for October delivery advanced 5.3 cents, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $4.019 per million British thermal units
on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices rose as much as 4.2
percent before the supply report was released at 10:30 a.m. The
futures have advanced 4.1 percent from a year ago.  Gas supplies gained 73 billion cubic feet in the week ended
Sept. 17 to 3.34 trillion, the Energy Department said today. The
five-year average gain is 70 billion. A survey of Bloomberg
users showed an increase of 74 billion and estimates from
analysts compiled separately by Bloomberg showed an increase of
80 billion.  Stockpile Surplus  A surplus to the five-year average was unchanged at 6.2
percent from the previous week. A deficit to year-earlier
supplies narrowed to 5 percent from 5.3 percent.  Inventories will peak at 3.687 trillion cubic feet before
cold-weather demand prompts utilities to pull gas from storage,
the department predicted in its monthly  Short-Term Energy
Outlook  on Sept. 8. Stockpiles rose to a record 3.837 trillion
cubic feet last November.  Tropical Depression 15, about 485 miles (775 kilometers)
east of Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua, is moving toward the west at
15 miles (24 kilometers) per hour and may reach the Nicaragua-
Honduras border over the weekend, the hurricane center said in
an  advisory  at 2 p.m. eastern time.  A weather pattern that will set up in the southern U.S.
will probably steer the storm to the north and into the Gulf,
said  Jim Rouiller , the senior energy meteorologist for
Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  “This looks like it will be the first major hurricane to
threaten the eastern Gulf in many years,” Rouiller said.
“We’re going to see something that has to be taken seriously.”  Storm Forecast  The current official hurricane center track shows the storm
grazing Honduras before striking Belize and then turning north
toward the Gulf. The center has said repeatedly that its long-
range tracks can be off by several hundred miles.  “You got a knee-jerk reaction higher on this storm,” said
 Carl Neill , an energy consultant at Risk Management Inc. in
Atlanta. “Some extended heat across the country” is also
supporting prices.  About 10 percent of U.S. gas output will come from federal
waters in the Gulf of Mexico this year, according to Energy
Department estimates.  The hurricane season so far has had less of an impact on
Gulf gas production than had been projected by the government.
All five major Atlantic hurricanes stayed away from the main
Gulf gas-production region.  Rising Temperatures  Hotter-than-normal weather may boost demand for the power-
plant fuel. Temperatures will be above normal in the eastern
U.S. through Sept. 27, according to Commodity Weather Group LLC
in Bethesda, Maryland.  New York will have a high of 88 degrees Fahrenheit (31
Celsius) tomorrow, 16 degrees above normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania.  About 23 percent of U.S. electricity is generated using
natural gas, according to the Energy Department.  Wholesale natural gas at the benchmark  Henry Hub  in Erath,
Louisiana, gained 6.17 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $4.0807 per
million Btu on the Intercontinental Exchange.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
248,739 as of 2:36 p.m., compared with a three-month average of
254,000. Volume was 226,178 yesterday. Open interest was 798,130
contracts, compared with the three-month average of 805,000. The
exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open interest
and full volume data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net . 