-- Net-Neutrality Dispute on Internet Access: Questions and Answers
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-09-23T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/net-neutrality-dispute-on-internet-access-questions-and-answers.html
Internet companies such as Facebook
Inc. are fighting communications providers led by  AT&T Inc.  and
 Comcast Corp . over what rules U.S. regulators should adopt for
the Internet. The issue concerns net neutrality, a concept
sufficiently nebulous that even companies on the same side of
the issue can’t agree on exactly what it means.  A primer for technophobes:  What is net neutrality?  It’s the idea that all Internet traffic should be treated
equally. In theory, companies that handle Internet traffic,
including Comcast and AT&T, would have to transmit  Google Inc. ’s
YouTube videos at the same speed as movies from Netflix Inc. AT&T
couldn’t give priority service to YouTube in exchange for
payments at the expense of the video service’s rivals.  Why do supporters say the government should impose net-
neutrality rules?  Advocates say that without rules, Internet-service
providers may manage their networks to favor their own content
or that of business partners, while blocking or slowing
competing offerings.  That would undermine the Web’s premise of openness and
opportunity, locking out new ventures and restricting the
choices of users, the supporters say.  Among supporters are companies such as Skype Technologies
SA, which provides free and discounted phone service over the
Internet, and advocacy groups such as Washington-based  Free
Press .  Why do opponents say the government shouldn’t put new rules
in place?  Internet-service providers, such as cable and phone
companies, say rules would interfere with their need to manage
networks so that bandwidth-hogging applications don’t slow
service to everyone.  There’s no evidence of abuses that would merit government
intervention, and consumers would abandon any Internet provider
that limited their online choices, the opponents say. They say
rules would discourage billions of dollars in network investment
by limiting potential returns.  Has the government attempted to enforce net neutrality
previously?  The Federal Communications Commission censured Comcast, the
largest U.S. cable provider, in 2008 for interfering with
subscribers’ Web traffic in a case that involved the BitTorrent
file-sharing application.  A federal court ruled in April of this year that the FCC
lacked power to act against Comcast. FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said the decision “reduces sharply” the
commission’s authority over Internet-service providers.  Genachowski proposed shoring up the FCC’s power by
extending to the Internet rules written in the 20th century for
monopoly telephone service. He hasn’t sought an FCC vote on the
approach, which companies such as AT&T say may lead to
regulation of Internet rates.  Why are Google and Verizon working together?  On Aug. 9, Google and  Verizon Communications Inc.  proposed
what they  called  a legislative framework proposal that aims to
“help resolve a debate which has largely stagnated.”  Google, operator of the most-used Internet search engine,
has long worked with advocates of net neutrality. Verizon, the
second-largest U.S. phone company after AT&T, has sided with
other Internet providers opposing government rules.  Google said the agreement with Verizon provided a way out
of an “intractable” dispute and that the compromise would be
“preferable to no protection at all.”  How would the Google-Verizon plan work?  Internet providers would be barred from “undue
discrimination” against lawful Web content, while retaining
authority for “reasonable” network management.  The proposal would let Internet service providers offer
“additional online services” for an extra charge.  It also would also exempt all wireless services, such as
Web applications on mobile phones. The companies say wireless
services shouldn’t come under net-neutrality rules because those
networks are competitive and they are still evolving.  What do critics say about the Google-Verizon plan?  Groups such as Free Press say exempting “additional online
services” from regulation would create a two-tiered system,
with today’s Internet languishing as investment goes to more
lucrative pay services. Exempting wireless devices such as
mobile phones would let companies limit options in the fastest-
growing part of the Internet, the critics say.  What’s next?  The FCC or Congress may act. There is no deadline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 