-- Netflix Call Trades Jump After Blockbuster Bankruptcy
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-09-23T20:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/netflix-call-trades-jump-after-blockbuster-bankruptcy-update1-.html
Netflix Inc.  call option volume
jumped for a second day as traders boosted bullish wagers on the
mail-order and online movie-rental service after rival
 Blockbuster Inc . filed for bankruptcy.  More than  77,000 calls  to buy the stock changed hands, 3.5
times the four-week average, after rising to a six-week high of
63,470 contracts yesterday. The shares advanced for a fourth
day, climbing 2.3 percent to $160.47 as of 4 p.m. in New York
after reaching an  intraday record  of $163.72. More than 1.3
calls traded for each put to sell the stock. Put volume was
triple the average.  “Option activity this morning suggests further short-term
optimism in the company’s share price,”  Patrick Mortimer ,
director of options trading at Pipeline Trading Systems LLC in
New Hope, Pennsylvania, wrote in a report.  Blockbuster, the world’s biggest movie-rental company,
filed for bankruptcy in New York after failing to adapt its
storefront model to online technology pioneered by companies
like Netflix. Netflix shares have almost tripled this year.  Today’s second most-active bullish contracts were $160
calls that expire tomorrow. They rose 27 percent to $2 after the
shares rose above the $160 strike price. They traded 5,846
times, more than quadruple their open interest of 1,369 existing
contracts before today.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 