-- New York to Sell $1.3 Billion in Debt as Yield Premium Falls by Two-Thirds
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-09-23T19:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/new-york-city-plans-to-sell-1-3-billion-of-bonds-as-borrowing-costs-fall.html
New York City, which issued about
$963 million in municipal bonds in July, plans to sell $1.3
billion in general obligations next month while the extra yield
demanded by investors has fallen 67 percent in three months.  The most populous U.S. city, whose debt is ranked third-
highest by all three rating firms, will offer $800 million as
taxable debt, including $650 million in Build America Bonds,
earmarked for capital projects and carrying a 35 percent federal
subsidy on the interest cost.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempt general obligations due in
10 years are  2.61 percent  today, 3 basis points above the lowest
level ever, according to data from Municipal Market Advisors, an
independent research firm in Concord, Massachusetts. Average
yields on Build Americas were  5.57 percent  yesterday, 8 points
above the record low, according to a Wells Fargo index.  “The city is a very sophisticated issuer,” said  Mike Pietronico , who oversees about $300 million in municipal debt as
chief executive officer of New York-based Miller Tabak Asset
Management. “They understand when it’s a good time to issue,
and I think they nailed it. It should be well received.”  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  ordered agencies to freeze hiring
until they receive his approval for spending cuts totaling $2
billion during the next 21 months. He anticipates a $3.3 billion
budget gap for the 2012 fiscal year that begins July 1. He told
officials this week to seek savings of about $800 million in the
remaining nine months of this fiscal year and $1.2 billion in
2012.  Balance of Borrowing  In addition to the taxable bonds, the city is selling $500
million in tax-exempt securities to refinance existing debt and
convert $90 million in outstanding variable-rate demand bonds to
fixed-rate, according to a statement released today by the
 Office of Management & Budget .  “The City is constantly reviewing refunding opportunities
to lower the cost of the City’s debt service, and the refunding
component of our upcoming deal will help us achieve this goal,”
 Ray Orlando , an OMB spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The bulk of the city’s tax-exempt sale in July comprised
seven-year debt priced to yield 2.52 percent, 30 basis points
above an MMA index of  2017 bonds . The securities traded today at
an average yield of 2.06 percent, 10 basis points above.  Next month’s offerings will price the week of Oct. 4, with
marketing to individuals for the tax-exempts beginning Oct. 1,
the statement said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 