-- New Zealand Follows Scotland in Delaying Delhi Games Travel
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-09-23T14:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/new-zealand-follows-scotland-canada-in-delaying-commonwealth-games-travel.html
New Zealand followed Scotland and
Canada in delaying the arrival of its athletes into New Delhi
for next month’s Commonwealth Games because their accommodation
doesn’t meet hygiene or safety standards.  The New Zealand Olympic Committee , which is responsible for
the country’s Commonwealth Games team, said it advised athletes
to hold off travel to the Indian capital until Sept. 28. The
first group had been scheduled to arrive at the weekend.  “The long-list of outstanding issues has made it clear the
village will now not be ready for New Zealand athletes to move
in as planned,” NZOC President Mike Stanley said in a
 statement . “This is not a matter of comfort or luxury, it’s a
matter of hygiene and safety.”  Teams from  Australia , New Zealand, England, Canada,
Scotland and Wales have sought assurances from local organizers
that the athletes’ village will be fit for habitation. The
Games, which gather about 8,000 athletes and officials from the
U.K. and its former colonies and dependencies, are scheduled to
run  Oct. 3-14 . England’s first athletes will leave for India
today.  The run-up to Delhi’s hosting of the quadrennial multisport
event has also been marred by collapsing infrastructure, an
outbreak of dengue fever, monsoon floods and security concerns
after the Sept. 19 shooting of two Taiwanese near a mosque.  Wales Going  The Welsh advance party will move into the village and the
athletes will arrive “in the coming days,” Team Wales said
today in an e-mailed statement.  “The Commonwealth Games Federation has received assurances
from the Delhi 2010 Organizing Committee that all venues and
village are fit for purpose,” the group said. “We are
confident in the assurances that have been provided.”  Some athletes have already withdrawn from the games citing
concerns about health and security. The Australian government
warned there was a “high risk of terrorism” after the
shootings outside Delhi’s main mosque.  Australia’s Dani Samuels, the discus world champion, and
English triple-jumper  Phillips Idowu  withdrew two days ago. Two
Canadian archers -- former world champion Dietmar Trillus and
Kevin Tataryn -- pulled out yesterday.  “I wouldn’t let my children go there,” Trillus was cited
as saying by the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. “What the heck am
I doing getting on a plane to go there?”  Footbridge Collapse  Concerns over safety were raised two days ago after a
footbridge collapsed near the main Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium,
injuring at least 27 people. Part of the ceiling at the
weightlifting venue collapsed yesterday, television channel CNN-
IBN reported.  David Currie, chef de mission of the New Zealand team, said
he advised his operations team to stay out of the athletes’
village until it’s habitable.  “There are still issues with plumbing, wiring and leaks
and the maintenance people have no access to our tower while the
security process takes place,” Currie said in a statement.
“We’re now looking to move in on the 26th and we need two days
to prepare for athletes.”  Australia’s top Commonwealth Games official, Perry
Crosswhite, wrote to all of the nation’s 400 team members last
night to advise them that the security risk and accommodation
are “acceptable.” He said in a statement that no other team
members had indicated they would withdraw due to safety
concerns.  “It is up to the individual athlete to decide whether or
not they wish to travel to Delhi and participate in the Games,”
Crosswhite said. “It is a very personal decision and one which
athletes must make in consultation with their family and
individual support teams.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  