-- Newson’s $1.3 Million Speedboat Joins Manta Ray Jet, $300 Nikes
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/newson-s-1-3-million-speedboat-joins-manta-ray-jet-300-nikes-review.html
Marc Newson ’s Lockheed Lounge, a
curvy aluminum recliner, has set and broken auction records,
thanks to covetous couch potatoes with deep pockets.  The London-based designer also has a high-end mobile side.
His new show at one of  Gagosian Gallery ’s Chelsea outlet, “Marc
Newson: Transport,” includes a space plane, a personal jet, a
surfboard and his most recent bauble, a sleek 33-foot speedboat
with turquoise seats that will set you back about $1.3 million.  That’s half the $2.1 million that the Lockheed Lounge,
owned by CNET Networks Inc. founder  Halsey Minor , fetched at
auction in May. It’s also twice what this sort of boat usually
costs.  “Gosh! That’s a lot,” said  Pascal Wiscour-Conter , chief
executive officer of Monaco-based  Equisea Yacht  Management, in a
telephone interview, while also conceding it’s the “Ferrari of
speedboats.”  The 2009 “Aquariva by Marc Newson,” one of an edition of
22, was built by Italian luxury-boat maker  Riva  SpA in Sarnico,
Italy. Newson kept the brand’s retro look while swapping its
signature mahogany for “phenolic textile composite.”  “These objects are all about the future,” said Newson,
46, in a recent interview at the gallery. “Although some of
them are now 10 years old or more.”  The “EADS Astrium Space Plane” looks like first class
for the Jetsons. The tubular cabin, pocked on walls and ceiling
with portholes, has four canary-yellow laid-back chairs set in
black shells. Newson designed the prototype in 2007 for  European
Aeronautic Defence & Space Co.  It looks comfy and impractical,
and it isn’t for sale.  Touched by Aerospace  “The technology that I get exposed to in the aerospace
industry affects everything I do,” said Newson, in an earlier
interview. “Whether it be designing a car, or a piece of
furniture or something in plastic for the kitchen, chances are,
the material would have been used in some way in the aerospace
industry originally.”  The “Kelvin40 Concept Jet” (2003), for the executive who
has everything and a pilot’s license, looks like a manta ray
standing on three tiny tires. The 1999 “Ford 021C Concept Car”
is small, boxy, snouty, apple-green and vaguely lovable. I
wanted to take it for a walk.  Somewhat more sensible items include a seemingly roadworthy
2008 Biomega bicycle and a pair of Nike shoes covered in
perforated blue material. There’s no price for the Gagosian two-
wheeler, but Copenhagen-based Biomega sells another Newson-
designed model for almost $8,000.  Newson designed the shoes in 2004 for Russian cosmonauts.
Called “Zvezdochka” (which means “little star” in Russian),
the footwear was named after one of the early Russian dogs in
space. They’re available for $300 at the Gagosian boutique on
Madison Avenue.  “As a kid I loved a lot of the typical things that boys
love, you know, cars, planes,” said Newson. “But I didn’t
really grow out of it. It’s now become a job.”  “Marc Newson: Transport” runs through Oct. 16 at 522 W.
21st St. Information: +1-212-741-1717 or  http://www.gagosian.com   ( Katya Kazakina  is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 