-- Nike China Orders Rise 25% on Demand for Basketball Sportswear
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-09-24T20:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/nike-s-first-quarter-profit-beats-somes-estimates-as-china-sales-climb-10-.html
Nike Inc. , the world’s largest
maker of athletic shoes, rose to the highest since the company
went public in 1980 after profit beat some analysts’ estimates
and orders in North America and China surged.  Net income  rose to $559 million, or $1.14 a share, in the
period that ended Aug. 31, from $513 million, or $1.04, a year
earlier, the Beaverton, Oregon-based company said yesterday in a
statement after U.S. markets closed. Analysts estimated profit
of $1, the average of 16 estimates.  Nike’s per-share profit excluding one-time items has beaten
the average analyst estimate for 17 straight quarters, according
to  Bloomberg data . Global orders for Nike brand shoes and
clothes for delivery between September and January grew 13
percent, excluding currency effects. Analysts expected 9.7
percent, the average of seven estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “We’re looking at a continued healthy recovery,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Parker  said yesterday in a conference
call with analysts. “I still contend a slow, steady state of
recovery. I don’t see dramatic shifts in that course at this
stage.”  Nike  gained $1.90, or 2.4 percent, to $79.57 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . That was the
highest closing price since its initial public offering in
December 1980. The stock has  climbed  20 percent this year.  Paying a Premium  “People are paying for really high quality names and
paying a premium and they are paying a premium for this, that’s
for sure,” said  Chris Svezia , an analyst for Susquehanna
Financial Group in New York, who has a neutral rating on Nike
shares. “The stock is pricey still, but they are certainly
executing. I’ll hand it to them, they did a nice job.”  Revenue  from the Nike brand in North America, the company’s
largest market, increased 8 percent to $1.9 billion as apparel
sales rose 16 percent to $515 million. Orders grew 14 percent,
excluding currency changes, the third-straight gain.  Sales  of the Nike brand in China rose 11 percent to $460
million, driven by revenue from basketball shoes, the company
said. Orders, excluding the effects of currency changes, in the
world’s most-populous country surged 23 percent.  “As consumers are getting wealthier here they are buying
special items for the gym, for the weekend, for going out,”
 Shaun Rein , managing director of China Market Research Group in
Shanghai, said in a phone interview today. “ Nike  is doing the
best because they have the best brand loyalty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  