-- Nobel Laureate Linda Buck Retracts Two Studies on Sense of Smell in Brain
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-09-23T20:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/nobel-laureate-buck-retracts-two-papers-on-sense-of-smell-journals-say.html
Linda Buck , co-winner of the 2004
 Nobel Prize  in Physiology or Medicine, retracted two papers on
nerves that carry scents from the nose to the brain, according
to scientific journals.  The papers appeared in the  Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences  in 2005 and  Science  in 2006. They were
retracted because the scientists couldn’t reproduce findings by
Buck’s former postdoctoral researcher Zhihua Zou, the journals
said in statements posted on their websites today. Zou didn’t
sign either retraction.  Buck, 63, shared her Nobel Prize with  Richard Axel  for
“discoveries of odorant receptors and the organization of the
olfactory system,” according to the Nobelprize.org  website . A
study published in 2001 by Nature about how odors are carried
from the nose to the brain in mice was withdrawn in 2008, also
because Buck, a researcher at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center
in Seattle, couldn’t reproduce findings.  A call to Buck’s office wasn’t immediately returned.  After completing his research with Buck, Zou worked as an
assistant professor at the  University of Texas Medical Branch in
Galveston . He was laid off from the institution in November
2008, along with 2,400 others, after Hurricane Ike destroyed
facilities in September, said Kristen Hensley, a spokeswoman for
the medical branch. Zou “returned to China” and his
whereabouts today are unknown, Hensley said.  Zou ‘Disappointed’  Martha Canwright, who at the time was a spokeswoman for
Zou, said in 2008 that he was “disappointed” the Nature paper
had been retracted.  “Dr. Zou has not admitted any wrongdoing and remains
confident in the conclusion made in the published paper,” she
said at the time.  Buck and Axel won the Nobel for a 1991 paper describing
roughly 1,000 genes related to odorant receptors. Axel is a
professor of biochemistry and molecular biophysics at  Columbia
University College of Physicians and Surgeons  in New York, as
well as an investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute
in Chevy Chase, Maryland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 