-- Norway's Central Bank May Split Main Rate to Pay Banks Less for Deposits
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-09-23T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/norway-s-central-bank-may-split-main-rate-to-pay-banks-less-for-deposits.html
Norway’s central bank may be close
to splitting its  benchmark rate  so it can pay banks less on
large deposits and channel excess liquidity back into the
interbank market,  Nordea Bank AB  and  DnB NOR ASA  said.  Oslo-based Norges Bank may lower the rate it offers banks
on big deposits from the current 2 percent, according to
economists at Norway’s two largest banks. The central bank,
which has raised its main rate three times since October and
signalled a further increase at “the turn of the year,” wants
to discourage banks from leaving excess funds on its balance
sheet rather than lending the money to other banks, according to
Governor  Svein Gjedrem .  The central bank said on Sept. 22 it will announce changes
to the money market next month, though it declined to comment on
whether measures may include a rate split.  “The problem is redistribution of liquidity in the banking
system,” said  Anders Svor , assistant director at Norges Bank’s
 Monetary Policy Department , in an interview yesterday. “We feel
that the banks are getting more passive, that they have a
reduced incentive for redistributing liquidity.”  Gjedrem said in a Sept. 6 speech the bank may push through
changes to discourage banks from depositing “substantial”
amounts at the central bank. Tight credit flows have increased
the difference between short-term money market rates and the
central bank’s benchmark 2 percent rate, forcing Norges Bank to
provide more liquidity loans.  ‘Not Happy’  Over the past year the average daily surplus liquidity
deposited with the central bank has been about 40 billion kroner
($6.7 billion), or about 10 billion kroner more than the average
between 2003 and 2008, Svor said.  “Norges Bank is not happy about the spread between the
central bank rate and where the money market rate is fixing,”
said  Gaute Langeland , an interest-rate strategist at Nordea, in
an interview. “They feel that a spread of 60 to 70 basis points
is high; they feel that there is more liquidity in the Norwegian
market now than there used to be before the financial crisis but
the liquidity isn’t being distributed evenly. Banks are
reluctant to distribute between themselves.”  The  spread  between Norway’s interbank offered rate and the
benchmark rate was at 62 basis points yesterday, compared with
26 basis points at the end of 2009. A rate split is a likely
option as Norges Bank wants to pay lenders less on their
deposits without reversing its tightening cycle needed to guide
the economy through its recovery, the economists said.  ‘Structural’  Deputy Governor  Jan F. Qvigstad  said the bank discussed how
to change the way it steers the money market at its Sept. 22
policy rate meeting. Norges Bank may present a proposal in about
two to three weeks, he said.  “It’s more structural,” Qvigstad said in a Sept. 22
interview. “The financial crisis has revealed weaknesses in the
way we have organized the short-term money market.”  The bank this week  allocated 40 billion kroner  ($6.75
billion) of one-month loans at a 2.16 percent average rate. The
auction attracted 68.75 billion kroner in bids.  By splitting the benchmark deposit rate, Norges Bank will
remove the floor from the money market that has guaranteed banks
a minimum return on their deposits with the central bank,
Langeland said.  “In future there won’t be this floor,” he said.  Kyrre Aamdal , senior economist at DnB NOR, said introducing
a lower rate for large deposits is a likely strategy of the
central bank.  “Deposits over this limit will have another rate,” he
said in a phone interview.  Norges Bank, which last year became the first in Europe to
increase borrowing costs, was forced  to scale back its
tightening plans  in June after Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
triggered concern that austerity measures may slow the region’s
recovery and sap demand for Norwegian exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  