-- Novartis Hid Health Risks of Bone Drugs, Lawyer Tells Jury in New Jersey
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-09-23T18:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/novartis-hid-health-risks-of-bone-drugs-lawyer-tells-jury-in-new-jersey.html
Novartis AG  officials hid the
health risks of the drugmaker’s bone-strengthening medicines
Aredia and  Zometa , which a woman says destroyed her jaw, a
lawyer told a New Jersey jury.  Novartis executives knew as early as 2002 that Jane
Bessemer and other cancer patients taking Aredia and Zometa to
slow bone loss during treatment may suffer irreplaceable jawbone
damage,  Bob Germany , a lawyer for the plaintiff, said in opening
statements in the trial of Bessemer’s lawsuit over the
medicines.  Bessemer and other patients wouldn’t have suffered
disfiguring injuries if officials of Basel, Switzerland-based
Novartis “had told the public what they knew” about the drugs’
risks, Germany told jurors in  New Brunswick, New Jersey , today.  Bessemer’s suit is the second product-liability case to go
to trial over the bone-strengthening treatments, which had 2009
 sales  of $1.5 billion, according to Novartis’ annual report.
Both drugs are still on the market. Last year, a Montana jury
ordered Novartis to pay  $3.2 million  in damages to a woman who
blamed the drug for damaging her jaw.  Novartis officials provided adequate warnings about
Aredia’s and Zometa’s risks on their labels and the treatments
weren’t the cause of Bessemer’s jaw damage,  Joe Hollingsworth , a
lawyer for the drugmaker, said in his opening statement.  “These drugs did exactly what they were intended to do,”
Hollingsworth told the panel. The pills helped treat “a serious
condition caused by Mrs. Bessemer’s cancer.”  700 Lawsuits  Novartis, which has its  U.S. headquarters  in East Hanover,
New Jersey, is facing almost 700 suits over the bone-
strengthening medicines. Some of the cases have been
consolidated before a federal judge in Tennessee while others,
like Bessemer’s, are in state court in New Jersey.  Plaintiffs contend doctors of Aredia and Zometa users told
Novartis officials as early as 2002 that some patients’ jaws
were deteriorating. The drugmaker failed to notify the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration about these incidents as part of an
application to sell Zometa in the U.S., according to court
filings.  Bessemer, 70, took Aredia and Zometa for about five years
starting in 1999 after being diagnosed with breast cancer that
had spread to her bones. Novartis’s drugs help block cancer
cells from eating away bones.  The drugs damaged Bessemer’s jaw so badly she had to have
six operations to remove dead bone and have a metal plate
inserted into her jaw, said Germany, a Jackson, Mississippi-
based lawyer representing the woman and her husband.  ‘Label Was Adequate’  Hollingsworth countered Aredia and Zometa are the only
drugs on the market that can help cancer patients strengthen
bones to avoid fractures during their treatment and recovery.  He also said regulators at the FDA approved the information
on the drugs’ safety labels, which noted that cases of jaw
deterioration had been reported.  “We will prove the label was adequate” when it came to
warning about Aredia’s and Zometa’s health risks, he said.  The case is Jane Bessemer v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Corp., MID-L-1835-08-MT, Superior Court of New Jersey, Law
Division, Middlesex County (New Brunswick).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in New Brunswick, New Jersey, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 