-- Obama Defends Health-Care Overhaul
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-09-23T14:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/obama-makes-retail-sales-pitch-to-defend-health-law-flouted-by-republicans.html
Six months after the enactment of
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul, the job of
selling the plan has moved from Washington to locales like a
church basement one block north of Philadelphia’s city hall.  Matt Stetson, an unemployed 51-year-old heart patient, told
about 50 people gathered there on a recent weekday about how the
law will protect people with illnesses from losing health
coverage.  “Talk to your friends, your family, your co-workers about
the good things this bill does,” he said. “I don’t want to go
back to the time before this bill.”  The Obama administration and its allies are relying on
similar endorsements to counter attacks on the health-care
overhaul. Today, Republicans are making repeal of the law a
centerpiece of an agenda they are unveiling in a bid to take
control of Congress in November’s midterm elections.  The Obama administration, faced with polls showing the
overhaul is unpopular, yesterday installed a new feature on the
White House website,  www.whitehouse.gov , highlighting stories of
how the health law helps individuals. Obama visited Falls
Church, Virginia, yesterday to meet with people who had coverage
denials and other problems with health plans.  The advocacy group Families USA has been issuing reports in
all 50 states to explain the law’s benefits, including tax
credits in 2014 to help pay for insurance. It also is helping
set up a non-profit organization, Enroll America, funded by
health providers to encourage people to sign up for the
benefits.  Declining Support  When the law was enacted in March, a USA Today/Gallup poll
showed people supported it by a 9 percentage point margin. In a
similar poll in late August, respondents opposed it by 17
points, a 26 point swing.  Senate Health Committee Chairman  Tom Harkin , an Iowa
Democrat, said sentiment may shift back in favor of the law once
people see the benefits firsthand.  “People don’t know all the nuances of this thing,” he
said on a conference call organized by Families USA. “Bit by
bit, we’ll get it out there. Ten people will know, then it’ll
grow to 20, then it’ll grow to 80, and it’ll have a snowball
effect.”  Supporters hope the message can resonate in time to avert
major Democratic losses in the midterm elections.  Keeping Law Intact  Building public support is critical to ensuring the law
survives beyond Obama’s four-year term in office, when some of
the most significant changes will begin. If Republicans succeed
in dismantling parts of the law or repealing it, Democrats may
not see their signature domestic initiative join the ranks of
landmark social policy programs like  Medicare  and Social
Security.  If Democrats “lose the presidency in 2012, I can’t imagine
the core members of the Republican party wanting to implement
this bill as it is,” says  Robert Blendon , a professor of health
policy and political analysis at Harvard University’s public
health school in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  The law is intended to provide  health insurance  coverage to
32 million uninsured people by 2019, reduce Medicare spending by
about $455 billion over the next decade and create new programs
to change the way medical care is  paid for . It also implements
new consumer protections and overhauls  insurance company 
business practices.  The lack of public familiarity with the details is driving
the administration’s retail sales pitch. Polls conducted this
month by the  National Association of Insurance Commissioners  and
the Associated Press showed that Americans have little idea of
what is in the law or when it takes effect.  Hundreds of Events  The administration and its allies have planned hundreds of
events around the country like the one in the church basement in
Philadelphia.  Families USA  is helping coordinate many of those
efforts by providing staff, experts, and individuals like
Stetson that the group says are being helped by the law.  “I think as more and more people learn about things that
have been implemented and have been implemented well, this is
really going to move public sentiment,” said  Ron Pollack ,
executive director of Families USA.  Supporters are showcasing a provision that takes effect
today and lets individuals in company-sponsored plans keep their
under-26-year-old children on their insurance. Other mandates
taking effect prevent insurers from denying coverage to children
with preexisting health conditions and bar insurers from either
dropping coverage of sick people or limiting coverage
substantially. New insurance plans also won’t be able to charge
co-payments for preventive health services.  Major Gains  Republicans, anticipating major gains in the November
elections, have promised to stall the law’s implementation.
Republican candidates are running on “repeal and replace,”
promising to roll back the law if they come into power.  Still, even if they capture both houses of Congress, Obama
would be able to veto any repeal.  “The president is the president until at least 2012,”
said former New York Representative  Tom Reynolds , who headed the
National Republican Congressional Committee. “The president
holds the veto pen and he is not about to get rolled by a new
Congress,” Reynolds said in a speech to insurance industry
executives in Washington.  In the meantime, Democrats have the challenge of promoting
benefits of the law that won’t take effect until after the 2012
presidential race, a timeline that could allow negative
perceptions to become fixed.  Direct Effects  “Most people are not directly affected by the law,
positively or negatively at the moment,” Blendon said in a
phone interview.  “They’re probably not, in the short term,
going to change public opinion one way or the other.”  The protections that kick in today also won’t provide much
relief to the millions of uninsured Americans hoping to buy
coverage or those who need help paying for it.  “It’s probably not surprising that there are not a lot of
people who have been able to firsthand, or through friends or
family, have a positive experience with an aspect of the law,”
said  Mark McClellan , director of the Brookings Institution’s
Engelberg Center for Health Care Reform in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 