-- Obama Calls Alliance With Japan a Cornerstone of Security in Kan Meeting
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-09-23T22:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/obama-calls-alliance-with-japan-a-cornerstone-of-security-in-kan-meeting.html
President  Barack Obama  called the
U.S.-Japan alliance one of the “cornerstones” for global
security as he met in New York today with Japan’s Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan .  In the meeting, Obama said he and Kan would discuss
strengthening that alliance, particularly on economic issues,
and dealing with “regional tensions and hotspots.”  “We look forward to discussing further how we can
strengthen this alliance in the 21st century,” he said.  The president said the leaders would discuss “how our
economic relationship can be improved for the prosperity of both
our peoples,” both in today’s meeting and at the November Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Japan.  The U.S. shares with Japan a longstanding interest in the
prosperity and development of the Pacific region, he said.  The US and Japan will also work to confront “international
problems like climate change and nuclear nonproliferation,” he
said.  The leaders are in New York for the opening session of the
United Nations General Assembly.  Asia’s Largest Economies  The U.S. president met earlier with China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao . Tensions between Japan and China, Asia’s two largest
economies, are rising over rival claims to a group of
uninhabited  islets  and outcrops about 200 miles (322 kilometers)
off the northeast coast of Taiwan. The friction increased after
Japan detained the captain of a Chinese fishing boat two weeks
ago in the disputed waters.  The islands are in the East China Sea near natural gas
fields that the two countries agreed to jointly develop in 2008.
The agreement has yet to be implemented, and China broke off
talks on the issue when the captain was detained after his boat
collided with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels.  A spokesman for the U.S. State Department,  Philip J. Crowley , said earlier today that the U.S. has not been asked to
mediate the dispute and that the administration urged both to
“work aggressively to resolve as quickly as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in New York at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 