-- Obama, Wen Pledge Cooperation on Economic Issues
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-09-23T19:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/obama-china-s-wen-pledge-increased-cooperation-on-global-economic-issues.html
President  Barack Obama  and Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged their countries to closer cooperation
on economic issues to foster the global recovery.  In remarks to reporters before a meeting at the United
Nations in New York, the two leaders didn’t directly address the
friction points between China and the U.S., including China’s
currency valuation and trade.  Both subjects were addressed at length during their one-on-
one conversation, and Obama told Wen the U.S. wants to see a
more rapid and “significant” rise in the yuan’s value,  Jeff Bader , Obama’s director of Asian affairs, said at a briefing
later.  Obama said China has been an “outstanding partner” and
its work with the U.S. is “absolutely critical” in dealing
with the financial crisis.  “Obviously we continue to have more work to do on the
economic front,” Obama said. More discussions are needed to
achieve “balance and sustained economic growth.”  Wen said through a translator the common interests of the
U.S. and China “far outweigh” any differences. He also said he
wants to “foster favorable conditions” for a U.S. visit by
President  Hu Jintao  sometime next year.  Political pressure is building on Obama to take a more
aggressive stance on China’s currency policy, which he has said
is valued lower than the market would indicate and gives China
an advantage in trade. China overtook Japan in the second
quarter as the world’s second-largest economy after the U.S.  Trade Deficit  The U.S.  trade deficit  with China widened to $145 billion
in the first seven months of this year, from $123 billion for
the same period in 2009. The deficit is widening at a time when
Obama is dealing with a sluggish economic recovery in the U.S.
and an unemployment rate of 9.6 percent.  The yuan has appreciated about 2 percent against the dollar
since June 19, when the central bank said it would pursue a more
flexible exchange rate after keeping the currency at about 6.83
versus the U.S. currency for almost two years.  “The president talked about the importance of our trading
relation in general and the currency issue specifically,” Bader
told reporters. Obama told Wen that China needs to “do more
than it has done to date” and described it as “the most
important issue” in their talks.  ‘Rapid’ Revaluation  “We look to see more rapid and a significant” revaluation
“in the months to come,” Bader said. The Chinese also know
“we were disappointed” that there hasn’t been much movement in
the yuan’s value since the central bank’s decision, he said.  Chinese leaders are aware of the building momentum in the
U.S. Congress for action to restrict China’s imports over the
currency issue, Bader said.  “There was a lengthy discussion of the impact and the
politics of the issue,” Bader said, characterizing the meeting
as having a “positive tone.”  Wen reiterated China’s intention “to continue with reform
of their exchange rate mechanism,” he said.  At a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee
yesterday, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  repeated
his assertion that the yuan is “significantly undervalued.”  Pressure from Congress  House Democratic leaders say they are moving forward with
legislation intended to push China to raise the value of its
currency by allowing U.S. companies to petition for duties on
imports. Polls showing Democratic seats at risk heading into the
November elections may boost prospects for the bill.  Representatives for companies such as Peoria, Illinois-
based  Caterpillar Inc. , New York-based  Citigroup Inc.  and
Redmond, Washington-based  Microsoft Corp.  have been lobbying to
block the legislation, which they say will be counterproductive.  Wen said at a meeting yesterday with U.S. business leaders
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  in New York that the yuan’s value isn’t the cause of
the U.S.  trade deficit  with his country.  “The main cause of the U.S. trade deficit is not the
exchange rate of the Chinese currency, but the structure of
investment and savings,” he said. “China doesn’t pursue a
trade surplus intentionally.”  In a speech to the UN today, Wen said his government will
seek political “restructuring” while creating a more conducive
environment for foreign investors.  Domestic Demand  The movement of hundreds of millions of Chinese farmers to
towns and cities in the coming decades “will create more
domestic demand than ever, open up broad market and development
space and serve as a powerful engine” for the Chinese and world
economies, he told the UN.  Among the other areas in which the U.S. is seeking China’s
cooperation is keeping up pressure on Iran to submit to UN
mandates that it halt efforts to enrich uranium, a step toward
building a nuclear bomb. Obama said the U.S. and China have had
“very frank discussions” on climate change.  “The world looks to the relationship between China and the
United States as a critical ingredient on a whole range of
security issues around the world,” Obama said.  Hu’s state visit to the U.S. may be scheduled in January of
2012,  Robert Gibbs , Obama’s chief spokesman said. The date is
still under discussion.  Tomorrow, Obama is scheduled to meet with leaders from the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Obama has said
involvement in the region is crucial to trade and economic
growth, and keeping the U.S. as a counterweight to China’s
growing influence.  The 10-member Asean group is the fourth-biggest market for
U.S. goods. Still, China’s trade with Asean surpassed that of
the U.S. in the past decade, growing to $178 billion last year.  Obama last met with Asean leaders in Singapore in November
2009, the first U.S. president to do so. The member-nations are
Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar,
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in New York at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in New York at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 