-- Obama Says World Must Back Mideast Peace Process or Risk Extended Conflict
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-09-23T17:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/obama-says-world-must-back-mideast-peace-process-or-risk-extended-conflict.html
President  Barack Obama  told world
leaders today that they must step forward to support the peace
talks between Israel and the Palestinians or risk more years of
conflict and bloodshed.  In an address to the United Nations General Assembly in New
York, Obama renewed the U.S. commitment to Israel’s security and
urged Arab nations to match their pledges of support for the
peace process with deeds that will push it forward, including
“demonstrating the normalization” promised to Israel.  “Peace must be made by Israelis and Palestinians, but each
of us has a responsibility to do our part as well,” Obama said.  The U.S.-sponsored peace talks are near a critical juncture
with the scheduled Sept. 26 expiration of Israel’s 10-month
moratorium on settlement construction. Obama reiterated his call
for Israel to extend the moratorium as a way to build trust and
keep the process going.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  repeatedly has
said he doesn’t plan to extend the freeze. Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  said the talks, which began earlier this
month in Washington, can’t continue if construction resumes.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who joined Netanyahu
and Abbas for talks last week in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, and
Jerusalem, has tried to push both sides toward a compromise on
settlements that keeps the talks going.  George Mitchell , Obama’s envoy to the talks, said Israeli
and Palestinian officials would meet this week to try to work
out a solution.  Time for Progress  “Now is the time for the parties to help each other
overcome this obstacle,” Obama said at the UN. “Now is the
time to build the trust -- and provide the time -- for
substantial progress to be made.”  Obama said those who count themselves as friends of the
Palestinians in the Arab world must seize the opportunity for a
peace agreement that will lead to a Palestinian state. They can
do that by supporting the Palestinian Authority financially and
politically and by coming to terms with Israel’s existence, he
said.  “Those who long to see an independent Palestine rise must
stop trying to tear Israel down,” Obama said.  He also pledged firm U.S. backing for Israel.  “After 60 years in the community of nations, Israel’s
existence must not be a subject for debate,” Obama said. “It
should be clear to all that efforts to chip away at Israel’s
legitimacy will only be met by the unshakeable opposition of the
United States.”  Two-State Solution  Israel’s supporters must recognize that true security for
Israel requires an independent Palestinian state “that allows
the Palestinian people to live with dignity and opportunity,”
he said.  Israel’s delegation was not present for the speech or the
rest of the day’s sessions because it is the Jewish holiday of
Sukkot, according to a statement from the Israeli consulate. The
U.S. was aware that the delegation would be absent, the
statement said. Abbas was in attendance.  Obama’s address also touched on the global economy,
combating the al-Qaeda terrorist network, stopping the spread of
nuclear weapons material, Iran’s nuclear program and expanding
human rights.  He said the financial crisis on Wall Street had a global
impact and required all nations of the world to respond in
concert.  “I have had no greater focus as president than rescuing
our economy from potential catastrophe,” Obama said. “And in
an age when prosperity is shared, we could not do this alone.”  Through the Group of 20 nations and other organizations,
the biggest economies have worked together to strengthen the
financial system and spur economic growth, he said. Now emerging
economies must be brought into the discussion, Obama said.  “There is much to show for our efforts, even as there is
much more work to be done,” Obama said.  Iran  He said Iran must give a clear demonstration of its promise
of the peaceful intent of its nuclear program.  While the U.S. and other nations remain willing to
negotiate, the government of Iran must recognize that there will
be consequences for its actions, Obama said.  “The door remains open to diplomacy should Iran choose to
walk through it,” he said. “But the Iranian government must
demonstrate a clear and credible commitment, and confirm to the
world the peaceful intent of its nuclear program.”  After his address, Obama met with Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao . In remarks to reporters before the meeting, the two
leaders didn’t directly address the friction points between
China and the U.S., including China’s currency valuation and
trade.  China has been an “outstanding partner” and its work with
the U.S. is “absolutely critical” in dealing with the
financial crisis, Obama said.  Wen said through a translator the common interests of the
U.S. and China “far outweigh” any differences.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in New York at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in New York at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 