-- Obama Urges UN Members to Stand Behind Israel, Palestinians in Peace Talks
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-09-23T10:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/obama-urges-un-members-to-stand-behind-israel-palestinians-in-peace-talks.html
President  Barack Obama  will tell
the United Nations today that the allies of Israel and the
Palestinians must match words with deeds to support the peace
process or risk more years of bloodshed.  Obama is using the stage of the General Assembly’s opening
in New York to renew the U.S. commitment to Israel’s security
and urge Arab nations to move forward on normalizing relations
with the Jewish state.  “Peace must be made by Israelis and Palestinians, but each
of us has a responsibility to do our part as well,” Obama will
say in his UN speech.  Excerpts of the remarks, scheduled for delivery at 10 a.m.
New York time, were released last night by the White House.  Obama is speaking as the U.S. sponsored peace talks are
nearing a critical juncture with the scheduled Sept. 26
expiration of Israel’s 10-month moratorium on settlement
construction.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  repeatedly has
said he doesn’t plan on extending the freeze. Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said the talks, which began
earlier this month, can’t continue if construction resumes.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who joined Netanyahu
and Abbas for talks last week in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, and
Jerusalem, has tried to push both sides toward a compromise on
settlements that keeps the talks going.  George Mitchell , Obama’s envoy to the talks, said Israeli
and Palestinian officials would meet this week to try to work
out a solution.  Palestinian Authority Support  Obama said those who count themselves as friends of the
Palestinians in the Arab world must seize the opportunity for a
peace agreement that will lead to a Palestinian state. They can
do that by supporting the Palestinian Authority financially and
politically and by coming to terms with Israel’s existence, he
said.  “Those who long to see an independent Palestine rise must
stop trying to tear Israel down,” Obama will say, according to
the excerpts.  He also pledged firm U.S. backing for Israel.  “After 60 years in the community of nations, Israel’s
existence must not be a subject for debate,” Obama will say.
“It should be clear to all that efforts to chip away at
Israel’s legitimacy will only be met by the unshakeable
opposition of the United States.”  Security for Israel  To Israel’s supporters, Obama said they must recognize that
true security for Israel requires an independent Palestinian
state “that allows the Palestinian people to live with dignity
and opportunity.”  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. The UN
says the settlements are illegal and the International Committee
of the Red Cross says they breach the Fourth Geneva Convention
governing actions on occupied territory. Obama has said they
aren’t legitimate.  In his speech to the UN, Obama will say that the world
shouldn’t “waste more time” rehashing old arguments and
grievances, which “will not help a single Israeli or
Palestinian child achieve a better life.”  While in New York, Obama has scheduled to hold one-on-one
talks with key leaders from overseas, including Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  later today. The topics will include efforts to
contain the nuclear programs of North Korea and Iran, as well as
continued tension between the U.S. over currency and trade.  Exchange Rate  The yuan has appreciated about 2 percent against the dollar
since June 19, when the central bank said it would pursue a more
flexible exchange rate after keeping the currency at about 6.83
versus the U.S. currency for almost two years.  At a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee
yesterday, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  repeated
his assertion that the yuan is “significantly undervalued.”
House Democratic leaders say they are moving forward with
legislation intended to push China to raise the value of its
currency through trade sanctions.  China ran up a $119 billion trade surplus with the U.S. in
the first half of 2010, putting it on course to exceed last
year’s total of $227 billion, figures from the U.S. Commerce
Department show. The deficit is widening at a time when Obama is
confronted with an unemployment rate of 9.6 percent.  Tomorrow he attends a meeting with leaders from the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Obama has said
involvement in the region is crucial to trade and economic
growth and keeping the U.S. as a counterweight to China’s
growing influence.  The 10-member Asean group is the fourth-biggest market for
U.S. goods. China’s trade with Asean surpassed that of the U.S.
in the past decade, growing to $178 billion last year.  Obama last met with Asean leaders in Singapore in November
2009, the first U.S. president to do so. The member-nations are
Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar,
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in New York at 
 Jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in New York at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 