-- Obama May Have to Triangulate Like Clinton If His Party Loses U.S. House
-- B y   P a u l a   D w y e r
-- 2010-09-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/obama-may-have-to-triangulate-like-clinton-if-his-party-loses-u-s-house.html
Flash-forward to late January 2011:
A humbled President  Barack Obama , putting the final touches on
his State of the Union address, ponders offering an olive branch
to the new House Speaker,  John Boehner .  Should he work across party lines on a  budget -balancing
deal, or maybe a free-trade accord, or just make sure his veto
pen has plenty of ink?  To triangulate or not -- that’s the dilemma Obama will
confront if, as almost every poll now suggests, the Democrats
lose control of the House in November and hold the Senate by a
nose or two.  Past presidents have sought to avoid gridlock by
recalibrating their agendas and governing style and shaking up
their teams. While Obama may follow suit, some say his odds of
success are slim, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 27
issue.  “Nobody should be under the illusion that there is an easy
path to compromise,” says  Vin Weber , a Republican strategist
and former House member from Minnesota. One reason is that the
new Congress likely will be even more polarized than the current
one, dominated by conservative Republicans who challenged party
regulars in primaries and won.  The Democratic caucus will be more liberal because it will
be mostly swing-state centrists who will lose in November, Weber
says.  Clinton’s ‘Frenemies’  The recent master of triangulation -- adopting the other
party’s ideas while trying not to alienate loyalists -- was
President  Bill Clinton . He claimed the political center in 1996
with his “frenemies” approach, famously declaring, “the era
of big government is over.”  He went on to score landmark legislation that overhauled
the welfare system and balanced the budget.  Obama is already remaking his team. On Sept. 21 the White
House said  Lawrence Summers , the director of the National
Economic Council and architect of Obama’s recovery plan, will
return to Harvard University at yearend.  His is the third economic team departure, along with budget
director  Peter Orszag  and  Christina Romer , chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers. Romer’s replacement, Austan
Goolsbee, clashed with Summers over automaker bailouts, which
Goolsbee in part opposed, according to “Overhaul,” the new
book by Steven Rattner, who managed the automaker rescue for the
administration.  Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  is also likely to depart,
possibly in early October, to run for mayor of Chicago.  Reshape Agenda  The vacancies will let Obama reshape his agenda and address
a criticism that the White House, lacking a top West Wing aide
with corporate experience, doesn’t understand business.  People familiar with Obama’s thinking say he’s considering
adding a corporate ambassador to his economic team. Among those
being discussed:  Anne Mulcahy , the former  Xerox Corp . chief
executive, and  Richard Parsons , the Citigroup chairman and
former Time Warner head.  “I think they are looking for someone who businesses can
feel they can talk to,” says  Martin Baily , CEA chairman under
Clinton.  It may be easier for Obama to decide on an agenda than a
new staff. He would like to rewrite the immigration laws and cap
carbon emissions, two pieces of unfinished business.  That won’t be possible. The focus will have to be more
mundane -- making sure the health care and financial system
overhauls are implemented. Republicans, infused with Tea Party
passions for limited government, will do their utmost to stymie
him.  Republican Plans  Today, House Republicans are set to unveil their agenda,
which will call for a three-day waiting period for citizen
review of legislation before a vote. It will also advocate a
certification process to make sure the Constitution authorizes
bills, and congressional approval of new regulations.  Some Republicans already have staked out their ground.
Representative  Pete Sessions  of Texas will try to freeze
government hiring to block Obama from bolstering the agencies
that will put in place the health-care and financial-system
changes.  Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama wants to defang the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a centerpiece of the
financial revamp.  Still, there could be room for deal-making. Obama’s debt
commission, expected to report Dec. 1, could propose a
combination of spending cuts,  tax increases , and entitlement
changes attractive to both parties’ deficit hawks.  “If we’re going to confront the fiscal issues of the
country,” Goolsbee says, “it has to be done in a bipartisan
way.”  If the commission proposes tax changes that include a
consumption tax, Obama would certainly consider it, an
administration official says.  ‘Definitely Scared’  The enormity of the national debt may spur Republicans to
put aside their differences with Obama, says former House Ways
and Means Chairman  Bill Archer , a Texas Republican.  “People are definitely scared,” he says.  Free-trade pacts could also open Republican doors. Obama
has said he wants to reach a deal on the U.S.-Korea Free Trade
Agreement during a November trip to Seoul. And while he is
unlikely to seek legislation to create a market for trading
carbon credits, he may try to pass energy legislation piecemeal.  Republicans may also get behind Obama’s recent proposals to
expand tax incentives to encourage business investment and to
extend permanently a research-and-experimentation tax credit.  Curve Balls  Some congressional curve balls could come from
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican in line for
the chairmanship of the Oversight and Government Reform
Committee if Republicans take the House.  Issa plans to wield his subpoena authority aggressively,
judging by a report he released Sept. 21 that says he would
investigate the $814 billion stimulus bill and administration
claims to have created or saved millions of  jobs , among other
areas.  The presence of lawmakers aligned with the Tea Party could
be a new and unpredictable force. Obama may run into even more
resistance than Clinton faced from former Speaker  Newt Gingrich .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paula Dwyer  in Washington at 
 pdwyer11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  