-- Hochtief Creates Independent Panel Excluding ACS Members in Defense Move
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-09-23T16:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/hochtief-creates-independent-board-panel-in-move-to-buttress-acs-defense.html
Hochtief AG , the target of a
takeover offer by Spain’s largest builder, set up a special
panel of supervisory board members excluding the two Spaniards
representing the suitor as it seeks to bolster defenses.  The panel, called an ad-hoc committee under German law, was
created yesterday,  Christian Gerhardus , a spokesman at Essen,
Germany-based Hochtief, said today in a phone interview.  Angel Garcia Altozano  and  Marcelino Fernandez Verdes  are
Hochtief  board members  from Actividades de Construccion &
Servicios SA, the German construction company’s biggest investor
with a 29.9 percent  stake . Madrid-based ACS announced a
2.7 billion-euro ($3.6 billion) bid on Sept. 16 for full
control. Altozano is ACS’s general manager, while Verdes runs
the construction, concessions and environment units.  “It’s a very reasonable move by Hochtief to avoid apparent
conflicts of interest,” said  Roderich Thuemmel , a lawyer at
Thuemmel, Schuetze & Partner in Stuttgart, Germany. “If the
two ACS representatives were included, they could influence
Hochtief’s recommendation to shareholders and they would be
privy to all considerations to fend off an offer by their
employer.”  ACS spokesmen didn’t answer phone calls seeking comment.  Shares Rise  Hochtief  climbed  for a sixth consecutive day in Frankfurt
trading, gaining 2.7 percent to 63.70 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close. The stock has gained 19 percent this year, valuing the
company at 4.46 billion euros. ACS  rose  0.2 percent to 36.24
euros in Madrid.  The German company has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Credit Suisse Group AG as advisers. Hochtief said yesterday that
the bid is “unsolicited” and “not in line” with the
companies’ “perceived relationship,” saying no discussions
with  ACS  took place either before or after the announcement.  Creating the special panel hands Hochtief an additional
tool to defend itself against the bid, which it has said doesn’t
add value for shareholders. Excluding ACS from the panel also
lets Hochtief circumnavigate a conflict of interest on its
supervisory board while considering options.  Alcon Defense  The move parallels a tactic employed by Alcon Inc., the
world’s biggest eye-care maker, in December 2008. The company
appointed a committee of independent directors to safeguard the
interests of minority investors in advance of a takeover offer
from Novartis AG. The Swiss drugmaker exercised an option in
January to buy Nestle SA’s 52 percent stake, raising its holding
to more than 75 percent of Alcon’s  shares .  “It makes strategic sense to exclude the ACS delegates,
because otherwise there’s no way you could prevent internal
information from being passed on to the suitor,” said  Jens Jung , an analyst at  BHF-Bank AG  in Frankfurt who  recommends 
buying Hochtief shares. “The way that they’ve been publicizing
orders in the past few days shows they’re trying to alert
investors to the company’s real  value .”  ACS is striving for a stock swap that values Hochtief at
close to the stock  price  prior to the bid. Shareholders’
rejection of the offer would allow the Spanish builder to absorb
its German rival by raising the stake over time without having
to pay the premium that’s common in takeovers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  