-- Oil & Natural Vows to Protect Its Interests as Vedanta Buys Cairn India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-09-23T09:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/oil-natural-vows-to-protect-its-interests-as-vedanta-buys-cairn-india.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , India’s
biggest energy exploration company, will protect its interests
following Vedanta Resources Plc’s plan to acquire a majority
stake in Cairn India Ltd., without submitting a competing bid.  “The counter-offer date is gone and we didn’t make an
offer,” Chairman  R.S. Sharma  told reporters in New Delhi today.
“We made a conscious decision based on legal and commercial
considerations. ONGC’s interests will be protected.”  ONGC’s decision may make it easier for mining billionaire
Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta to buy 60 percent of  Cairn India  for as
much as $9.6 billion. India’s government has said it will vet
the London-based mining company’s ability to carry out oil
exploration before approving the stake acquisition in the
company owned by U.K. explorer Cairn Energy Plc.  Vedanta, which mines copper and zinc and smelts aluminum,
has no previous experience in oil and gas exploration. Cairn
India’s  management  will continue running the company after the
acquisition, while Vedanta will provide guidance, Agarwal said
Aug. 16.  Regulatory approval for Cairn Energy’s proposed sale of
stake in its Indian unit may take at least a month, Oil
Secretary S. Sundareshan said Sept. 16.  ONGC , which owns a 30 percent stake in  Cairn India ’s block
in Rajasthan, India’s biggest onshore oil field, isn’t
“passive” to the deal, Sharma said, without elaborating.  Royalty Payment  State-owned ONGC pays royalty on the entire production from
the area, an incentive offered to attract overseas explorers to
India before the government started auctioning fields in 1999.
Based on the current production profile from the Rajasthan block
over its life, the estimated royalty payment is $2 billion,
Sharma said.  The Mangala field, one of three in the block, produces
about 125,000 barrels a day of crude oil, Cairn Energy said in a
statement Aug. 16.  Vedanta’s proposal consists of an open offer followed by a
purchase of shares from Cairn Energy.  Sesa Goa Ltd. , an iron ore producer majority-owned by
Vedanta, will offer as much as $3 billion to buy a 20 percent
stake in Cairn India from minority shareholders. The offer is
scheduled to open on Oct. 11 and ends on Oct. 30.  The total number of shares sold by Cairn Energy will depend
on the results of the open offer, which could take Vedanta’s
stake to as high as 60 percent.  Indian state-run energy companies, including ONGC and  GAIL
India Ltd. , are considering bidding for a stake in Cairn India,
two people familiar with the matter said Aug. 24. India’s oil
ministry instructed ONGC to study the possibility of making a
counter offer, one of the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 