-- Top German Court Turns Down Attempt to Block `Solidarity' Levy for East
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-09-23T09:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/top-german-court-turns-down-attempt-to-block-solidarity-levy-for-east.html
Germany’s top constitutional court
rejected a request to strike down a surcharge on income tax and
profits established in the early 1990s to help rebuild the
country’s former communist east.  The Federal Constitutional Court declined to rule on the
merits of a case forwarded by a state tax court that argued the
“solidarity surcharge” was unconstitutional because it’s been
levied for too long. The top court already ruled in 1972 that
extra levies don’t need to have a time limit and the tax
tribunal didn’t show why a new ruling was necessary, the judges
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The tax court itself said that the German unification in
1990 caused huge needs for the federal budget,” the judges
wrote. “Nevertheless it offers no arguments why regular tax
increases would have been a viable alternative even though they
would have had to be shared with the states.”  The levy adds 5.5 percent to corporate and individual tax
bills to finance aid for eastern Germany. West Germans
have provided a net 1.6 trillion euros ($2.13 trillion) in aid
to the former communist east since the two parts of Germany
reunified in 1990, according to a study published last year by
Klaus Schroeder, a political scientist at Berlin’s Free
University.  In 2008, the high court decided not to hear a complaint
against the tax surcharge, giving no reason.  Under German law, only the Federal Constitutional Court
based in Karlsruhe can declare that a law is unconstitutional.
Lower courts need to submit a case to the top court to have a
law declared unconstitutional in a special ruling. The vast
majority of these requests are rejected on procedural grounds,
as was today’s.  The case is BVerfG 2 BvL 3/10  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  