-- Oracle Plans to Acquire Chipmakers, Industry-Specific Software
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-09-24T21:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/oracle-plans-to-buy-chip-companies-industry-specific-software.html
Oracle Corp. , building on a run of
more than 65 acquisitions during the past five years, is looking
to purchase semiconductor companies and makers of industry-
specific software, Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  said.  “You’re going to see us buying chip companies,” Ellison,
66, said yesterday at Oracle’s annual meeting in San Francisco.
Acquiring chipmakers would extend Oracle’s push into computer
hardware, initiated in January with its purchase of  Sun
Microsystems Inc. , a server manufacturer.  Ellison said he wants to follow the approach of Apple Inc.
CEO  Steve Jobs  by owning more of the intellectual property that
underpins computer chips. Apple has bought semiconductor makers
to help develop devices such as the iPad and iPhone. Oracle
already acquired some chip knowhow from Sun, which makes servers
based on its own chip design, Sparc, while also using personal-
computer chips from  Intel Corp.  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc.   Oracle may buy a semiconductor company with technology for
servers, said  Doug Freedman , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San
Francisco. Potential targets include AMD,  International Business
Machines Corp. ’s chip division and Nvidia Corp., he said.  “You’ve got to think it’s focused on enterprise hardware,
on the server,” he said. “AMD jumps off the screen.”  AMD and Nvidia shares rose in early trading today. ARM
Holdings Plc, the U.K. designer of chips that power Apple’s
iPhone, also gained.  Chipmakers Gain  Drew Prairie , a spokesman for Sunnyvale, California-based
AMD, said the company doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.
 Hector Marinez , a spokesman for Santa Clara, California-based
Nvidia, also declined to comment.  Lori Bosio , a representative
of Armonk, New York-based IBM, didn’t return messages left after
business hours yesterday.  AMD climbed 44 cents, or 6.9 percent, to $6.84 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Nvidia  rose  64 cents,
or 5.5 percent, to $12.26 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, which tracks 30 industry
stocks, gained 4 percent to 346.14.  Oracle also plans to buy more makers of software focused on
certain industries, Ellison said. By zeroing in on specific
areas, the company aims to stand out from rivals such as SAP AG.  “We want to play in every important industry,” he said.  Oracle , based in Redwood City, California, fell 16 cents to
$26.96 on the Nasdaq. The shares have gained 9.9 percent this
year.  Cash Pile  Oracle, the world’s second-largest software company, had
$23.6 billion in  cash and short-term investments  at the end of
its fiscal first quarter. The company also hired former Hewlett-
Packard Co. CEO  Mark Hurd  as co-president Sept. 6, leading
analysts to predict that Oracle may acquire more hardware
companies. HP is the world’s biggest computer maker.  Ellison’s remarks capped almost a week of presentations to
customers and analysts around Oracle’s OpenWorld conference,
which started Sept. 19.  At the conference, Oracle said new business applications
software called Fusion would be available in the first quarter
of next year, and the company unveiled two new computer systems
that combine its software with Sun hardware.  As Oracle scouts for acquisition targets, it’s also working
to make its hardware business more profitable by decreasing
sales of lower-priced systems. Hardware sales yielded a gross
 profit margin  of 48 percent in the first quarter, compared with
72.5 percent for the company as a whole.  Hardware Sales  Oracle plans to double the size of its hardware business,
which generated $1.7 billion in revenue last quarter, Ellison
said during a conference call last week.  The  company  is selling customers more high-end computer
systems that contain computing power, storage, network
connectivity and software designed to work together. Oracle
introduced two such systems this week: Exalogic and a new
version of its Exadata computer.  “I would be stunned if 10 years from now, most data
centers didn’t rely on these engineered systems,” Ellison said.
“We’re betting that this is the future of computing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  