-- Orange Juice Falls from Three-Year High as Storm Threats to Florida Ease
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-09-23T18:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/orange-juice-falls-from-three-year-high-as-storm-threats-to-florida-ease.html
Orange-juice futures plunged from a
three-year high as storm threats to Florida’s citrus groves
subsided.  Tropical Storm Lisa, far out in the central Atlantic Ocean,
was downgraded to a depression, as its top winds weakened to 35
miles (56 kilometers) per hour, according to the National
Hurricane Center. Concerns also eased about an area of storms
north of Venezuela.  “The one-two punch of the storms seems to be fading,”
said  Fain Shaffer , the president of Infinity Trading Corp., a
commodities brokerage in Medford, Oregon.  Orange juice for November delivery fell 5.2 cents, or 3.2
percent, to settle at $1.571 a pound at 1:44 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. The decline was the biggest for a most-active
contract since Sept. 3.  Yesterday, the commodity reached $1.657, the highest level
since May 2007. Futures had climbed for eight straight sessions,
adding 12 percent, in the longest rally since late July.  “We had just quite a panic buy here in orange juice,”
said  James Cordier , a portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in
Tampa, Florida. “We’re overbought on the upside. It’s really
due for a pullback.”  The hurricane center is also tracking a  low pressure system 
in the southwestern Caribbean. Data from an Air Force
reconnaissance plane indicate that the system is now a tropical
depression, which has sustained surface winds of 38 miles per
hour or less.  Florida is the world’s largest orange producer after
Brazil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 