-- Blackrock, Pimco, Fannie Target Banks Using Texas Lawyer's Clearing House
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-09-23T17:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/mortgage-investors-target-banks-using-texas-lawyer-s-novel-clearing-house.html
After he bought his Dallas home
last year, attorney  Talcott Franklin  found a novel way to
eliminate a musty odor emanating from a basement well installed
as part of a previous owner’s air-raid shelter: He used boat
hatches to seal it.  This year, the former partner at lobbying firm  Patton Boggs
LLP  also found a unique solution to an even bigger housing
problem: getting money back for investors in residential
mortgage-backed securities that went bad. Franklin created a
clearing house where investors can pool claims and potentially
create the necessary legal clout to force mortgage lenders to
buy back improperly made loans at the heart of the securities.  Before Franklin’s innovation, investors in such securities
had no way of knowing who other investors were. Franklin’s
approach may cost banks such as  Bank of America Corp.  billions
of dollars. Lenders can be required to buy back securitized
mortgages if they misrepresented their quality.  “If we’re going to have a mortgage system in this country
that’s not government controlled, this effort or an effort like
it will have to succeed,” says  Bill Frey , head of Greenwich,
Connecticut-based securities firm Greenwich Financial Services
LLC. If the investors “don’t act together, the deals are going
to continue to take huge losses.”  In July, Franklin, 45, sent a letter to trustees for some
non-government backed securities. He said institutional clients
that hold about a third of the $1.5 trillion market for
mortgage-backed securities are in his database.  Clearing House Members  Participants in his clearing house include  BlackRock Inc .,
Pacific Investment Management Co., Fortress Investment Group
LLC,  Fannie Mae  and Federal Home Loan Banks, according to people
familiar with the matter. Many members also hired separate
lawyers, said the people, who declined to be identified because
members don’t want to be named.  Lauren Trengrove, a spokeswoman for New York-based
BlackRock, Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Washington-based
Fannie Mae, and Gordon Runte, a spokesman for New York-based
Fortress, declined to comment, as did Mark Porterfield, a
spokesman for Newport Beach, California-based Pimco.  Mortgage securities have been among the largest sources of
the $1.8 trillion of writedowns and credit losses suffered by
the world’s biggest financial companies since the start of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Repurchasing Costs  Mortgage repurchases have cost the four biggest U.S.
lenders -- Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc.
and Wells Fargo & Co. -- $9.8 billion, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG. The total, which so far includes few costs tied
to bad mortgages packaged into bonds, could exceed $179 billion
for 11 of the largest banks, according to  Chris Gamaitoni  of
Compass Point Research and Trading LLC, a Washington-based
investment bank.  Repurchase requests for mortgages in bonds without
government backing will be about $24 billion or, in a “worst-
case scenario,” $51 billion, FBR Capital Markets Corp. said
Sept. 20.  Franklin’s RMBS Investor Clearing House -- “RMBS” stands
for “residential mortgage-backed securities” -- is a “brave new
venture” that confronts the issue of having “these very diverse,
and even diffuse, interests even within a particular
securitization structure,” said Jeff Nielsen, of Chicago-based
 Navigant Consulting Inc. , who analyzes MBS litigation.  Clearing House Advantage  Because of the attorney-client privilege, the clearing
house allows investors to pool holdings in a database without
disclosing their portfolios to each other.  In his July letter to bond trustees, Franklin said he’d
signed up investors holding more than 25 percent of the “voting
rights” in about 2,300 private-label RMBS deals; 50 percent of
the voting rights in more than 900 deals; and more than 66
percent of the voting rights in more than 450 trusts.  Those levels exceed thresholds laid out in most deals to
allow RMBS investors to force trustee actions such as declaring
loan servicers to be in default of their contracts, requiring
them to share loan files, forcing changes to deal terms and
replacing trustees.  Mortgage-bond trustees are responsible for passing payments
collected from mortgage holders to investors, handling suggested
amendments to transaction terms and overseeing loan servicers,
which manage the underlying loans.  U.S. Bancorp,  Deutsche Bank AG  and Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. signed on as trustees for the most new U.S. securitized
debt in 2005 and 2006 as sales of home-loan securities without
government-backed guarantees hit $1.2 trillion each year,
according to newsletters  Asset -Backed Alert and Inside  Mortgage 
Finance.  Analytic Methods  Frey, who has sued Bank of America’s Countrywide unit over
its servicing practices, advises Franklin as a member of the
clearing house’s administrative committee. He’s developed
analytic methods to determine defaults in the deals without
having to get the loan files, Franklin said.  More investors have signed on since he sent his letter to
trustees, Franklin said. He declined to say how many or to name
any. The members of the clearing house are “anyone who has
fixed-income investments,” such as hedge funds, asset managers,
insurance companies and government entities, he said.  David Grais , a New York lawyer who is suing banks including
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America and New York-
based JPMorgan to try to force underwriters to buy back whole
securities on behalf of the Federal Home Loan Banks of San
Francisco and Seattle, said Franklin’s is the only effort he’s
aware of to organize investors in mortgage-backed securities.  ‘It’s Complicated’  “It’s complicated when you have so many people involved,”
Grais said. “They have, not surprisingly, many different
priorities.”  Some investors will join forces to replace loan servicers,
some to force “put-backs” and some to do both, Grais said.  The idea for the clearing house grew out of a lobbying
campaign  Micah Green  of Washington-based Patton Boggs led last
year to oppose legislation that shields servicers from
litigation against them by RMBS investors when they modify
mortgages in certain ways, Franklin said. Franklin wrote a 40-
page paper arguing that the measure would undercut efforts to
fix the securitization market and would retroactively grant
immunity for lender fraud.  During that effort, some investors told Franklin that,
while lobbying was important, they needed to find out who other
certificate holders were so they could band together, he said.  Hire Me  “I thought about it for awhile and I said, hey, look, if
every investor in the world would just hire me as their lawyer
for the purpose of determining what their collective-action
rights are for each deal, I’d have to know what their deals are,
and if I knew what their deals were, with their consent, I could
match them to each other,” Franklin said.  He brought the idea to Patton Boggs and after considering
it they decided a separate  law firm  would be required to avoid
conflicts with clients whose interests might be opposed to the
clearing house, such as investors in the banks, Franklin said.
He has an arrangement with the law firm to use its offices for
meetings. Green didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  When he started his firm, Franklin said he thought he’d
sign up 25 percent of investors in about 200 deals.  Surprise Sign-Ups  “I didn’t think that we’d have a third of the market,” he
said.  Franklin’s firm makes money through the legal work it does
in pursuing claims. One of his primary foes is loan servicers --
companies that collect homeowners’ payments on their mortgages.
They are often affiliated with the loan originators, if they
aren’t also the originator, he said. Investors view such dual
roles as a conflict of interest, he said.  Loan servicers appear to be requiring too few home loans to
be repurchased by lenders in part because their companies would
be taking back the debt, according to the letter Franklin wrote.  “The loans have already been originated,” he said. “What’s
done is done. The question is how to fix it. And one way to fix
it is better servicing. There are a thousand ways to work out
loans. The problem is they’re not doing it.”  The four biggest U.S. lenders are also the biggest U.S.
home-mortgage servicers, managing almost 70 percent of
outstanding loans, according to newsletter National Mortgage
News.  Mortgage Servicers  By taking mortgage payments, the servicers are most likely
to know about problems with the origination of loans, such as
faulty appraisals, inflated borrower incomes and missing
documentation that could lead to a forced buyback of the loan,
Franklin said.  Bank of America has provided loan-modification assistance
to more than 680,000 homeowners since January 2008, the company
said in a Sept. 21 statement. JPMorgan has offered more than
900,000 mortgage modifications since the beginning of last year,
said Thomas Kelly, a spokesman.  Melissa Key, a spokeswoman for the Mortgage Bankers
Association, and  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based
Citigroup, had no immediate comment.  Tom Goyda, spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo,
said the bank was verifying that Franklin represents the
investors and is unable to comment until it does.  While at Patton Boggs, Franklin -- co-author of “Mortgage
and Asset Backed Securities Litigation Handbook,” represented
loan originators and sellers, as well as investors. He was lead
counsel for subprime mortgage loan sellers MortgageIT Holdings’
MortgageIT Inc. and Fremont General Corp.’s Fremont Investment &
Loan in repurchase lawsuits.  Previous Clients  He represented Texas Capital Bancshares Inc. when it was
sued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in March 2009 for not
buying back or indemnifying the now-bankrupt firm on eight loans
Texas Capital sold it. The parties settled this year.  “Now I’ve really gone pure investors,” Franklin said.  Born in Oakland, California, Franklin, who grew up in
Salem, Oregon, has long held an interest in quantitative
analysis. He has a master’s degree in sociology from the
University of Washington in Seattle, where he specialized in
quantitative-research methodology, and once thought he’d become
an actuary, he said.  He earned his law degree in 1995 from Washington & Lee
School of Law in Lexington, Virginia, where he was editor in
chief of the law review.  He joined Patton Boggs in 2003 and became deputy chair of
its litigation department. Before that, he did stints at law
firms including Hunton & Williams LLP in Charlotte, North
Carolina, and Susman Godfrey LLP and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP in Dallas, in addition to being intellectual-property
counsel at American Airlines Inc.  Talcott Franklin PC is a “virtual” law firm -- he mainly
works out of his home, where he lives with his wife and three
daughters. He said he has hired four senior-level attorneys with
experience in finance, securitizations and loan workouts who
also work remotely.  “They’re taking a leap of faith to do this with me,” he
says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at   jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 