-- Los Angeles Businessman Namvar Charged With $23 Million Theft From Clients
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-09-23T21:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/los-angeles-businessman-namvar-charged-with-23-million-theft-from-clients.html
Ezri Namvar , a Los Angeles
businessman whose hotel and investment companies filed for
bankruptcy protection, was indicted on charges of stealing about
$23 million from clients who allowed his firm to hold their
money before it was reinvested in real estate, the U.S. said.  The federal grand jury indictment alleges that five people
agreed to have their money deposited with Namvar’s Namco
Financial Exchange Corp., which held itself out to be a
“qualified intermediary” for real estate transactions called
1031 exchanges, the Los Angeles U.S. Attorney’s Office said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Namvar, 59, and another defendant used the money to pay off
creditors and investors in Namvar’s investment company, Namco
Capitol Group Inc., according to the statement. He was charged
with five counts of wire fraud. Each count carries a maximum
sentence of 20 years in federal prison.  Marc Harris, Namvar’s attorney, didn’t immediately return a
phone message left at his office.  Through his attorney, Namvar agreed to surrender on the
morning of Sept. 27, prosecutors said.  Los Angeles Hotels  Namvar owned LA Hotel Venture LLC, owner of the downtown
Los Angeles Marriott Hotel. The company filed for bankruptcy in
April 2009. Namvar and Namco Capital were forced into bankruptcy
after investors filed involuntary petitions against them in
December 2008.  Namvar is also being sued for hundreds of millions of
dollars owed investors in Los Angeles’ Persian Jewish community
and banks that guaranteed loans to him, said A. David
Youssefyeh, a lawyer representing 20 clients with claims against
Namvar. Investors gave Namvar amounts ranging from $10,000 to
millions on promises that they would receive above-market
returns, said Youssefyeh in a telephone interview today.  The case is U.S. v. Namvar, 10-1055, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 