-- Louisiana's Landrieu Blocks Lew Confirmation Over Oil-Drilling Moratorium
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-09-23T22:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/louisiana-s-landrieu-blocks-lew-confirmation-over-oil-drilling-moratorium.html
Louisiana Democratic Senator  Mary Landrieu  said she will block  Jack Lew ’s confirmation to lead the
White House budget office until the administration lifts or
“significantly” modifies its moratorium on deepwater oil
drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.  The ban is having a “devastating impact on the economy of
the Gulf Coast,” she wrote in a  letter  to Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid . “I have done everything within my power to
get this administration’s attention. But the policy remains in
effect and Louisiana’s economy continues to suffer.”  Lew’s nomination was approved today on a 22-1 vote by the
Senate Budget Committee, which would clear the way for a vote by
the full chamber. The Senate gives individual lawmakers power to
hold up nominations, which they sometimes use to seek
concessions from the executive branch on unrelated issues.  President  Barack Obama  imposed the drilling suspension
following the  BP Plc  oil spill, the worst in U.S. history,
caused by an April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig
off the Louisiana coast.  Landrieu complained at a Senate committee meeting last week
that the ban continues even though airline service resumed four
days after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and the
government didn’t shut down mining after the fatal April 5
explosion at the  Massey Energy Co.  mine in West Virginia.  A spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget urged
Landrieu to allow Lew’s nomination to proceed.  “Jack Lew has received overwhelming, bipartisan support
from senators across the spectrum,” said  Kenneth Baer .
“Especially during this critical time in our economy and in our
fiscal situation, the Senate should move quickly to vote on his
confirmation before it recesses at the end of the month.”  Lew would replace  Peter Orszag , who stepped down in July.
 Jeffrey Zients , OMB’s deputy director, is serving as acting
director until Lew is confirmed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  