-- How to Get Housing off Government's Juice: Peter J. Wallison
-- B y   P e t e r   J .   W a l l i s o n
-- 2010-09-23T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/how-to-get-housing-off-government-s-juice-commentary-by-peter-j-wallison.html
In a year when angry voters are
demanding a reduced government role in the economy, it is
remarkable that most of the ideas for supplanting Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac are just imaginative ways of keeping government in
the business of housing finance.  While the Obama administration has not yet outlined its own
proposal, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has already
signaled that the government will continue to have a role.  This is pretty astonishing. One would think that something
might have been learned from the recent past, when two New Deal
ideas for government housing support -- the savings and loan
industry and the government sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac -- failed spectacularly. It cost taxpayers $150
billion to clean up the first and may cost more than $400
billion to resolve the second.  The same old arguments are being trotted out: without
government support there can’t be a  30-year fixed-rate mortgage ;
interest rates in a nongovernmental system will make homes
unaffordable; and inevitable disruptions in the credit markets
may put a crimp in housing finance.  These bugaboos are mostly myths. A Google search reveals
offers of 30-year fixed-rate jumbo mortgages -- loans too large
to be bought by the GSEs and provided by private lenders without
government support. Studies by Federal Reserve economists in
2006 found no significant reduction in mortgage rates because of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s low-cost funding and secondary
market activities.  Subprime Losses  As for market disruptions, insulating housing from
financial downdrafts would be bad policy; it would eliminate
incentives to be cautious in borrowing and investing and
encourage the growth of bubbles. Moreover, the recent financial
crisis -- the worst since the Great Depression -- affected
securities backed by prime jumbo mortgages in the same way it
affected other high quality asset-backed securities like credit
cards or car loans: a sharp drop followed by a gradual recovery.  The major losses on mortgage securities occurred among
those backed by subprime and other nontraditional loans, and the
widespread failure of these weak loans caused a housing price
collapse.  Accordingly, if our mortgage finance system were used only
for conventional prime mortgages -- those with a 10 percent
minimum down payment, made to borrowers with good credit --
there would be no need for government support. For example, in
the housing bubble that ended in 1979, when almost all loans
were traditional mortgages, foreclosure starts in the ensuing
slump peaked at just 0.87 percent in 1983, according to the
 Mortgage Bankers Association ’s annual delinquency survey.  In the next bubble, which ended in 1992 and primarily
involved traditional financing, foreclosure starts reached 1.32
percent in 1994.  Bubble Deflation  But after 1992, when government housing policy encouraged
the creation of 27 million subprime and other nontraditional
loans -- half of all mortgages -- that result became
destructive. When this bubble deflated in 2007, foreclosure
starts jumped to a record 5.37 percent in 2009.  The lesson is that where mortgages are of good quality, the
deflation of bubbles will not cause a serious financial
disruption -- certainly not enough to warrant continuous
government involvement in housing. But government policy that
deliberately degrades loan quality or creates moral hazard will
eventually cause devastation in the housing market.  All this leads to several conclusions:  -- Government involvement in housing finance is an
invitation to disaster. As illustrated by the S&Ls and GSEs, no
matter how such a system is structured, government support will
hide the real risks.  -- Arguments for government involvement are unpersuasive,
amounting to unverifiable, or imaginary, dangers. We shouldn’t
forget that the vast majority of our economy functions
successfully without direct government support.  -- As long as the residential mortgage system creates high-
quality assets, occasional changes in credit availability can be
handled without difficulty.  When the new Congress begins weighing alternatives to the
GSEs, they should start with a fully private system. There are
several options, and none necessarily excludes the others.  The  George W. Bush  administration proposed a covered bond
system, in which banks would issue debt backed by a pool of
mortgages that they hold on their balance sheets but are
separate from other assets. This has worked well in Europe and
could be adopted in the U.S.  Earlier this year, a House of Representatives committee
sent a bill to the floor -- sponsored by  Scott Garrett , a
Republican from New Jersey -- that would create a system in
which any financial firm could issue covered bonds.  Danish System  The housing finance system in Denmark is also worth
considering. Homeowners can buy back all or part of their
mortgage debt at a discount when interest rates rise and they
can refinance when rates fall. Only mortgages with loan-to-value
ratios of 80 percent or lower are allowed into the system, a
major reason for its long-term success.  A third option is securitization, which has provided low
cost asset-backed financing for more than 30 years. While the
GSEs are still in a government conservatorship, a transition to
a fully private securitization system shouldn’t be difficult.  As investors begin to return to the securitization market,
the government can start reducing the size of mortgages that
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are allowed to acquire. While that
occurs, private  securitizers  should move in to take their place.
We can observe whether the market is supplying all the credit
that the housing industry needs, and stop the process if it
isn’t.  When the size of mortgages that Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac
can buy approaches zero, they can either be shut or privatized.
At the same time, a covered bond or Danish system, or both,
could begin operations. If these alternatives function better
than the securitization system, as determined by homebuyers and
investors, they will supplant it.  The important point is that the housing market will finally
be returned to parity with other financial markets and cease to
be a ward of the government.  ( Peter J. Wallison  is the Arthur F. Burns Fellow in
Financial Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Peter J. Wallison  at  pwallison@aei.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  