-- Pakistani Scientist Gets 86 Years for Firing on U.S. Agents in Afghanistan
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-09-23T18:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/pakistani-scientist-siddiqui-gets-86-years-for-attacking-u-s-personnel.html
Aafia Siddiqui, a Pakistani
scientist convicted of trying to kill U.S. soldiers and federal
agents in Afghanistan in 2008, was sentenced to 86 years in
prison.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Berman  imposed the sentence
today in New York on the American-educated Siddiqui, 38. She was
found guilty in February of grabbing a U.S. soldier’s rifle and
firing on soldiers and Federal Bureau of Investigation agents
after being detained in Ghazni, Afghanistan.  “This act, this crime was horrific in its intent,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Christopher LaVigne  told Berman, arguing
in favor of a life sentence.  Berman rejected requests by Siddiqui’s lawyers that she get
no more than 12 years.  A spectator in court shouted: “Shame, shame, shame on this
court!”  After Berman announced the sentence, Siddiqui urged
spectators to forgive the judge and the jury, saying that the
Prophet Muhammad “never took personal revenge” against his
enemies.  Siddiqui rejected the possibility of an appeal as
“useless, pointless.” And she told Berman she was rejecting
the help of her attorneys.  “Keep them out of my life,” Siddiqui told Berman. “I’m
tired sick of them.”  Dream of Muhammad  In her statements to Berman during the hearing, Siddiqui
spoke of a dream in which she saw Muhammad consoling groups of
captive American soldiers. She said Israel was behind the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in New York and that an
official at the prison where she is being confined is planning
terrorist attacks.  Berman said he would recommend that Siddiqui be held at the
Federal Medical Center in Fort Worth, Texas, which provides
medical and mental health treatment for female prisoners. He
also said Siddiqui should receive periodic mental health
evaluations.  Siddiqui was educated at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and has a doctorate in neuroscience from Brandeis
University near Boston. She lived in the U.S. from about 1991 to
about 2002, when she moved to Pakistan, according to her
indictment.  Capture in Afghanistan  The day before the shooting, she was captured by Afghan
authorities outside an Afghan police headquarters carrying plans
for a “road map of destruction,” according to U.S.
prosecutors. The notes included references to a “mass casualty
attack” and a “dirty bomb.” They also referred to attacks on
 New York  locations, including Wall Street and the Brooklyn
Bridge, U.S. authorities said.  One of the notes read, “Dirty Bomb: Need few oz.
radioactive material (e.g. cobalt 60 from food irradiation
facility). Wrap cobalt 60 around a bomb, detonate it & shower a
city w deadly fall out,” according to the government.  Prosecution witnesses testified during a two-week trial
that Siddiqui fired on soldiers and FBI agents who had come to
the Afghan National Police compound to interview her.  She “saw the chance to kill Americans and she took it,”
LaVigne told jurors in closing arguments in February.  Witnesses said Siddiqui struggled for control of the rifle
and was shot in the abdomen by the U.S. officer whose rifle she
had grabbed.  Seven Convictions  She was convicted of seven charges, including two counts of
attempted murder of U.S. nationals, armed assault, using a
firearm in a violent crime and three counts of assault.  Dawn Cardi, a lawyer for Siddiqui, described her client
today as a mentally ill woman who was terrified of being
tortured and held at Guantanamo Bay.  “She was a woman frightened, possessed, upset,” Cardi
said. “She wanted to escape.”  “If you sentence her to life in prison, it means today, at
38 years old, you have given up on her,” Cardi said. “That is
not a fair sentence.”  Siddiqui addressed the court today, disputing her lawyer’s
description of her as mentally ill.  “I’m not paranoid. I’m not mentally sick,” she told
Berman. “I don’t agree with this.”  Siddiqui and Cardi both claimed that she was held in a
secret prison and tortured between 2003 and 2008 by agents
working for the U.S. Berman rejected the claim.  “I find no credible evidence in the record that the United
States or its officers or its agencies detained Dr. Siddiqui,”
Berman said.  Trial Testimony  In explaining his sentence, the judge said he agreed with
prosecutors that the shooting was an act of terrorism and that
Siddiqui had obstructed justice by lying on the stand during the
trial. Berman said Siddiqui lied when she said she didn’t fire
the M-4 rifle and didn’t know how to use a gun.  At trial, Siddiqui denied firing the weapon or even knowing
how. She said she was beaten by Afghans before the U.S.
officials arrived. She said she didn’t know about chemistry or
understand what was written in the notes in her purse.  Defense lawyers argued in court papers that the notes found
on her were “pocket litter that contained irrational musings.”  “Go into supermarkets and randomly inject fruits with
poisons, as well as other items that are usually eaten raw,”
read one document she carried. “This may not kill as many
people, but the panic, fear, and economic loss will be
substantial if done properly.”  Prosecutors said Siddiqui also carried a computer thumb
drive that had discussions of jihadist training and recruitment,
plus about two pounds of sodium cyanide, a poisonous substance.
The judge ruled the jury shouldn’t hear about the thumb drive or
the chemical.  After several outbursts from Siddiqui during the trial,
Berman ordered her out of the courtroom. She was allowed to
watch the proceedings on closed-circuit television in a holding
cell.  The case is U.S. v. Siddiqui, 08-cr-00826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 