-- England Cricket Officials Demand Apology from Pakistan on Match Allegation
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-09-23T10:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/pakistan-cricket-chief-s-claims-against-england-lead-to-threat-of-court.html
English cricket officials wrote to
the head of the game in Pakistan threatening legal action unless
he issues a “full and unreserved apology” for alleging England
players were involved in fixing a match.  Ijaz Butt, chairman of the Pakistan Cricket Board, said in
a television interview last weekend that “there is loud and
clear talk in bookie circles that some English players have
taken enormous amounts of money to lose” the third one-day
international at the Oval in London on Sept. 17.  “Mr. Butt has been advised that if a satisfactory response
is not received, legal proceedings will be commenced against him
without further notice,” said a joint statement issued today by
the England and Wales Cricket Board and the Professional
Cricketers’ Association.  Cricket’s governing body has already opened an
investigation into scoring patterns in the game, which Pakistan
won by 23 runs, after receiving information from the U.K.’s Sun
newspaper about the visitors’ batting.  Last month, three members of the Pakistan team were
questioned by police and had their mobile phones taken after the
News of the World newspaper made allegations of a betting scam
during the fourth Test against England at Lord’s in London. A
35-year-old man was also arrested “on suspicion of conspiracy
to defraud bookmakers” and later released.  The three players, captain  Salman Butt  and fast bowlers
 Mohammad Asif  and Mohammad Amir, were suspended by the
International Cricket Council. They maintained their innocence
and were sent home from the remainder of the team’s tour of
England.  England took the one-day series 3-2 yesterday after winning
the last match of the series by 121 runs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  