-- Panama to Sell Debut Samurai Bond With $500 Million Offer, Vallarino Says
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2010-09-23T21:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/panama-to-sell-500-million-of-yen-denominated-debt-finance-minister-says.html
Panama plans its first yen-
denominated bond sale with an offer to raise at least $500
million on Japanese markets early next year, Finance Minister
 Alberto Vallarino  said.  “Our government wants to diversify its funding options
and raise the profile of Panama amongst Japanese and Asian
investors,” he said in an interview today at the office of
Panama’s mission for the United Nations in New York.  The Central American country will be able to lower its
borrowing costs by selling debt in Japan rather than in the
U.S., he said. The yield on Panama’s 5.2 percent dollar bonds
due in 2020 tumbled 112 basis points, or 1.12 percentage point,
this year to 3.97 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  European banks from Barclays Plc to BNP Paribas SA are
selling a record amount of yen bonds in Japan, spurring the
Samurai market to its busiest quarter in two years as investor
demand for yield overrides concern about the lenders’ sovereign
debt exposure. Panama will follow Mexico, which plans to sell
about 150 billion yen ($1.8 billion) of bonds backed by the
Japan Bank for International Cooperation in October, according
to  Octavio Lara , deputy general director of debt issuance at
Mexico’s Ministry of Finance.  Vallarino said that the yen-denominated bonds will have a
lower rate than Panama’s dollar bonds even after including
currency swap costs.  Upgrade  Moody’s Investors Service raised Panama’s credit rating to
Baa3, the lowest investment grade, in June, matching moves from
Fitch Ratings in March and Standard & Poor’s in May. The
nation’s dollar bonds yield an average 183 basis points over
U.S. Treasuries, compared with 212 for Brazil, whose debt
carries the same credit ratings.  Barclays, BNP Paribas and three other European
commercial lenders raised 499.7 billion yen in Japan since July
1 through the end of last week, the most ever in a quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Their bonds make up 58
percent of the total 869 billion yen of Samurai sales in the
period, the most since borrowers sold 1.165 trillion yen of the
securities in the three months to June 30, 2008, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Sabo  in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  