-- Pension Shell Games Threaten Market: Arthur Levitt, Lynn Turner
-- B y   A r t h u r   L e v i t t   a n d   L y n n   E .   T u r n e r
-- 2010-09-23T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/pension-fund-shell-games-threaten-muni-market-commentary-by-arthur-levitt.html
The municipal bond market, once a
quiet corner of Wall Street, is slowly becoming a scene of
scandal and regulatory inquest. The Securities and Exchange
Commission recently accused New Jersey of giving fraudulent
information about its finances to municipal bond investors. The
SEC is investigating officials in Miami for similar problems.  The rate of municipal bond defaults -- roughly $3 billion
per year -- is triple the usual pace, and analysts say many more
bonds are on the brink thanks to the weak economy and low tax
collections.  Should investors worry about their municipal bond
portfolios? In most cases, no. The vast majority of municipal
bonds pay off on time. Major disasters have been rare and
confined.  That record of relative calm is a key reason munis have
been spared the kind of regulatory attention given to their
corporate bond cousins. In our view, that special treatment
serves investors in municipal bonds poorly, leaving them under-
informed about some of the risks they are taking. In the end,
the biggest losers will be municipal bond issuers themselves,
imperiling their ability to borrow at low rates in the future.  At the core of the problem are questions about how
governments manage pension funds, what investors know, and when
they know it. The case against  New Jersey  revealed that the
state has made unfunded pension fund promises to its employees,
and compounded the problem by not being forthright with bond
investors. (The state settled without admitting wrongdoing.) In
this case, the contrast between the corporate and municipal
markets could not be sharper.  False Assumptions  Pensions typically keep up with benefit promises through a
combination of worker contributions, employer contributions, and
market returns. But those have slowed to a trickle as states
have cut back on their own contributions, employees have
contributed too little, and hoped-for investment gains have
disappeared. Most pension funds operate with an assumption that
they can return an annual 8 percent or better on their money. In
the last decade, the  Standard & Poor’s 500  stock index has
returned around zero.  Pensions suffer from the same demographic ills as Social
Security. The workforce is aging, people are living longer, and
they are often retiring earlier -- so benefits are getting more
expensive to sustain. These problems afflict corporate and
public pensions equally. Because of pension fund rules,
corporations are required to step up contributions when their
pension funds fall behind. Perhaps more important, they have to
disclose their underfunded pensions to their investors in
regular public filings.  Disclosure Issues  Public pensions play by different rules. Most are under no
obligation to keep their public pensions fully funded. Legally,
government officials can keep their pension liabilities either
under wraps in delayed filings or cloaked in opaque documents
investors are unlikely to see or understand. Many pensions
proclaim themselves healthy by virtue of past investment
performance that is unlikely to continue and that may have
already been undermined by more recent market losses.  Only because of dogged investigations did taxpayers,
workers, and investigators discover that New Jersey stopped
making pension fund contributions. The state said that prior
year gains were enough to cover future benefits.  Meanwhile, government officials and labor unions have
reopened pension agreements every few years, often agreeing to
improve them for workers, usually through cost of living
increases above inflation and options to “purchase” years of
service toward pension payouts.  Unfunded Liabilities  These pension fund problems could become a headache for
municipal bond investors eventually. After all, any long-term
problem facing states, cities, and other governments will end up
harming their ability to pay their regular debts.  How big is the problem? Some estimate that unfunded
retirement liabilities have grown to anywhere from $1 trillion
to $3 trillion. Current retirees will still have their benefits,
but the security of future retirees is in doubt.  This is not a problem with an easy solution. If states turn
to taxpayers to backfill their pension liabilities, the tab
could be huge: In  Colorado , with 5 million citizens, the likely
cost is now over $5,000 for every man, woman, and child, or
three times the annual state income tax bill for a family with
$40,000 in income.  Shutting down the plans would make things worse. The
incoming funds from current workers keep the system’s cost from
being shifted entirely to the shoulders of taxpayers. Forcing
public workers into 401(k)s won’t work, as those are often more
underfunded than pensions.  Nor can states and localities cancel their past
commitments. Courts have taken a dim view of such unilateral
moves.  The solutions, alas, can’t be put off, either. Everyone
involved -- government employees, employers, and taxpayers --
will have to share the pain. Here are the five essential steps
for reform:  1. Congress must force states and other public agencies to
admit their pension problems in timely, audited, plain-English
reports using standards similar to those used by corporate
pensions.  2. The SEC has the power it needs to enforce securities
laws -- except when it comes to the municipal bond market. For
this reason, Congress should repeal the 1975 Tower Amendment,
which prevents the SEC from having the same regulatory authority
over the muni bond market that it has over its corporate
counterpart.  Such a repeal would allow the SEC to require that municipal
bond offering documents be similar to those in corporate
offerings, that governments follow uniform accounting standards
defined by an independent board, and that ratings companies
apply the same standards to government and corporate debt
instruments.  3. Even within its limited existing authority, the SEC
should be more aggressive. The New Jersey case, for example, was
resolved with no fines and without disclosure of the names of
those responsible.  4. Congress should require that public pension fund boards
adopt the same governance principles as companies. This would
include greater disclosure and a majority of independent board
members who can fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities to the
employees in the plans. While neither of us regards corporate
pensions as a picture of health, at least retirees, regulators,
and investors are regularly updated on their condition, and
companies are routinely forced to fund future benefits as market
conditions change. That comes out of a truly independent audit.  5. Finally, states and localities should be permitted to
sweeten benefits only if they agree to fund them fully. That
will keep politicians from making more promises they can’t keep.  The key to these reforms is the leverage of the
marketplace, where investors make cold-eyed calculations of
their risks. They need to be able to figure out which bond
issuers are most likely to default due to pension fund
obligations -- and charge them more to borrow further. While
that will be a harsh penalty for some states and localities, it
may be the only way to save this market from ruin.  The stakes are really that high. For decades, the municipal
bond market has allowed governments to build needed public
infrastructure projects and fund operations affordably. If
investors discover that the market has instead become a way to
paper over irresponsible promises, they will flee it. And no
state, county, or local government will be spared the damage
that follows.  ( Arthur Levitt  was chairman of the SEC from 1993 to 2001
and is a director of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News. 
Lynn E. Turner is a senior adviser at consultancy LECG LLC and 
is a former chief accountant for the SEC. A version of this 
column will appear in the Sept. 27 issue of Bloomberg 
Businessweek. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Arthur Levitt at  alevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  