-- Petrobras Rises on Speculation Demand for $78 Billion Sale Exceeds Supply
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-09-23T20:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/petrobras-rises-on-speculation-of-high-demand-for-78-billion-share-sale.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil company, rose the most in three weeks in
Sao Paulo on speculation demand for a $78 billion share sale
will surpass the amount on offer.  Petrobras gained 3.2 percent, the most since Sept. 3, to
26.80 reais as of the 4 p.m. New York time close.  The company, based in Rio de Janeiro, is planning to sell
as many as 2.718 billion common shares and 1.983 billion
preferred shares. Under the terms of a Sept. 3 prospectus, 80
percent of the shares will be offered to existing shareholders
as of Sept. 10 on a priority basis. Petrobras plans to issue
about $42.5 billion worth of  stock  to the government in return
for the right to develop offshore oil reserves.  Other current holders, including state-run financial
institutions such as development bank BNDES, will likely buy as
much as they’re entitled to, said  Tim Hall , who helps manage
about $750 million at Deltec Asset Management. Demand for
remaining shares may exceed the offer by as much as three times
as Deltec and other non-priority investors buy stock, Hall said.  “There is no question there will be full take-up from
current holders,” Hall said by phone from New York. “Demand
for the deal has been pretty good. I think the discount will be
minimal.”  Investment Plan  Petrobras  is raising money to finance a $224 billion
investment plan through 2014 as it develops offshore fields such
as Tupi, the largest discovery in the Americas in three decades.
After the sale, investors will return to focusing on
“fundamentals” rather than earnings-dilution concerns that
helped the stock slump 29 percent this year through yesterday,
Hall said.  “Instead of focusing on Petrobras the deal, they can focus
on Petrobras the company,” he said. “The long-term prospects
for Petrobras remain pretty sound.”  Petrobras may post more gains after completing the world’s
largest share sale, said  Robbert Van Batenburg , the head of
equities research at Louis Capital Markets in New York.  “It has massively underperformed the oil sector,”
Batenburg said in a telephone interview. “The stock will make
up some ground relative to the group. You have an oil company
with a superior growth profile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  