-- Philadelphia Inquirer Lenders Best Perelman in Bankruptcy Court Auction
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-09-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/philadelphia-inquirer-lenders-outbid-raymond-perelman-for-newspaper-owner.html
Raymond Perelman , father of
billionaire  Ronald Perelman , was outbid in a bankruptcy court
auction for the  Philadelphia Inquirer  and its sister publication
by lenders for the newspaper who offered $105 million.  Perelman, 93, declined to raise his $85 million offer,
which included $10 million from the Philadelphia Carpenters
Union pension fund, he said in an interview after the auction.
The Philadelphia-area resident said he decided to bid for the
paper for the second time this year to ensure it survives the
bankruptcy of its parent company, Philadelphia Newspapers LLC.  “We need a newspaper in Philadelphia,” Perelman said.
“It’s an important part of the city.”  The auction was the second this year for the Inquirer and
the Philadelphia Daily News. It began nine days after the
newspapers’ main lenders backed out of a contract to buy the
publications in a deal valued at about $139 million. The
lenders, including hedge fund operator Angelo Gordon & Co. and a
unit of  Credit Suisse Group AG , returned with an offer similar
to the earlier one.  Fred Hodara , an attorney for the lenders, said the group
would have to complete the sale this time, even if it runs into
the same problem with the Teamsters union that scuttled the last
deal. The judge engineered a process designed to guarantee the
sale will be completed, including requiring the lenders to post
a non-refundable deposit of more than $15 million, Hodara said
in an interview.  “There is no way that the buyer does not close,” he said.  Teamster Opposition  The lenders refused to complete the previous deal after
Teamsters members rejected changes to their pension plan.  The lenders and 14 of the 15 unions at the newspapers have
agreed to new employment contracts, Hodara said. The only
holdout is the Teamsters, which has rejected a proposal to
convert its pension to a 401(k) retirement plan, he said.  The lenders still plan to replace the pension, Hodara said.
Should the Teamsters, which represents about 200 truck drivers,
continue to oppose pension changes, the lenders will still
complete the sale, he said.  Hodara declined to say what the lenders would do if the
Teamsters reject a new contract.  John P. Laigaie, head of Teamsters Local 628, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Cash, Real Estate  Under the current offer, the lenders will pay $105 million
in cash for the newspapers. When the value of the real estate
and other items are included, the transaction is worth about the
same amount as the winning offer in the auction last spring,
Hodara said. Philadelphia Newspapers had said the previous deal
was worth $139 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Stephen Raslavich  in Philadelphia
said in court he will approve the auction results after minor
wording changes are made to the sale contract.  “Things that were a little bit up in the air have now come
down to the ground,” Raslavich said.  Philadelphia Newspapers filed for bankruptcy in February
2009, blaming the recession and a decline in advertising.  The filing came more than two years after public relations
executive  Brian Tierney  and local investors including the
Carpenters Union pension fund bought the company. Philadelphia
Newspapers listed assets and debt of as much as $500 million
each in court papers.  Tierney, who is currently the managing partner of
Philadelphia Newspapers, said Sept. 22 in an interview that he
won’t be part of the newspapers once they are taken over by the
lenders.  The Inquirer, founded in 1829, has won at least 18 Pulitzer
Prizes. The Daily News, a tabloid founded in 1925, won a
Pulitzer Prize this year for investigative journalism. The two
newspapers have had a common owner since 1969, when they were
bought by Knight Newspapers Inc.  The case is In re Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, 09-11204,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 