-- PKO Bank to Decide in Several Days on $1.1 Billion International Bond Sale
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-09-23T12:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/pko-bank-to-decide-in-two-days-on-1-1-billion-sale-of-international-bonds.html
PKO Bank Polski SA, Poland’s
largest lender, will decide within “several days” whether to
sell five-year international bonds as planned once it receives
bids, Chief Executive Officer  Zbigniew Jagiello  said today.  The Warsaw-based bank said in a regulatory statement
yesterday it would offer as much as 800 million euros ($1.07
billion) of bonds, the first portion of a 3 billion-euro bond
program announced in 2008, its first-ever euro-denominated debt.
PKO, which met with potential investors in April, has hired HSBC
Holdings Plc and Societe Generale SA to manage the sale.  “The process has started,” Jagiello told reporters in
Warsaw. He declined to say whether the state-controlled lender
has priced the bond or begun collecting orders.  PKO is rated A2, the sixth-highest of 10 investment grades,
by Moody’s Investors Service.  Polish companies are ramping up debt sales in foreign
currencies as the extra yield investors demand to own corporate
bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt has declined
to the lowest since May, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.  Polska Grupa Energetyczna SA, Poland’s largest power
company, plans to sell at least 500 million euros of bonds this
year. Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA, the dominant
gas distributor, wants to sell 500 million euros of five-year
bonds in the first quarter of 2011. Koleje Mazowieckie, the
railway operator for the region that includes Warsaw, will sell
100 million euros of bonds by the end of this year.  PKO shares fell 0.9 percent to 43.06 zloty as of 2:36
p.m. in Warsaw, valuing the bank at 53.8 billion zloty.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nathaniel Espino at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net  