-- Poland Delays Lotos Sale; Oil Refiner's CEO Sees No `Stampede' of Buyers
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-09-23T11:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/poland-delays-start-of-lotos-refiner-sale-until-october-budzanowski-says.html
Poland will delay the sale of  Grupa
Lotos SA  until October, confirming that the deal won’t be
complete until next year, as the head of the country’s second-
largest oil refiner said the transaction “won’t be simple.”  Poland will next month seek bids for as much as 53 percent
in Lotos, Deputy Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski told
reporters in Warsaw today. Treasury Minister Aleksander Grad had
said on Sept. 7 that the ministry would seek bids this month,
after missing earlier targets of May and June.  The sale has been delayed by a lack of consent from the
Economy Ministry, which must approve a change in Poland’s energy
policy to allow the government to give up majority control of
the Gdansk-based company. Budzanowski said an agreement has been
reached and the entire government must approve the buyer.  Lotos Chief Executive Officer  Pawel Olechnowicz  told
lawmakers in parliament that the company “isn’t an easy asset
to sell” and the government “shouldn’t expect a stampede of
buyers.” He didn’t elaborate.  Lotos next year will start to repay a  loan  it used to
finance an expansion of refining capacity by 75 percent, to 10.5
million tons a year.  “We’ve been saying for two years that the time to sell
Lotos is 2012,” not this year,  Pawel Burzynski , an analyst at
the brokerage of Bank Zachodni WBK SA in Warsaw, said by phone.
The company needs to complete its investment program, get its
Norwegian wells operating and shift some oil reserves off its
balance sheet, which requires a legal change, Burzynski said.  Lotos fell 0.9 percent to 31.25 zloty at 1:03 p.m. in
Warsaw today, valuing the 53 percent stake at 2.15 billion zloty
($720 million). That compares with a 1 percent drop in the
benchmark WIG20 Index and larger rival PKN Orlen SA’s 1.5
percent decline.  Oil Fields  Budzanowski said the buyer will need to give Lotos access
to oil fields and keep its shares traded on the Warsaw stock
exchange. The company should focus on completing its investment
program, reducing debt, finding buyers for its increased output
and extracting more oil, he said.  The ministry hasn’t hired an adviser for the sale and may
do so later, Budzanowski said.  Lotos, which next year may increase oil extraction by
400,000 tons to more than 500,000 tons, as the Norwegian fields
begin producing, doesn’t expect to have trouble finding buyers
for its products in 2011, Olechnowicz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  