-- Polish Central Bank Rejected Motion for Half-Point Rate Increase in August
-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2010-09-23T13:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/polish-central-bank-rejected-motion-for-half-point-rate-increase-in-august.html
Poland’s central bank rejected
motions to increase its main interest rate and mandatory-reserve
rate by half a percentage point last month, according to minutes
of the Aug. 24 policy meeting published today.  Narodowy Bank Polski  kept its  seven-day reference rate  at
an all-time low of 3.5 percent in August for the 14th straight
month, saying  inflation  would remain under control even though
economic growth was likely to accelerate. While some policy
makers argued the recovery would reignite price growth, others
cited an “unfavorable” global outlook and a “lack of clear
signs” expansion would speed up, according to the minutes,
which don’t identify individual speakers.  “Raising interest rates may increase the risk that the
zloty will appreciate too rapidly,” the minutes cited some rate
setters as saying. “Some members argued that higher rates could
weaken the recovery of economic growth in Poland too much.”  Proponents of tightening said rates are now set at levels
appropriate for a “strong slowdown” in Polish growth and
recession abroad, which no longer applies. They also cited a
central bank  survey  showing that among Polish households the
average expectation for the inflation rate jumped 0.6 percentage
points in August to 2.7 percent, the first increase this year
and the largest monthly jump since July 2008.  Proposals to raise the bank’s benchmark seven-day rate to 4
percent and the mandatory-reserve rate for commercial banks to
3.5 percent were voted down by a majority of the 10-member
Monetary Policy Council, according to the minutes. No voting
totals were given.  Economic Growth  Poland’s  economic growth  accelerated to 3.5 percent in the
second quarter from 3 percent in the previous three months,
according to data published by the Central Statistics Office on
Aug. 31.  Annual inflation held steady at a three-year low of 2
percent in August. While the rate may “creep up” to more than
the central bank’s target of 2.5 percent this year, “it should
not exceed this substantially,” Belka said in a Sept. 10
interview. “I don’t think inflation pressures are mounting.”  Forward-rate agreements used to speculate on borrowing
costs in six months are trading 41 basis points above the three-
month Warsaw interbank offered rate, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David  McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  