-- Portugal Paying the Price of Poor Market Communication, OECD's Gurria Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-09-23T14:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/portugal-paying-the-price-of-poor-market-communication-oecd-s-gurria-says.html
Portugal’s government must spell
out its plans to cut the budget deficit if it is to succeed in
lowering the cost of financing the country’s debt, said the head
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Portugal should emulate other European Union countries in
sending a “strong signal” to markets that it is serious about
tackling its deficit, the fourth-biggest in the euro area, OECD
Secretary General  Angel Gurria  said in an interview in Berlin.  “While many of the measures it needs to take are there,
Portugal needs to do a better job in communicating that to
markets,” Gurria said today. “Other European Union countries
including Germany and the U.K. have sent a strong signal about
deficit-cutting policy. Evidently others need to catch up.”  Portuguese bonds slumped this week on concern the
government isn’t making as much progress trimming its budget
deficit as other countries affected by the spillover from the
Greek debt crisis. The yield on Portuguese 10-year bonds rose to
a record relative to benchmark German bunds today as the central
government shortfall widened in the first eight months.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
urged Portugal’s minority Socialist government, led by Prime
Minister  Jose Socrates , to follow through on its pledge to
reduce hiring of public workers, while raising taxes and
postponing public infrastructure spending.  “It is essential that Portugal initiates in its budget on
the Oct. 15 substantial and concrete measures in order to meet
the fiscal target next year,” Rehn told reporters in Berlin
today.  ‘Off the Radar’  Gurria said he doesn’t consider that the record premiums
paid on Portuguese and Irish debt herald a new crisis of the
euro. Ireland’s problems are tied to one specific bank, Greece
is “doing everything by the book” while Spain has “dropped
off the radar to a very good extent,” he said.  “In general, I’d say we’re much better off,” with the 110
billion-euro ($147 billion) “ring-fencing of Greece,” the 750
billion-euro rescue fund and the European Central Bank “doing
whatever it takes in order to provide liquidity,” Gurria said.  “We have more defenses against unexpected surprises and in
general, objectively, the countries are taking the measures they
need to stabilize the medium and long-term situation,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 