-- Potash, IBM, Baxter, Jefferies Group in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-09-23T10:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/potash-ibm-netezza-baxter-walt-disney-jefferies-group-in-court-news.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
sued  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company, in
Chicago federal court to prevent it from acquiring the
fertilizer maker with a $40 billion hostile offer.  BHP sought to improve its chances of acquiring Saskatoon-
based Potash Corp. “on the cheap” by seeking to “drive down”
its share price prior to the Aug. 17 offer, Potash Corp. said
yesterday in the complaint.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest producer of its namesake
crop nutrient, rejected Melbourne-based BHP’s $130-a-share offer
as too low. Potash Corp. shares have advanced 31 percent since
Aug. 16, the last trading day before BHP made its proposal, and
are trading above the bid price, indicating investors expect a
higher offer.  “The suit is a defensive mechanism, but also an offensive
tool because it attempts to point out why the stock is
relatively inexpensive on a stand-alone, no-transaction basis,”
Louis Meyer, an analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “The rationale is that the best
defense is a good offense.”  BHP said the lawsuit is “without merit” and will be
contested “vigorously,” in an e-mailed statement.  “We do not
believe this lawsuit will interfere with or delay our offer”
for Potash Corp.”  Potash Corp. alleges BHP made “false and misleading”
statements about its offer. BHP allegedly sought to depress the
value of Potash shares to make an acquisition possible by
pledging to develop its Jansen project in Saskatchewan and to
“run its new mine flat out, flooding the market with potash,”
Potash Corp. said in the court filing.  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan v. BHP Billiton,
10-06024, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  IBM, Netezza Sued by Shareholder Over Buyout Offer  Netezza Corp. , a computer-data warehousing company, was
sued by a shareholder who contends his stock is undervalued in a
$1.7 billion buyout offer from  International Business Machines
Corp.   Officials of Marlborough, Massachusetts-based Netezza and
IBM structured the $27-a-share offer to unfairly scare off other
bidders interested in the company, Netezza investor Anthony
Kolton contends in his Delaware Chancery Court lawsuit.  “Netezza’s directors have not acted in a manner designed
to obtain the highest price reasonably available to
shareholders,” lawyers for Kolton said in the complaint, filed
yesterday in Wilmington.  Netezza, whose clients include NYSE Euronext and  Estee
Lauder Cos. , integrates hardware with programs that store and
analyze data. It’s one of the few data-warehousing companies
that has gained customers, making it an attractive buy for large
technology corporations looking to increase sales, Keith
Bachman, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said Sept. 20.  IBM Chief Executive Officer Sam Palmisano said in May he’s
planning to spend about $20 billion on acquisitions in the next
five years. Armonk, New York-based IBM is the world’s biggest
computer-services company.  Neither Glenn Zimmerman, a Netezza spokesman, nor Emily
Horn, an IBM spokeswoman, immediately returned a call and e-mail
seeking comment on Kolton’s suit.  The case is Anthony Kolton v. Netezza Corp., 5836, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Baxter International Faces Lawsuit Over Disclosures  Baxter International Inc ., a maker of intravenous drugs,
was sued by a pension fund over allegedly misleading public
statements made about the company’s business prospects.  Deerfield, Illinois-based Baxter falsely said its plasma-
derivative business would grow, the city of Lakeland, Florida’s
employee pension plan claims in a complaint filed Sept. 21 in
federal court in Chicago. The plaintiffs seek class-action, or
group, status to represent people who bought the shares from
September 2009 to May 2010.  Baxter also failed to disclose to investors that it wasn’t
complying with a 2006 agreement with the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration covering changes made to its Colleague infusion
pump, according to a statement by lawyers for the pension plan
that was distributed by Business Wire.  As a result of the misleading statements and omission,
Baxter stock was artificially inflated, according to the
statement. After Baxter disclosed on April 22 the pressures it
faced in its plasma-derivative products business, its shares
fell more than 13 percent to $51.13, according to the statement.  Deborah Spak , a Baxter spokeswoman, didn’t return a call
seeking comment after regular business hours Sept. 21.  The case is City of Lakeland Employees Pension Plan v.
Baxter International Inc., 10-06016, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Mark Cuban Wins Access to Documents in Feud With SEC  Mark Cuban, who lost a bid to get tossed insider-trading
allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, won
access to documents in his ongoing feud with the agency.  U.S. District Judge Reggie B. Walton in Washington
yesterday ruled that the SEC improperly withheld documents the
billionaire owner of the Dallas Mavericks requested through the
Freedom of Information Act, that its reasons for withholding
other documents weren’t detailed enough and that it can’t take
three years to complete his request for still more.  “To the extent that the court has found that the defendant
cannot rely on an exemption to withhold a record in its
entirety, the defendant is obligated by the FOIA to produce a
complete or redacted version of the record to the plaintiff, and
must do so forthwith,” Walton wrote.  The federal appeals court in New Orleans reinstated Sept.
21 the SEC’s insider-trading case against Cuban, filed in
federal court in Dallas. The lower-court judge tossed the case
last year. The SEC accuses Cuban of trading on confidential
information when he sold his stake in Mamma.com Inc., a Canadian
Internet search company, just before it announced a private
placement of shares.  “We are reviewing the decision,” John Nester, an SEC
spokesman, said yesterday.  Walton found the agency’s document search into certain
areas to be inadequate, including Cuban’s request for “any
trading history by SEC personnel in Mamma.com Inc. securities.”
He also asked for documents on several SEC lawyers and on any
investigation into his companies.  The agency asked for three years to sift through 107 boxes
on the Momma.com probe, which Walton denied. He said he’d hold a
hearing on how long the agency should be given.  “The most significant thing out of this decision is the
quite-correct skepticism about the three years,” said Lyle
Roberts, a lawyer for Cuban at  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP  in
Washington.  Mamma.com is now known as Copernic Inc., based in Montreal.  The case is Cuban v. SEC, 09-cv-996, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington). The insider-trading case is
SEC v. Cuban, 09-10996, 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New
Orleans) and SEC v. Cuban, 08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  Apple Manager Devine Wins Bail Using Mother’s Home  Paul Devine, the  Apple Inc.  manager accused of taking
kickbacks in exchange for company secrets, won a judge’s
permission to be released from prison once a $440,000 lien
against his mother’s home is posted with the court.  After a hearing yesterday before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Howard Lloyd in San Jose, California, Devine’s lawyer, Raphael
Goldman, told Devine’s mother that it could take a few days for
the lien against her Maryland home to be processed as collateral
supporting a bail bond.  Devine also posted a bond of $612,407 from his and his
wife’s foreign bank accounts plus the equity in his home near
San Francisco, while his brother also posted $50,000. Lloyd told
Devine he must “continue to cooperate with the government to
identify all accounts” and transfer to the U.S. and pledge as
bail another $313,000 remaining in Korean bank accounts.  “If you feel he is not doing that, then you come back and
we will talk about it,” Lloyd told Assistant U.S. Attorney
Michelle Kane, who objected to Devine’s release until he
accounted for all potential accounts abroad.  Kane declined to comment after yesterday’s hearing.  Devine, 37, a global-supply manager, was accused of money
laundering and wire fraud in a 23-count indictment unsealed Aug.
13. He has pleaded not guilty to charges that he took at least
$1 million in kickbacks from Asian suppliers.  The case is U.S. v. Devine, 10-cr-00603, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  SEC Moves Will Prevent Repeat of Stanford Missteps, Khuzami Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, responding to
a watchdog’s criticism that it bungled fraud claims against R.
Allen Stanford, has strengthened its investigations and is
pursuing several people linked to the Texas-based executive,
agency officials told lawmakers.  The SEC has added investigators and improved handling of
tips after Inspector General H. David Kotz faulted the agency’s
probe of Stanford, who is facing trial for an alleged $7 billion
fraud, Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami said yesterday in
remarks prepared for a Senate Banking Committee hearing. The
agency is “also vigorously pursuing its case against Stanford
and the others charged in this massive Ponzi scheme,” Khuzami
said.  “The scope and egregiousness of Stanford’s conduct and the
resulting injury to investors underscores that it is essential
for us to push forward with our efforts to hold the wrongdoers
accountable and seek maximum investor recovery,” Khuzami said.  Khuzami, Carlo di Florio, head of the SEC’s Office of
Compliance Inspections and Examinations, and Rose Romero,
director of the agency’s regional office in Fort Worth, Texas,
were called to testify on progress in implementing changes Kotz
proposed in an April  report  on the Stanford case. Kotz said the
SEC failed to conduct a meaningful probe of Houston-based
Stanford Financial Group Co. until 2005 even though examiners
suspected he was running a Ponzi scheme eight years earlier.  The SEC sued Stanford, 60, in February 2009, claiming his
Antigua-based firm, Stanford International Bank Ltd, defrauded
investors by selling billions of dollars in bogus certificates
of deposit. He is jailed in Houston while awaiting trial on
related criminal charges, and at least three of his top
executives are facing related claims.  U.K. Prosecutors Charge Five Men in Engineering-Contract Fraud  U.K. prosecutors charged five men for their alleged
involvement in a ring that used inside information to bid on 66
million pounds ($103 million) worth of contracts in engineering
projects in the energy industry.  The five men, who ranged in age from 54 to 70, were charged
at a London court yesterday with conspiracy to corrupt following
a two-year investigation,  the Serious Fraud Office  said in a
statement.  “Some of the defendants were employed by the companies
responsible for the procurement of these projects and are
alleged to have passed confidential information to others who
then offered to provide it to companies bidding for the
contracts in return for a percentage of the contract value,”
according to the SFO, which investigated the case with the City
of London Police. The names of the companies were not made
public.  The defendants were released on bail and are scheduled to
appear in court in November. The suspected crimes were committed
between January 2001 and August 2009. The SFO prosecutes complex
fraud, bribery and white collar crime in the U.K.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  William Foster Gets Three Years for Real Estate Fraud  William Foster, convicted for his part in a $22 million
real estate investment fraud, was sentenced to three years in
prison.  Foster, 70, was one of three men convicted of cheating
investors in a network of companies named Cobalt, which claimed
to have interests in residential real estate developments
throughout the U.S. The sentence came less than three months
after one of Foster’s codefendants was sentenced to 85 years.  U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood in New York, who sentenced
both men, said she rejected guidelines that called for a life
sentence for Foster because of his poor health and his lower
level of criminal responsibility compared with the other
defendants.  “Mr. Foster, everyone agrees, had a much lesser role than
his two co-conspirators,” Wood said.  Foster, Irving Stitsky and Mark Shapiro were convicted by a
jury after a three-week trial that ended in November. Each was
found guilty of two counts of securities fraud, one of mail
fraud, one of wire fraud and one of conspiracy.  According to the government, the men defrauded more than
250 investors by inventing a false history for Cobalt; failing
to disclose that the company was owned and controlled by Stitsky
and Shapiro, who were convicted felons; and misstating Cobalt’s
property interests.  The case is U.S. v. Shapiro, 06-cr-357, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Disney Earnings Leaker Hoxie Admits to Scheme With Boyfriend  Bonnie Hoxie, a former assistant to  Walt Disney Co. 
corporate communications chief Zenia Mucha, admitted in court
that she tried to sell confidential earnings information in a
scheme with her boyfriend.  Hoxie pleaded guilty Sept. 21 to one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and wire fraud, and one count of wire
fraud before U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael Dolinger, according
to Yusill Scribner, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s office
in Manhattan.  As part of a plea agreement, Hoxie and prosecutors agreed
that federal sentencing guidelines, which are advisory, call for
her to get four to 10 months when she is sentenced by U.S.
District Judge Alvin Hellerstein on Dec. 21.  Robert Baum, Hoxie’s lawyer, said in an interview that she
remains free on a $50,000 bond and has returned to her home in
Los Angeles.  Hoxie, who was employed as Mucha’s secretary from March
through May 25, admitted to passing information about  Disney’s 
quarterly earnings to her boyfriend, Yonni Sebbag, who planned
to sell the information to investors.  In August, Sebbag pleaded guilty to wire fraud and
conspiracy to commit wire fraud and securities fraud. Sentencing
guidelines call for Sebbag to get 27 to 33 months in prison,
U.S. Magistrate Judge James Cott said in August.  The case is U.S. v. Hoxie, 10-mag-01113, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Jefferies Group Hires Michael Sharp to Be General Counsel  Jefferies Group Inc. , the New York-based securities firm
that added 20 percent more staff in one year, hired Michael J.
Sharp as general counsel.  Sharp, 55, a former  Citigroup Inc.  lawyer who is leaving
the law firm of WilmerHale, was also named executive vice
president and secretary. He replaces Lloyd H. Feller, who will
retire at the end of the year, Jefferies said Sept. 21 in a
statement. Feller, 68, had been general counsel for eight years.  Jefferies has increased its staff in a drive to pick up
capacity from failed investment banks including Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos. and profit from a recovery
in the financial-services industry.  Sharp had been a partner at WilmerHale since March 2009 and
focused on litigation and enforcement issues for Wall Street
clients. Before that he spent 12 years at Citigroup, where he
was general counsel for global wealth management, consumer
banking and global cards, according to the statement.  FSA Fines U.K. Law Firm Over Lehman-Backed Products  The U.K.’s financial regulator fined a law firm and two men
for giving misleading advice to clients when marketing
structured products backed by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.   The Financial Services Authority fined Dundee, Scotland-
based  Thorntons Law LLP  35,000 pounds ($55,000) and Michael
Royden, a partner at the firm, 10,500 pounds, the regulator said
in  a statement yesterday  on its website. The FSA also fined
Robert Peter Yarr, a financial adviser at McClelland Yarr
Financial Services Ltd. in Belfast, 28,000 pounds for not
warning customers about the risks of the products.  The FSA said in October that three firms were facing fines
after it probed sales literature in the 107 million-pound
structured-products market. Lehman’s September 2008 collapse and
bankruptcy prompted lawsuits by former clients whose assets were
frozen in insolvency proceedings around the world.  “Firms and individuals giving investment advice must
properly assess their clients’ needs and make suitable
recommendations,” FSA head of enforcement Margaret Cole said in
the statement. “They must also have the necessary systems and
controls in place to ensure that this happens.”  Royden was in charge of compliance at Thorntons’ Investment
Services at the time the firm was offering the products from
November 2007 and August 2008. Structured products were
typically marketed as guaranteeing the principal amount of money
invested, even if no returns were possible. After  Lehman’s
collapse , the investors’ original contributions weren’t repaid.  Thorntons “commissioned an independent review of systems,
following which, a number of improvements have been
implemented,” the firm said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
in the process of reviewing each case to ensure that our
obligations regarding redress are met and a number of clients
affected by the FSA findings have already received payment.”  Royden and Yarr didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment. All three received the FSA’s standard 30 percent
discount for cooperating with the probe.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 