-- Prudential Chief Pressed by Senator Baucus on Death Benefits
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   D a v i d   E v a n s
-- 2010-09-23T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/prudential-chief-pressed-by-senator-baucus-on-death-benefits.html
Prudential Financial Inc.  Chief
Executive Officer  John Strangfeld  was pressed by the Senate
Finance Committee chairman to justify profits earned on benefits
owed to the families of fallen soldiers.  “I am very concerned about the utilization of retained-
asset accounts and their potential harm to the survivors of our
service members,” Senator  Max Baucus , a Democrat from Montana,
said in a letter to Strangfeld dated Sept. 21. “These
investment earnings are derived from death payments that belong
to the beneficiary, not to Prudential.”  Insurers have drawn fire from government officials since
Bloomberg Markets reported in July that carriers profit by
holding and investing $28 billion owed to beneficiaries in so-
called retained-asset accounts. Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential has said the accounts allow beneficiaries to withdraw
all their money whenever they choose.  “Taking advantage of the distress of grieving widows and
families to turn a profit is shameful,” said Baucus in a
statement to Bloomberg News. Baucus said he may ask the
committee to use the tax code to deter possible mistreatment of
service members’ survivors.  “If Prudential is exploiting the bereaved families of
fallen soldiers, it may be time to reassess the tax treatment of
any profits made off this abuse,” he said. “Rather than
reaping huge profits off these tragic losses, Prudential should
give the families of these fallen soldiers the interest earned
on their money.”  Disclosure  Baucus requested answers from Strangfeld about Prudential’s
disclosure to beneficiaries, the company’s tax obligation and
the legal authority permitting the insurer to convert policies
into retained-asset accounts. Baucus asked for responses from
Prudential, which handles policies for the Veterans Affairs
Department, by Oct. 22.  “Like all inquiries, we’ll be cooperating fully,”  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for Prudential, said in an interview.  Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, is the
sole provider of life insurance for 6 million U.S. military
personnel, their immediate families and veterans. This month,
the VA reversed a policy that since 1999 allowed Prudential to
automatically withhold lump-sum payments due to survivors by
issuing accounts. On Sept. 14, the VA said Prudential must send
a check when a full payment is requested.  Prudential sends “checkbooks” to survivors that are tied
to what the insurer calls its Alliance Account. Prudential
invests the survivors’ money in its general corporate account,
where it can earn the insurer seven times as much as it
currently pays in interest to beneficiaries, Bloomberg Markets
reported.  Interest Rate  Baucus demanded Prudential explain how it determines the
interest rate paid to clients and whether all beneficiaries
receive the same yield. He also asked how balances would be
protected in a bankruptcy and requested information on the
creation of client accounts.  “Is there an explicit contractual arrangement with written
documents that are signed, a phone conversation, or some other
process?” the senator asked Strangfeld.  The checkbooks are made up of drafts, or IOUs, and aren’t
insured by the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp . State guarantee
associations may impose fees on healthy insurers to backstop the
retained-asset accounts if a carrier fails.  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S. life insurer, retains about
$10 billion of death benefits in accounts on behalf of families.
 Robert Henrikson , chief executive officer of the New York-based
firm, told investors in a July 30 conference call that
accountholders “tell us they love it.”  ‘Compassionate Response’  Retained-asset accounts were created as “a compassionate
response” to beneficiaries’ needs,  Jack Dolan , a spokesman for
the American Council of Life Insurers, said in August. The
products give grieving families time to decide what to do with
their payouts, the ACLI said.  In July, New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  launched
what he called a “major fraud investigation” of Prudential and
other life insurers over their use of retained-asset accounts.
Since then, Cuomo’s office has issued subpoenas to Prudential
and at least 12 more insurance companies.  The insurance departments in  Georgia  and New York have also
opened probes. The U.S. House Oversight and Reform Committee
plans to hold hearings into Prudential’s use of retained-asset
accounts to pay money owed to fallen soldiers’ survivors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 David Evans  in Los Angeles at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 