-- Putin's Party Tongue-Tied by Media Attacks on Moscow Mayor, Ouster Talk
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-09-23T13:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/putin-s-party-tongue-tied-by-media-attacks-on-moscow-mayor-ouster-talk.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
United Russia party stood by silently as Moscow Mayor  Yury Luzhkov , its co-founder, was savaged by the media and came under
increasing pressure to resign, underscoring divisions in the
country’s dominant party before national elections next year.  Putin and national party officials including State Duma
speaker  Boris Gryzlov  have kept mum even after the Vedomosti
newspaper on Sept. 21  cited  unidentified officials in President
 Dmitry Medvedev ’s administration as saying that the 74-year-old
mayor had been given a week to step down.  United Russia, created during Putin’s first term as
president, has bolstered the Kremlin’s control over officials at
all levels of government. Its failure to take a stand on
Luzhkov, a co-chairman of the party’s Supreme Council, signals a
paralysis resulting from divided loyalties that may undermine
the rigid, vertical command structure Putin has built over the
last decade.  “The party is hurting itself with its silence on
Luzhkov,” Alexander Tsipko, a political analyst and member of
United Russia’s  Public Council , said by telephone.  Luzhkov, who has been mayor since 1992, will have to be
replaced, Tsipko said. “There’s no way back. This is a PR
campaign waged by Medvedev’s team and it could be the ruin of
the entire power structure.”  Billionaire Wife  The mayor has been buffeted by a series of critical reports
in national media, including state television, accusing him of
corruption and favoritism toward his billionaire wife,  Yelena Baturina , head of the development company ZAO Inteco.  A conflict has emerged between Luzhkov and the presidential
administration, with the mayor accused by unidentified Kremlin
officials of trying to drive a wedge between Putin, his long-
time ally, and Medvedev. The mayor denied the accusation.  Only United Russia’s Moscow organization has spoken out in
Luzhkov’s defense, issuing a  statement  on Sept. 14 that
“condemned the media campaign intended to smirch” the mayor.  The campaign was organized by “those for whom immediate
political interests are more important than the strategic task
of developing the country” and is aimed at “destabilizing the
political situation in Moscow and Russia before the next
election cycle,” the organization said.  National Elections  Russia holds parliamentary elections next year and a
presidential contest in 2012, in which Putin may seek to regain
the office he turned over two years ago to Medvedev. Luzhkov has
consistently delivered the city for Putin and Medvedev.  Also at stake is control of Moscow’s budget of more than 1
trillion rubles ($32.3 billion). Moscow accounted for 23.8
percent of Russia’s gross domestic product in 2008, the last
year for which data are available, according to the Federal
State Statistics Service.  Vladimir Zhirinovsky , a deputy speaker in Russia’s lower
house of parliament, said on Sept. 21 that Muscovites demand
Luzhkov’s ouster.  Sergei Mironov , head of the upper house of
parliament, joined the mayor’s critics, saying that negative
media reports came as “no surprise” to Moscow residents.  The mayor’s current tussle with the Kremlin is the most
serious since 1999, when he had presidential ambitions and his
Fatherland-All Russia party competed in parliamentary elections
against the Unity movement supported by Putin, then in his first
stint as prime minister.  Putin Ally  Fatherland-All Russia backed Putin in the 2000 presidential
election and later merged with Unity to create United Russia,
the party Putin currently leads.  United Russia’s silence on Luzhkov has resulted from a lack
of consensus on his future, said political analyst  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a United Russia member.  “Consultations are under way and people are discussing
what the party’s position should be,” she said.  Gryzlov said on Sept. 11 that the party’s Supreme Council,
which he heads, would discuss the media reports on Luzhkov. The
party released no statement on the talks.  On Sept. 20, Gryzlov declined to comment on the mayor’s
situation, RIA Novosti reported.  Analysts said Putin and Medvedev would decide Luzhkov’s
fate together, and the prime minister won’t say anything until
the current tension has subsided.  “It’s not Putin’s style to act under pressure from public
opinion,” said  Sergei Markov , a political analyst and United
Russia member who serves in the State Duma.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  