-- Putin Seeks ‘Zone of Peace,’ Not ‘Battle’ in Arctic
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-09-23T12:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/putin-seeks-zone-of-peace-not-battle-in-energy-rich-arctic.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  called for peaceful cooperation in the Arctic, which is
set to become a major energy production and transportation hub.  “It is important to maintain a zone of peace and
cooperation in the Arctic,” Putin said today, addressing the
International Arctic Forum in Moscow. “I have no doubt that all
issues, including those of the Arctic shelf, can be resolved in
the spirit of partnership.”  Putin said “futuristic predictions of an impending battle
for the Arctic” aren’t grounded in reality.  A rush to explore the Arctic was triggered by the region’s
melting ice that has eased access to areas that may hold about a
quarter of the world’s untapped oil and natural gas. Russia,
Canada, the U.S., Denmark and Norway have territorial claims in
the region.  Iceland’s President  Olafur Ragnar Grimsson  said in an
interview yesterday that “there will be conflicts” as the
Arctic countries vie for resources, “but the law of the sea
serves us as a very effective framework to resolve disputes.”  The pace of global warming in the Arctic is three times
faster than elsewhere, attracting the attention of countries
such as China to the opening of a new transportation route,
Grimsson said.  Gas Reserves  Melting of the Arctic ice will “shorten the distance
between Asia and Europe and America by 40 percent to 50 percent,
which is an enormous change”, said Grimsson, who said his
country may become a hub for servicing and controlling increased
maritime traffic.  Russia, which holds the world’s biggest natural gas
reserves, is seeking to expand its presence in the Arctic and
claims the underwater Lomonosov Ridge that links Siberia to the
Arctic Sea bed, which could allow the country to extend its
reach to the North Pole.  Russia is collecting scientific evidence to enhance its
claim, Anton Vasiliev, the country’s ambassador at large for the
Arctic, said yesterday. The government has allocated an
additional 2 billion rubles ($64.5 million) to support the work,
according to Natural Resources Minister  Yury Trutnev .  Russia and Norway signed an agreement to settle a four-
decade-long border dispute over the energy-rich Barents Sea and
Arctic Ocean last week. Putin today said the accord sets “a
good example that the search for a compromise is possible.”  Trutnev said as many as seven major fields and one or two
“unique” fields may be identified in the area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  