-- India's Top Court Defers Mosque Ruling, Seeks Reconciliation
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 2010-09-23T13:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/rallies-mobile-phone-messages-banned-as-india-braces-for-mosque-ruling.html
India’s top judges delayed a lower
court ruling on the ownership of land where the 1992 razing of a
mosque by Hindus sparked nationwide riots, asking parties to the
dispute to attempt reconciliation.  The government’s attorney general should help to find some
common ground between Hindu and Muslim groups, a two-judge bench
of the  Supreme Court  said, ordering another hearing for Sept. 28.
Federal and state governments had earlier banned rallies and
bulk mobile-phone messaging, fearing a repeat of clashes that
killed about 2,000 people 18 years ago.  “There is little hope of reconciliation or negotiation in
this complex issue over four days,” said Prashant Bhushan, a
lawyer in the Supreme Court and a civil rights activist who is
not involved in the case. Former Attorney General  Soli Sorabjee 
said asking the sides to bridge differences in such a short time
showed “blind irrational optimism.”  At a hearing scheduled for tomorrow, the High Court in
 Uttar Pradesh  state had been expected to award the disputed land
in the town of Ayodhya, site of the 16th-century Babri Masjid
and where Hindus believe their god Ram was born, to
representatives of one of the religious communities.  Muslims claim the site based on the existence of the mosque
since 1528, while Hindu groups argued the Babri Masjid was built
on the site of an earlier temple.  ‘Last Chance’  The Supreme Court gave its ruling after being approached by
one of the litigants in the case who argued that the verdict may
lead to sectarian violence. The government had deployed more
police officers in cities with a history of Hindu-Muslim
conflict, and the  cabinet  of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  had
urged calm.  The Supreme Court wanted to give parties a last chance at
reconciliation. “If anything goes wrong, the consequences will
be for the ordinary people,” H.L. Gokhale, one of the judges,
said today. “You are aware of the history.”  Clashes between Muslims and Hindus ravaged India after a
campaign led by the Hindu-nationalist  Bharatiya Janata Party  for
a temple to be built at the spot ended with the destruction of
the mosque.  “Any violence will speak of instability and people don’t
like to invest in countries like that,” said  Prem Shankar Jha ,
an independent political analyst based in New Delhi before the
top court’s judgment. Serious trouble will create a climate for
investors that “we cannot afford,” he said.  The BJP used the temple issue to gain support among
majority Hindus, surging from having two members of parliament
in 1984 to winning 120 at elections in 1991 and leading a
coalition government seven years later.  Ram Temple  The BJP now says it still wants to build consensus before
constructing a temple to Ram at the site in Ayodhya.  “The way the country handles this -- the aftermath -- will
have a profound impact on the evolution of our country,” Prime
Minister Singh told a meeting of editors at this official
residence this month, the  Hindu newspaper  reported, referring to
India’s most contentious and intractable religious dispute.  India’s gross domestic product has grown nearly six times
since 1991, when Singh, then finance minister, introduced free-
market measures that cut red tape, removed state-enforced
capacity caps on steel and cement makers, and allowed overseas
companies including Ford Motor Co. to set up operations.  The Supreme Court in 1994 clubbed together four title suits
filed by Hindu and Muslim organizations claiming control of the
land. The first two dated from 1950, and were filed after idols
of Hindu deities appeared inside the mosque.  Hindus account for 80.5 percent of the country’s 1.2
billion population while Muslims make up 13.4 percent.  An independent Indian commission in November blamed top BJP
leaders for igniting sectarian clashes in 1992. The commission
named former BJP Prime Minister  Atal Bihari Vajpayee ,  Lal Krishna Advani  and other party chiefs among 68 people who played
key roles in sparking the crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
PS Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  