-- Rampl Says UniCredit's Strategy Unaltered, Success Tied to European Reach
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-09-23T07:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/rampl-says-unicredit-s-strategy-unaltered-success-tied-to-european-reach.html
UniCredit SpA ’s strategy won’t
change after the resignation of Chief Executive Officer
 Alessandro Profumo  and the lender’s success hinges on its
European reach, Chairman  Dieter Rampl  said in a letter to
employees obtained by Bloomberg News.  Italy’s biggest lender won’t be influenced by “any
pressure” on how to replace Profumo, a succession that will be
managed quickly “but with great diligence,” Rampl said in the
letter. The Milan-based bank, which employs about 178,000
people, is reviewing internal and external candidates, he said.  Profumo, who ran the company for 13 years, resigned amid
differing views on the bank’s corporate governance, Rampl said.
Banking has changed because of the financial crisis and “we
must not spend time on debates about corporate governance and
our shareholder structure,” said Rampl.  Profumo stepped down on Sept. 21 after relations soured
with some of the bank’s largest Italian shareholders over Libyan
investments in the company. His fall had its roots in the
expansion that made UniCredit, with operations in 22 nations,
the country’s most European bank. Takeovers left him short of
funds when confidence in banks collapsed in 2008 and credit
became scarce, forcing the CEO to turn to investors for cash
twice in 18 months.  “I am totally convinced that the future success will only
be found in a pan-European orientation,” Rampl told employees.
“Now we must concentrate on strengthening our position in the
European market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 sirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  