-- Rand Weakens on Bets Central Bank, Importers Are Buying Dollars Amid Gains
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-09-23T14:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/rand-weakens-on-bets-central-bank-importers-are-buying-dollars-amid-gains.html
South Africa’s rand weakened
against the dollar on speculation its rally to stronger than 7
per dollar prompted the central bank and importers to take
advantage of the currency’s appreciation to buy dollars.  The rand declined as much as 1.1 percent to 7.1026 per
dollar and traded 0.7 percent weaker at 7.0745 by 4:14 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from a previous close of 7.0248. The move pared
the currency’s fourth weekly advance to 1.2 percent.  “Movements on dollar-rand appear constrained above seven,
perhaps signaling South African Reserve Bank participation,”
 John Cairns , head of foreign-exchange research at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a client note today.  South Africa’s currency strengthened to a more than 2 1/2-
year high yesterday, breaching 7 per dollar for the first time
since January 2008, after the country’s  current-account deficit 
shrank to a six-year low and retail sales advanced. The currency
also rallied after the U.S. Federal Reserve indicated it will
keep interest rates at a record low for longer, boosting the
attraction of higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  “The South African Reserve Bank is fighting structural
forces in restricting the extent of rand strength,”  Quinten Bertenshaw , a Johannesburg-based currency analyst at  Econometrix
Treasury Management , wrote in a note to clients today. “With
the limited resources it has, this may at best be a slight
headwind to further rand strength.”  ‘Hugely Costly’  Central Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said yesterday it has
“no easy” solution to the rand’s 34 percent surge against the
dollar since the start of last year, even as the currency’s
rally curbs exports. Measures to stem the rally are “hugely
costly,” Marcus said yesterday.  The Pretoria-based  Reserve  Bank incurred a loss of 1.05
billion rand ($149 million) in the year through March due to the
cost of building foreign currency reserves to stem rand gains,
according to its annual report released yesterday.  Losses are incurred as the central bank issues domestic
bonds to mop up excess liquidity caused by selling rand for
dollars, a process known as sterilization. South Africa’s 6
percent  benchmark interest rate , which compares with rates of
almost zero in developed markets, means payments to bondholders
are higher than returns received from foreign-currency holdings.  Government bonds rose for a fourth day, with South Africa’s
benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015 climbing 2
cents to 125.87 rand. The yield on the bond decreased less than
1 basis point to 7.21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  