-- Rays Close on Yankees With 7-2 Win; Phillies Take 6-Game Lead Over Braves
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-09-23T05:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/rays-close-on-yankees-with-7-2-win-phillies-take-6-game-lead-over-braves.html
Carl Crawford  and  Evan Longoria  hit
back-to-back home runs as the Tampa Bay Rays moved within 1 1/2
games of the American League East-leading New York Yankees with
a 7-2 win over their division rival.  Six Tampa Bay pitchers held the Yankees to six hits in the
Major League Baseball game last night that included a 2 hour, 11
minute rain interruption. Host New York won the first two games
of the series, which concludes tonight. The Rays lead the Boston
Red Sox by 6 1/2 games in the AL wild card standings.  In Philadelphia,  Roy Oswalt  and two relief pitchers
combined on a one-hitter as the Phillies defeated the Atlanta
Braves 1-0. The three-game series sweep for the Phillies gives
them a six-game lead over the Braves atop the National League
East. The Phillies have won 10 straight games.  The San Francisco Giants lost 2-0 at the Chicago Cubs,
knocking the Giants out of first place in the NL West. The loss
leaves them a half-game behind the Braves in the race for the
wild card, the playoff spot given to the team with the best 
record that doesn’t win a division.  The San Diego Padres took a half-game lead over the Giants
atop the division with a 3-1 win against the Los Angeles Dodgers.
The Colorado Rockies are three games behind the Padres after an
8-4 loss to the Arizona Diamondbacks.  The Minnesota Twins, the only team to clinch a playoff spot
so far, announced their pitching rotation for the first round of
the postseason. Before their 5-1 home win yesterday against
Cleveland, manager  Ron Gardenhire  said  Francisco Liriano  will
start the first game of the playoffs for the AL Central champion.  “He’s been winging it pretty good,” Gardenhire told
reporters about Liriano, who has a 14-8 record this season with
191 strikeouts in 183 innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  