-- U.S. 10-year Treasuries Rise a Fifth Straight Day Before Home Sales Report
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-09-23T11:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/treasury-10-year-yield-trades-near-three-week-low-before-home-resales-data.html
Treasury 10-year notes advanced,
pushing the yield near to the lowest level in three weeks,
before a report that economists said will show homes in the U.S.
sold at the second-slowest pace on record last month.  The 10-year note rose for a fifth straight day, its longest
run of gains in a year. Two-year yields were within 2 basis
points of the least ever as some investors said economic growth
is slow enough that the Federal Reserve will increase Treasury
purchases as soon as its November meeting to hold down borrowing
costs. The Treasury is scheduled to announce today the amounts
of two-, five- and seven-year notes it will sell next week.  “The momentum is for Treasury rates to go down,” said
 Zeal Yin , who invests in dollar-denominated debt in Taipei at
Shin Kong Life Insurance Co., Taiwan’s second-largest life
insurer with the equivalent of $47.6 billion in assets. “The
Fed will increase its bond purchases.”  The 10-year note yield dropped 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.53 percent at 7:46 a.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent security
maturing in August 2020 gained 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 27/32. The yield declined to 2.50 percent
yesterday, the least since Sept. 1.  The two-year note yield declined 2 basis points to 0.42
percent, after falling to an all-time low of 0.4074 percent
yesterday. The 30-year bond yield dropped 3 basis points, to
3.72 percent. It fell to 3.71 percent yesterday, the  lowest 
since Sept. 9, according to Bloomberg generic data.  The 10-year rate will drop to 2.30 percent by Dec. 31, Yin
said.  Home Resales  The 10-year note yield reached a record  low  of 2.04 percent
on Dec. 18, 2008, as the global financial crisis led to $1.81
trillion of losses and writedowns at banks and financial
companies, spurring demand for the relative safety of U.S.
government debt.  Home  resales  rose to a 4.1 million annual pace in August,
according to the  median  of 72 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey before the National Association of Realtors reports the
figures today. That would trail only July’s 3.83 million as the
weakest in a decade’s worth of data.  Separate reports today will show jobless  claims  stayed at a
two-month low and an index of leading indicators increased,
surveys show.  Next week’s note sales will total $99 billion, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, the economic advisory company in Jersey
City, New Jersey, that specializes in U.S. government finance.
The auctions amounted to $102 billion the last time the
government sold this combination of securities in August.  Treasury Purchases  The Fed said in August it would use the principal payments
from its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities and
agency debt to buy Treasuries.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow policy makers
said on Sept. 21 they are willing to do more to spur growth and
support prices, indicating they may add securities to the Fed’s
holdings, a measure known as quantitative easing, or QE.  The central bank snapped up $300 billion of Treasuries in
2009 using this strategy. Another round of purchases is being
called QE II.  “The market has to be wary of overplaying the likelihood
and timing of Fed purchases,” said  Orlando Green , assistant
director of capital markets strategy at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “We’re not expecting the
Fed to buy 30-year debt, rather the 5- to 7-year sector of the
curve, if and when they act.”  ‘Bernanke Put’  A Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies
projects the 10-year rate will rise to 2.60 percent by year-end,
with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  Bernanke’s stance is like the “Greenspan put,” said  Colin Embree , head of fixed-income trading and sales at Bank of Nova
Scotia’s Singapore office, part of Canada’s third-largest
lender.  The expression, which is named after former Fed Chairman
 Alan Greenspan , came about because of his practice of lowering
interest rates to prop up markets. A put is a contract that
gives the owner the right to sell a security at a set price,
insuring against a loss.  “Now we have the Bernanke put,” Embree said. “If he did
see yields back up, he’d come in and buy. Fed is not going to
allow rates to rise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  