-- Republican-Leaning Groups Outspend Democratic Counterparts 7-1 This Month
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/republican-leaning-groups-outspend-democratic-counterparts-7-1-this-month.html
Republican-leaning groups spent
almost seven times as much as Democratic rivals during the first
three weeks of September in an effort to sway the Nov. 2
congressional elections, U.S. federal disclosure records show.  Groups with no official ties to the Republican Party spent
more than $17 million to help Republican candidates, according
to reports filed with the  Federal Election Commission . That
compares with $2.6 million spent by Democratic-leaning groups.  The totals through Sept. 21 are giving Democrats added
ammunition for a proposal the Senate plans to vote on today that
would make groups that engage in campaign advertising disclose
their donors. Groups that don’t disclose their donors accounted
for more than a third of the spending to aid Republican
candidates.  “The public is under siege from advertising by shadowy
interest groups,” New York Senator  Charles Schumer , a
Democratic leader, told reporters in Washington yesterday.  The funds, which excluded spending for primaries, covered
expenses such as advertising and surveys and helped counter a
deficit in Republican Party spending. The two Democratic Party
fundraising committees for House and Senate candidates reported
spending $6.8 million during the same period, compared with $3.7
million by their Republican counterparts.  Anti-tax Group  One of the spenders is anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist ’s
 Americans for Tax Reform , which is organized as a nonprofit
issue group and doesn’t have to report its contributors to the
FEC. It’s still required, like FEC-regulated political groups,
to report spending that directly supports or opposes candidates.  John Kartch , a spokesman for the Washington-based group,
said it plans to make about $2.5 million in independent
expenditures this year. It has already spent more than $1
million in three House races, opposing Democratic
Representatives  Ben Chandler  in Kentucky and  Dina Titus  in
Nevada, and Democratic candidate  Julie Lassa  in Wisconsin.  Republicans and trade groups including the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce  oppose the Democratic proposal that would require such
groups to disclose their donors. The legislation is a response
to a U.S. Supreme Court decision in January that overturned a
decades-old ban on companies using their general funds to run
campaign ads supporting or opposing federal candidates.  ‘Onerous’ Reporting  The Disclose Act would require “onerous campaign finance
disclosure” and is “designed to restrict the political speech
of business groups and most other advocacy organizations,” said
 Bruce Josten , the chamber’s top lobbyist, in a Sept. 18
statement.  All 41 Senate Republicans voted to block consideration of
the bill in July, and Schumer yesterday couldn’t name any
Republican willing to switch positions. Still, he said the
Senate must act because groups are spending millions of dollars
of undisclosed contributions on campaign ads.  “The issue is much more salient now,” Schumer said. “The
thought of corporate and special-interest money cascading into
our system is no longer just a premonition. It’s reality.”  In an effort to persuade at least one Republican to allow
the Senate to take up the bill, Schumer said, Democrats promised
to amend it so it won’t take effect until after the November
elections.  Democrats are engaged in “pure politics,” said Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky in a statement
released by his office yesterday. “They hear Americans speaking
out; they see some energy on the other side, and they don’t want
to take the kind of criticism they leveled at Republicans for
the past four years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 