-- Republicans Block U.S. Campaign-Spending Disclosure Bill for Second Time
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-09-23T20:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/republicans-block-u-s-campaign-spending-disclosure-bill-for-second-time.html
U.S. Senate Republicans for a
second time blocked legislation that would require corporations
and unions to disclose their spending on political advertising.  The Senate today failed to advance the measure on a 59-39
vote, with 60 needed. Republicans also prevented the Senate from
taking up a similar proposal in July.  The legislation was offered in response to a Supreme Court
decision in January that overturned a decades-old ban on
companies using their general funds to run campaign ads
supporting or opposing candidates for federal offices.  “Because of this decision, the winner of every upcoming
election this November won’t be Democrats or Republicans,” said
Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat and the bill’s
chief sponsor. “It will be special interests.”  Republican-leaning groups that don’t disclose their donors
-- such as Crossroads GPS, advised by  Karl Rove , former
President  George W. Bush ’s strategist -- have raised and spent
millions of dollars in this year’s campaign and helped
Republicans narrow a fundraising gap with the Democrats who
control both houses of Congress.  During the first three weeks of September, groups aiding
Republican candidates spent more than $17 million, almost seven
times as much the $2.6 million spent by Democratic-leaning
groups,  Federal Election Commission  reports show. Groups that
don’t disclose their donors accounted for more than one-third of
the spending to aid Republican candidates.  Chamber of Commerce  President  Barack Obama  called anonymously financed campaign
ads “destructive to our democracy” in his weekly radio address
on Sept. 18. “We don’t know who’s behind these ads or who’s
paying for them,” he said.  Overall spending on the Nov. 2 congressional elections is
escalating, according to  a study  released by the Washington-
based Sunlight Foundation. Labor unions, nonprofit groups and
political party committees have spent $57 million so far on
independent expenditures not coordinated with candidates, an
increase of 61 percent from the 2006 elections, according to the
nonpartisan group that promotes greater government transparency.  The bill thwarted today would require companies to disclose
donations to third-party groups that air campaign ads, such as
trade associations like the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce . Union-
funded organizations that run ads for or against candidates
would have to disclose their donors.  Using PACs  Before the Supreme Court ruling, corporations and unions
had to use regulated political action committees to finance ads
that urged voters to support or defeat a particular candidate.
Companies and unions are still banned from using their
treasuries to contribute directly to candidates.  Republicans called the legislation a Democratic attack on
free-speech rights.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said
the measure “picks and chooses who has a full right to
political speech” and that Democrats instead should be focusing
on jobs and the economy. “This is pure politics,” he said.  Bruce Josten , Chamber of Commerce executive vice president,
called the legislation “a partisan campaign bill” in a
statement today.  Supporters of the bill said disclosure of political
spending is needed.  “Educated voters make the right decisions, and so we
should not be afraid to provide them with the facts,” said Lisa
Gilbert, who lobbies on campaign issues for the  U.S. Public
Interest Research Group , a Boston-based advocacy organization
that supports stronger campaign finance laws.  Anonymous Donors  Companies may be more willing to channel election spending
through trade groups and other nonprofits because the donors can
remain anonymous, said  Michael Toner , a former Federal Election
Commission chairman and head of the election law and government
ethics practice at Bryan Cave LLP in Washington.  “If any corporate CEO wants an added reminder about the
perils of political advertising, they can talk to Target,” he
said.  Target Corp. ’s customers and shareholders objected after
the retailer gave $150,000 to a group backing a pro-business
gubernatorial candidate in Minnesota who opposes gay marriage.  “That really is a cautionary tale,” Toner said.  Greg Casey , president of the Business-Industry Political
Action Committee, said that making large, independent political
expenditures is “not something that publicly traded companies
are anxious to do.” The Washington-based advocacy group’s
members include Atlanta-based Southern Co. and Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp.   ‘Speech Police’  For many companies, Casey said, the Supreme Court
decision’s major effect may be to let them give employees
information about candidates without worrying about whether it
would be barred because it urged the worker to vote for or
against the candidate. The ruling “gets the speech police off
your shoulder,” Casey said. “We don’t have to parse the words
as much as we used to.”  The Senate bill is S. 3628. Also today, the Committee on
House Administration passed legislation that would provide
public funding for congressional candidates willing to limit the
size of the contributions they receive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 