-- Retirees Duped by Derivatives With Structured Notes Sale Surge
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2010-09-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/retirees-duped-by-derivatives-with-wall-street-structured-note-sale-surge.html
Leona Miller, an 84-year-old
retired beautician, says she was seeking safe and steady income
from bonds two years ago when her Wachovia Corp. broker
recommended she buy securities paying 9 percent interest.  Within six months, Miller had lost about 30 percent of her
$20,000 investment and the bonds were converted into shares of
Merck & Co. in a falling stock market. The San Diego resident,
who still doesn’t understand what happened to her money, had
purchased bonds known as structured notes that include built-in
derivatives.  Sales to Miller and thousands of other individuals have
driven structured note offerings up 58 percent to $31.9 billion
through August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With
U.S.  interest rates  near zero percent, investors are snapping up
bonds such as reverse-convertible notes with knock-in put
options or Leveraged CMS Curve and  S&amp;P 500 Index  Linked Callable
Notes, some with face values of as little as $10.  “People develop a product which makes a modicum of sense,
then they extend it to the point of ludicrousness until it blows
up,” said Satyajit Das, a former  Citigroup Inc . derivatives
banker. Das, the Sydney-based author of “Traders, Guns &
Money” (FT Press, 2006), said investors are often “seduced”
into purchases without understanding the risks.  The Securities and Exchange Commission’s enforcement
division started a group this year focused on investigations
into structured products, including those marketed to individual
investors.  Hard to Understand  “We’re concerned about the sale of complex structured
notes to retail customers because people don’t always understand
the risks they’re exposed to,” said  Kenneth Lench , head of the
SEC’s Structured and New Products unit. “It’s very difficult
for a person who isn’t immersed in this world to pick up a
prospectus and really understand what are the different
scenarios that would make an investment work out for them.”  Miller and  Wells Fargo &amp; Co ., which acquired Wachovia in
2008, are in arbitration, according to her San Diego lawyer,
Ronald Marron. In a February 2009 letter, the bank’s legal
department told Miller that the broker “explained very
thoroughly his recommendation.”  Individual investors are incapable of valuing structured
notes and their underlying derivatives, said Kevin Kelly,
manager of Phoenix-based hedge fund Tontine Capital, which
specializes in the securities. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and
commodities, or linked to specific events such as changes in
interest rates.  ‘You Don’t Know’  “If you don’t know what the components are worth, what are
you doing trading in them?” said Kelly, who determines values
based on computer models and negotiations with multiple banks.  Sales of structured notes in the first eight months of the
year compare with $20.1 billion through August 2009, according
to database StructuredRetailProducts.com. The growth shows
investors are already forgetting the losses suffered when  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc . went bankrupt in September 2008 and
defaulted on securities called principal-protected notes, which
left investors holding paper that’s almost worthless.  U.S. clients of Zurich-based UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest
bank, allege in litigation pending since 2008 that they were
misled into buying more than $900 million of the securities,
which were aimed at “conservative, retirement-oriented
investors.”  CMS Curve  Structured notes have become popular as the  Federal Reserve 
has kept its target rate for overnight loans between banks at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Reverse-convertible
notes paid 13 percent interest on average this year, Bloomberg
data show. That’s more than 10 times the average 1.2 percent
rate on one-year certificates of deposit, according to Bankrate
Inc. of  North Palm Beach ,  Florida . U.S. investment-grade bonds
yield 3.73 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  The notes are increasingly targeted at individual investors
to boost banks’ profit margins, Das said. Morgan Stanley charged
a 3.5 percent fee on the CMS Curve notes, which it sold Aug. 20,
according to a prospectus. Underwriting commissions for U.S.
investment-grade bonds this year average 0.5 percent, Bloomberg
data show.  Brokers are paid more to sell structured notes than some
other financial products because the securities aren’t
standardized, making it difficult for buyers to shop around,
said  Christopher Whalen , managing director and co-founder of the
Torrance, California-based research firm Institutional Risk
Analytics.  Racetrack Bets    JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co . sold $223,000 of three-month reverse
convertible notes on Aug. 26 that pay 12.3 percent annualized
interest and are tied to the stock of Pittsburgh-based U.S.
Steel Corp. Buyers were charged a fee of 5.1 percent, more than
half of which compensated other brokers, the prospectus shows.
The fee is five times the annual rate on stock mutual funds,
according to the Investment Company Institute, a Washington-
based trade group.    Justin Perras , a JPMorgan spokesman in  New York , declined
to comment.  “The whole marketplace is set up to be unfair and
inefficient by design,” said Whalen. “It’s like betting with
the touts out on the edge of the racetrack instead of going to
the window in the clubhouse.”  Compensated for Risk  Banks from  Bank of America Corp . to Morgan Stanley, this
year’s two largest underwriters of structured notes as measured
by Bloomberg data, create the products by bundling bonds with
privately negotiated over-the-counter derivatives. That means
investors can lose money because of a range of variables beyond
interest rate movements, said Whalen, who predicted in March
2007 the mortgage-backed securities market would collapse and
testified before the Senate Banking Committee two years later on
derivatives regulation.  Investors can benefit from higher returns, such as the 12.3
percent on U.S. Steel reverse convertibles, if their bets work
out. Buyers are compensated fairly for the risk they take on and
don’t need to know how derivatives work to evaluate the
securities, said Keith Styrcula, chairman of the Structured
Products Association, a trade group in New York.  Issuers disclose potential pitfalls of the investments in
documentation provided to buyers. Many of the products, such as
principal-protected notes, are less risky than stocks because
sellers guarantee investors won’t take losses even if the market
falls, said Styrcula, a former JPMorgan structured-notes banker.  “There’s a reason the market is booming,” he said.
“Investors are having successful experiences with structured
investments, and they’re coming back as repeat buyers.”  Bundling Rule    Wall Street  began selling the notes to individuals in the
1990s. At the time, government officials questioned whether the
securities should be subject to the same rules as the
derivatives they contain, which would have barred sales to the
public, according to Philip McBride Johnson, a former Commodity
Futures Trading Commission chairman. The passage of the
Commodity Futures Modernization Act in 2000 settled the issue in
the banks’ favor.  The law, which excluded most trades between institutions
from oversight, allowed banks to sell OTC derivatives to
individuals as long as they were bundled with bonds into so-
called hybrid securities, said Johnson, now a lawyer at Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in  Washington .  In the Lehman case, the notes were designed to pay interest
dependent on market movements, with principal returned at
maturity as long as the issuer didn’t fail.  “UBS properly sold Lehman structured products to UBS
clients,” said Allison Chin-Leong, a bank spokeswoman. “Any
client losses were the direct result of the unexpected and
unprecedented failure of Lehman.”  ‘Rotten Deal’  In April, New York-based Citigroup offered to buy Lehman
notes back from more than 2,700 investors in  Spain  for 55 cents
on the dollar, without admitting liability.  In Hong Kong, Lehman bond investors staged protests with
bullhorns blaring a looped chant, “Rotten Deal -- Money Back.”
Buyers included the elderly and poorly educated, according to a  Hong Kong  Monetary Authority investigation. Last year, banks
agreed to pay investors at least 60 cents on the dollar in
compensation.  Banks aren’t required to make markets for structured notes,
just as they didn’t have to buy auction-rate securities, Whalen
said. That $330 billion market collapsed in early 2008, leaving
investors who sought higher-yielding alternatives to checking
accounts with paper they couldn’t sell.  Seeking to settle with state and federal regulators, banks
including Citigroup have since repurchased some of the
securities, which are municipal bonds, corporate debt and
preferred stock whose rates of return are periodically reset
through auctions.  ‘More Can Be Less’  “If you’re dealing with an unsophisticated person, and
you’re selling them a very sophisticated product, how do you
satisfy your regulatory obligations?” said  Harvey Pitt , a
former SEC chairman.  Risks should be disclosed clearly and concisely, he said.
“More can be less” because long documents may confuse
investors, said Pitt, founder of Washington-based consulting
firm Kalorama Partners LLC.  Miller started managing her finances when her husband died
and invested in structured notes in May 2008 at the
recommendation of her broker, Robert Baldacci.  ‘Like Anybody Else’  “I just wanted him to make some money for me, like anybody
else,” Miller said. “You depend on them to take care of you. I
assumed that bonds were safe.”  Miller lost money because the securities, issued by
 Eksportfinans ASA , an Oslo-based export-credit agency, were tied
to the performance of Merck. A decline in the Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey-based company’s share price to below $32
from $40 triggered the knock-in put option built into the note,
allowing Eksportfinans to pay the debt with Merck shares worth
$26 each.  Wachovia denied Miller’s request for compensation,
according to the letter from the legal department, which also
said Miller signed the prospectus and received a guide to
structured notes.  “Mr. Baldacci recalled that you were familiar with Merck &
Co. as they manufacture one of your medications,” Wachovia said
in the letter, which was provided by Marron, Miller’s lawyer.  Last week, Miller chose to pursue the arbitration claim and
withdrew a separate lawsuit against Wells Fargo and
Eksportfinans that was filed in July, Marron said.  ‘Suitability’ Questions  Kathryn Ellis, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, and Baldacci, who no longer works for the bank, declined
to comment. Jens Feiring, Eksportfinans’s general counsel, said
he’s pleased Miller chose not to pursue legal action against the
firm.  Most structured notes are more complex than the products
Miller bought, Tontine Capital’s Kelly said.  Morgan Stanley ’s
CMS Curve securities offer a fixed 10 percent rate for two
years. The yield for the next 13 years is five times the
difference between long-and short-term constant maturity swap
rates, not to exceed 18 percent annually, earned when the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index doesn’t dip below 875, according to
a regulatory filing.  If stocks plunge or short-term rates rise, the notes could
pay no interest for more than a decade. Morgan Stanley also has
quarterly options to unwind the transaction starting in 2012.  “It raises questions about suitability for the investor
when you have products that are that complicated,” said Daniel Bergstresser, a Harvard Business School professor who’s studied
structured notes. “Is that complexity a response to a
legitimate desire the investor has or is it a smokescreen?”  The ‘D’ Word  Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on the CMS Curve notes or sales practices.
Bank of America, whose Merrill Lynch unit has the second-most
brokers after Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, has underwritten $8
billion of structured notes in the U.S. this year, the most of
any bank, Bloomberg data show. Morgan Stanley has sold $7.6
billion, the second most.  John Klock, 66, bought about $200,000 of structured notes
starting in late 2007. He said he wouldn’t have made the
purchase had his Merrill Lynch broker mentioned derivatives.  “He told me it was an index of stocks,” said Klock, a
Newark, New Jersey-based lawyer. He said he’s waiting for a
statement from his broker totaling the losses when he sold the
notes back to Bank of America, which bought Merrill in 2009.  Selena Morris, a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment.  “They don’t tend to mention the ‘D’ word very often,”
Das, the author, said of the banks. “One of the reasons these
products exist is to avoid having to tell the person that you’re
dealing with that they’re trading in derivatives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 