-- Blockbuster, Lehman, Tribune, Abitibi: Bankruptcy
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2010-09-23T13:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/tribune-lehman-abitibi-trico-marine-blockbuster-dykstra-bankruptcy.html
  Blockbuster Inc ., the world’s
biggest movie-rental company, filed for bankruptcy today after
failing to adapt its storefront model to online technology
pioneered by rivals such as  Netflix Inc .  The company listed assets of $1.02 billion against debt of
$1.46 billion on a Chapter 11 petition filed today in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  New York . The company said it reached a deal
with a group of bondholders on a plan of reorganization and
secured a $125 million loan to finance operations.  The filing “provides the optimal path for recapitalizing
our balance sheet and positioning Blockbuster for the future, as
we continue to transform our business model to meet the evolving
preferences of our customers,” Chief Executive Officer Jim Keyes said in a statement today. Sales at Dallas-based
Blockbuster, with about 3,000 stores in the U.S., shrank in
recent years while Netflix grew by renting movies online and
through the mail, and  Coinstar Inc . put Redbox DVD vending
machines in supermarkets and drugstores.  Under the proposed plan, there will be no recovery by the
holders of the company’s outstanding subordinated debt,
preferred stock or common stock, according to the statement.  The company’s largest trade creditor is Twentieth Century
Fox Home Entertainment with a $21.6 million claim, according to
today’s filing.  The bankruptcy filing occurred after Blockbuster negotiated
a plan with holders of 80 percent of the $630 million in 11.75
percent senior-secured notes.  The plan would give new stock to the senior creditors while
offering nothing to holders of the $300 million in 9 percent
subordinated notes. Blockbuster missed payments on the senior
and subordinated notes prior to bankruptcy.  The plan, according to a company statement, will reduce
debt from more than $1 billion to approximately $100 million. On
emergence from Chapter 11, the only debt would be the
outstanding obligations on the $125 million in financing for the
reorganization being offered by some of the senior secured
noteholders.  The $125 million in secured financing from the senior
noteholders represents new cash availability. On an interim
basis before final approval, $45 million would be available. The
financing is to have a lien ahead of existing debt.  The financing also calls for converting $250 million of
existing secured debt into a new loan with a lien ahead of
existing debt.  Blockbuster estimates it owes $57 million in accounts
payable in addition to the secured and subordinated notes.  In addition to $21.6 million claim held by Twentieth
Century Fox, the unsecured creditors with the largest claims are
Warner Home Video Inc. with a $19 million claim,  Sony Pictures
Home Entertainment ,  Walt Disney Co ., and Universal Studios Home
Entertainment, with claims of $13.3 million, $8.6 million, and
$8.3 million, respectively.  Some of the major studios, including Warner, Fox and Sony,
are owed $68.5 million and have liens on assets of the non-
bankrupt Canadian subsidiary. Other studios are owed $49.6
million, according to a court filing.  Blockbuster is asking for authority from the bankruptcy
court to pay the secured studios in the normal course of
business, in return for extending new credit. The company also
wants the right to pay pre-bankruptcy debt owing to other
studios in return for new credit.  The largest shareholders are Prentice Capital Management LP
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., according to a court filing.  Blockbuster’s net loss for six months ended July 4 widened
to $134.1 million from $9.2 million a year earlier. Revenue fell
16.4 percent to $1.728 billion. The operating loss for the half
year was $67.4 million. The company had a 2009 net loss of $558
million.  Blockbuster, which blamed bankruptcy on the decline in the
bricks-and-mortar stores combined with the economy, has 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S. and the remainder abroad.
Among the stores in the U.S., 2,925 are owned, with the
remainder franchised. Abroad, 720 locations are franchised.
Blockbuster closed almost 1,100 stores in the last two years.  Billionaire Carl Icahn bought about one-third of
Blockbuster’s bonds as of Sept. 17, according to people with
knowledge of the matter. Icahn, 74, a former director of the
company, led a proxy fight in 2005 to put himself and two
nominees on the board. Last March, he cut his stake in the
company to 3.5 percent by selling stock. He left the board in
January.  Blockbuster has support for its reorganization plan from a
group of bondholders holding about 80.1 percent of the company’s
11 3/4 percent senior-secured notes, it said. The notes will be
exchanged for equity in the reorganized company.  After it emerges from bankruptcy, the only debt expected to
remain on Blockbuster’s balance sheet will be the $125 million
loan, known as a debtor-in-possession loan, the company said. It
will convert to so-called exit financing and a revolving-credit
line of as much as $50 million.  The case is In re Blockbuster Distribution, Inc., 10-14997,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York.  New Filings  Coast Crane Files for Bankruptcy Court Protection  Coast Crane Co., a provider of construction cranes and
heavy-duty forklifts, filed for bankruptcy court protection from
its creditors, with plans to sell itself at an auction, the
company said.  Private investment firm Clearlake Capital Group would be
the lead bidder at the proposed auction, which must be approved
by a judge, according to a company statement. The Seattle-based
company listed assets of $50 million to $100 million and debt of
$100 million to $500 million in Chapter 11 documents in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Seattle.  The “recent economic downturn” and its effect on the
construction industry had an impact on the company’s balance
sheet and banking facilities, Chief Executive Officer Dan
Goodale, said in a statement.  The company sells and rents heavy-duty construction
equipment on the West Coast, Alaska, Hawaii and Guam. The
company didn’t disclose details of its sale agreement with
Clearlake.  The case is In re Coast Crane Co. 10-21229, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of  Washington  (Seattle).  Updates  Lehman to File New Reorganization Plan in 4th Quarter    Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . plans to file a revised
reorganization plan in bankruptcy court by the fourth quarter
and aims to win creditor approval by March 2011, according to a
regulatory filing.  The defunct New York-based securities firm said it aims to
cut creditor claims to between $250 billion and $350 billion,
down from a total of $1.2 trillion earlier. Its filing was made
yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Only
after winning approval of its plan can Lehman start to pay
creditors, it has said.  The “biggest obstacle” to getting a U.S. bankruptcy plan
approved has been foreign affiliates with their competing plans,
Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
James Peck in Manhattan yesterday.  The former investment bank, which is liquidating over five
years, provided a progress report in court to Peck, two years
after filing the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Lehman and its affiliates now have $21 billion in cash and
liquid investments, according to the filing. Lehman has a
monthly payroll of as much as $45 million for managers and
advisers, while investments it considers illiquid are being
managed by 400 employees. The company also is spending tens of
millions of dollars on litigation that may stretch to at least
2012.  Separately, Lehman may sell its largest real-estate asset,
the apartment-complex owner Archstone, which it acquired in a
$22 billion leveraged buyout, to two affiliates for “yet
undefined consideration,” according to a court filing by Gerard
Uzzi, a lawyer for Lehman creditors.  The two affiliates are Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and
Luxco, or Luxembourg Residential Properties Loan Finance
S.a.r.l, according to a Sept. 20 filing by Uzzi, who represents
a group of creditors of the defunct Lehman, including hedge fund
Paulson & Co. Archstone, which has required two bailouts from
its bankers in the last two years amid the real-estate slump,
has ownership interests in hundreds of apartment developments in
the U.S.  The deal might represent “the most valuable give-up” by
the Lehman holding company to its affiliates, Uzzi said in a
footnote to a filing protesting another deal involving Lehman,
LCPI and Luxco. Lehman currently is trying to untangle numerous
claims and obligations with its bankrupt and non-bankrupt
affiliates.  Details of the Archstone transaction weren’t given.  Lehman and Tishman Speyer Properties took the former
Archstone Smith private in October 2007. Lehman in May held 47
percent of the controlling stock in Archstone, according to
court papers.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Tribune Judge Refuses to Replace Creditor Lawyer  Tribune Co.’s official unsecured creditors committee can
keep its current law firm during a mediation session designed to
help end the publisher’s bankruptcy, a judge ruled yesterday.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey in Wilmington, Delaware,
rejected a request by some low-ranking creditors to replace
Chadbourne & Park LLP as the lead law firm representing a panel
of unsecured creditors.  Most members of the panel supported Chadbourne, saying the
firm is the best qualified to represent it during two days of
mediation starting Sept. 26.  Each member of the committee is represented by individual
lawyers who aren’t involved in the details of the bankruptcy.
Two members of the panel have complained that the law firm has
too many conflicts of interest to participate in mediation.
Those creditors asked Carey to replace Chadbourne for the
mediation with the group’s other law firm, Zuckerman Spaeder
LLP.  In an order yesterday, Carey told the creditors to try to
divide the mediation duties between Chadbourne and Zuckerman.
They were unable to reach an agreement, Chadbourne attorney
Howard Seife said at the start of yesterday’s hearing.  The seven-member official committee of unsecured creditors
is divided over the $8 billion leveraged buyout led by real-
estate billionaire Sam Zell that took the newspaper and
television company private in 2007.  Low-ranking noteholders, represented by Wilmington Trust
Co., want to sue fellow committee member JPMorgan Chase Bank NA
and other banks that financed the buyout. Because Chadbourne
represents some of the banks in other matters, the committee
hired Zuckerman to advise it on a potential lawsuit over the
buyout.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Abitibi Pays Premium to Emerge From Bankruptcy: Canada Credit    AbitibiBowater Inc ., the bankrupt newsprint maker, provided
bond investors with a one-day windfall of almost $12 million as
it prepares to emerge from bankruptcy. The $850 million of notes
sold by the Montreal-based paper maker in the U.S. corporate
debt market on Sept. 20 rose to a mid-price of 101.375 cents on
the dollar in trading Sept. 21 from 100 cents, according to
brokerage firm RW Pressprich & Co.  AbitibiBowater, which has 19 pulp and paper mills and 24
wood-products plants in the U.S., Canada, the U.K. and South
Korea, sold the debt a day before it said creditors approved its
reorganization.  The bankruptcy case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Trico Marine Loses Bid to Refinance Debt With Bankruptcy Loan  Trico Marine Services Inc., a supplier of rented support
ships to oil and natural-gas drillers, was denied court
permission to refinance $25 million in debt while it reorganizes
in bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon  said
he didn’t know enough about how refinancing the debt to
Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC would affect lower-ranking
creditors. Tennenbaum required Trico to refinance what it’s owed
as a condition for an additional $10 million loan.  Trico, based in Woodlands, Texas, has already received
interim court permission to borrow the $10 million, but needs
final approval to convert the older, Tennenbaum-funded loan to
new debt with new collateral protections.  The company has already received the $10 million on interim
approval, and has enough cash to maintain operations, company
attorney Robert Dehney said in an interview. Under its agreement
with Tennenbaum, the company has until Sept. 24 to win
permission for the refinancing, Dehney told Shannon in court.  Lawyers for the company and Tennenbaum agreed to meet
yesterday morning with attorneys for unsecured creditors who
oppose the refinancing and to give Shannon a status report this
afternoon.  Shannon said he would consider approving the refinancing
should the company provide him with more information, or if
Trico, Tennenbaum and the unsecured creditors work out a new
loan package.  Trico filed for bankruptcy court protection last month,
blaming the economic slowdown and imminent interest payments.
The company listed assets of $30.6 million and debt of $353.6
million in its bankruptcy filing.  The case is In re Trico Marine Services, 10-12653, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington.)  General Growth Plans Offering to Replace Investor Commitments    General Growth Properties Inc ., the bankrupt mall owner,
said it expects to pursue a stock offering after it emerges from
bankruptcy to replace financing commitments from some investors
instead of selling notes that would convert to equity, it said
in a filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Chicago-based General Growth is approaching the end of its
bankruptcy case, which started in April 2009. It’s scheduled to
seek court approval next month for its plan to exit bankruptcy
with financing commitments from  Brookfield Asset Management
Inc ., Fairholme Capital Management LLC and Pershing Square
Capital Management LP.  General Growth has the right to replace portions of the
investors’ equity commitments through a public offering of notes
that convert to shares or through a post-bankruptcy public stock
offering, according to court papers.  General Growth has an underwriting agreement from Goldman &
Sachs Co.,  Deutsche Bank AG , Wells Fargo Securities, RBC Capital
Markets Corp.,  Barclays PLC , UBS Securities LLC, Macquarie Bank
Ltd. and TD Securities (USA) LLC. The mall owner also has exit-
financing commitments of as much as $1.8 billion in loans,
according to the court filing.  The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Philadelphia Inquirer Has Two Bidders for Auction  The  Philadelphia Inquirer  and its sister newspaper will
have two bidders competing to buy them out of bankruptcy at an
auction in which the opening offer is less than half the value
of a deal that fell apart this month.  Lenders who backed out of their contract to buy the
newspapers for $139 million on Sept. 14, will compete with  Raymond Perelman , father of billionaire  Ronald Perelman , said
Lawrence G. McMichael, an attorney who represents the holding
company that owns the two newspapers.  “We have two bids,” McMichael said yesterday in an e-
mail. The bids were due yesterday for the auction scheduled for
today.  The auction will be the second this year for the Inquirer
and the Philadelphia Daily News, which are owned by bankrupt
Philadelphia Newspapers LLC. Lenders owed more than $200 million
won the first auction. They refused to complete the deal after
members of the Teamsters union rejected changes to their pension
plan.  Under rules approved by Judge Stephen Raslavich on Sept.
16, the new opening bid must be at least $50 million.  The newspaper company filed for bankruptcy in February
2009, blaming the recession and a fall in advertising.  Fred Hodara, a lawyer for the lenders, and J. Gregory
Milmoe, an attorney for Perelman, weren’t immediately able to
respond to phone calls seeking comment.  Raymond Perelman was among local investors who lost an
auction this spring to the company’s main lenders, including
hedge fund operator Angelo Gordon & Co. and a unit of  Credit
Suisse Group AG .  The case is In re Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, 09-11204,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  Watch List  Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, May Consider Hiring Bankruptcy Lawyer  A councilman in Pennsylvania’s capital, which needed state
aid to avoid default on $3.3 million of bond payments this
month, said he plans a second attempt to have lawmakers consider
hiring a lawyer for advice on bankruptcy.  The Harrisburg councilman, Brad Koplinski, had his attempt
to move a similar motion at a City Council meeting on Sept. 14
rejected as out of order because it was unadvertised new
business.  “We’re looking to have it officially placed on the
agenda” for a meeting on the 28th, Koplinski said in a
telephone interview from Harrisburg yesterday.  The city would have been the biggest borrower after
Jefferson County, Alabama, to default on bond payments this year
if it had missed the Sept. 15 payment on its general obligation
bonds, according to Matt Fabian, managing director of Concord,
Massachusetts-based  Municipal Market Advisors , an independent
research company.  Harrisburg notified bondholders Aug. 30 it didn’t have the
funds to make the Sept. 15 payments on its 1997 Series D and
1997 Series F bonds. The payments were made after Pennsylvania
Governor  Ed Rendell  accelerated $3.6 million in state aid.  Briefly Noted  Dykstra Bankruptcy Trustee Seeks Settlement Approval  The special counsel to the trustee for the bankruptcy
estate of Lenny Dykstra, the former Major League Baseball player
who filed for protection under Chapter 7 just over a year ago,
provided a report regarding the motion to approve the JPMorgan
Chase compromise, concerning a $12 million pre-petition loan
secured by real property at 1072 Newbern Court, Thousand Oaks,
California, extended by Washington Mutual to Dykstra and his
wife, according to court papers. WaMu’s assets were taken over
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and sold to Chase,
which filed a claim against the bankruptcy estate.  The compromise provides for Chase to release its claims and
interests in insurance proceeds and pay the estate $400,000 in
exchange for relief from the automatic stay so it can foreclose
on the property.  The special counsel, in a 37-page report examining the
defenses and objections raised by the debtor and questions
raised by the court, recommended approval of the compromise.  A hearing will be held on the matter on Oct. 7 at the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Woodland Hills, California, according to
court files.  The case is In re Lenny Kyle Dykstra , 09-bk-18409, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (San Fernando).  Movie Gallery Gets Order Approving Key Employee Incentive Plan    Movie Gallery Inc ., the bankrupt movie-rental chain,
obtained an order Sept. 21 granting its request for approval of
its key employee incentive plan, according to papers filed with
the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Richmond, Virginia. Payments made
under the plan “shall be treated as an administrative expense”
under the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, according to signed
by U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Douglas O. Tice.  Movie Gallery filed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan in July
and received approval of the explanatory disclosure statement on
Sept. 10. The confirmation hearing for approval of the plan is
set for Oct. 28.  The new case is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 10-30696, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond); a prior
case filed by Movie Gallery is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 07-
33849, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia
(Richmond).  For more, click here and click here.  Statistics  Default Risk Drops to Lowest in Two Years, Moody’s Says  The number of U.S. companies at greatest risk of default
dropped to the lowest level in two years as Federal Reserve
efforts bolstered the economy, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. Companies rated at or below B3 with a negative outlook
declined to 195 as of Sept. 1 from a high of 288 in June 2009,
Moody’s said in a report.  For more, click here.  Downgrades  Group Health Cooperative Downgraded, by S&P Says  Group Health Cooperative, a consumer-governed health care
non-profit system providing services in the states of Washington
and Idaho, saw its financial strength, counterparty credit, and
senior secured debt ratings downgraded by Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services to BBB from BBB+, according to a statement by
the ratings company yesterday.  At the same time, S&P revised its outlook on the financial
strength and counterparty credit ratings to stable from
negative. S&P also affirmed its A-2 short-term counterparty
credit rating on the company, according the statement.  The ratings action was based on S&P’s “revised
expectations that GHC will post a $10 million-$20 million
operating loss in 2010,” S&P’s credit analyst Neal Freedman
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 