-- Songbird, Land Securities in Walkie-Talkie Joint Venture Talks
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-09-23T08:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/rising-canary-wharf-values-push-songbird-back-into-profit-as-crisis-abates.html
Songbird Estates Plc , the property
company that controls the Canary Wharf business estate, is in
talks to form a joint venture with Land Securities Group Plc to
build a City of London office tower known as the Walkie-Talkie.  The talks are part of a strategy by Canary Wharf Group, the
London-based company’s main unit, to expand into developments in
central London, Songbird said today in a statement.  Land Securities, the U.K.’s largest real-estate investment
trust, said in May that it wanted to find a partner to build the
36-story tower at 20 Fenchurch Street by the end of September.
The company said it may start construction on the 680,000
square-foot (63,000 square-meter) office building in early 2011.  Songbird, which owns almost 70 percent of Canary Wharf
Group, announced the talks in its first-half earnings statement.
Net income was 3.5 million pounds ($5.5 million), or 0.5 pence a
share, compared with a loss of 80.9 million pounds, or 72 pence,
a year earlier.  Canary Wharf may agree to enter a 50-50 joint venture on
the Walkie Talkie and then sell a 35 percent share of the
project to its largest investors, Songbird Chairman  David Pritchard  said on a conference call today. The company’s four
major shareholders are Qatar Holding LLC,  China Investment
Corp. , New York investor Simon Glick and Morgan Stanley Real
Estate Funds.  Songbird fell as much as 5 percent in London trading and
was down 4.46 pence, or 2.9 percent, at 149.25 pence as of 9:11
a.m. in London trading. The stock fell 1.3 percent in the year
through yesterday.  JPMorgan  Songbird, which controls more than half the buildings in
the Canary Wharf financial district, has benefited from a
revival in office values and rents since August as banks started
hiring after the global financial crisis. Canary Wharf Group
Plc, Songbird’s main unit, is trying to lure banks such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to the area and is also looking for
development opportunities in the City of London, the capital’s
main business district.  The company said it’s in discussions with JPMorgan Chase &
Co. about a planned Canary Wharf office tower that would serve
as the bank’s headquarters. A decision is anticipated in the
next few months, it said.  U.K. newspapers including the Independent and the Guardian
have reported that JPMorgan might drop plans to build the 1.5
billion pound headquarters.  Songbird’s net  rental income  fell 58 percent to 102.7
million pounds from a year earlier. The value of its properties
rose by 177.6 million pounds compared with a drop of 368.2
million pounds a year earlier.  The company also said it plans to raise 140 million pounds
in a share sale to repay an investor loan taken out last year to
buy Commerzbank AG’s 8.5 percent stake in Canary Wharf. The
share sale will save 11.5 million pounds in interest payments
over the next 12 months, Pritchard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 