-- Perelman Bids $85 Million for Philadelphia Inquirer and Sister Newspaper
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-09-23T17:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/ron-perelman-s-father-bids-85-million-for-bankrupt-philadelphia-inquirer.html
An auction for the bankrupt
 Philadelphia Inquirer  and its sister newspaper opened with an
$85 million bid today from philanthropist  Raymond Perelman  that
a judge will weigh against a $105 million offer from lenders.  Perelman attorney  J. Gregory Milmoe  said in an interview
that his client doesn’t plan to raise his bid, which was made
along with the Philadelphia Carpenters Union pension fund.
Perelman, a Philadelphia local, is the father of billionaire
 Ronald Perelman .  Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, which owns the Inquirer and
the Philadelphia Daily News, doesn’t have an opinion on which
offer is better, company managing member  Brian Tierney  said in
an interview during a break in today’s hearing.  “We don’t have a position,” said Tierney, who is also the
publisher of the Inquirer.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Stephen Raslavich  will make the final
decision on the winner. Tierney said Raslavich can consider how
each offer handles employment and other issues in addition to
comparing the price.  The auction is the second this year for the Inquirer and
the Daily News. It began nine days after the newspapers’ main
lenders backed out of their contract to buy the publications for
$139 million. Those lenders, including hedge fund operator
Angelo Gordon & Co. and a unit of  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
returned with an offer that is similar to their original deal,
Tierney said.  Judge’s Meeting  The auction is being held in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Philadelphia. After the two bids were announced, Raslavich began
meeting with each group separately in his chambers.  Philadelphia Newspapers filed for bankruptcy in February
2009, blaming the recession and a drop in advertising.  The filing came more than two years after Tierney and a
group of local investors, including the Carpenters Union pension
fund, bought the company. In court papers, Philadelphia
Newspapers listed assets and debt of as much as $500 million
each.  The Inquirer, founded in 1829, is the third-oldest daily
newspaper in the U.S. and has won at least 18 Pulitzer Prizes.
The Daily News, a tabloid founded in 1925, won a Pulitzer Prize
this year for investigative journalism. The two newspapers have
had a common owner since 1969, when they were bought by Knight
Newspapers Inc.  The case is In re Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, 09-11204,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 