-- Tropical Storm Matthew Develops as Lisa Revives in Atlantic
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2010-09-23T21:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/tropical-storm-matthew-develops-in-caribbean-as-lisa-revives-in-atlantic.html
Tropical Storm Matthew formed in
the Caribbean Sea east of Nicaragua and may grow into a
hurricane by next week, as Tropical Storm Lisa re-emerged in the
central Atlantic, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  A weather pattern that will set up in the southern U.S.
will probably steer Matthew to the north and into the Gulf of
Mexico, said  Jim Rouiller , the senior energy meteorologist for
Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  “This looks like it will be the first major hurricane to
threaten the eastern Gulf in many years,” Rouiller said.
“We’re going to see something that has to be taken seriously.”  Natural gas futures rose for a third day over fears the
system may develop into a hurricane and threaten energy
interests in the Gulf of Mexico. The Gulf is home to 31 percent
of U.S. oil production and 10 percent of gas.  “We’ve been moving higher undoubtedly on expectations of
shut-ins in the Gulf,” said  Stephen Schork , president of Schork
Group Inc., a consulting company in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  Natural gas for October delivery advanced 5.3 cents, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $4.019 per million British thermal units
on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The futures have advanced
4.1 percent from a year ago.  Matthew’s Movement  Matthew grew into a tropical storm just hours after being
declared a tropical depression. It was located 435 miles east of
Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua, moving west at 16 mph (26 kph) with
maximum sustained winds of 40 mph, according to an advisory at
about 5 p.m. East Coast time.  Honduras and Nicaragua issued tropical storm warnings,
meaning winds of at least 39 mph are expected in 36 hours, for
the coast from Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua, to Limon, Honduras,
according to the  hurricane center .  A hurricane watch was issued for the same area. A hurricane
watch means winds of at least 74 mph are possible within two
days, the center said.  The current official hurricane center track shows Matthew
grazing Honduras before striking Belize and then turning north
toward the Gulf. The center has said repeatedly its long-range
tracks can be off by several hundred miles.  In the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Lisa revived about 320
miles west-northwest of the Cape Verde Islands, according to the
center. The storm, with top winds of 40 mph, had been downgraded
to a tropical depression earlier today.  Lisa poses no immediate threat to land.  Forecasters Disagree  Weather 2000’s chief meteorologist,  Michael Schlacter , said
he doesn’t think Matthew will be a threat to the Gulf and
disagrees with forecasts that call for it to move north.  Schlacter said it is more likely the storm will break up on
the mountains of Central America and that it may drift into the
Pacific. Models are suggesting a second low-pressure system may
develop off Honduras next week, Schlacter said, and he thinks
other forecasters have confused that with Tropical Depression
15.  He said it’s unlikely any of the systems will get north of
Cancun and west of Havana.  Joe Bastardi , expert senior meteorologist at AccuWeather
Inc. in State College, Pennsylvania, said low pressure may
develop to the east of the storm and pull it back into the
Caribbean, where it will turn northeast.  Matthew Watch  “Here’s the moral of the story, that a complex situation
may take a few days to resolve but when it does we’re liable to
have a tropical storm or hurricane between Cuba and Central
America that has to come north straight for Florida and the
southeast U.S. next week,” Bastardi said. “And that is
probably what’s going to happen.”  Water temperatures are higher in the Gulf than they were in
2005, when  Hurricane Katrina  formed, and there is low wind shear
in the area, Rouiller said. Wind shear tears at the structure of
hurricanes, preventing them from developing, while warm water
can help storms grow in intensity.  Bastardi said he believes the major site of storm
development has now shifted to the Caribbean and away from the
central Atlantic.  “There are another seven or eight storms in the gun and
four or five of them that are going to develop in areas where it
is relatively close to the United States,” Bastardi said. “I
fully anticipate that the highest part of the impact season on
the U.S. coast is still to come.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  