-- Roubini Says U.S. Payroll Tax Cut Would Spur Jobs
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 2010-09-23T21:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/roubini-says-u-s-payroll-tax-holiday-would-spur-jobs-as-firms-sit-on-cash.html
The U.S. government should use a
temporary reduction in payroll taxes to boost employment, New
York University Professor  Nouriel Roubini  said.  “Firms are sitting on cash, but they are perceiving labor
costs as being too high,” Roubini, 52, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “We have to reduce labor costs by
reducing payroll taxes on a temporary basis for employers.”  In a Sept. 17 Washington Post op-ed piece, Roubini outlined
his proposal for the Obama administration to cut the payroll tax
for two years. Reduced labor costs would spur employers to hire
and would give employees more take-home pay, which would lead to
increased household spending, Roubini wrote.  Initial  jobless claims  increased by 12,000 to 465,000 in
the week ended Sept. 18, Labor Department figures showed today
in Washington. The total number of people receiving unemployment
insurance declined, while those getting extended payments rose.  “There is a bit of a chicken-egg problem,” Roubini said.
Firms aren’t hiring because they perceive a lack of  consumer
demand , Roubini said. If they don’t add new jobs, there is no
labor income and, in turn, less spending, he said.  A political stalemate ahead of November’s congressional
election means there isn’t any momentum for a payroll tax cut,
Roubini said.  Many of the U.S. jobs lost in the recession are “gone
forever,” Roubini said. Some jobs have gone overseas, while
other companies have learned to produce more goods and services
with fewer workers, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carol Massar  in New York at 
 cmassar@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  