-- Russia Needs U.S.-Style Miranda Rule to Fight Police Abuse, Medvedev Says
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-09-23T12:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/russia-needs-miranda-like-rule-to-help-fight-police-abuse-medvedev-says.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  said
Russia should require police to inform suspects of their rights,
similar to the U.S.’s Miranda rule, as the government develops
legislation to fight corruption and protect citizens from abuse.  “While it may seem like a formality that doesn’t give you
anything, nevertheless, in the end it creates a quite reasonable
legal effect,” Medvedev said today at a meeting on police
reform outside Moscow. “In America, they call it the Miranda
right. I think we can use such a rule.”  A U.S. Supreme Court decision known as Miranda v. Arizona
requires police to inform suspects of their constitutional
rights before questioning. If officers fail to do so, the courts
may exclude evidence gathered during the interrogation.  Medvedev, a former lawyer who has made fighting “legal
nihilism” one of the main goals of his presidency, is pushing
for a new law governing the police after repeated reports of
people falling victim to violent or drunken officers. A draft
posted on the Kremlin website received more than 30,000
comments, most of them critical.  One of Medvedev proposals would change the name of the main
law enforcement agency from militsia, literally militia in
Russia, to politsiya. Some 52 percent of Russians said the
effort to overhaul law enforcement would boil down to a cosmetic
name change and personnel reshuffling, according to a Levada
Center  poll  published Sept. 13.  “A certain skepticism is understandable,” Medvedev said
in televised remarks. “There is a feeling that all they want to
do is just rename militia by police and by this demonstrate a
reform. This is of course not so. The goal of the law is to
create an efficient law enforcement system.”  To improve communication between citizens and the police,
Medvedev suggested creating a free hotline accessible from
anywhere in Russia and said each police officer should wear a
badge bearing his name and a unique number.  Separately, Medvedev said the General Prosecutor’s
Investigative Committee will become an independent body and in
the future most investigative work would be transferred it. He
didn’t elaborate on the reasons for that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  