-- RWE Reorganizes German Operations as Rising Costs, Stagnant Prices Weigh
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-09-23T15:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/rwe-plans-to-shift-jobs-cut-costs-ahead-of-tax-climate-rules.html
RWE AG , Germany’s second-biggest
utility, plans to reorganize operations and shift jobs to cut
costs on expectation of higher taxation and challenging climate-
protection targets.  About half the departments at RWE Holding, the management
company that oversees RWE’s units, will be eliminated and half
the staff will be redeployed, reducing the number to 400, the
Essen-based company said today in a  statement . RWE will also
review investments, disposal of businesses and financial and
 dividend  planning, it said.  “To secure the future viability of the group, the
operational businesses must be strengthened,” RWE said.
“Increases in climate protection targets, rising prices for raw
materials, accompanied by stagnating electricity and gas prices
as well as the fiscal interventions expected in Germany” will
curb earnings.  Germany, which aims to extend the lifespan of the country’s
17 reactors, plans to impose a levy for running them past the
original shutdown dates and put the money into a renewable
energy fund. The country also plans an annual 2.3 billion-euro
($3.1 billion) tax on the nuclear industry. RWE, Europe’s
largest corporate  emitter  of carbon-dioxide, said Aug. 12 that
it will review its mid-term earnings  targets  because of
uncertainty over taxation.  Rheinland Westfalen Netz AG, which now runs the company’s
grid business and is responsible for shareholdings in German
utilities, will from Jan. 1 take charge of sales and
distribution in the country.  Increasing Competition  RWE East, based in Prague, will run operations in central-
eastern and south-eastern Europe, the company said.  “These markets remain important growth markets for RWE,”
 Rolf Schmitz , a board member, said in the statement.
“Competition is on the increase and for this reason we are
streamlining the business to become more efficient.”  RWE will reduce the  board  to five members with Chief
Operating Officer  Ulrich Jobs  leaving the company on Sept. 30
“by mutual agreement,” the company said. Jobs worked at RWE
since 1977.  Board member responsibilities will be simplified and re-
distributed, RWE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net 
 Angela Cullen  at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  