-- Home Sales in U.S. Likely Rose to Second-Lowest on Record
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-09-23T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-probably-climbed-to-second-lowest-on-record.html
Sales of existing homes in the
U.S. probably climbed in August to the second-lowest level on
record, indicating housing remains depressed a year after the
economic recovery began, economists said before a report today.  Home  resales  rose to a 4.1 million annual pace, behind only
July’s 3.83 million as the weakest in a decade’s worth of data,
according to the  median  of 72 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Other reports may show jobless  claims  held at a two-
month low and the index of leading indicators increased.  “Housing is showing no ability to move to the upside,”
said  Eric Green  chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in
New York. It will take gains in employment, an improvement in
confidence and a decline in the number of houses on the market
for the industry to rebound, he said.  Economists surveyed project the  jobless rate  will average
more than 9 percent through 2011, undermining confidence and
signaling foreclosures will hinder real estate as households
struggle to make mortgage payments. A distressed housing market
was among reasons the Federal Reserve cited this week when it
said it’s willing to take additional steps to spur growth.  The National Association of Realtors is scheduled to
release the sales figures at 10 a.m. in Washington. Survey
estimates ranged from 3.8 million to 5 million. Comparable data,
which combines single-family houses and condominiums, began in
1999.  Also at 10 a.m., the Conference Board’s gauge of  leading 
economic indicators is projected to have risen 0.1 percent in
August, the same as the prior month, according to the survey
median. Following gains of 0.7 percent on average in the 12
months through June, the smaller advances signal the economy
will expand at a slower pace in the second half or the year.  Jobless Claims  A Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. will show claims for
unemployment benefits held at 450,000 last week for a second
time,  according  to the Bloomberg survey.  A government tax credit of up to $8,000 gave housing a
temporary lift late last year and into 2010. Demand plunged in
July, the month after buyers were originally required to close
deals in order to get the incentive. The deadline has since been
extended to the end of this month.  After averaging 9.3 percent in 2009, joblessness this year
will average 9.6 percent and 9.2 percent in 2011, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg this
month. The last time unemployment exceeded 9 percent for three
consecutive  years  was from 1939 to 1941.  Mounting Foreclosures  The lack of jobs is also one reason foreclosures are
climbing as households stop making mortgage payments.  Home
seizures  reached a record in August for the third time in five
months, RealtyTrac Inc. said Sept. 16.  The Obama administration has said it plans to announce
proposals in the next few weeks for an emergency loan program
for the unemployed to avert default, and a government mortgage
refinancing effort to lower monthly mortgage payments to avoid
foreclosures.  The Fed kept its benchmark interest rate in the range of
zero to 0.25 percent this week, where it’s been since December
2008, and said the pace of recovery and job growth have “slowed
in recent months.” The central bank said it will “continue to
monitor the economic outlook and financial developments and is
prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed.”  The end of the homebuyer credit, joblessness and sagging
confidence prompted a decline in orders at  Hovnanian Enterprises
Inc. , the largest homebuilder in New Jersey said on Sept 1. The
company said its net orders dropped 37 percent in the quarter
ended July 31 from a year earlier.  “Job creation is the key to a housing recovery, which
makes it difficult to predict how improvements in the economy
and housing market play out,” Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said in a statement.  The lack of demand has depressed homebuilding stocks this
year. The S&P Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index , which includes
D.R. Horton Inc. and Lennar Corp., is down 4.5 percent since
December 31. The broader  S&P 500  is up 1.7 percent.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  