-- Sao Paulo Real Estate Boom Fuels Record Property Bond Sales: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a t i a n a   B a u t z e r   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2010-09-23T13:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/sao-paulo-retail-boom-fuels-record-property-bond-offerings-brazil-credit.html
Sales of securities backed by
Brazilian real estate assets are surging to a record as
homebuilders and mall owners expand amid the fastest economic
growth in two decades.  Debt offerings tied to homebuyer contracts and retail lease
payments from companies including  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos
e Participacoes , Brazil’s third-largest homebuilder, are on pace
to reach 6 billion reais ($3.5 billion) this year, up from 3.2
billion reais in 2009, according to the Sao Paulo-based  capital
markets association . The bonds sold this year pay an average
yield of 800 basis points, or 8 percentage points, above the
 IGP-M inflation index  for maturities of 12 to 15 years.  “Demand for these bonds is strong,” said  Rodrigo Machado ,
head of real estate finance products at the association.
“Mortgage and credit for development are far from cooling and
the stake sold to investors is still very small.”  Growth that analysts forecast will  top 7 percent  for the
first time since 1986 in Latin America’s biggest economy is
fueling demand for higher-yielding assets as the central bank
holds benchmark rates near a record low.  At 800 basis points above inflation, the yield on the real
estate-backed bonds is about 187 above that on seven-year
government bonds linked to the consumer price index. Top-rated
securities backed by U.S. commercial properties yield 252 basis
points more than Treasuries, or about 5 percent on a 10-year
security, according to a Barclays Plc index.  Office Vacancies  The office vacancy rate in Sao Paulo, Brazil’s largest
city, is at a record low of 8.5 percent after nationwide retail
sales rose more than 10 percent in six of the first seven months
of the year, according to Jones Lang LaSalle, the second-biggest
U.S. commercial property broker. In Midtown Manhattan, by
comparison, the office vacancy rate has soared to over 12
percent from 5.3 percent in June 2007, according to data from
broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  The Brazilian government has been using tax and regulatory
incentives to jumpstart the market for securities backed by
property revenue, said  Johann Grieneisen , a senior structured
finance analyst with Moody’s Investors Service in Sao Paulo.  The bonds -- known as CRIs, or certificado de recebiveis
imobiliarios -- are being used by developers and construction
firms to finance apartment buildings, shopping centers and
office properties. Companies such as state-owned oil producer
 Petroleos Brasileiros SA , based in Rio de Janeiro, and Telemar
Norte Leste SA, Brazil’s biggest fixed-line phone company, have
also used asset-backed debt as a financing alternative as well
as to boost the value of the assets on their balance sheets.  Lower Borrowing Costs  For some companies, CRIs offer lower borrowing costs and
longer maturities, often up to 30 years, said Jean-Pierre
Cotegil, a director at Standard & Poor’s in Sao Paulo.  Demand for CRIs comes mainly from wealthy individuals who
get a 15 percent tax break on the investments and banks seeking
to meet a government requirement that 65 percent of savings
deposits go to mortgage financing, said  Jayme Bartling , senior
director of structured finance at Fitch Ratings in Sao Paulo.  “One whole issue can get bought up by the bank,” Bartling
said in a telephone interview.  General Shopping Brasil SA , which operates 13 malls, cut
its borrowing costs by selling 62 million reais of 10-year,
asset-backed debt in May rather than taking out bank loans,
Chief Executive Officer  Alessandro Veronezi  said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. The company sold the rights to the
lease payments to RB Capital Securitizadora SA, a firm that
repackaged them to offer to investors.  General Shopping  “I can get significantly lower costs selling CRIs,”
Veronezi said. “These offerings are one of the main funding
alternatives for the future.”  General Shopping used the proceeds from the offering, which
was its fourth asset-backed sale since 2004, to expand four of
its malls in Sao Paulo, he said.  The final cost for the company was 990 basis points over
the government’s benchmark IPCA consumer price index, he said.
With annual inflation at 4.5 percent, General Shopping is paying
about 14.4 percent. Bank loans, by comparison, cost the company
about 585 basis points above the interbank lending rate, which
traded today at 10.62 percent, he said.  PDG Realty , based in Rio de Janeiro, is issuing 300 million
reais in eight-year bonds backed by contracts with homebuyers,
according to a prospectus dated Sept. 8. A PDG Realty official
who asked not to be named in accordance with company policy
declined to comment.  U.S. Crisis  Sales of real estate-backed bonds rose to 4.7 billion reais
in the first eight months of the year, according to the capital
markets association. In 2000, sales totaled 172 million reais.  CRIs are illiquid securities with no secondary market.
Investors also are betting that homebuilders have taken the
right credit risk when signing up buyers, said S&P’s Cotegil.
Record mortgage-backed bond sales in the U.S. led to the worst
recession since the Great Depression in 2008 as a plunge in
commercial property and home prices sparked a surge in defaults.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of Treasuries rose 1 basis point today to 214,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell one basis point to 117 yesterday, according to
CMA DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements  Residential Mortgages  The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 held today at 11.56 percent, the highest since Aug.
11. The real fell 0.2 percent to 1.7213 per dollar.  While commercial real-estate backed assets are taking off,
sales of securities backed by mortgages are just beginning.
 Caixa Economica Federal , Brazil’s biggest mortgage lender,
announced plans to sell as much as 400 million reais in CRIs
this year. It would be the third residential mortgage-backed
bond sold by a bank in Brazil, according to George Verras, a
director at Sao Paulo-based Brazilian Securities.  Mortgages are growing at a faster pace than savings
accounts, which will prompt banks to start packaging more home
loans to make room on their balance sheet for other assets, said
 Luiz Franca , president of the Brazilian Association of Real
Estate Credit and Savings Companies in Sao Paulo.  Brazil mortgage lending may jump to 455 billion reais in
2015 from 136 billion reais at the end of this year, according
to the real estate finance group.  “Market-wide, the financing in the system is going one
direction and that’s up,” said Grieneisen of Moody’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tatiana Bautzer  in Sao Paulo at 
 tbautzer@bloomberg.net ;
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  