-- HSBC Investors Back Gulliver as CEO After Geoghegan Quits
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-09-24T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/hsbc-chief-geoghegan-said-to-step-down-from-bank-be-replaced-by-gulliver.html
HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s biggest
bank, ended two-and-a-half weeks of speculation about who would
succeed  Stephen Green  as chairman by replacing all three of its
most senior executives.  Michael Geoghegan , chief executive officer for the past
four years, will step down after missing out on the
chairmanship. He will be replaced by investment banking chief
 Stuart Gulliver . Green, who quit on Sept. 7 to become U.K. trade
minister, will be replaced by finance director  Douglas Flint .
 Iain MacKay , an executive in the bank’s Asia-Pacific unit, will
fill Flint’s job, HSBC said in a statement yesterday.  The shakeup, the bank’s biggest for decades, follows a
struggle over who would replace Green as chairman. Geoghegan,
who became CEO when Green was promoted, struggled to attract
investor support for the chairmanship. In a Bloomberg survey of
20 HSBC  shareholders  this week, not one backed him. HSBC’s
chairmen have been former CEOs for at least the past 33 years.  “It’s been historically that the chief executive goes on
to be chairman -- but you have to be asked,” Geoghegan told
reporters on a conference call yesterday. “The reality was I
wasn’t asked. I was told I was a very good chief executive, and
another person would be better as chairman.”  Geoghegan, who’s worked at HSBC for 37 years, said  Simon Robertson , the director in charge of finding Green’s successor,
told him over dinner 10 days ago that Flint would become
chairman. Geoghegan, 56, had threatened to quit if he were
passed over, the Financial Times said this week, a report an
HSBC spokesman described as “nonsense.”  ‘Satisfactory Result’  “No one is indispensable,” said  Colin McLean , who helps
manage 560 million pounds ($880 million) at SVM Asset Management
in Edinburgh, including HSBC shares. “When someone has laid
their position on the line, the board was put in an impossible
position,” he added. “It’s a very satisfactory result,” he
said of the Gulliver and Flint appointments.  HSBC closed up 0.4 percent at 666.3 pence in London trading
before the announcement. The shares have dropped 6 percent this
year, the  worst performance  among U.K. bank stocks.  “They haven’t been held hostage,” said  Jane Coffey , head
of U.K. equities at Royal London Asset Management, which manages
$51 billion, including HSBC stock. “It seems like a reasonable
compromise. In the end they have two pretty good people.”  Investors balked at Geoghegan’s elevation to chairman
because it would break U.K. corporate governance rules dating
from 2003 that were designed to foster board independence. When
HSBC promoted Green to chairman two years later, it explained
the move was necessary “because the company is so large,” a
spokesman said at the time.  Governance ‘Changed’  “The governance of this company has changed over the last
five years,” Green told reporters yesterday. “Previously there
was a very strong executive chairman, who really was the key
management figure.”  Geoghegan increased his executive powers in February when
he moved to Hong Kong to sharpen HSBC’s focus on Asia. In a
statement published the day Green stepped down, he said he would
“continue to run” HSBC, which was founded in Hong Kong and
Shanghai in 1865.  “HSBC is losing its chairman and chief executive within
weeks of each other in an unplanned way, which is not a good
thing,” said  Mike Trippitt , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.
in London, who has an “add” rating on the stock. “To get it
so spectacularly wrong at the top level is quite worrying.”  Geoghegan Pay  Geoghegan will be paid 1.42 million pounds when he leaves
and will be eligible for a bonus of as much as 4.2 million
pounds for 2010, the lender said. He will also be a consultant
for three months after his retirement. He plans to donate his
200,000-pound fee for that work to charity, HSBC said.  Gulliver will receive a 1.25 million-pound salary and an
allowance to fund a pension. His bonus hasn’t been set, and his
total pay will be less than the 9.8 million pounds he received
in 2009, HSBC said. Flint, 55, will get 1.5 million pounds in
salary and half as much again to fund a pension, HSBC said. He
won’t receive a bonus or share incentives.  Gulliver, 51, runs a division that doubled operating profit
between 2005 and 2009 to become HSBC’s biggest earner. Flint’s
and Gulliver’s combined 45 years of experience at HSBC may help
alleviate concerns that the change would hurt profit, investors
and analysts said.  Revenue at Gulliver’s global corporate, investment banking
and markets division almost doubled to $21.9 billion last year
from $11.5 billion in 2005, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg . The unit’s operating income jumped to $10.1 billion
from $4.9 billion in the period.  Investment Banking Chiefs  Robin Phillips  and  Samir Assaf  will continue to run the
global banking and markets division, and report to Gulliver.
Gulliver’s responsibilities for the U.K., continental Europe and
the Middle East will pass to  Sandy Flockhart , who will also be
chairman of HSBC’s U.K. bank.  Gulliver was born in England and educated at Oxford
University. He joined HSBC in 1980 and held senior roles in Hong
Kong and Tokyo, running the investment bank in Asia before
moving to London in early 2003. He became head of the global
corporate, investment banking and markets division with  John Studzinski , who departed in 2006, leaving Gulliver in charge.  The proportion of HSBC’s earnings generated from investment
banking will remain stable, and the lender will continue its
focus on emerging markets, Gulliver told reporters on a
conference call yesterday.  “Stuart’s appointment will not signal any change in
strategy for HSBC as a universal bank with future growth focused
in Asia,” wrote  Ian Gordon , an analyst at BNP Paribas in London
who has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  Gulliver is the second investment-banking executive picked
to lead one of the four biggest U.K. banks this month, following
Barclays Plc’s appointment of  Bob Diamond  on Sept. 7. Diamond’s
promotion was criticized by Business Secretary  Vince Cable . His
department declined to comment on Gulliver’s appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 