-- Emerging-Market `Boom' Expected in Coming Months, HSBC Private Bank Says
-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-09-23T03:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/hsbc-private-bank-sees-emerging-market-boom-in-coming-months.html
Emerging-market stocks  may be
headed for a “boom” amid a surge in liquidity toward the end
of the year, HSBC Private Bank said.  Chinese stocks may be among the beneficiaries of the rally,
as government restrictions on property investment may channel
funds to the equity market,  Arjuna Mahendran , the head of
investment strategy for Asia in Singapore at HSBC Private Bank,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. Indian stocks may also
extend their rally even as the central bank is poised to add to
five interest-rate increases this year, he said.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said this week it’s willing to
ease monetary policy further to spur growth and support prices
after a slowdown in the pace of recovery and jobs growth. The
Fed’s statement, along with indications from central bankers
from Japan to the U.K. that further stimulus may be in store,
has helped drive the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  to the highest
in more than two years.  “There’s clearly a lot of excess liquidity that’s going to
slosh around the global markets and all of that is headed in the
direction of emerging markets because the growth in these
regions is superior to what you find in the West,” Mahendran
said. “There will be a liquidity-driven rally in emerging
markets in the months ahead.”  Elsewhere in Asia, Mahendran said he favors South Korea for
its “undervalued” currency. Excluding the Hong Kong dollar,
the won is the worst-performing currency in Asia outside of
Japan this year.  HSBC Private Bank also favors  Australia  and  Indonesia ,
which have large holdings of commodities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  