-- HSBC CEO Geoghegan Said to Step Down, Be Replaced by Gulliver
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2010-09-23T20:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/hsbc-s-geoghegan-may-quit-be-replaced-by-gulliver-update1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc  Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Geoghegan  will step down at the end of the year
and be replaced by investment-banking head  Stuart Gulliver , a
person briefed on the matter said.  Finance Director  Douglas Flint , 55, will become chairman of
HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, the person said, speaking
anonymously because the changes haven’t been publicly announced.  In elevating Gulliver, 51, HSBC would be the second major
U.K. bank to name an investment-bank executive to run the firm
this month, following  Barclays Plc ’s appointment of  Bob Diamond 
on Sept. 7. The changes come after  Stephen Green,  61, resigned
as chairman to take a job as trade minister for the U.K.  Born in England and educated at Oxford University, Gulliver
joined HSBC in 1980 and held senior roles in Hong Kong and
Tokyo, running the investment bank in Asia before moving to
London in early 2003. He became head of the global corporate,
investment banking and markets division with John Studzinski,
who left in 2006, leaving Gulliver in charge of HSBC’s global
investment banking and trading business.  The bank will probably appoint a successor at a board
meeting in Shanghai before the end of the month, a person with
knowledge of the situation said on Sept. 10.  Geoghegan, 56, replaced Green as CEO in 2006. He moved to
Hong Kong from London in February this year as part of the
bank’s growing focus on emerging markets and has worked at the
bank for more than 35 years.  HSBC said last month that first-half net income doubled as
the North American unit returned to profit for the first time in
three years and as bad-debt provisions fell by 46 percent. The
Financial Times reported the personnel changes earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 