-- Telenor Says Next Year Critical for Decision on India Venture
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-09-23T22:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/scandinavia-s-telenor-says-next-year-critical-for-money-losing-india-unit.html
Telenor ASA , Scandinavia’s biggest
phone company, said next year will be decisive for its Indian
operations.  The Norwegian company, which spent about $1.3 billion to
buy control of its India venture and invested 4.8 billion kroner
($808 million) more on capital expenditure, has accumulated more
than 3.4 billion kroner in losses in the South Asian country.
The India operations added just 159 million kroner, or $27
million, to revenue in the first half.  “Our goal is to get back on the business plan next year in
terms of revenues and cash flow,”  Sigve Brekke , the chief
executive of Uninor, the Indian venture, said at Telenor’s
investor meeting this week. “I’m not going to say that we are
confident. A year from now we’ll know what we’re able to do.”  Telenor entered India last December seeking to leverage
expertise gained in Pakistan and Bangladesh to capture growth
and profits in the world’s second-biggest wireless market. With
more than a dozen operators competing for users in India, call
rates have been pushed to as low as a penny a minute, making the
risk in the market too great, Telenor investors have said.  Uninor could still meet its target of profitability in
three years although the company has been “humbled” by its
setbacks, Brekke said.  The executive took over the operation in July from  Stein- Erik Vellan  after the first six months didn’t meet projections.
The company estimates it doubled revenues and boosted
subscriptions 79 percent in the third quarter.  Low Level  “Obviously it’s picking up, Sigve Brekke is doing a really
good job of re-energizing the sales,” said  Frank Maao , an Oslo-
based analyst at DnB NOR. “But it’s picking up from a really
low level when it comes to revenue and the whole challenge is
related very much to the structure of the industry and the
number of players.”  India’s current regulations discourage consolidation that
would help remaining players increase profits. Another hurdle is
the possible requirement for universal coverage, meaning
wireless companies could be compelled to provide service in
villages of 5,000 people rather than concentrating on more
lucrative markets.  Brekke says Uninor aims to become one of the top six
companies in each of its “circles” or regions, and is close to
that goal in several circles. He’s changed managers in four
circles where performance lagged and introduced a pricing plan
that requires users to keep the Uninor SIM card in their phone
to take advantage of fast-changing discounts. Indian users
typically juggle prepaid SIM cards from several phone companies.  Rising Averages  Average calling prices collapsed last year as companies
offered free calling minutes to sign up customers. India added
13.5 million mobile subscribers amounting to 2.9 percent of its
base in August according to the Cellular Operators Association
of India. Uninor added 32 percent, the association said.  “The market growth you see is not going to last forever,”
Brekke said. “The experience we have from other markets is that
if you don’t take your fair share when the market is growing
like that it’s very difficult to do that later.”  Prices have stopped falling and he expects the free-
minutes plans to taper off because they cut into profits.
Uninor’s monthly Average Revenue Per User, or ARPU, was 90
rupees ($1.97) in the second quarter, rising to 100 rupees in
August, the company said.  “If a year from now we are still competing with free
minutes and the regulations go against us,” then the business
may be reviewed, Brekke said, saying the company will continue
with plans to improve operations. “Even if we sell it, we have
to have something to sell,” he said.  ‘Not Certain’  Telenor entered India when it acquired a majority stake in
a new wireless business set up by Unitech Ltd., the real estate
company controlled by Indian billionaire  Ramesh Chandra . It’s
kept infrastructure costs down with tower sharing agreements,
including new contracts that Brekke says have smaller fees and
shorter lock-in periods than the initial agreement made with
Tata Teleservices and Quippo Telecom Infrastructure Limited.  New government approval requirements for telecommunications
equipment from China delayed parts of the rollout for four or
five months, Brekke said. That issue is now resolved, he said.  “I took a humbled approach today because I’m not certain
about anything,” said Brekke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  