-- SEB Ranks as Busiest M&A Adviser in Fast-Growing Nordic Market
-- B y   B o   N i e l s e n
-- 2010-09-24T13:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/seb-ranks-as-busiest-mergers-adviser-in-fast-growing-scandinavian-market.html
SEB AB , Sweden’s third-biggest bank
by market value, is the busiest mergers and acquisitions adviser
in Scandinavia as takeovers in the region outpace Europe.  The Stockholm-based company has worked on 19 deals this
year involving Nordic companies, compared with a combined 13 for
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley, the perennial
leaders in the global M&A market, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. SEB plans to increase hiring in all its corporate finance
units as the mergers advisory business picks up, said  Arne Due- Hansen , head of the bank’s Danish unit, in an interview.  Deal-making in the Nordic countries rose 30 percent this
year with announced takeovers valued at $50.2 billion, compared
with an 11 percent gain across Europe, Bloomberg data show. The
increase occurred as companies amassed $170 billion of cash to
help pursue acquisitions, said  Samuel Bridges , a London-based
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., in an e-mailed note.  “All the big Nordic banks will want a piece of the M&A
market,” said  Henrik Christiansson , a London-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc., in an interview. “SEB is likely to gain more
than its peers when the M&A market takes off.”  Nordic cross-border M&A may jump 49 percent to $67 billion
in 2010 and rise further next year,  JPMorgan  estimates.
Globally, the value of announced transactions climbed 22 percent
to $1.45 trillion in the past 12 months and the average deal
size increased 14 percent, Bloomberg data show. That’s pushing
firms like  Goldman Sachs  and  Morgan Stanley  to bigger markets in
Asia and the U.S., leaving the Nordic deals to local lenders.  Willing Buyers  “There’s a willingness from both buyers and sellers to
start making transactions again,” said  Anders Boending , head of
Copenhagen-based Danske Bank A/S’s corporate finance unit, in an
interview.  SEB is advising Swedish heating company Alfa Laval AB on
its $698 million bid for Munters AB and Stockholm-based Hexagon
AB, the world’s biggest maker of measuring instruments, on its
$2.13 billion offer for Intergraph Corp. SEB successfully uses
its M&A role as a bridge to provide all kinds of financial
services to clients, according to analyst  Nick Davey  at Zurich-
based UBS AG.  Fitch Ratings lifted late yesterday SEB’s individual rating
one step to B, the third-highest, citing expectation of growth
in the bank’s key markets, the London-based agency said. The
bank received about 50 percent of its 2009 income from companies
with revenue above $146 million, compared with an average ratio
of about 30 percent for its peers, including Danske Bank and
Nordea Bank, SEB said at a presentation this month.  Missing Out  The company was involved in 342 Nordic M&A transactions
during the past decade, compared with 175 for Stockholm-based
Nordea Bank AB, 198 for Stockholm-based Svenska Handelsbanken AB
and 110 for Danske Bank, Bloomberg data show. Carnegie
Investment Bank AB, the closely held Stockholm-based securities
firm, worked on 273 deals.  Scandinavian banks weren’t involved in the region’s two
biggest mergers this year: Acergy SA’s $2.5 billion purchase of
Subsea Inc. done by London-based NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd. and
Noble Corp.’s $2.2 billion acquisition of FDR Holding Ltd. led
by Barclays Capital.  Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest lender, said this month
it opened a branch in Copenhagen to gain investment banking fees
in the Nordic region.  “The smaller Scandinavian deals became more interesting
for the bigger international firms as the global market slowed
and that has put local banks like SEB under pressure,” said  Bo Nordberg , a mergers analyst at GFI Group Inc. in London, in an
interview. “But if the big deals return, the international
banks will leave Scandinavia alone.”  Experience  SEB plans to add to its existing staff of 125 M&A
employees, said Due-Hansen, declining to be more specific.  “I’m very optimistic for 2011,” he said. “We have a team
of people who have been with us for a very long time. Experience
is what clients are asking for.”  Nordea hired about 15 employees since 2008, bringing its
M&A unit to 85. Danske Bank recruited nine people, raising
headcount to 59, and Svenska Handelsbanken increased its staff
to 65 from 60, the banks said. The extra competition means SEB
may be hard pressed to repeat its success, said  Bjarne Jensen ,
head of Nivaa, Denmark-based Bjarne Jensen Consult, which
advises clients on the Nordic banking industry.  “It’s not that SEB has become worse at what it does, it’s
that the competitors have become better,” Jensen said.  Citigroup’s Christiansson has a “hold” rating on  SEB  and
Nordea, and a “buy” rating on Svenska Handelsbanken and Danske
Bank. Nordea is second after SEB to reap the benefits of a
Nordic surge in mergers, according to Christiansson and Davey.  “We are doing more in this field than we’ve done before,”
said  Christian Hyldahl , Nordea’s head of investment banking, in
an interview. “It’s a way into forming strategic partnerships
with our clients.”  SEB rose as much as 1.7 percent in Stockholm trading,
snapping two days of declines, and gained 0.71 krona, or 1.5
percent, to 49.11 kronor at 3:47 p.m. local time. The shares
have added 11 percent this year compared with a 16 percent gain
for the 149 banks in the  OMX Nordic Financials Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  