-- SEC Renews Market Structure Focus Amid Dodd-Frank Requirements, Cook Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-09-23T20:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/sec-renews-market-structure-focus-amid-dodd-frank-requirements-cook-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is renewing its focus on market structure even as it
works on rules to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act, said  Robert Cook , director of the agency’s division of trading and markets.  The SEC will focus on “preserving advantages of the market
structure while we address any potential flaws,” Cook said at a
Security Traders Association conference in Washington. He said
the May 6 plunge “brought a whole new dimension to the
discussion” that was already under way.  While the SEC introduced short-term remedies to address
problems exposed on May 6, the agency is now considering the
role of liquidity providers in the current market in which high-
frequency trading accounts for more than half of equities volume.
A joint report by the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission about the May 6 plunge that briefly erased $862
billion in value found that some firms providing bids and offers
to investors reined in their activity, exacerbating a
“liquidity mismatch” between buyers and sellers.  “What obligations should they have?” Cook said. “What
obligations should they not have?” The SEC is also examining
the ratio of order cancellations to trades and other issues
related to market data, he said.  The renewed focus on rules guiding equities trading comes
as the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission are
analyzing over-the-counter markets and beginning the rulemaking
process for swaps. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law in
July. An updated report on the May 6 plunge is due to be
released this month.  ‘Regulatory Fragmentation’  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which oversees
almost 4,700 brokers and conducts surveillance for most stock
exchanges, is focused on “regulatory fragmentation,” said
 Thomas Gira , executive vice president for market regulation at
the agency.  There currently isn’t enough consistency in the amount of
data regulators get from different market centers, Gira said.
Some of the rules mandating the collection of data were written
before new exchanges developed and haven’t been updated.  “Consistent audit trail across all the markets is
absolutely the right way to go,” Gira said. He added that while
the SEC’s  proposal  to create a trail that collects all
information related to orders and trades would help regulators
examine trading behavior, there’s a “robust debate about whether
real-time is the right way to do it.”  Regulators must also focus on discrepant rules and trading
protocols on markets that could increase “liquidity gaps like
on May 6,” Gira said. While circuit breakers on individual
securities, introduced in July, could help prevent sudden
plunges in stock prices, they’re responses to a “symptom” of a
problem instead of the cause.  “We don’t necessarily want to over-fix things” because
new rules can have unintended consequences, Gira said. “We need
to do a better job at identifying those on the front end than
we’ve done in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 