-- SEC Should Improve Oversight of How Fast Traders Access Markets, ITG Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-09-23T17:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/sec-should-improve-oversight-of-how-fast-traders-access-markets-itg-says.html
Regulators should improve the
supervision of high-frequency trading firms and impose new rules
on how they send orders to exchanges, said  Robert Gasser , chief
executive officer of  Investment Technology Group Inc.   “We had some good regulation that was close to being
enacted previous to May 6,” said Gasser in remarks at a
Security Traders Association conference today in Washington.
“Constructive regulation” will improve the confidence of
individual investors, whose skepticism about whether the market
operates fairly increased after the plunge almost five months
ago that erased $862 billion in equity value in about 20
minutes, he said.  In January, the Securities and Exchange Commission proposed
new  requirements  around a form of unsupervised sponsored access,
which refers to arrangements that enable firms to send orders to
exchanges using their broker’s identification code. In what’s
called unfiltered, or naked, sponsored access, firms can submit
thousands of orders a second without passing through risk
controls and checks by their broker.  “Without meaningful sponsored access regulations and
better data, it’s hard to know how all of them perform and
interact with our equity market centers,” Gasser, who is based
in New York, said about high-frequency trading firms. “I think
we all intuitively suspect there are some bad actors in the
bunch.” Better data would give regulators more information
about the activities of high-frequency traders, he said.  Broker Checks  Skipping the broker checks reduces delays in submitting
orders. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association has  criticized  the practice, saying it exposes
brokers and market participants to erroneous trading that could
cause prices to move rapidly before the strategies submitting
orders are canceled.  Exchanges should also consider introducing a fee on high
levels of message traffic from firms trading on their systems,
Gasser said. This activity imposes a burden on brokers and other
market participants by forcing them to pay more to support
higher computing requirements to process the data, he said.  Many high-frequency firms “are submitting short-duration
orders that cancel, replace and modify in microseconds,” he
said. “Real liquidity is being hidden by illegitimate quotes.”
Gasser said distinctions should be made between firms that
function as electronic market makers, providing bids and offers
for individual investors and mutual funds to trade with, and
high-frequency trading firms engaged in other strategies.  Market Access  Like most brokers, ITG provides market access to its
customers, which include mutual funds and hedge funds, and in
the process interacts with high-frequency trading firms as
orders are processed. In March, the firm  suggested  modifications
to some of the risk management controls mandated in the SEC’s
proposal about sponsored access  The SEC should also approve rules the agency proposed about
 flash orders  and dark pools, Gasser said. The agency last
September suggested banning flash orders, which some trading
venues use to enable a select group of market participants to
view orders for less than half a second before they’re routed to
other markets for execution. While this is done to try to
process the order on that market instead of sending it to a
rival, it creates the potential for “two-tiered” markets in
which some participants have access to better information,
according to the SEC.  The SEC  proposed  limitations on the actions of dark pools,
private venues that match buy and sell orders without displaying
quotations, in November. The  restraints  were aimed at curbing
the ability of dark pools to use high-frequency strategies that
solicited orders from firms based on buy and sell requests they
had already received. The SEC also proposed that dark pools
provide more-detailed information publicly about their trading.  Finalizing rules that have already been proposed could
reduce the likelihood of “disruptive behavior” that may harm
trading and investors’ perceptions about fairness in the
equities markets, Gasser said.  The SEC reopened the public comment period on flash orders
in July to  reconsider  whether they should apply in options in
addition to equities. Since May 6, regulators have also focused
on examining the causes of the plunge and are now involved in
writing new rules for the over-the-counter swaps market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 