-- Sell FedEx Options as Costs Rise, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-09-23T20:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/sell-fedex-options-because-more-costs-to-limit-gains-morgan-stanley-says.html
Investors should sell  FedEx Corp. 
options to wager that shares of the world’s largest air-cargo
carrier won’t move much over the next two months as rising costs
and slower revenue growth limit gains, Morgan Stanley said.  Equity derivatives strategists  Christopher Metli  and  Sivan Mahadevan  recommended selling the Memphis, Tennessee-based
company’s November $90 calls and November $75 puts, a strategy
known as a strangle. The shares lost 2 percent to $82.66 as of 4
p.m. in New York. FedEx is down 1 percent this year.  Gains may be limited as FedEx faces sluggish sales growth,
higher costs, increasing capital expenditures, and a
restructuring of its FedEx Freight division, the New York-based
strategists wrote, citing  William Greene , a Morgan Stanley air
transport analyst who rates the stock at “equal-weight.”  “FedEx is a leveraged play on global trade and slowing top
line growth on tougher comps is still a difficult hurdle for the
shares to overcome,” Greene wrote in a Sept. 17 report. “While
the restructuring will likely be a positive longer-term, it also
means that we should have very modest expectations for profit
improvement at FedEx Freight in the near-term.”  Selling the November strangle will return the most if the
shares remain between the $75 and $90 strike prices, which the
stock hasn’t exceeded for the past two months. The trade profits
if the shares are between $92.72 and $72.28 at expiration on
Nov. 19, the strategists said.  FedEx  said  Sept. 16 that it expects to close about 100
facilities and cut 1,700 jobs as it combines freight and less-
than-truckload operations starting in January. Full-year
adjusted earnings per share will be in a range of $4.80 to
$5.25, it said. Analysts estimated $5.21.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 