-- Sharapova's Millions Started With Billie Jean King's $1 Contract
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-09-23T16:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/sharapova-millions-began-with-billie-jean-king-s-1-contract-40-years-ago.html
All it took was $1 for  Billie Jean King  to change tennis.  King earned 750 pounds ($1,175) for winning the 1968
Wimbledon title, less than half of what men’s champion  Rod Laver 
received. That and a lack of playing opportunities for women
spurred her to become one of nine players to start a new women’s
tour, signing $1 contracts that led to the establishment of the
inaugural $7,500 Virginia Slims of Houston 40 years ago today.  The Virginia Slims Circuit debuted the following year with
19 tournaments and total prize money of $309,100. Since then,
the  WTA Tour  has grown into the world’s leading sport for women,
with 53 tournaments held across the world over 11 months, more
than 2,200 players and more than $86 million in prize money.
This year, top-ranked  Serena Williams  got 1 million pounds for
winning Wimbledon, the same as men’s champion  Rafael Nadal .  “We had a pretty clear vision of what we wanted for our
sport,” King, 66, said in a telephone interview from Prescott,
Arizona. “I always tell the women today: ‘You are living our
dream, our vision that we talked about in 1970.’”  The tour featured King, Rosie Casals, Nancy Richey, Kerry
Melville, Peaches Bartkowicz, Kristy Pigeon, Judy Dalton,
Valerie Ziegenfuss and Julie Heldman.  ‘Owned by Men’  When tennis turned professional in 1968 and players were
allowed to compete for prize money, “all the tournaments were
run by men or owned by men,” King said.  “A lot of them dropped the women’s event and just didn’t
have them,” she said. “Or, if they did have them, the ratio of
prize money was like 11 or 12-to-one even though we were playing
in front of full crowds. It got me a little crazy. My former
husband Larry said: ‘Why don’t you all get together?’”  Larry King, one of the four co-founders of World Team
Tennis in 1973, and Billie Jean King divorced in 1987.  King, Casals and Richey approached World Tennis publisher
Gladys Heldman, who got  Philip Morris International Inc. ’s
Virginia Slims cigarette brand on board. The cigarettes were
introduced in 1968 with marketing aimed at young professional
women.  Today’s players say they’re aware of their debts to the
nine women.  I’m “humbled by what these nine women have done for my
career,” former Wimbledon champion  Maria Sharapova  said in a
statement e-mailed by her agent. “I am personally grateful for
their vision and their ‘fight’ for all the generations that
followed them.”  ‘Owe a Lot’  Sharapova, 23, the world’s highest-paid female athlete,
earns $24.5 million in prize money and endorsements a year,
according to an estimate by  Forbes Magazine  in August. That
figure was confirmed by Sharapova’s agent, Max Eisenbud, at IMG.  “We are fortunate to be in the position we are in today,
with the same prize money as the guys at combined events, and we
owe a lot of that to what these women did 40 years ago,” former
French Open champion  Ana Ivanovic  said in a  statement  on the WTA
Tour website.  Setting up a professional women’s tennis tour against the
wishes of what was then called the U.S. Lawn Tennis Association,
or USLTA, wasn’t easy.  “Jeopardizing the chance to play Grand Slams was probably
the riskiest part of going against the old establishment,”
Casals, 62, said in an e-mail. “We were really second-class
citizens when we played at tournaments alongside the men, and
that meant all tournaments.”  Grand Slam  King missed out on a chance to complete the Grand Slam of
all four majors in one calendar year in 1972. She won the French
Open, U.S. Open and Wimbledon but couldn’t play the Australian
Open because of a Virginia Slims tournament in San Francisco.  Australians Dalton and Melville were suspended the day
after they signed the $1 contract, while the USLTA set up a
rival tour with  Margaret Court ,  Evonne Goolagong  and  Virginia Wade .  King assigned each of the so-called Original 9 to try to
influence two players on the USLTA tour. The strategy worked.
The tours were united in the Women’s Tennis Association, formed
during a player meeting at the Gloucester Hotel in London,
shortly before Wimbledon in 1973. King was elected president.  The U.S. Open offered equal prize money to men and women in
the same year. Wimbledon was the last Grand Slam event to follow
suit, in 2007.  “Women’s tennis owes everything to Billie Jean King,”
 Fernando Soler , head of the tennis division at IMG Worldwide
Inc., said in an interview from Barcelona, Spain. “If it
wouldn’t have been for her determination to put together the
tour, I don’t think women’s tennis would exist today.”  Riggs Match  King also played  Bobby Riggs  in 1973, in what was called
the “Battle of the Sexes.” King, the winner of 39 major
singles and doubles titles, beat the former Wimbledon champion
from the U.S. in straight sets. About 40 million people around
the world watched the broadcast, which led to the WTA’s first
television contract the next year.  “The symbolism of that win for women meant so much,”
 Stacey Allaster , chief executive officer of the WTA Tour, said
in a telephone interview from WTA headquarters in St.
Petersburg, Florida. “Billie wants equal opportunity for men
and women to work respectfully together for a better world. And
that tennis match symbolized what she wanted to achieve.”  King said she regrets not having been able to set up a
joint tour for men and women. Several attempts to join the two
were turned down by the men’s Association of Tennis
Professionals, she said. Although the WTA Tour and  ATP World
Tour  will hold 20 combined events next year, they remain
separate entities.  The men’s tour declined to comment.  “It’s a better package when the men and women are
together,” King said. “Just imagine if we had done this 40
years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  