-- Singh Debt Cap Doubles for Foreign Buyers to Finance Roads: India Credit
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-09-24T04:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/singh-debt-cap-doubles-for-foreign-buyers-to-finance-roads-india-credit.html
India lifted the cap on foreign
investment in bonds for the first time in 18 months as Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  seeks capital for building roads and
power plants in a nation ranked below war-ravaged Ivory Coast
and Sri Lanka for the quality of infrastructure.  The limit on government bonds was doubled to $10 billion,
the Ministry of Finance said late yesterday. The money can only
be used to buy sovereign debt due in more than five years.
Singh’s administration also allowed overseas investors to buy $5
billion more obligations with similar maturities sold by
infrastructure companies, boosting permitted foreign investment 
in corporate debentures to $20 billion.  International investors, seeking to participate in the
second-fastest pace of economic growth in Asia and reap higher
yields than in the U.S., more than doubled holdings of India’s
government and corporate debt this year to $17.2 billion as of
Sept. 22, data from the Securities & Exchange Board of India
show. Two-year sovereign notes yield 657 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, about the most since Oct. 15, 2008.  “The thought process seems to be to try and draw in real
investors,”  Ananth Narayan G. , the head of South Asian currency
and bonds trading at Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai, said in
an interview yesterday. “It’s probably trying to get in pension
funds, insurance money.”  Project Spending  India plans to double spending on building infrastructure
projects to $1 trillion in the five years to 2017, according the
country’s Planning Commission. The South Asian nation is ranked
89 out of 133 nations for its infrastructure, according to the
World Economic Forum’s  Global Competitiveness Index .  The last time India granted more quotas was in March 2009,
when money fled emerging nations after global credit markets
seized up. The government raised the ceiling on foreign
investments in sovereign bonds to $5 billion from $3.2 billion
in June 2008, while increasing the cap on corporate-debt
investment to $15 billion from $6 billion in March 2009,
according to a statement on the website of the Mumbai-based
Securities & Exchange Board.  “The corporate debt market needed to be opened up for
infrastructure investments to happen in a meaningful way,” said
 Indranil Pan , chief economist at Mumbai-based Kotak Mahindra
Bank Ltd.  Holding Back Growth  Singh wants to tap private financing for at least half of
the $1 trillion of construction projects targeted in the five
years ending March 2017. The inadequacy of the nation’s
utilities and transport network shaves 2 percentage points from
growth, the Finance Ministry estimates. The economy has expanded
an average 8.5 percent in the last five years.  The government plans to more than double spending to 20.5
trillion rupees to build ports, airports and other facilities in
the five years ending March 2012 from the previous five-year
period, according to a Planning Commission document released in
March. Private companies may account for about 36 percent of the
nation’s total spending on such projects between April 2007 and
March 2012, versus 25 percent in the previous five-year period.  India’s 10-year bonds advanced after the new caps were
unveiled and the government reduced its borrowing plan, pushing
yields to the lowest level in more than a month today. The yield
on the 7.8 percent note due May 2020 fell 4 basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 7.86 percent as of 9:45 a.m, the
lowest level since Aug. 16. The rupee gained 0.2 percent to
45.58 to a dollar, the highest level since May 14.  ‘Positive’  “The near-term impact will be positive on the rupee as and
when the inflow comes into the country,”  Dhawal Dalal , the head
of fixed-income at DSP Blackrock Investment Managers Pvt. that
oversees the equivalent of $5.2 billion, said in an interview
yesterday. “It will be positive for banking liquidity as
well.”  The increase in the cap may also help the government reduce
its  current-account deficit . The gap widened to $13 billion in
the first quarter as an accelerating economy boosted imports of
goods and machinery. The shortfall will expand this year,
central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said at a seminar in
Buenos Aires on Sept. 3.  “If the government can attract foreign institutional
investor flow in infrastructure, which is long-term money, it is
going to help the development of infrastructure in the country
in a big way,” DSP Blackrock’s Dalal said.  India’s 10-year bond rate is the highest among major
economies except Brazil, where similar-maturity notes yield 12.2
percent. Comparable securities offer 7.61 percent in Russia and
3.23 percent in China and 2.54 percent in the U.S., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield Spreads  The  difference  in yields between India’s debt due in a
decade and 10-year U.S. Treasuries widened to 541 basis points
yesterday from 522 a week ago. The measure, which has averaged
318 since 2000, reached a two-year high of 556 on Aug. 26.  Overseas investors have pumped almost  $17 billion  into
Indian equities this year, 60 percent more than in the same
period of 2009, according to the  Securities and Exchange Board
of India . Accelerated inflows of overseas capital helped the
rupee strengthen 3.1 percent against the dollar this month, the
best performance among Asia’s 10-most traded currencies after
South Korea’s won.  “The strong capital inflows will help ease the cash crunch
in the coming months,” said  Navneet Munot , chief investment
officer, SBI Funds Management Pvt. “That will boost short-term
debt prices, and investors who already own them will gain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 