-- Singapore Inflation Rate Climbs to Highest in 18 Months Amid Record Growth
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   P h a n g
-- 2010-09-23T07:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/singapore-inflation-rate-climbs-to-highest-in-18-months-amid-record-growth.html
Singapore’s  inflation  accelerated
to an 18-month high as record economic growth in the first half
of the year spurred demand for goods and services, sustaining
pressure on the central bank to allow currency gains.  The consumer price index climbed 3.3 percent in August from
a year earlier, Singapore’s Department of Statistics said in a
statement today. That matched the median estimate of 10
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. Prices rose 0.5 percent
from July, without adjusting for seasonal factors.  Singapore’s economy expanded at a record 17.9 percent pace
in the first six months of the year, as surging exports
bolstered manufacturing and the opening of two casino-resorts
boosted services. The government, which expects gross domestic
product to grow 13 percent to 15 percent this year, has
tightened lending rules to curb speculation after home prices
surged 38 percent last quarter.  “The economy still has some significant juice left for the
upcoming laps, and the Monetary Authority of Singapore need not
pause just yet,” HSBC Holdings Plc economists led by  Frederic Neumann  said in an e-mailed note today. The central bank will
likely “continue its tightening bias in mid-October” by
allowing a gradual appreciation in the currency, without any
one-off adjustment in the exchange rate, they said.  The MAS uses the currency instead of interest rates to
manage inflation, which it forecasts will average between 2.5
percent and 3.5 percent this year. The central bank tightened
policy in April, saying it would shift the Singapore dollar to a
stronger range to trade in and allow a gradual appreciation. It
next reviews monetary policy in October.  Monetary Policy  The Singapore dollar has gained 5.7 percent against its U.S.
counterpart this year.  The central bank said in its annual report in July that
“economic activity is likely to be sustained at high levels”
for the rest of 2010, adding pressure on business costs and
spurring inflation.  Housing prices, the biggest component of the consumer price
index, climbed 3.1 percent from a year earlier in August, and
transport costs increased 9 percent. Food prices rose 1.7
percent, today’s report showed.  Still, inflation “has been in line with expectation and
will most likely come in within MAS’s target range,” said  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore.
“Hence, the current exchange rate policy stance has been
appropriate given the outlook on inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Phang  in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  