-- New Solvency II Rules May Reduce Insurers’ Capital, Study Says
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-09-23T11:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/solvency-ii-rules-may-cut-european-insurers-surplus-capital-study-says.html
European insurers may be forced to
restructure their businesses as new risk-based regulation is
likely to reduce surplus capital, according to  Morgan Stanley 
and Oliver Wyman.  The insurers’ solvency ratio, a measure for a company’s
ability to meet its obligations, may be cut to about 135 percent
from 200 percent, with non-life insurers and reinsurers losing
the most capital once the European Union introduces the new
Solvency II rules, they said in a study published today.  The regime, designed to align insurers’ risks with the
capital they hold to ensure clients’ claims are covered, is due
to come into effect by 2013. While some requirements have
already been eased, the proposed regulations may increase
capital-to-risk calculations, lowering available capital to meet
demand,  Dominic Christian , co-chief executive officer of
reinsurance broker  Aon Benfield , said in July.  “We expect a continued shift away from participating life
business,” and European insurers may “reconsider” their
positions in markets with different regulation, such as the
U.S., wrote the Morgan Stanley analysts, including London-based
 Farooq Hanif .  “We think the pace of change will quicken” as insurers
focus more on market risks and participating contracts that are
likely to determine capital requirements, they said. Strongly
capitalized reinsurance companies will benefit the most because
the new rules will drive up insurers’ demand for their coverage,
according to the report.  The push for more diversification in products will drive
mergers and acquisitions, the analysts said.  “Certain business structures are inefficient from a
capital perspective,” including companies with several
insurance carriers in single markets supporting different
brands, said Lukas Ziewer, a partner in the insurance practice
of consultancy firm Oliver Wyman and one of the contributors to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 