-- Southern Blacks’ Flight to Freedom Brought Oprah, Aretha, Cosby
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/southern-blacks-flight-to-freedom-brought-oprah-aretha-cosby.html
In 1903, James K. Vardaman said
during his gubernatorial campaign in Mississippi: “If it is
necessary, every Negro in the state will be lynched.” He won
that election and went on to the U.S. Senate.  That’s one tile in the extraordinary mosaic  Isabel
Wilkerson  has crafted in “ The Warmth of Other Suns : The Epic
Story of America’s Great Migration.” The Pulitzer Prize-winning
journalist combines oral history, research and empathy to
portray the origins and impact of the exodus of some six million
blacks from the South in the years 1915-1970.  The impetus at home was obvious, from what Wilkerson calls
the “thousand hurts and killed wishes” of Jim Crow
segregation, oppression and poverty, to the thousands of
horrific murders concealed in this grim summary: “Across the
South, someone was hanged or burned alive every four days from
1889 to 1929.”  The target cities in the North and West also proffered
inducements, including less fear and violence, better jobs and
higher pay. As the years went by, another powerful allure came
from returning kin flaunting cars, cash and nice clothes.  Wilkerson uses new census data and research to correct
long-held perceptions that migrants fell short of northern
blacks in terms of family stability, education and ambition.
Aligning the black diaspora with European counterparts, she
writes, “The general laws of migration hold that the greater
the obstacles and the farther the distance traveled, the more
ambitious the migrants.”  Black Mayors  There’s no denying the deep cultural cast the movement
produced:  Toni Morrison , James Baldwin,  Aretha Franklin ,  Bill Cosby ,  Condoleezza Rice ,  Oprah Winfrey , to name a few. Another
telling list notes that the first black mayors in each of the
seven main receiving cities were southern-born themselves or the
sons of migrants.  For every individual who hit the road north, the decision
brought wrenching change. Wilkerson’s richest offering is the
extended personal histories provided by three migrants, chosen
well from the more than 1,200 people she interviewed.  Ida Mae Gladney left Chickasaw County, Mississippi, in
October 1937 when she and her husband gave up the hard cotton
fields after a friend’s horrific beating. Chicago “‘looked like
Heaven’” when she arrived, Gladney says. It would soon look
otherwise.  Jim Crow was gone but prejudice remained. Jobs were scarce
and living conditions, the author writes, meant “the least-paid
people were forced to pay the highest rents for the most
dilapidated housing owned by absentee landlords trying to wring
the most money out of a place nobody cared about.”  Train Attendant  George Starling fled to New York from Eustis, Florida, in
April 1945. He had made enemies of citrus growers by getting
pickers to strike for higher pay. Despite two years of college,
he settled into a menial job as a coach attendant on an East
Coast railroad line. Spending some four decades on the New York-
Florida run, he became a keen observer of the many who boarded
his trains to join the Great Migration.  Robert Foster got in his Buick Roadmaster in April 1953 and
left Monroe, Louisiana, driving to Los Angeles to set up a
medical practice. He would prosper as a doctor, have a song
written about him by a patient named  Ray Charles  and become a
regular at the blackjack tables of Las Vegas.  Illuminating History  These affecting biographies weave in and out of Wilkerson’s
broader study, melding with and illuminating that history of the
movement north. It’s a risky approach because there’s a danger
of losing a reader as the book jumps from one of the trio to
another or to sections where the author steps back to view the
chronicle through her own eyes. The wealth of detail can
overwhelm (especially when two of the narratives for many pages
speak of three different Georges).  Wilkerson deftly brings herself, the daughter of migrants,
into the narrative. She recalls her mother stopping to get the
Pontiac washed on a trip back south to make a good impression.
She is often a presence in the room with her three subjects,
observing, reflecting and never intrusive.  It’s good that she was there to glue the shards of memory
together, because “many people who left the south never exactly
sat their children down to tell them these things, tell them
what happened and why they left and how they and all this blood
kin came to be in this northern city or western suburb or why
they speak like melted butter and their children speak like
footsteps on pavement, prim and proper or clipped and fast, like
the New World itself.”  “The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America’s
Great Migration” is published by  Random House  (622 pages, $30).
To order this book in North America, click  here .  ( Jeffrey Burke  is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 