-- South Africa's ANC Unlikely to Propose a Tax on Inflows, Godongwana Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-09-23T13:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/south-africa-s-anc-unlikely-to-propose-a-tax-on-inflows-godongwana-says.html
South Africa’s ruling  African
National Congress  is unlikely to propose a tax on capital
inflows to weaken the rand because it needs investment to fund
its current account deficit, a senior party official said.  The rand has gained 33 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of last year, eroding the competitiveness of the
country’s exports. The possibility of introducing a tax on
capital inflows to curb the currency’s gains was raised in a
discussion document that was debated yesterday by delegates
attending an ANC conference in the eastern city of Durban.  “We’ve got high inflows, but some of them have been useful
in sustaining our balance of payments,”  Enoch Godongwana ,
deputy head of the ANC’s economic transformation committee, said
in an interview in Durban today. “I don’t think” the proposal
will gain support.  Final resolutions from the five-day ANC conference are due
to be announced today.  “The devil’s going to be in the detail, as to what is the
policy instrument to achieve a competitive exchange rate,”
Godongwana said. “I don’t think most of us have got the
necessary technical capability to prescribe those instruments.
We’re expressing a point. Then people who have the capability
and technical knowhow will take the work forward.”  Africa’s biggest  economy  relies on foreign purchases of its
stocks and bonds to fund its current account gap. Net foreign
purchases of South African assets have swelled to 100.8 billion
rand ($14.2 billion) this year.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, eased to 2.5 percent of  gross
domestic product  in the second quarter from 4.6 percent in the
previous three months, the Reserve Bank said yesterday. That’s
the lowest since the first quarter of 2004, when the deficit
reached 1.6 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 