-- South Africa's Ruling ANC Orders Media Regulation, Ownership Investigation
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-09-23T23:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/south-africa-s-ruling-anc-orders-media-regulation-ownership-investigation.html
South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress instructed Parliament to investigate
alternatives for regulating the country’s print media, saying
the existing self-regulatory system is ineffective.  Members attending the ANC’s five-day National General
Council also mandated lawmakers to look at ways of increasing
black ownership in media companies, similar to laws that oblige
mining companies to sell 26 percent of their shares to blacks,
Pallo Jordan, the chairman of the party’s communications
committee, told reporters at the conference in Durban today.  “It’s about the balancing of rights,” Joe Drummond, a
member of the communications committee, told reporters. “It
recognizes the media’s right, it recognizes what the media is
doing. It is saying there are also other rights which have to be
balanced in respect to this.”  Complaints against newspapers are currently investigated by
a press ombudsman, who the ANC has accused of being biased
toward the media that fund his post, allowing the media to
violate South Africans’ dignity and privacy. The party
previously suggested a media appeals tribunal be set up to
oversee the press and be answerable to Parliament, where it
holds 264 of the 400 seats. Parliament wouldn’t be involved in
appointing or overseeing regulators, Jordan said.  “It should be Parliament that investigates firstly the
desirability and the feasibility of such a media appeals
tribunal,” Jordan said. “As far as the ANC is concerned,
should Parliament decide there should be one, it should be free
of party political and commercial interference.”  Parliament is separately processing legislation that
proposes giving government officials power to classify documents
and jailing anyone possessing them without authorization for as
long as 25 years. Newspaper editors and civil-rights groups have
said the  Protection of Information Bill  and the proposed new
regulatory body may violate constitutional rights to free speech
and hobble investigative reporting.  South Africa’s newspaper industry is dominated by four
companies:  Naspers Ltd.  in Cape Town,  Independent News and Media
Plc , based in Dublin, Ireland, and Johannesburg-based  Caxton and
CTP Publishers and Printers Ltd.  and  Avusa Ltd .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 