-- South Africa's President Zuma Asserts Control Over ANC, Mends Union Rift
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-09-23T16:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/south-africa-s-president-zuma-asserts-control-over-anc-mends-union-rift.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
bolstered his chances of winning a second term at the helm of
Africa’s largest economy after asserting control over his ruling
 African National Congress  this week and mending a rift with
labor union allies.  Zuma won a standing ovation at a key ANC conference in the
eastern city of Durban on Sept. 20 as he called for unity and
“revolutionary discipline” within the country’s ruling
alliance and rebuked the party’s youth wing for challenging his
authority. He also stymied open debate on succession at the
five-day gathering.  While Zuma pledged to stick to his administration’s
investor-friendly policies, he won over the 2-million-member
 Congress of South African Trade Unions  with assurances that the
state would play a larger role in the economy and that a new
growth strategy due for release next month would create jobs and
ensure wealth is distributed more equitably.  “Cosatu is fully behind the president,” Sidumo Dlamini,
the federation’s president, said in an interview at the meeting
yesterday. “The president said there must be action and for us
that is enough.”  Cosatu General Secretary  Zwelinzima Vavi  today said that
while he supported Zuma’s calls at the national general council
meeting for discipline, he wanted to see action.  ‘Beautiful Speeches’  “What we need beyond the NGC is not the beautiful speeches
about discipline and internal cohesion,” he said in a speech to
textile workers in Cape Town today, according to the South
African Press Association. “What we need is leadership that
will act decisively, uncompromisingly, against all of those
hell-bent on creating disunity within the ANC and in the
alliance as a whole.”  Cosatu, South Africa’s biggest union movement, had soured
on Zuma since helping him oust  Thabo Mbeki  as ANC president in
2007 after he rebuffed calls to nationalize companies such as
 Sasol Ltd.  and steelmaker ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd., scrap
 inflation  targets and tax portfolio investment.  The ANC’s Youth League has separately demanded that the
state assume a controlling stake in all new mines and said it
won’t support leaders who refuse to back their positions.  Those proposals were debated by ANC delegates yesterday,
and the party is due to take a decision on whether to adopt them
later today.  Mining Industry  “There is general agreement that government has to
intervene in the mining industry,”  Enoch Godongwana , deputy
head of the ANC’s economic transformation committee, said today
in an interview. “It was on what form of state intervention and
to what degree” it should be implemented that views diverge, he
said.  South Africa has the world’s largest reserves of platinum,
chrome ore and manganese. Companies including Melbourne-based
 BHP Billiton  Ltd. and London-based  Rio Tinto Group  and  Anglo
American Plc  have mines in the country.  “If we were looking for winners and losers from this
meeting, President Zuma is ahead on points,”  Aubrey Matshiqi , a
political analyst at the Johannesburg-based Centre for Policy
Studies said in an interview yesterday in Durban. “The Youth
League are the biggest losers. There seems to be no real
challenge to Zuma’s authority.”  Pro-Business Policies  Zuma gave no indication that he would abandon pro-business
policies such as the government’s tight lid on spending and
 inflation  and the relaxation of exchange controls. Business says
those policies led to the longest period of economic growth on
record before last year’s recession.  “Politics and business go together,” Zuma told reporters
yesterday. “Business, the ruling party, don’t have a problem,
they are together.”  South Africa’s Minister in the Presidency,  Collins Chabane ,
said the government wants to trim the size of its bureaucracy
and invite private industry to help deliver public services.  “I don’t believe in a huge administration where we don’t
know what people are doing,” Chabane told business leaders
today in Durban. “There are a lot of services that government
does and does so poorly that if it were done differently we
would have a different outcome.”  Sentiment May Shift  Sentiment may still shift against Zuma before 2012, when
delegates will vote on whether he should remain leader of the
ANC, said  Susan Booysen , a political analyst at the
Johannesburg-based University of Witwatersrand.  “He seems to be in control for now, but these are early
days,” she said in an interview in Durban yesterday. “Many of
the serious issues still have to be confronted. The issue of
succession is being specifically suppressed.”  The calls for policy changes have intensified as South
Africa has failed to make significant cuts in unemployment,
currently at 25.3 percent, and reduce inequality levels that are
among the world’s highest.  Tensions between Zuma’s government and the unions
intensified to the point that Cosatu’s Vavi last month called
the ANC-led ruling alliance “dysfunctional.”  He repeated today his assertion that South Africa was
heading toward a “full-blown predator state” and that a
“corrupt and demagogic elite of political hyenas will
increasingly control the state as a vehicle for self-
enrichment,” Sapa reported.  So far, Zuma’s attempts to reconcile the unions aren’t
alienating investors, said  Dennis Dykes , chief economist of
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Ltd., South Africa’s fourth-largest
bank.  “I think there is a sense we have to do things
differently, but we don’t have to completely move to a much more
radical stance, which is what some have been suggesting,” Dykes
said in a Sept. 21 interview. “The underlying message so far is
certainly business-friendly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 