-- South Africa Targets Shale Gas to Reduce Oil Imports
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-09-23T10:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/south-africa-mulls-shale-gas-to-cut-dependence-on-oil-imports.html
South Africa’s petroleum regulator
said  Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd.  and Bundu Gas and Oil Exploration
Ltd. have applied for shale gas exploration permits as the
nation looks to reduce its dependence on petroleum imports.  “We’re certainly going to have significant exploration in
the next three years or so,” said  Mthozami Xiphu , chief
executive officer of Petroleum Agency SA, by phone from Cape
Town yesterday. “In the next five, six years, we do expect the
beginnings of significant production.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  is studying data from an area of
almost 200,000 square-kilometers (78,000 square-miles), while a
group including Chesapeake Energy Corp.,  Statoil ASA  and Sasol
Ltd. has been granted a technical cooperation permit over about
88,000 square kilometers in the scarcely populated, arid  Karoo
region  in the centre of South Africa.  Falcon, based in Denver, applied for exploration rights
there after undertaking initial studies, Xiphu said.  Anglo
American Plc , which owns stakes in the world’s largest diamond
and platinum producers, has applied for a technical cooperation
permit over an area thought to contain shale gas, the company
said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  The U.S. last year overtook Russia as the world’s largest
producer of natural gas as shale-gas output rose to 10 percent
of total supplies from 2 percent in 1990, in what BP Plc’s Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  called a “quiet revolution.”  Dwindling Reserves  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Mitsubishi Corp., Reliance Industries
Ltd. and Sumitomo Corp. are expanding into shale gas as
conventional energy reserves decline.  Technological advances have made the production of shale
gas economically viable, a development that allowed the U.S. to
reduce its dependence on imported liquefied natural gas, South
Africa’s  Petroleum Agency  said in an e-mailed statement.  While drilling by former state-owned oil and gas company
Soekor proved the presence of shale gas in the Karoo, the
Petroleum Agency doesn’t know how much South Africa has, Xiphu
said. Shale gas is natural gas produced from shale, a type of
sedimentary rock.  Finding significant reserves would change South Africa’s
energy profile, he said. “We are by far a net importer of
energy resources in South Africa. We produce hardly 40 percent
of the hydrocarbons we need.”  Opposition From Farmers  Shale gas could also be a solution for PetroSA, South
Africa’s oil and gas company, which is looking for an energy
source to replace the dwindling natural-gas reserves it taps
from below the ocean floor on the west coast, Xiphu said. While
PetroSA hasn’t applied for rights to explore for shale gas,
companies that obtain production permits have to give PetroSA a
10 percent interest in their projects, Xiphu said.  Water access will be a challenge in the Karoo as the area
has limited resources, while producers may also encounter
opposition from the many farmers in the area, Xiphu said.  While the Chesapeake-Statoil-Sasol group has been granted a
technical cooperation permit, it has yet to be issued, Xiphu
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  