-- Soybean Crop in India May Reach Record, Boosting Meal Exports, Adani Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-09-23T08:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/soybean-crop-in-india-may-reach-record-boosting-meal-exports-adani-says.html
Soybean output in India, Asia’s top
supplier of animal feed made from the oilseed, may increase to a
record as above-normal rainfall lifts yields, according to  Adani
Enterprises Ltd. , the country’s biggest trader of farm goods.  Production may exceed 10 million metric tons in the year
starting Oct. 1,  Atul Chaturvedi , president of Adani, said in a
phone interview. Soybean-meal exports will top 4 million tons
next year, with shipments reaching 2 million tons in the four
months ending January, he said.  Rising supplies from the South Asian country may help cool
soybean-meal prices that have jumped 14 percent in the past six
months in Chicago and lift profit at processors including  Ruchi
Soya Industries Ltd. , Adani and  KS Oils Ltd.  India competes with
the U.S., Argentina and Brazil to supply animal feed to China,
Vietnam, Japan and South Korea.  “I won’t be surprised if production reaches 11 million
tons,” Chaturvedi said, forecasting the average yield per
hectare to increase 19 percent to 1,200 kilograms. “There’s a
huge window of opportunity to export meal as we’re the most
competitive supplier.”  Traders have signed contracts for 150,000 tons to 200,000
tons with buyers in Vietnam and South Korea for delivery in the
December quarter,  Rajesh Agrawal , a coordinator for the Soybean
Processors Association of India, said last week. Shipments may
surge to 4 million tons, the most since 2007-2008, from 2.9
million tons this season, he said,  Soybean meal, mixed with poultry feed as a form of protein
to aid birds’ growth, is being offered at about $370 a ton on a
free-on-board basis at Indian ports, said Chaturvedi, who is due
to speak at an industry conference in Mumbai tomorrow.  China Frost  December-delivery soybean meal fell as much as 0.7 percent
to $308.20 a ton in electronic trading on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Soybeans traded near a 15-month high on speculation that
China may increase purchases as freezing weather hurts crops in
the world’s biggest buyer of the oilseed. The November-delivery
contract climbed as much as 0.9 percent to $10.9825 bushel. The
price touched a 15-month high of $10.995 on Sept. 20.  A bigger Indian oilseeds crop next year may slow growth in
the nation’s vegetable oil imports, Adani’s Chaturvedi said.  India, the top buyer of vegetable oils after China, may
import a record amount of soybean and palm oils for a fourth
year, according to the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India.
Purchases may be 9.5 million tons in the year starting Nov. 1,
the processors’ group said this week.  “The requirement for incremental imports will be tempered
by the increase in domestic oilseed output,” Chaturvedi said.
“All oilseed crops, barring sunflower, are shaping up well.”  The monsoon, the main source of irrigation for the nation’s
235 million farmers, has beaten the weather bureau’s prediction
because of a delay in the withdrawal of the rain-bearing clouds.  “The extended monsoon has not damaged soybean or groundnut
crops and excess rains in the northern states is improving the
sub-soil moisture level and prospects for rapeseed planting,”
Adani said. “Indian crops are all in fantastic shape.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  