-- Soybeans May Reach $12 by December on Latin American Crop Outlook, China
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-09-24T15:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/soybean-futures-advance-on-increased-export-demand-for-u-s-inventories.html
Soybeans may extend gains from a
15-month high as dry weather threatens to parch harvests in
Brazil and Argentina and a cold snap harms the crop in China,
the biggest consumer, according to Godrej International Ltd.  Prices may trade between $11.50 a bushel and $12 a bushel
by December,  Dorab Mistry , director at Godrej, told an industry
conference in Mumbai today. The company is one of the country’s
biggest buyers of cooking oils.  Soybeans have advanced 21 percent since June 30 in Chicago
on concern dryness in Brazil and Argentina, the top exporters
after the U.S., may delay sowing. China bought 741,000 tons this
week from the U.S., the Department of Agriculture said yesterday.  “Soybeans will go higher as Argentina and Brazil face dry
weather from La Nina,” said Mistry, referring to the event that
brings above-normal rain in Asia and dryness in Latin America.
“The huge Chinese appetite is also key to driving up prices.”  Soybeans for November delivery, the most-active contract,
reached $11.1375 on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest
level since June 2009. December-delivery soybean oil surged 2
percent to 44.81 cents a pound.  “Soy at $11 is still not hurting consumption as the U.S.
dollar is also weakening,” Mistry said.  A rally in soybeans “paves the way” for palm oil to climb
higher, Mistry said.  Premium Widens  Soybean oil is at a two-year high on increased demand from
China, while palm oil traded in Malaysia has jumped 18 percent
from an eight-month low on July 7. Soybean oil’s  premium  over
palm oil widened to $106.33 a ton yesterday, the most since Aug.
4, Bloomberg data show. The two are substitutes and account for
more than 60 percent of the global edible oils market.  “India may import more palm oil next year as soybean oil
becomes more expensive,” Mistry said. “India will maintain its
status as the biggest palm-oil buyer as China is increasingly
importing soybeans and rapeseed.”  China’s soybean purchases account for more than half of
global exports and are forecast at 48 million tons this year by
the U.S. Foreign Agricultural Service in its July report.  Not everyone is bullish. “Soybeans are over-valued,” said
 Thomas Mielke , executive director of Oil World, a global oilseed
information provider. Prices could drop “if Brazil gets rain
and China slows purchases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  