-- Spain Pressured to Show `Hair Shirt' Budget as Yields Rise
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-09-24T09:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/spain-faces-pressure-to-keep-up-austerity-as-euro-s-periphery-bonds-drop.html
Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  is
under pressure to reassure investors that Spain’s not going soft
on austerity when she presents her budget today.  Salgado, who holds a press conference at 1:45 p.m. in
Madrid, says new measures beyond those already announced may not
be needed to achieve the deepest deficit cuts in 30 years. The
 budget , set to be approved by cabinet today, will be sent to
parliament by Sept. 30 before going to a vote next month. Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero ’s minority government is
in talks with Basque lawmakers to get the plan passed.  “Markets are looking for the hair shirt from the periphery
economies,” said  Stuart Thomson , who helps manage about $110
billion at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow. “We’re not seeing
the zeal to cut that we had earlier on this year.”  Zapatero is trying to show he can rein in the euro region’s
third-largest budget deficit and revive an  economy  that’s just
emerging from a recession that started in the second quarter of
2008. His task has become more urgent as doubts resurface about
high-deficit euro members’ ability to get their finances under
control. The perceived riskiness of  Portuguese  and  Irish  bonds
rose to euro-era records today.  Bond Yields  At 183 basis points, the extra yield that investors demand
to hold  Spanish  10-year bonds over German bunds is more than
twice what it was last year. The so-called spreads on Irish and
Portuguese bonds were 418 basis points and 413 basis points
respectively at 10:05 a.m. in London.  Salgado said Sept. 2 that the wage cuts and pension freeze
already announced may be enough to tackle the budget and admits
that plans to raise taxes for higher earners will only have a
“limited” impact on revenue. The government may increase tax
on savings to 22 percent from 19 percent for gains up to 6,000
euros and to 24 percent from 21 percent for gains above that
amount, Expansion newspaper reported today.  Zapatero’s commitment to reducing the deficit was cast into
question after he said Aug. 10 that some infrastructure spending
cuts could be reversed, said  Olaf Penninga , who helps manage 140
billion euros at Rotterdam-based Robeco Group. The extra yield
on Spanish debt has risen 33 basis points since then.  On Sept. 10 he said that lower borrowing costs may allow
the government to “ease” some spending cuts. Zapatero told the
Wall Street Journal in an interview published on Sept. 21 that
Europe’s debt crisis is “over.”  Investor Skepticism  “Investors are skeptical as to whether they will really
take all the austerity measures or only go as far as the market
forces them, and when pressure abates they’ll let the deficit
slip again,” Penninga said. “It seems they want to do as
little as needed to relax the markets.”  Spain has pledged to cut the budget deficit to 6 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011 from 11 percent of GDP in 2009.  Salgado says she’s sticking to a forecast that the economy
will expand 1.3 percent next year, twice the International
Monetary Fund’s 0.6 percent estimate.  “The assumptions used for GDP growth are probably too
optimistic, so the measures may not be enough to cut the deficit
to 6 percent of GDP by the end of 2011,” said Camille Viros,
European economist at Barclays Wealth in London, which manages
about $240 billion.  Spanish Success  Spain has nevertheless been more successful than some of
the other countries at the center of Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis. While Portugal’s central government budget gap is still
widening, Spain has cut its central administration’s  shortfall 
to 2.4 percent of GDP in the first seven months from 4.7 percent
a year earlier. Irish spreads have ballooned in the past month
as the government struggles to convince investors it can cap the
cost of bailing out its banking system.  Spain’s coffers will also get a boost next year from a
sales-tax increase that came into effect in July.  Salgado said in May that spending excluding interest
payments will fall more than 10 percent next year.  The challenge now for Zapatero is to show investors he will
keep his focus on cutting the deficit in the face of shrinking
popularity. The main opposition People’s Party has support of
41.8 percent compared with backing of 32.9 percent for the
Socialists, an opinion poll in  El Pais  showed on Sept. 5. The
next election is not due until March 2012.  Zapatero secured an agreement on Sept. 22 with the Basque
Nationalist Party, handing the region more autonomy over
employment policy, and in return the party has said it’s
prepared to consider supporting the budget. Their six votes
would be enough to get the spending plan through, as long as one
other party abstains.  “It’s a very difficult task for Zapatero,” said Viros.
“He wants to avoid political uncertainty at home and doesn’t
want to seem too austere, but on the other hand he really has to
show investors that he’s committed to cutting the deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  