-- Star Trek's Borg May Love Wearable Videocam: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-09-23T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/star-trek-s-borg-may-love-wearable-videocam-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Sometimes I come across a gadget
that’s an “almost.” Often, it’s an interesting idea that’s
inadequately executed, or maybe an early entrant in a new
category.  I’ve been trying out one such device, the  Looxcie 
(pronounced LOOK-SEE), a hands-free video camera you wear like a
Bluetooth wireless-phone headset. While much about it is
intriguing, it’s a little too complicated and limited -- more of
a watch-this-space product than a must-have-now.  There’s a certain dorkiness factor to the Looxcie; wearing
it makes you feel like you’re ready for a Star Trek convention
dressed as a member of  the Borg . Though the device weighs less
than an ounce, it’s 5 inches long, with a thick hook that hangs
over your ear and a slender cylinder that houses the lens,
microphone and indicator lights.  Traditional videocams, even those in wireless phones,
force you to make a conscious decision to use them. By the time
you get the camera rolling, you may have already missed whatever
it was that you wanted to shoot. The Looxcie, by contrast, is
designed to always be on, capturing everything you see as you
see it and allowing you to decide, either on the fly or later,
what’s worth keeping.  To use the Looxcie, which costs $199 and is currently on
sale only through  Amazon.com Inc. , you first pair it via
Bluetooth to your smartphone and download Looxcie’s free app,
which is currently available only for recent versions of  Google
Inc. ’s Android operating system.  Push-Button Sharing  The app turns your phone into a viewfinder, remote control
and handheld monitor for the camera, allowing you to see what
you’re shooting and to create the video clips you can then e-
mail to friends, or to YouTube, Facebook or Twitter. You can
create and send instant 30-second clips at the push of a button,
edit and send longer clips via the app or save your footage for
later download to your PC via a USB connection.  The Looxcie runs for up to four hours between charges and
stores five hours of content in its internal memory, overwriting
old stuff with new except for what you choose to save or share.  Getting the Looxcie to fit right is crucial -- and it isn’t
easy. Even though the ear hook is bendable and the product comes
with an assortment of earbuds, it takes a lot of adjusting to
get it comfortable and stable. If you’re like me, you’ll end up
shooting a lot of video of the floorboards, sidewalk and your
own hands, before you get it aimed correctly. And once you do,
you won’t want to let anyone else use it; this is personal
technology in the strictest sense of the term.  Hard to Operate  In spite of its small size, or perhaps because of it, the
Looxcie is harder to operate than it should be. Some of its four
buttons perform different functions depending on the situation;
the on/off button, for example, also answers and ends incoming
phone calls, while holding the volume button rejects a call. The
indicator lights are tiny and can be hard to see in sunlight,
particularly the green LED that tells you whether the device is
turned on.  Once I got the fit right and more or less mastered the
controls, though, I was pleasantly surprised by the results.
Although the Looxcie has no built-in image stabilization, it
turned out that my head made a pretty decent tripod; as long as
I was reasonably still, there was little bouncing or blurring of
my videos. The camera also did a good job of automatically
adapting to different light levels as I moved indoors and
outdoors, and between sunlight and shadows.  ‘Avatar’ It’s Not  On the other hand, at 15 frames a second and 480 x 320
resolution, no one will mistake the Looxcie’s output for
“Avatar” -- or even an  iPhone 4 . The audio was also fuzzy and
dim both in video I shot and when I used the Looxcie to take
wireless phone calls. Also, the Android app continued to display
a message that my video clip was being sent long after it had
actually arrived at its destination.  Looxcie, which is based in Sunnyvale, California, says my
sending and audio problems may have been the result of
preproduction glitches that have been or are being addressed.
But it’s still working on another big issue: making the camera
compatible with other smartphones. The company says it’s
developing apps for  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry and
 Apple Inc. ’s iPhone.  Even with the Looxcie’s shortcomings, it’s easy to imagine
it getting a lot better over time. For some folks, the prospect
of this sort of always-on wearable technology is exciting; for
others, it’s probably horrifying. But like it or not, it’s here.
As the Borg would say, resistance is futile.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 