-- Stem Cells Test Drugs in a Dish, May Speed Tests and Save Millions in Cost
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/stem-cells-test-drugs-in-a-dish-may-speed-tests-and-save-millions-in-cost.html
Six months ago,  Roche Holding AG 
scientists disrupted the rhythmic beating of heart muscle made
from  stem cells  by adding a cancer drug to it, duplicating in
the laboratory a side effect previously only seen in patients.  The experiment showed that human tissue grown from stem
cells can mimic side effects of medicines seen in people.  Pfizer
Inc. , the world’s biggest drugmaker, and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc 
also are testing the method to see if it can weed out dangerous
products years before human trials start and save billions of
development dollars, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept.
27 issue.  Critical to the study were stem cells, which scientists have
touted for more than a decade as potential treatments for
Parkinson’s disease, spinal cord injuries and diabetes. While
these advances are years away, companies have begun using stem
cells to test experimental drugs in an effort to slash hundreds
of millions of dollars from a discovery process that can reach
$4 billion to produce just one new medicine.  “This is a transformative technology that puts human
disease in a dish,” said  Christopher Scott , director of the
 Stem Cells in Society  program at Stanford University School of
Medicine near Palo Alto, California. “It can help companies see
the drugs that work and also the ones that are toxic.”  The stem cells being employed by drugmakers don’t come from
embryos, thereby avoiding controversy that has swirled around
the technology. Instead, the stem cells were created using a
method invented four years ago that allows scientists to
transform ordinary skin cells into a multipurpose state, much
like those of embryonic stem cells, that can grow into any
tissue in the body.  Sparing Embryos  This versatile material is what scientists call  induced
pluripotent  stem, or IPS, cells. They don’t provoke the ethical
debate surrounding stem cells that led last month to a halt in
federal research funding because their creation doesn’t involve
destruction of embryos.  A U.S. judge last month barred continued government support
for embryonic stem-cell research, imperiling about $90 million
that was to be awarded to researchers this year. The ban was
later suspended pending appeals.  More evidence that IPS cells can create heart cells for
short-cut drug testing came when the Roche team used them to
confirm cardiac toxicity from an antiviral medication it had
been developing, said  Kyle Kolaja , global head of predictive
toxicology screens and emerging technologies for Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche. The company had already abandoned the
drug two years ago after tests in rodents and rabbits showed it
caused side effects in the heart, he said.  Saving Millions  Had stem cell-derived heart tissue been available then, the
company could have pulled the plug early, saving two years of
work and millions of dollars, Kolaja said.  Making stem cells from the skin of adults rather than
embryos also makes it much easier to create cell lines that are
ethnically diverse, letting researchers better judge the safety
and effectiveness of drugs on a wide range of people.  Human heart cells that beat in a dish have never before
been available in large quantity and consistent quality, said
 Jason Gardner , a vice president and head of the stem cell drug
performance unit at London-based Glaxo. Because they are
functional human cells, they may provide a more accurate way of
testing drugs than using rodents or the preserved human cells
that have been available for lab research in the past, he said.  “The current animal models and human cell lines are
inadequate,” he said. “There is a real need to more accurately
model human physiology.”  $3 Million Mouse Test  Pharmaceutical companies are attracted by the predictive
lab tests because a drug study in mice alone may cost about $3
million, said  Michael Venuti , chief executive officer at
 IPierian Inc. , a closely held South San Francisco, California,
company that makes IPS cells. A drug that’s found to cause
cardiac damage only after it has advanced to large, late-stage
human studies may cost a company $1 billion or more, said
Glaxo’s Gardner.  Such failures have pushed the average cost of developing a
drug to about $4 billion, according to an  analysis  published in
December in the journal  Drug Discovery .  Cellular Dynamics International , a closely held company
founded in 2004 by  James Thomson , the University of Wisconsin
scientist who first isolated human embryonic stem cells in 1998,
made the  heart cells  used by Roche and the other drugmakers.  The company is now producing more than 7 billion heart
cells a month made from skin and blood from people of different
ethnic backgrounds, says  Robert Palay , CDI’s chief executive
officer. Next year, the company plans to start selling liver and
nerve cells, he said.  ‘Delivering Today’  “Others are talking about the promise of stem cells, we
are delivering today to companies using the product,” Palay
says.  Cellular Dynamics International is backed by $70 million
from private equity groups including  Sam Zell ’s Equity
Investments LLC and Palay’s  Tactics II  Stem Cell Partners.  IPierian is making cells from people with heart disorders,
diabetes and neurological disorders in order to develop drugs
that may help them.  The company was built on the work of  Shinya Yamanaka  of
Kyoto University in Japan. In 2006, Yamanaka announced that he’d
turned skin cells into IPS cells, the equivalent of embryonic
stem cells, by adding four genes.  The next year, venture capitalists at  Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers  in Menlo Park, California, founded a company
based on Yamanaka’s technique -- IZumi Inc., which later became
IPierian. IPierian has raised $60 million including money most
recently from the venture arms of Google, GlaxoSmithKline and
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Biogen Idec Inc.   Deadly Disease  IPierian has made IPS cells from the skin of children with
 spinal muscular atrophy , a deadly muscle-wasting condition.
Morphing the stem cells into neurons that carry the disease,
they’ve identified drug candidates that boost levels of a
protein crucial to allowing motor neurons to survive, said
Venuti, IPierian’s CEO. The company also used the neurons to
test 15 drugs that have failed in clinical trials, said  Corey Goodman , IPierian’s chairman. The signs of failure were evident
in each case, he said.  “IPS technology gives you the opportunity to screen out a
lot of things that are going to fail,” said Goodman, who is the
former head of New York-based Pfizer’s biotechnology unit.
“That saves money, emotion and testing.”  For Goodman, IPS technology is one way to address the
critical problems facing the industry. A  scientist  and
entrepreneur who started three companies before going to Pfizer
in 2007, he has an insider’s view of the issues.  “Big pharma is in trouble,” he said. “The pipelines are
in terrible shape. We’re spending way too much money and we have
terrible attrition rates.”  The use of stem cells may provide part of the solution,
Goodman says.  “We need a paradigm shift to discover new drugs,” he
says. “I think this is going to be one of the key ones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 