-- U.K. Stocks Fall on Debt Concern; Bank of Ireland Retreats
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-09-23T16:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/stocks-retreat-amid-renewed-european-debt-concern-lloyds-banking-declines.html
U.K. stocks  slid for a third day,
amid renewed concern that some European countries may struggle
to repay their sovereign debt.  Shares from Kingfisher Plc to Aggreko Plc and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc fell in London trading. AstraZeneca Plc and
Henderson Group Plc also retreated as analysts downgraded the
shares. Bank of Ireland Group Plc tumbled in Dublin.  The  FTSE 100 Index  lost 0.1 percent to 5,547.08 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, paring some losses in late afternoon
trade. The gauge fell as much as 1.4 percent as the cost to
insure Ireland’s debt rose to a record. The  FTSE All-Share Index 
slid 0.1 percent while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  lost 0.9 percent.  “The familiar specter of potential debt problems in the
euro zone and the slowing economic recovery have given investors
a little scare today,” said London-based David Jones, a market
strategist at IG Index.  Ireland led a surge in European sovereign credit-default
swaps as investors speculated that Anglo Irish Bank Corp. won’t
pay back bondholders in full. Contracts on Ireland jumped 23
basis points to 487 basis points at 12:50 p.m. in London,
according to data provider CMA.  Irish Banks  In Dublin,  Bank of Ireland  and rival Allied Banks Plc both
dropped 5.5 percent to 60 euro cents and 56.3 cents,
respectively.  A person familiar with the situation said the Irish
government is considering options for Anglo Irish, including
allowing the company buy back subordinated debt.  Stocks pared losses from earlier today after a measure of
U.S. leading indicators rose in August more than forecast,
suggesting that the world’s largest economy may keep expanding
through early next year, while a separate report showed existing
home sales grew. The better-than-estimated data overshadowed a
report that showed an unexpected increase in jobless claims, a
sign companies remain cautious about hiring as growth slows.  Kingfisher, Europe’s largest home-improvement retailer,
dropped 1.9 percent to 224.9 pence, Aggreko, the world’s largest
provider of mobile power-supply equipment, lost 1.5 percent to
1,545 pence and Lloyds Banking Group Plc slid 1 percent to 75.09
pence.  AstraZeneca retreated 1.1 percent to 3,311.5 pence after
Exane BNP Paribas downgraded its recommendation for the
drugmaker to “underperform” from “neutral.”  GlaxoSmithKline Plc fell 1 percent to 1,259 pence. The
company said it will stop promoting the Avandia diabetes drug in
all countries in which it operates after regulators said the
treatment will be withdrawn from the market in Europe and sales
will be limited in the U.S. because of an increased risk of
heart attacks. Sales of the drug will be “minimal” after this
year, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Henderson Group  dropped 5 percent to 123.7 pence as
Citigroup Inc. lowered its recommendation for the asset manager
to “hold” from “buy.”  John Wood Group Plc  gained 2.2 percent to 420.9 pence after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded the oil-services company to
“overweight” from “neutral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 