-- Stoneridge Plans Debt as Spreads Signal Economic Recovery: New Issue Alert
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-09-23T10:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/stoneridge-plans-debt-as-spreads-show-recovery-new-issue-alert.html
Stoneridge Inc. , the maker of
electrical parts and systems for medium- and heavy-duty trucks,
is marketing notes as relative yields on speculative-grade
corporate debt signals a “nascent recovery” in the economy.  Stoneridge plans to sell $175 million of seven-year notes,
it said in a statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds will
be used to buy back its 11.5 percent debt due in 2012, the
Warren, Ohio-based company said.  Issuance of junk-rated corporate bonds is surging as
investors gain confidence the economy won’t tumble back into
recession and relative yields hover near the lowest in four
months. Spreads have tightened to 635 basis points after
touching 1,886 basis points in March 2009 and “have leveled off
at a magnitude consistent with a nascent recovery,” Standard &
Poor’s  Diane Vazza  wrote in a report on Sept. 21.  The risk premium is “consistent with the end of previous
recessionary periods, and we expect it to remain at about the
current level in the near term,” Vazza, managing director of
global fixed income research, wrote in the report.  The so-called distress ratio for speculative-grade
corporate bonds declined to 11.8 percent in September from 12.4
percent a month earlier, Vazza wrote in the report. Distressed
debt yields more than 1,000 basis points, or 10 percentage
points, more than Treasuries of similar maturities.  The extra yield investors demand to own high-yield
corporate debt instead of Treasuries climbed 3 basis points
yesterday from 632 basis points, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index. Absolute
yields on the debt rose 2 basis points to 8.15 percent.  High-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Record Coupons  Investment-grade spreads widened 1 basis point to 184 basis
points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate Master Index. Yields on the debt fell to 3.72 percent,
the lowest in daily index data dating to Oct. 31, 1986.  Freescale Semiconductor Inc. sold $750 million of 10-year
notes and NBTY Inc. issued $650 million of debt due in 2018 to
lead $3.7 billion of high-yield debt offerings yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Microsoft Corp. sold $4.75 billion of bonds in a four-part
transaction with the lowest three- and five-year coupon interest
rates on record as investment-grade companies issued $8.05
billion of debt, Bloomberg data show.  Stoneridge’s debt maturing in May 2012 has climbed 63
percent since April 2009, when it traded at 61.6 cents on the
dollar to yield 32.3 percent, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The debt rose to 100.5 cents yesterday, Trace data show.  The following is a description of at least $10.6 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  STADSHYPOTEK AB , the mortgage lender owned by Svenska
Handelsbanken AB, plans to sell three-year covered bonds in a
benchmark offering, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. A benchmark offering is typically at least $500 million.  HYUNDAI MOTOR CO. , South Korea’s largest automaker, plans
to sell bonds denominated in U.S. dollars, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., HSBC
Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the sale,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
details are private.  BURGAN BANK, the lender part-owned by Kuwait Projects Co.,
plans to sell 10-year lower Tier 2 bonds in dollars, according
to three people with knowledge of the sale. The notes may yield
in the 8 percent range, the people said. The bank may sell $300
million to $500 million of bonds, two of the people said.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Standard Chartered Plc
are managing the sale.  GERDAU SA, Latin America’s largest steelmaker, hired HSBC
Holdings Plc, Banco Santander SA and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
sell benchmark bonds overseas, according to a person familiar
with the transaction who declined to be identified because the
terms aren’t set. Proceeds will be used to refinance debt, the
company said Sept. 16 in a regulatory filing.  TRANSPOWER NEW ZEALAND LTD., which operates New Zealand’s
electricity grid, started marketing at least $150 million of
bonds to U.S. private investors, according to a person familiar
with the plan. National Australia Bank Ltd. and Citigroup Inc.
are managing the sale, the person said, asking not to be named
as the details are private.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The debt is likely to be for five years and is meant to
“fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance sheet,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone interview from
Doha. The bank will sell the bonds in dollars and the local
riyal currency, the CEO said in a July 25 interview.  Not Rated  TPC GROUP INC. plans to sell $325 million of seven-year
notes through its TPC Group LLC unit, according to a statement
distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds may be used to repay debt
and finance a dividend, the company said in the statement.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  AFFINION GROUP HOLDINGS INC., the provider of marketing and
customer-loyalty plans, intends to sell about $325 million of
senior notes due in 2015. Proceeds may be used to repay the
company’s senior unsecured term loan facility and for general
corporate purposes.  HAPAG-LLOYD AG, Germany’s biggest container-shipping line,
is planning a debut high-yield bond issue as it seeks to raise
$500 million to refinance debt. The notes in euros and dollars
will have maturities of five and seven years, according to a
banker involved in the transaction. The five-year notes will be
callable after three years, while the seven-year notes can be
called after four years, said the banker, who declined to be
identified before terms are set.  CHINA MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES INC., which makes devices for
tumor treatments, plans to sell as much as $200 million of five-
year senior notes denominated in dollars, the company said in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds will be used to
buy back convertible notes due in 2011 and 2013, Fitch Ratings
said in a statement. Deutsche Bank AG and Standard Chartered Plc
will help the Beijing-based company arrange meetings with
investors in Hong Kong, Singapore, London and the U.S., said a
person familiar with the transaction who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  LODGENET INTERACTIVE CORP. plans to sell $435 million of
six-year notes, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  VERTELLUS SPECIALTIES INC. plans to sell $325 million of
five-year notes, according to a person familiar with the
offering. Proceeds may be used to repay bank debt, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  STONERIDGE INC. plans to sell $175 million of seven-year
notes, according to a statement distributed by PR Newswire.
Proceeds will be used to buy back the Warren, Ohio-based
company’s 11.5 percent notes due 2012, it said in the statement.  HARVEST OPERATIONS CORP., a unit of Korea National Oil
Corp., may sell $500 million of seven-year notes, according to a
person familiar with the offering. Proceeds may be used to repay
debt and for general corporate purposes, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The notes
may be sold as soon as Sept. 27, the person said.  YASAR HOLDING AS, a Turkish company that makes dairy and
meat products, paint and paper, plans to sell five-year notes
denominated in U.S. dollars, said a person familiar with the
matter. Barclays Plc is managing the sale, which will be used to
fund a senior loan to Yasar from Barclays Bank Plc, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  EVERTEC INC., the processing unit of  Popular Inc. , a Hato
Rey, Puerto Rico-based bank holding company, plans to sell $220
million of seven-year notes, according to a person familiar with
the offering. Proceeds will help pay for the acquisition of 51
percent of the company by Apollo Management LP, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  LIBERTY TIRE RECYCLING plans to sell $200 million of six-
year notes, according to a person familiar with the offering.
Proceeds may be used to repay bank debt and for general
corporate purposes, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  WEST CORP. , the communications-services provider taken
private by Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Quadrangle Group LLC in
2006, plans to sell $500 million of notes due 2018 to repay bank
debt, according to Standard & Poor’s. S&P assigned the debt a
grade of B, the credit rater said in a statement. Moody’s
Investors Service ranked the notes B3, on step lower, it said in
a separate statement.  DINEEQUITY INC., the owner of Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill
& Bar and the IHOP pancake chain, plans to sell as much as $825
million of eight-year senior unsecured notes, the company said
in a statement distributed by Marketwire. Proceeds may be used
to help fund tender offers for “certain series of its
subsidiaries’ outstanding securitization notes,” the Glendale,
California-based company said in the statement.  REYNOLDS GROUP HOLDINGS LTD., the maker of Reynolds Wrap
aluminum foil, may sell $2 billion of senior secured notes and
$1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes to help pay for its
purchase of Pactiv Corp., according to a person familiar with
the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Reynolds Group is also seeking $1.5 billion in loans
to pay for the acquisition, the person said.  E-LAND FASHION CHINA HOLDINGS LTD, the Hong Kong-based
apparel products provider, hired Morgan Stanley to help it sell
$200 million of three-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Moody’s Investors Service ranked the proposed
notes at Ba2, citing growing personal consumption in China, E-
Land Fashion’s moderate scale and significant business
volatility. Proceeds will be used mainly for capital
expenditures and general corporate purposes, Moody’s said in the
report.  Offerings in Pipeline  SYDNEY AIRPORTS CORP. hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
arrange debt investor meetings in Asia and the U.S., according
to a person familiar with the matter.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said. The money would go to fund expansion  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. , the insurer that’s
majority owned by the U.S., may sell bonds to help repay its
government bailout, it said in an Aug. 9 registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  SRI LANKA hired HSBC, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Royal Bank of Scotland to sell $1 billion of bonds, the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka said on its website on Aug. 12.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister  Mohammad Abu Hammour  said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  