-- Sweden Anti-Immigrants Gain After Becoming `Martyrs'
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-09-24T08:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/sweden-anti-immigrants-gain-from-martyrs-role-as-rival-parties-shun-them.html
Jimmie Aakesson , the leader of
Sweden’s anti-immigrant party, had the makeup lounge all to
himself before an election-night television appearance. The
reason was that a rival party head refused even to be in the
same room.  That kind of ostracism by mainstream parties may have
backfired and fueled the Sweden Democrats’ popularity, political
scientists said. It may help explain how it took 5.7 percent of
the vote on Sept. 19, won 20 seats in the legislature and threw
the government into a minority.  “To try to keep them at arm’s length and sweep them under
the carpet strengthens their role as martyrs,” said Jenny
Madestam, a political scientist at Stockholm University, in an
interview. “People feel they are treated badly and this is
absolutely one reason behind their success in the election. It
turned them into a real alternative, it legitimized them.”  The election outcome prompted street demonstrations against
the Sweden Democrats’ stance on immigration in a country that
has traditionally welcomed incomers. Even so, the country may be
following a trend experienced in neighboring Denmark and Norway,
where initial establishment hostility to populist parties gave
way to a more pragmatic approach from the mainstream groups.  The Sweden Democrats, which has pledged to cut immigration
by as much as 90 percent, weren’t allowed to participate in the
televised party debates and their election advertisement was
banned by TV4. Their gains have left Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt ’s four-party coalition and the opposition bloc, which
both refuse to cooperate with Aakesson, struggling to curtail
his influence in a parliament with no majority.  Responsibility  After the first preliminary results were published on the
evening of the Swedish general election on Sept. 19, Reinfeldt
reiterated his stance that the government will “not cooperate
or make ourselves dependent on” the Sweden Democrats.  “There has been talk of parliamentary disorder, but who
are the ones that have said they will consistently refuse to
talk to us, negotiate with us and cooperate with us,” Aakesson
told his party on election night. “Who are the ones not willing
to take responsibility for this country? It is not us -- it is
the other parties that are not taking their responsibility.
We’ll not create those problems. We’ll take responsibility.”  ‘Aggressive Stance’  If the established parties don’t cooperate and “continue
their aggressive stance against the party, the Sweden Democrats
would benefit,” said Uppsala-based independent political
analyst  Stig-Bjoern Ljunggren .  Lars Ohly , leader of the opposition Left Party, wouldn’t
enter the same room as Aakesson for the election night
television appearance, saying he “will never deal with
racists” and “we must make sure they never get influence,”
local newspaper  Svenska Dagbladet  reported.  In other Scandinavian countries, anti-immigrant parties
have gained in clout over the past decade. The Danish People’s
Party won 13.9 percent in the 2007 elections, making it the
third-largest party. Since 2001, it has supported the government
in exchange for a stricter immigration policy, at times putting
the country at odds with European Union laws.  ‘House-Broken’  When the party was first voted into parliament in 1998,
then-Prime Minister  Poul Nyrup Rasmussen  of the Social Democrats
called it an unacceptable collaboration partner and said the
party “would never be house-broken.”  Norway’s Progress Party became the second-largest group
with 22.9 percent of the vote in elections last year. While the
other groups in the past have refused to cooperate with the
party because of its views on immigration, the opposition
Conservative Party has considered a collaboration.  Swedes swarmed to the streets in what organizers called a
“sorrow” march the day after the election to protest the
Sweden Democrats’ entry into parliament for the first time.  The Swedish population “is much less xenophobic and the
fear of foreigners is much smaller here,” Ljunggren said. “In
other countries, established parties have taken over parts of
these parties’ agendas and they have bigger support among the
population.”  Reinfeldt’s coalition is two seats short of a majority
after all postal and foreign votes were counted, according to a
preliminary result published yesterday by the Swedish Election
Authority.  Wrong Strategy  Established parties are trying to reduce the number of
lawmakers in parliamentary committees in an effort to deprive
the Sweden Democrats of voting rights, Aftonbladet  reported  on
Sept. 22.  Such a move would “strengthen their martyr role and is a
rather undemocratic process -- trying to change the rules and
the forms of parliamentary work,” Madestam said. “The
establishment needs to respect the will of the people and hold a
debate and argue with them instead, to show that their arguments
won’t hold up. The current strategy is wrong.”  About 59 percent of Swedes believe the Sweden Democrats
should be treated just like the other parties in parliament,
while 41 percent think they should be isolated, according to a
poll by Stockholm-based Skop of 1,224 Swedes published on Sept.
20.  Big Dilemma  “The treatment of the Sweden Democrats in parliament is a
big dilemma for the other parties,” Skop analyst  Oerjan Hultaaker  said in the report. A majority expect they “should be
treated in a fair way. If they’re completely isolated, it may be
seen as bullying and that will have the opposite effect than the
one required.”  The ostracism has sparked a debate about democracy and free
speech for a party that won about 330,000 votes in the country
of 9.4 million people. In Denmark, media and politicians have
expressed concern over the treatment of the Sweden Democrats.  “The state of Swedish democracy is such that I certainly
think neighboring countries should evaluate whether democracy in
the country is as it should be, or whether we have a banana
republic in the Nordic region,” Pia Kjaersgaard, leader of the
Danish People’s Party, wrote on her  party’s website  in the run-
up to the Swedish election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  