-- Labour Opposition Party Will Name Leader After Clash of Miliband Brothers
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-09-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/u-k-s-labour-opposition-will-name-leader-after-clash-of-miliband-brothers.html
The battle that comes to a head
tomorrow between the Miliband brothers to lead the opposition to
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  highlights the past divisions
within the  Labour Party  and the fight for its future direction.  Polls and bookmakers suggest  David Miliband , a protege of
former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , will beat his younger brother
 Ed , a former aide to Blair’s successor,  Gordon Brown , in the
five-candidate leadership race, whose winner will be announced
on the eve of the party conference in Manchester. Yet the nature
of Labour’s electoral system still gives Ed a chance to win by
picking up more second-preference votes as others are
eliminated.  Whoever wins will have just 25 days to marshal an
opposition team and prepare a strategy for attacking Cameron’s
government when it outlines on Oct. 20 how it will reduce
spending. The party may be buoyed by a boost in the polls since
the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats took power after the May
6 election, leaving Labour the only national opposition force.  “It’s going to be a baptism of fire for whoever wins,”
 Mark Wickham-Jones , a professor of politics at Bristol
University, said in a telephone interview. “They have to get
the party under control and adjust it to a new strategy that
takes into account why Labour lost the election.”  The other candidates included former Children’s Secretary
 Ed Balls , once the closest adviser to Brown, who resigned as
prime minister and Labour leader after the election. The field
was completed by former Health Secretary  Andy Burnham  and  Diane Abbott , who in 1987 became the first black woman in Parliament.  How They Vote  Labour’s electoral college is split into three, with
lawmakers, union members and party cardholders each making up a
third. Voters list candidates in order of preference, with the
candidate getting fewest votes in each round eliminated, and
further choices redistributed until one candidate has more than
50 percent of the votes. Voting ended Sept. 22.  The race is Labour’s first contested leadership election
since 1994, when Blair won the party’s backing following the
sudden death of  John Smith . Brown replaced Blair in 2007 without
a challenge.  In his memoir “A Journey,” published Sept. 1, Blair said
that his agreement with Brown that only one of them would run
for leader in 1994 sowed the seeds for battles over policy that
came to dominate his premiership. Brown was increasingly at odds
with Blair’s favored approach of bringing more competition into
the provision of public services such as health.  Opposite Sides  The Milibands were on opposite sides, with David, 45,
working for Blair as a proponent of “New Labour” while Ed, 40,
was in the Treasury with Brown. Ed has cited his experience of
the feud as a justification for running against his brother --
something unprecedented in modern British politics -- and
disputing policy openly.  David argued  during the leadership campaign the party must
leave the Blair-Brown era behind to become “Next Labour,”
renewing its ideas, doubling its membership and ensuring one
third of its ministers-in-waiting are female.  Ed said  Labour should reach out more to unions, the
voluntary sector, community and environmental groups. He also
said he wants to move away from the old divisions and supports
more women at the top of the party.  “It’s very odd. You think what’s going on with these two?
Ed must have come under a lot of pressure not to stand,”  Steven Fielding , director of the Centre for British Politics at
Nottingham University, said in a telephone interview. “For the
sake of the party in the short term, it might be better if Ed
lost. I wonder how David will take it if his kid brother wins.”  ‘I Love David’  Speaking to the Sunday Mirror newspaper last month, the
brothers denied suggestions the contest had created a rift
between them. “I love David very much and I still will when
this is over,” the Mirror cited Ed as saying.  David, nicknamed “Brains” when he served in the former
prime minister’s policy unit, became a lawmaker for the
northeastern district of South Shields in 2001. He entered the
Cabinet four years later, serving as environment secretary and
then moving to the Foreign Office. He argued Labour lost in May
because voters weren’t convinced it was committed to Blair’s
ideas to improve public services.  Ed entered Parliament in 2005, winning election in
Doncaster in northern England. He joined the Cabinet in 2007,
became energy secretary the following year and wrote Labour’s
election program. His attacks on Blair’s policies, including the
Iraq War, helped him win the backing of six labor unions and led
the Daily Mail newspaper to dub him  “Red Ed.”   ‘End the Backstabbing’  “The crucial question for Labour now is can they end the
backstabbing within the party that was endemic from the late
1990s onwards,” said Wickham-Jones.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will set out his
plans for spending cuts on Oct. 20 as the nation seeks to tackle
the worst  budget deficit  since World War II. The next election
is planned for 2015.  “The first job of the new leader will be to exploit the
fact that by far the most damaging factor attached to the
coalition is that people perceive that they don’t take the
concerns of those in lower-income brackets to heart,”  Andrew Hawkins , chairman of polling company ComRes Ltd., said in a
telephone interview. “Whoever wins needs to make Labour the
party of the ordinary punter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 