-- U.K. Gilts Rise as European Growth Concern Spurs Demand for Safest Assets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-09-23T16:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/u-k-government-bonds-advance-third-day-on-speculation-of-monetary-easing.html
U.K. government bonds  advanced for
a third day as European reports indicated slowing growth will
weigh on efforts to narrow national budget deficits, spurring
demand for the safest assets.  The gains sent the 10-year gilt yield to its lowest in more
than two weeks. U.K. mortgage approvals fell to a 16-month low
in August, the British Bankers Association said today. The Irish
economy contracted 1.2 percent in the second quarter, while
growth in Europe’s services and manufacturing industries slowed
in September more than economists predicted.  “Sentiment is still incredibly fragile and sovereign debt
concern in Europe has driven gilts higher,” said  Sam Hill , a
gilt strategist at RBC Capital Markets in London.  The 10-year yield decreased 2 basis points to 2.96 percent
as of 5:10 p.m. in London. It earlier fell to 2.93 percent, the
lowest since Sept. 8. The yield fell 14 basis points yesterday,
the most since July 31.  Two-year note yields  dropped 1 basis
point to 0.64 percent.  Home loans granted by lenders to buy properties dropped 7.2
percent from July to 31,767, the London-based BBA said in an e-
mailed statement today. The reading is down 22 percent from a
year earlier.  A  composite index  of services and manufacturing based on a
survey of euro-area purchasing managers in both industries
declined to 53.8 from 56.2 in August, London-based Markit
Economics said today. Economists expected a reading of 55.7,
according to the median of 15 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Quarterly Returns  U.K. gilts returned 3.1 percent this quarter, compared with
1.7 percent for German bunds and 2.5 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Gilts soared yesterday on speculation that the BOE will
ease monetary policy. The Federal Reserve said two days ago it’s
prepared to do more to support the economy and the minutes of
the last Bank of England rate decision showed some officials
said the probability that the economy will need more stimulus
has risen.  The economy will grow slower than previously forecast next
year and the central bank won’t raise rates until the second
quarter, the Confederation of British Industry said yesterday.  “The Bank of England minutes, coming in the wake of the
Fed, have meant the market is coming round to the fact the
probability has been raised that there will be some quantitative
easing down the line,” said  Eric Wand , a fixed-income
strategist in London at 4Cast Ltd., a research company. “Gilts
are pretty firm as a reaction to what’s happening.”  Consumer Expectations  Bank of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said late
yesterday the strength of inflation isn’t showing signs of
shifting consumer expectations, though officials will need to
react if risks emerge either way to price stability.  “The current risks to inflation are unusually large,”
Dale said in a speech at Cardiff Business School, Wales. “These
risks should gradually lessen as the temporary effects pushing
up on inflation wane and the economic recovery continues. But it
is possible that some of the risks will crystallize and policy
will need to react.”  The pound was 0.7 percent stronger at 84.95 pence per euro
and rose 0.4 percent to $1.5727.  The British currency may be the worst-performing currency
of the Group of 10 nations through the end of next year as the
government cuts spending and the central bank expands asset
purchases, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  “Aggressive fiscal tightening, along with household and
bank deleveraging evident in a softening housing market and
consumer demand, likely will compel the Bank of England to
implement further quantitative easing,” JPMorgan strategists
led by  Gabriel de Kock  in New York, wrote in an investor note
dated yesterday. “With Bank of England policy relegating the
pound to funding-currency status,” sterling may depreciate to
88 pence per euro by June and drop to $1.47 by the end of 2011,
the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  