-- U.K. Financial Regulator Tells Companies to Crack Down on Leaks to Media
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-09-23T16:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/u-k-fsa-tells-companies-to-crack-down-on-leaks-of-inside-data-to-media.html
The Financial Services Authority
told companies to crack down on leaks to the media before
mergers and other deals and “establish a much stricter culture
that firmly and actively discourages leaks.”  Disclosures “threaten market integrity” and publicly
traded companies should more strictly control executives’
communication with reporters, the U.K. regulator said today.  “We are particularly concerned about the suspected
practice of core insiders strategically leaking inside
information,” the FSA said in its Market Watch  newsletter 
posted on its  website .  The FSA has targeted market abuse and insider trading for
more than two years and has said that in 2008 suspicious trades
took place before 29.3 percent of U.K. takeover announcements.
The regulator said in March it may tape traders’ mobile-
telephone calls in an effort to eradicate illegal behavior.  The regulator has contacted chairmen of companies and sent
cease-and-desist letters to warn firms against leaks, said Chris
Hamilton, an FSA spokesman.  “Despite our focus on how firms could tighten their
controls,” leaks “do not appear to have reduced,” the FSA
said in the newsletter. “We are concerned that senior
management at regulated/unregulated firms and issuers may not be
doing enough to set a suitable anti-leaking culture.”  Media-Relations Team  The regulator advised that firms should require all contact
with the press to go through a media-relations team, and staff
should only speak to a journalist if a press officer is there to
record the conversation or if it is taped via the telephone.  If a journalist is found to have already obtained inside
information, “these concerns should be escalated immediately”
to compliance staff “at the firm and to the relevant issuer, so
consideration can then be given as to whether an immediate
announcement is required,” the FSA said. Firms should consider
doing an internal investigation if they find a potential leak,
the newsletter said.  The regulator never prosecuted a criminal insider-trading
case before 2008, and has since stepped up enforcement after
facing criticism that it did little to stop the crime. The U.K.
government plans to abolish the FSA by 2012 and replace it with
a Prudential Regulatory Authority at the Bank of England and an
independent Consumer Protection and Markets Authority. The FSA’s
enforcement unit may become part of a planned economic crime
agency.  In 2008, the FSA urged law firms, accountants and public
relations firms to adopt a voluntary code to prevent disclosures
of sensitive information.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 