-- Banks Likely to Escape Breakup by U.K. Commission
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-09-23T06:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/u-k-banks-likely-to-escape-breakup-by-government-commission-analysts-say.html
The  British government  commission
that convenes tomorrow is unlikely to propose breaking up the
country’s biggest banks after three of the five biggest lenders
threatened to leave the country rather than accept change.  John Vickers , the former Bank of England economist asked by
the coalition government to decide whether lenders should
separate their consumer and investment banking divisions, will
tomorrow start collecting evidence. He will deliver his final
report to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and
Business Secretary  Vince Cable  next September.  “The U.K. has always been timid in acting unilaterally,”
said  Mark Wickham-Jones , a professor of politics at the
 University of Bristol . The commission will “be fairly modest in
its ability to come up with anything radical” because of banks’
threats to leave the U.K., he said.  HSBC Holdings Plc ,  Barclays Plc  and  Standard Chartered Plc 
have said they may move their headquarters overseas if the U.K.
demands separation. The Independent Commission on Banking’s
terms of reference require it to  consider  the effect of their
proposals on the U.K.’s “competitiveness” and on the
government’s tax income, which would be cut by bank relocations.  Speaking before the election in May, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said he would avoid drawing “false dividing lines,”
between retail and investment banking. Since taking office,
George Osborne has only reiterated the government’s interest in
barring proprietary trading by universal banks, similar to the
rule proposed by former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker .  ‘More Subtle’  “The commission is not going to come out and say universal
banks should be broken up,” said  Mike Trippitt , an analyst at
Oriel Securities Ltd. in London who has tracked the banking
industry for 17 years. Instead, the final report will probably
propose limits on proprietary trading and require banks to
bolster their capital and liquidity, he said.  Cable’s  Liberal Democrats , the smaller of Britain’s two
governing parties, had favored stronger action. Three months
before the May election, Cable said he was “committed to
splitting up” banks including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , where the government has
controlling stakes. On Sept. 8, he said banks could be split
using “more subtle” measures.  “It is totally unnecessary to have this commission, it has
brought additional uncertainty to the U.K. banking market,”
former Labour Treasury Minister  Paul Myners  told the BBC on
Sept. 18. “Vickers should say you have given me a year, I don’t
need a year. I can complete this work in four months.”  ‘Persistent Problems’  The five-member commission, run by Vickers, a professor of
economics at Oxford University, appears to be balanced between
proponents and opponents of splitting universal banks.  Clare Spottiswoode , former director general of energy
regulator Ofgas, also sat on the  Future of Banking Commission 
sponsored by Which?, a consumer lobby group that concluded in
March that a “compulsory separation of banking activities has
the potential to solve many current and persistent problems.”  Martin Taylor, the former Barclays CEO who sold Barclays de
Zoete Wedd’s money-losing European equities and corporate
finance units, indicated at a Future of Banking Commission
hearing on March 15 that he favored splitting up banks. The
Glass-Steagall Act, which separated commercial and investment
banking in the U.S. from 1933 until its repeal in 1999, is
“quite attractive,” he said.  Bill Winters , co-CEO of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment
bank from 2004 to 2009, argued that separating wholesale and
retail banking would be “very costly to the economy” at a
debate in London in September 2009.  Written Evidence  Martin Wolf , the final commission member and chief
economics commentator at the Financial Times, has questioned the
adoption of so-called narrow banking, where credit creation and
deposit-taking are separated.  “The disadvantage is that the entire credit system would
be outside the banking system,” according to the text of a
 speech  he delivered in Seoul this month. “It is highly likely
that the government would still respond to a collapse, as the
U.S. government responded to the collapse of its so-called
‘shadow banking system.’”  Facing increasing regulation, British banks are threatening
to relocate abroad. Barclays CEO  John Varley  said Sept. 7 that
the bank would consider moving if the commission called for a
split, while Standard Chartered CEO  Peter Sands  said in August
it may move its headquarters out of the U.K. if the government
imposes new taxes on lenders. HSBC may also go if the commission
suggests a split, said  Stuart Gulliver , the bank’s investment
banking head, on Sept. 2.  Living Wills  The commission will gather written evidence from the banks
and others until November, then publish a range of options in
the first half of next year, according to a person familiar with
the plans, who asked not to be identified because the details
are private. Its initial inquiry may look at the introduction of
so-called living wills, forcing banks to plan for their demise
in the event of a crisis, the person said.  The commission will also seek to boost competition to
benefit consumers and businesses, according to the Treasury. The
U.K.’s five largest lenders control about 70 percent of the
country’s mortgage market, showing the lack of competition in
the banking sector, the House of Commons  Treasury Committee  said
in a report this year. Lloyds holds about 30 percent of British
mortgages, according to the Council of Mortgage Lenders.  Expectations that the banking industry will get what it
wants from the commission are mistaken, said  John Thurso , a
Liberal Democrat member of the Treasury Committee.  ‘Grasped the Mood’  “Bankers who say ‘We survived, we can take the tin hat off
and go back to business as usual,’ haven’t grasped the mood,”
said Thurso. “People in the City are not always very good at
reading politics. They would be wise to take it more
seriously.”  Any decision to break up universal banks would put Britain
out of step with other countries including the U.S., France and
Germany, HSBC’s Gulliver said at a financial services conference
in London on Sept. 2 organized by Nomura Holdings Inc.  The Association for Financial Markets in Europe, a lobby
group for about 200 financial firms, said in a report yesterday
that proposals to break up Europe’s biggest multinational banks
would be “unworkable” and risked undermining financial
stability.  The majority of the commission’s recommendations are likely
to be too technical to placate public anger towards bankers once
government plans to cut departmental spending by as much as 25
percent are announced on Oct. 20, said  Tim Bale , senior lecturer
in politics at the  University of Sussex .  After that, “people are going to be saying ‘What have you
done to the bankers?’” said Bale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net  