-- U.S. IPOs Raise Lowest Amount in Decade Versus Cash Aim
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-09-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/u-s-ipos-raise-lowest-amount-in-decade-compared-to-cash-sought.html
Companies in the U.S. are raising
less this year from initial public offerings than any time in at
least a decade compared with the amount they filed to sell.  IPOs on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock
Market have raised $19.1 billion in 2010, while companies from
Nielsen Holdings BV and Demand Media Inc. to General Motors Co.
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to sell $48.9
billion in shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the widest gap since at least 1999, the data show.  More than half the companies that submitted plans for IPOs
in 2010 have yet to complete them after 61 percent of this
year’s offerings left buyers with losses. While 68 percent of
the deals raised less than sought, private equity funds and
venture capital firms are still seeking to sell holdings after
the financial crisis blocked them from exiting investments.  “It’s going to be tough for awhile,” said  Christopher Turner , head of capital markets at New York-based private-equity
firm Warburg Pincus LLC, which oversees about $30 billion.
“You’re going to see a continuing big pipeline relative to the
pace of execution. Investors have lost money in IPOs they’ve
bought, and they’re now looking at any pricing range pretty
askance and starting by asking for a steep discount.”  Companies controlled by leveraged buyout funds account for
42 of the 170 that registered for IPOs or updated their filings
in the last two years, according to a note last week from
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Renaissance Capital LLC, which has
studied initial offerings since 1991.  Private Equity IPOs  The number of IPOs that have yet to be completed has grown
81 percent from a year ago as investors shunned offerings backed
by private equity firms, which take controlling stakes in
companies and use borrowed money to finance most of the
acquisition.  The 19 initial sales from U.S. companies led by LBO firms
have  lost  1.9 percent of their value in the first month of
trading in 2010, after averaging gains every year since at least
2001, data compiled by Bloomberg and Renaissance show.  Private equity owners are relying on IPOs to help pare debt
and reduce their stakes a year after buyout firms returned less
money to their clients than any time in the past decade, data
compiled by London-based Preqin Ltd. show.  The funds, which usually have a lifespan of about 10 years,
spend three to six years making investments and then seek to
reap profits from those deals in the remaining period.  Broken Model  “There’s a lot of private equity funds trying to sell
companies to show people that the LBO model isn’t broken,” said
 Charles Bobrinskoy , vice chairman at Chicago-based Ariel
Investments LLC, which oversees about $5 billion.  Nielsen Holdings, the New York-based television-audience
rating company owned by  KKR & Co.  and  Blackstone Group LP  of New
York, Washington-based Carlyle Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners
LP in Boston, is seeking to raise $2 billion to help pay down
its $8.4 billion in debt, SEC filings show.  HCA Inc. , the Nashville, Tennessee-based hospital chain
bought four years ago in a $33 billion LBO led by KKR and
Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, plans to sell $4.6 billion of
shares, according to a regulatory filing.  Toys “R” Us Inc. ,
the toy-store chain acquired by  KKR , Bain and Vornado Realty
Trust of New York in 2005, is seeking to raise $800 million.  While  HCA  and Wayne, New Jersey-based  Toys “R” Us  filed
with the SEC in May and Nielsen followed in June, none have set
a date for their offerings. Concern that the economic recovery
is deteriorating helped send the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
down as much as  16 percent  from its 2010 high.  ‘Hasn’t Picked Up’  “The economy hasn’t picked up as quickly as was expected,
which has affected the plans of a lot of companies on file,”
said  Frank Maturo , Bank of America Corp.’s New York-based co-
head of equity capital markets for the Americas. “Some deals
are going to get pushed to later in 2010 or even 2011.”  A fourfold increase in venture capital-backed companies
that have registered for IPOs to 42 from nine a year ago may
signal a willingness to accept lower valuations in order to go
public, according to a note last week from Renaissance.  Demand Media, the Santa Monica, California-based developer
of applications for social-media websites, filed last month to
raise as much as $125 million. The creator of content for sites
on fitness and travel is backed by Palo Alto, California-based
 Oak Investment Partners  and Spectrum Equity Investors in Menlo
Park, California.  SciQuest Inc. , the Cary, North Carolina-based Internet
software company that provides on-demand services in 16
countries, will seek to raise  $69 million  this week. Menlo Park-
based Trinity Ventures owns a majority stake in SciQuest.  ‘Look for Exits’  This month’s offerings come after the  S&P 500  rebounded 11
percent from its 2010 low on July 2. Beijing-based  SouFun
Holdings Ltd.  rallied 73 percent after  pricing  the first U.S.
IPO in three weeks on Sept. 16.  Companies that complete sales this quarter will avoid
competing with  GM  for capital. The Detroit-based automaker may
seek to raise $16 billion in November, a person familiar with
the offering said last month. That would be the second-biggest
U.S. IPO on record behind San Francisco-based  Visa Inc.’s  $19.7
billion sale in March 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A number of venture capital and private equity portfolios
are getting pretty late in their life cycles and they need to
look for exits,” said  Joseph Garner , director of research at
Lancaster, Pennsylvania-based Emerald Asset Management Inc.,
which oversees about $2 billion. “The IPO window was closed and
now it appears to have reopened, and it’s uncertain how long it
will remain open. If going public is in your plans, there may be
no better time than the present.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 