-- U.S. Senate Rejects Measure on Stricter Union Voting
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-09-23T17:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/u-s-senate-blocks-measure-to-make-airline-union-organizing-more-difficult.html
The U.S. Senate, facing the threat
of a presidential veto, defeated legislation today that would
have made it more difficult for labor unions to organize workers
at airlines such as  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and  FedEx Corp.   Senator  Johnny Isakson , a Georgia Republican, introduced
the measure to roll back a National Mediation Board ruling that
eased requirements for votes in union elections. The Democrat-
led Senate voted 56-43 to block Isakson’s resolution.  The measure would have required that a majority of all
workers to approve joining a union, rather than a majority of
those who vote, as allowed by the board. The White House Office
of Management and Budget issued a statement today saying that if
the Isakson legislation passed, senior advisers would have
recommended that President  Barack Obama  veto it.  “Outcomes should be determined by a majority of the valid
ballots cast,” the administration statement said.  The rules change by the mediation board in May was a
victory for transportation labor unions after Obama took office
and gave the board, which oversees labor relations among
carriers, a 2-1 Democratic majority.  The change by the board will have a “dramatic” impact in
Georgia, home of Delta, the world’s largest carrier, Isakson
said on the Senate floor before the vote.  The carrier has rebuffed six organizing campaigns since
2000, and the administration “has chosen to tilt the outcome in
labor elections,” Isakson said.  Delta would be affected because unions for flight
attendants and baggage-and-ramp workers have said they want to
organize almost 35,000 employees at the Atlanta-based carrier.
The flight attendants are scheduled to begin voting to join
unions Sept. 29.  The rule change also may affect FedEx,  JetBlue Airways
Corp .,  AirTran Holdings Inc. , Alaska Air Group Inc. and  Hawaiian
Holdings Inc . A federal judge in June upheld the rule against a
challenge by the companies.  The legislation is S.J. Res. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Larry Liebert at   or
 lliebert@bloomberg.net.To  contact the reporter on this story: 