-- U.S., Russia Won't End WTO Talks in 2010, U.S. Chamber Says
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-09-23T09:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/u-s-russia-won-t-finish-wto-talks-in-2010-u-s-chamber-of-commerce-says.html
Russia and the U.S. won’t resolve
issues standing in the way of accession by the world’s largest
energy exporter to the World Trade Organization this year,
according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Issues blocking an agreement by the end of this month
include U.S. demands for greater access for agricultural
products, mainly poultry and pork, legislation to protect
intellectual property and Russian restrictions on imports and
exports, said  Myron Brilliant , senior vice-president for
international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. An
internal U.S. government deadline for resolving talks by the end
of December is also likely to be missed, he said.  “I don’t expect that next week the two sides will conclude
all technical aspects of the negotiations,” Brilliant said in
an interview today in Moscow, where he is meeting Russian
business leaders. With “four or five areas that need to be
narrowed,” December is also “going to be a tough deadline to
meet,” he said.  President Dmitry Medvedev signed an agreement with U.S.
President Barack Obama in June to resolve contentious points
between the two sides by the end of this month as part of his
quest to diversify Russia’s oil-dominated economy. Russia, the
largest economy excluded from the WTO, has been trying to gain
entry to the  123-member, Geneva-based body  for almost two
decades.  “Practical” matters will be the chief stumbling block for
winding up the bilateral talks by the end of 2010, Brilliant
said. U.S. congressional elections on Nov. 2, Obama’s visit to
Asia in November and summits of the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum and the Group of 20 are among events that will
prevent the talks from being concluded, he said.  Rule of Origin  “I do hope, though, that we’ll have a deal done sooner
than two years” from now, Brilliant said.  The two countries also need to agree on rule-of-origin
issues associated with Russia’s customs union with its two
former Soviet neighbors, Kazakhstan and Belarus, he said. The
union is due to come into force in 2012.  “The two leaders are personally committed to trying to
strengthen the relationship,” Brilliant said. “You want to
make sure that while there is momentum that we try to close the
gap, because if we allow for the momentum to disappear what’s
going to happen is the list of issues are going to grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  