-- Congress Set to Approve Bill Aimed at Boosting Small Businesses
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-09-23T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/u-s-congress-set-to-approve-new-measure-aimed-at-boosting-small-business.html
The U.S. Congress is poised to give
final approval to  legislation  aimed at boosting lending to small
businesses in what is likely the Democrats’ final jobs bill
before the Nov. 2 elections.  The House is slated to vote today on a measure offering a
mix of tax cuts, loans and revived stimulus provisions aimed at
easing the flow of credit and signaling voters, who head to the
polls in six weeks, that Democrats are trying to boost the
economy. Passage would send the bill, which was  approved  by the
Senate last week, to President  Barack Obama  for his signature.  Economist  Alan Blinder , a former Federal Reserve vice
chairman, said many small businesses have had “extreme”
difficulty getting loans though he said poor sales remain their
biggest problem.  “They always have a hard time getting credit and given the
state of the markets, they’re having an even harder time now,”
Blinder said in an interview. “This ought to be helpful on that
score, but if the economy grows at one and a half percent, we’re
spitting in the wind because there’s no demand.”  “The thing that drives small businesses over and above
everything else is the ability to sell their product,” he said.  The bill had been held up for months by Senate Republicans
who objected to provisions setting up a $30 billion program in
which the Treasury Department would buy preferred shares in
community banks, with participants paying the government
dividends on a sliding scale depending on how much they increase
lending. Dividends could be as low as 1 percent. Republicans
said the plan amounted to little more than a scaled-down
facsimile of the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  Banks Reluctant  For all the controversy over the provisions, it’s far from
certain banks will participate in the program, said  Mark Zandi ,
chief economist for Moody’s Analytics. Banks will probably be
reluctant to take the government’s money, he said, after seeing
TARP recipients hit with retroactive executive-compensation
limits amid a public outcry over tax dollars going to
institutions paying million-dollar salaries.  “I’m skeptical that banks will actually take the
government up on their offer,” said Zandi. “I think the memory
of TARP will be in the minds of those lending institutions and
they’ll be reluctant to use the capital.”  Lawmakers have attempted to allay those concerns by
including a stipulation that would let participants drop out of
the program “without impediment” if the government makes
changes to the rules that would have a “materially adverse”
impact on them.  Small Business Loans  The bill would also revive stimulus provisions cutting fees
and increasing limits on loan guarantees offered by the Small
Business Administration. Agency statistics show that volume fell
by more than 50 percent after loan guarantees expired and
funding to cover fee waivers ran out in May.  The bill would reinstate through the rest of this year
provisions increasing to 90 percent the share of loans the
agency insures and waiving fees that can total more than $56,000
on a $2 million loan.  “That’s probably the most potent aspect of the legislation
in the near term,” Zandi said.  Other provisions would provide $56 billion in  tax cuts  over
the next 12 months, with the bulk coming through “bonus
depreciation” that allows companies to more quickly write off
the cost of purchases. The tax cut would amount to $12 billion
over 10 years, the yardstick used by Congress to determine how
much bills cost, in part because businesses taking bigger
deductions now couldn’t claim them in the future, which would
increase projected tax revenue in subsequent years.  Fourth Jobs Bill  The bill would be the fourth major jobs measure to clear
Congress this year. Previous legislation offered a payroll tax
credit for new hires, aid to state governments to prevent
layoffs and extended  unemployment  benefits.  The administration has called for additional measures,
including a permanent extension of a tax credit subsidizing
corporate research and development programs.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has unveiled separate
legislation offering companies a payroll tax credit for each
position they create in the U.S. that replaces a worker abroad.
Neither is likely to clear Congress before lawmakers adjourn,
probably next week, for the midterm election.  The bill is H.R. 5297.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  