-- Wells Fargo's Silvia Says Home Prices to Climb 5%: Tom Keene
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-09-23T16:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/u-s-home-prices-may-climb-5-over-six-months-wells-fargo-says-tom-keene.html
U.S. housing prices may climb 5
percent in six months as the economy avoids falling into another
recession, according to  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells
Fargo & Co. in Charlotte, North Carolina.  “It’s more likely to be the positive 5 percent in another
three to six months, once we get through a lot of this political
uncertainty and we have an understanding of where the economy is
going,” Silvia, 62, said in a radio interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The economy has
legs, it’s going to go forward, it’s not going to be a double
dip.”  U.S. home prices fell 3.3 percent in July from a year
earlier in an eighth consecutive decrease as foreclosed
properties flooded the market, the Federal Housing Finance
Agency in Washington said yesterday. Prices slid 0.5 percent
from June, compared with a 0.2 percent drop that was the median
forecast of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  A distressed housing market was one of the reasons the
Federal Reserve cited on Sept. 21 when it said it’s willing to
take additional steps to spur growth.  A government tax credit of as much as $8,000 gave housing a
temporary lift late last year and into 2010. Demand plunged in
July, the month after buyers were originally required to close
deals in order to get the incentive. The deadline has since been
extended to the end of this month.  “The tax-credit program did boost housing arbitrarily,”
Silvia said. “Once that was out you just don’t have the depth
in the marketplace.”  Mortgage Rates  While  mortgage rates  are near record lows, many would-be
homebuyers are unable to qualify, according to Silvia.  “A lot of institutions are willing to make mortgages to
good credits at those interest rates, but clearly if you’re not
a good credit, if you’ve had some challenges in the last three
to five years, yeah, interest rates are low, but unavailable.”  Mortgage rates for fixed 30-year U.S. loans stayed at 4.37
percent in the week ended today, Freddie Mac said in a
statement. A five-month slide in borrowing costs pushed the rate
for a 30-year loan to a record low of 4.32 percent in the week
ended Sept. 2.  Sales of  existing homes  climbed in August to a 4.13 million
annual pace, second only to July’s 3.84 million rate as the
weakest in a decade’s worth of data, the National Association of
Realtors said today in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  