-- U.S. Senate May Not Vote on Tax Cuts Before Elections, Two Senators Say
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-09-23T16:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/u-s-senate-may-not-vote-on-tax-cuts-before-elections-two-senators-say.html
The U.S. Senate isn’t likely to
vote on extending the Bush-era tax cuts before leaving to
campaign for the November elections, two senators said.  “I see the value of a vote, but given the short time-
frame, it may be difficult,” second-ranking Democrat  Dick Durbin  of Illinois said today in Washington. He said the House
may adjourn as early as next week, making it unlikely Congress
could finish action.  Iowa Democrat  Tom Harkin  said he also doubted the Senate
will vote on tax cuts before the election. There isn’t enough
time left to work out an agreement on how to proceed, he said.  “The clock’s running out,” Harkin said. “There’s just no
way that we can get anything done on this before then because of
Republican intransigence on this issue.”  Unless Congress acts by the end of the year all tax cuts
enacted in 2001 and 2003 will expire Dec. 31, triggering higher
rates on income and investment earnings for all taxpayers.  Democrats will consider whether to take up the issue before
November at a meeting later today, said  Jim Manley , a spokesman
for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid .  With elections to determine control of Congress less than
six weeks away, Republicans and Democrats are heading for a
confrontation about the future of the cuts.  Up to $250,000  Both parties want to extend them for individual income up
to $200,000 and up to $250,000 for couples filing jointly. That
covers about 97 percent of all taxpayers, according to data from
the  U.S. Internal Revenue Service . Republicans want to keep the
cuts for those in the higher income brackets, which President
 Barack Obama  opposes.  Obama called it “irresponsible” for Congress to extend
tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans at a time when lawmakers
are looking to rein in deficits.  “I can’t give tax cuts to the top 2 percent of Americans”
and “lower the deficit at the same time,” he said Sept. 20
during a town-hall discussion on jobs and the economy on CNBC
television.  The president’s plan to extend the tax cuts only for the
lower earners would cost the federal treasury $2.2 trillion in
forgone revenue over the next decade, according to an analysis
of government data released Sept. 2 by the Pew Economic Group.
Extending all the tax rates would cost about $3.3 trillion,
according to Pew.  Goldman Sachs  Alec Phillips , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said in a research note released yesterday that even a temporary
failure by Congress to extend Bush-era tax cuts may erase U.S.
economic growth in the first half of next year.  Gross domestic product would be cut by almost 2 percentage
points if Congress doesn’t extend the tax cuts as well as
temporary tax credits under the 2009 stimulus bill and relief
from the alternative minimum tax, Phillips calculated.  Even a temporary lapse in the tax provisions “would
essentially wipe out most of the modest growth we expect in the
first half of 2011,” Phillips wrote in the research note. He
said in a phone interview that a higher tax rate in the first
two months of the year would have that effect.  Dozens of House Democrats and at least five in the Senate
say they would prefer to extend the tax cuts for everyone for at
least one or two years. House Republicans today announced a
governing agenda that includes extending all of the Bush tax
cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  