-- Mubadala Reports $394 Million First-Half Loss as Investment Income Drops
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-09-23T12:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/mubadala-posts-1-2-billion-first-half-comprehensive-loss-on-investments.html
Mubadala Development Co., an Abu
Dhabi government investor with stakes in Carlyle Group and
Ferrari SpA, reported a first-half loss as the value of its
investments fell because of the decline in global markets.  Loss attributable to shareholders for the period to June 30
was 1.45 billion dirhams ($394 million) after a profit of 749
million dirhams year ago,  the company  said in statement on its
website. Comprehensive loss for the period was 4.5 billion
dirhams compared with 2.7 billion dirhams income. Mubadala had
an unrealized loss of 4.4 billion dirhams from public market
investments in the first half, the company said.  “The numbers reflect the movements in shares for Aldar
Properties, Du, AMD and General Electric,” Chief Operating
Officer  Waleed Al Mokarrab Al Muhairi  said in a phone interview
today. “They are non cash, mark to market. That is the source of
all losses -- it is not the operating businesses and it is not
the underlying health of Mubadala.”  Abu Dhabi forecast a second consecutive budget deficit this
year with the shortfall to be covered by transfers from state-
run investment bodies, according to a government-guaranteed bond
prospectus released in July. Mubadala’s investments include an
$8 billion joint venture with General Electric Co. in emerging
markets, and a stake in  Advanced Micro Devices Inc.,  the second-
largest maker of personal-computer processors.  GE Shares  Mubadala owned 74 million  shares in GE  as of June 30, Al
Muhairi said. The company said in 2008 it would seek to become a
top 10 shareholder in the world’s biggest maker of power-
generation equipment.  Mubadala said last month it may buy assets from BP Plc
after the company lost half its value following the worst oil
spill in U.S. history. Mubadala’s Chief Executive Officer
 Khaldoon Al Mubarak  discussed investment opportunities with
Kingdom Holding Co. of  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal , Kingdom
Holding said in June.  Revenue from operations grew 2.1 billion dirhams to 8
billion dirhams in the first half, while total assets at the end
of first half reached 86.1 billion dirhams, according to today’s
statement. The company is in the process of increasing its share
capital to 15 billion dirhams from 5.5 billion dirhams through
the conversion of certain shareholder rights, it said.  Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates and home to
more than 7 percent of the world’s proven crude reserves, is
trying to diversify from oil by investing in industries such as
real estate, aerospace and entertainment.  Mubadala said operating income from aerospace grew 20
percent in the first half to 2.5 billion dirhams, while income
from infrastructure rose 21 percent to 1.7 billion dirhams and
income from oil and gas operations jumped 44 percent to 3.6
billion dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  