-- Hungary Debt Agency Sees Tighter Bond Spreads After Pledge to Cut Deficit
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-09-24T09:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/hungary-debt-agency-sees-tighter-bond-spreads-after-pledge-to-cut-deficit.html
Hungarian bond spreads over German
debt will probably narrow as the country reduces its budget
deficit to less than the European Union’s limit next year, said
 Gyula Pleschinger , the new head of the government debt agency.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban’s  government this month pledged
to reduce the 2011  shortfall  to less than 3 percent of gross
domestic product, two months after falling out with
international lenders over the same target. The forint
strengthened and government bond yields dropped.  “Demand is likely to remain stable and the spread between
Hungarian government bonds and German bunds will continue to
narrow,” Pleschinger, 57, said in an interview yesterday. “I
believe there will be a very impressive improvement if we manage
to keep this budget deficit target.”  The shortfall has been a source of tension since Orban took
power in May and pledged to boost growth after the country’s
worst  recession  in 18 years. The government sought to raise the
deficit target for this year and next before the International
Monetary Fund and the European Union, which provided a 20
billion-euro ($25 billion) bailout, insisted on budget cuts.  Yields, Spread  The yield on Hungary’s five-year bonds has dropped by 80
basis points to 6.8 percent after reaching a 2010 high on July
23. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The forint has
gained 1.5 percent against the euro this month, the most among
25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The difference between yields on Hungary’s five-year debt
and the similar German bund narrowed to 533 basis points today
from a high of 623 basis points on Aug. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called spread indicates the
premium investors demand to hold riskier assets.  While the spread will narrow, most of the change will come
from rising yields in the euro area, Pleschinger said. The
decline in Hungary’s borrowing costs “will not be dramatic,”
Pleschinger said.  Hungary’s central bank ended an easing cycle in April,
after cutting its main rate to a record-low 5.25 percent, which
may limit the scope for further declines in yields.  “The downward movement in forint debt yields is quite
limited as we have probably reached the bottom of the rate cut
cycle in central Europe and the yield curve is already
reasonably flat,”  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $2 billion in
emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors in London, said in a
phone interview today.  Most Indebted  Pleschinger, a former executive at Raiffeisen International
Bank-Holding AG’s Hungarian unit and chief executive officer of
OTP Bank Nyrt.’s local brokerage from 1990 to 2000, was named to
head the state debt management agency, known as AKK, this month.
He replaced  Ferenc Szarvas  who was appointed chairman of state-
owned railway MAV Zrt.  Hungary, the EU’s most indebted former Communist member,
has net borrowing needs of 850 billion forint ($34 billion) next
year, down from an estimated 1.03 trillion forint this year,
according to the Economy Ministry.  Hungary’s commitment to cut the deficit hasn’t removed the
threat to its credit rating because the government still needs
to clarify its economic policies, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s
Investors Service said Sept. 15.  S&P lowered the outlook on Hungary’s BBB- rating to
negative in July and a one-step cut would reduce the grade to
junk for the first time since 1992. Moody’s rates Hungary Baa1,
its third-lowest investment grade.  ‘Put Off by S&P’  “We’re somewhat put off by S&P’s attitude,” Pleschinger
said. The government’s fiscal pledge will “visibly be followed
up by action” and credit-rating companies’ opinion of Hungary
will improve, he said. “I don’t see a high probability of a
rating downgrade.”  Investor confidence was shaken in July when talks with the
 IMF  and the EU broke down during a review of the emergency loan
program, sending the forint to its weakest against the euro in
more than 14 months. The government later reversed plans to seek
a precautionary loan from the IMF in 2011.  Hungarian debt looks “overrated on most measures,” Curtis
said. “For Hungary to get stabilization on its credit rating
and see some positive development, investors and rating agencies
would like some certainty that the government will stay the
fiscal course.”  IMF Loan  A stand-by loan from the Washington-based IMF would have
the potential to backfire by sending the message that Hungary
“requires support,” Pleschinger said.  “We can secure our financing from the market even in the
event of a global double-dip,” he said, referring to the
possibility that the world economy will slip back into
recession.  Market financing may be “a bit riskier, but it will steer
us back to the normal path faster,” Pleschinger said.  Hungary doesn’t plan to sell foreign-currency bonds this
year, and next year’s planned 4 billion-euro sale will probably
take place in more than one installment, he said.  “I myself would be very surprised if we could raise this
amount in one tranche,” Pleschinger said. The timing and size
of the offerings will depend on market conditions, and the
government prefers to sell euro-denominated debt, he said.  The planned amount matches the country’s maturing foreign-
currency debt next year. The debt management agency seeks to
reduce international debt to about 35 percent of total borrowing
from the current 50 percent, Pleschinger said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  