-- Turkish Central Bank Raises Bank Reserve Requirements to Soak Up Liquidity
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-09-23T07:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/turkish-central-bank-raises-bank-reserve-requirements-to-soak-up-liquidity.html
Turkey increased the level of
reserves that banks must deposit with the  central bank , pressing
on with a plan to soak up the liquidity provided to markets
during the global financial crisis.  The central bank raised the foreign currency reserve
requirement to 11 percent from 10 percent, according to a
directive in the Official Gazette published in Ankara today. It
also increased the requirement for lira reserves to 5.5 percent
from 5 percent.  The decision means the bank has completely reversed the 2
percentage-point cut it made in the foreign currency reserve
requirement in December 2008. The requirement for lira reserves
before the crisis was 6 percent.  “We think the bank might increase the lira reserve
requirement by another 0.5 percentage points in the next three
months,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at BCG Partners in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note. “While the size of the
liquidity reduction is rather limited compared to the total loan
stock, it is clear that banks’ ability to provide loans will be
limited.”  The lira weakened against the dollar and was trading at
1.4877 at 9:50 a.m. in Istanbul. Yields on two-year lira bonds
rose 9 basis points to 8.16 percent, according to an ABN Amro
index.  The measure will withdraw $1.5 billion in liquidity from
the foreign currency market and 2.1 billion liras ($1.4 billion)
from the local currency system, the central bank said in a
statement on its website.  Exporters have complained that they’re suffering from the
strength of the lira. Today’s move is “completely
insufficient,”  Mehmet Buyukeksi , head of the Turkish Exporters’
Assembly, said after the bank’s decision, according to CNBC-e
television.  The bank also announced today that it will stop paying
interest on lira reserve deposits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Berat Meric  in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net . 