-- Uruguay's Central Bank Raises Reference Rate to 6.5% as Prices Pass Target
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-09-23T21:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/uruguay-central-bank-may-keep-rate-at-6-25-with-inflation-in-target-range.html
Uruguay’s central bank raised its
 overnight lending rate  to 6.5 percent from 6.25 percent today as
inflation expectations are above the target range of 4 percent
to 6 percent.  The bank’s five-member policy committee, led by bank
President  Mario Bergara , decided to raise the rate after keeping
it unchanged in the previous two meetings. In December, the bank
cut it from 8 percent to 6.25 percent.  The committee “continues to see a context of high rates of
growth and historically low level of unemployment,” the bank
said today on its website.  The bank took into account inflationary pressures created
by overseas demand for goods coupled with the effect of strong
domestic demand that is outstripping local supply, according to
the statement. The economy grew 10.4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace in at least six
years.  Annual inflation in the South American country slowed in
August to 6.25 percent from 6.29 percent in July. Bergara said
in a July 27 interview that the bank is “comfortable” with the
rate of inflation and sees no reason for concern about a sharp
increase in prices.  Commodity Prices  At its last meeting on June 24, the bank said rising
commodity prices and expanding domestic demand may begin to
exert pressure on prices in the $34 billion agriculture-based
economy.  Uruguay’s peso has gained 6.1 percent against the dollar in
the past 12 months, the second-biggest gain after Chile’s peso
among eight major Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The stronger peso has led producers to complain about
their loss of competitiveness overseas, said Javier de Haedo, a
former Uruguayan under secretary of economy.  “The bank and the Economy Ministry are seeking a balance
between the inflation target and a competitive exchange rate,”
de Haedo said.  The peso was little changed today at 20.33 pesos per dollar
after closing at 18.89 on May 17. The peso weakened 4.1 percent
this year after strengthening 25.1 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  