-- Venezuelan Banker Presses U.S. Racketeering Case Against Chavez's Allies
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-09-23T11:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/venezuelan-banker-cedeno-presses-u-s-graft-case-against-chavez-allies.html
Venezuelan banker Eligio Cedeno,
whose U.S. lawsuit claims seven of his country’s top officials
engaged in extortion and money laundering, asked a federal
appeals court to reverse the judge who dismissed his case.  U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  in Manhattan ruled Aug. 25
that Cedeno’s allegations against senior members of President
 Hugo Chavez ’s government don’t come under the jurisdiction of
U.S. courts. Cedeno’s racketeering suit claims he was framed as
a conspirator in a money-laundering scheme that pressured him
into selling his banks to Chavez allies.  “The racketeering law does extend to our case,” Jerome
Marcus, one of Cedeno’s lawyers, said in a telephone interview
from Jenkintown, Pennsylvania. “It was a money laundering
scheme designed to obtain American dollars out of American bank
accounts and to distribute them through an American company
using its U.S.-based account.”  For Cedeno, U.S. courts are the only place to seek damages
after the Venezuelan judge on his home-country conspiracy
prosecution was arrested when she ordered his release from jail,
said Jesus Ollarves, a Venezuelan international litigator. More
such cases charging corruption by Chavez’s government can be
expected as Venezuela’s legal system deteriorates, Ollarves said
in an interview in Caracas.  Cedeno filed his appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals in
New York yesterday.  ‘Dreadful’ Allegations  Rakoff ruled that although the “dreadful” allegations in
Cedeno’s complaint were “perfectly plausible given what is
generally known about the Chavez regime,” the U.S. connections
were too peripheral. He also said Cedeno couldn’t sue under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, known as
RICO, because the organization in question is foreign.  Critics of Chavez’s so-called Bolivarian revolution, named
after the South American liberator Simon Bolivar, say a
compromised judicial system has helped foster a new generation
of Venezuelan oligarchs -- known in the opposition press as
“Boligarchs” -- who make their money by abusing power.  Cedeno, a former president of Bolivar Banco CA and Banco
Canarias de Venezuela CA, fled Venezuela and sought asylum in
the U.S. in December 2009 after a judge released him, ruling the
two-year limit to bring him to trial had passed.  ‘30 Years in Prison’  The judge, Maria Lourdes Afiuni, was arrested immediately
and is awaiting trial after Chavez said on state television Dec.
11 she should “pay” with “30 years in prison.” She is
charged with corruption, abuse of power, aiding evasion and
association with delinquency.  The people named in Cedeno’s suit include the current
ambassador to Spain,  Isaias Rodriguez ; the former vice president
of Venezuela and former director of the foreign exchange
commission, known as Cadivi,  Adina Bastidas ;  Edgar Hernandez Behrens , former president of Cadivi and current banking
superintendent; and former Justice Minister  Pedro Carreno .  Jose Pertierra , a Washington-based attorney representing
Adina Bastidas and Isaias Rodriguez, said he couldn’t comment
while the case was ongoing. Behrens declined to comment, a
spokeswoman at the banking superintendent’s office said. Carreno
couldn’t be located.  Michael Diaz Jr., lead counsel for Ruben Idler, another of
the defendants, said Cedeno is using the case to avoid
extradition to Venezuela.  ‘Correct Ruling’  “It was a correct ruling on the law and a significant
victory for the Venezuelan authorities who have asked the U.S.
for the extradition of Cedeno,” he said in a statement after
Rakoff’s decision.  Cedeno said he was set up for arrest by a “currency
exchange racketeering operation” whose members falsely
implicated him in a $27 million money laundering scheme that
dated back to 2003.  His arrest in 2007 followed a finding by Venezuela’s
attorney general that a Venezuelan company named Consorcio
Microstar CA falsely claimed to be importing computers so it
could get authorization from Cadivi for dollars to exchange at
the official rate.  Prosecutors charged that the dollars were then changed back
into bolivars on the parallel market, which was shut down in
May, at an exchange rate that often exceeded three times the
official one. The operation pocketed the difference.  Cedeno, as president of Banco Canarias, which managed
Microstar’s applications for dollars from Cadivi, was charged
with complicity in the scheme. In U.S. court filings he said
that he was required by law to process Microstar’s request to
Cadivi and that neither he nor Banco Canarias knew Microstar’s
documentation was fraudulent.  ‘Official Machinery’  Cedeno said government officials and as many as 38 bank
directors and businessmen utilized “official machinery of the
government of Venezuela to reap, and the banks of the United
States to store, move and conceal, their gains.”  The court filings allege details of banking transactions,
including bank account numbers and specific payments to
defendants. Cedeno’s lawyers argue that the Cadivi directors
must have known about Microstar’s fraudulent requests because
transactions in excess of $1 million had to be approved by the
board.  Cedeno also submitted in his suit testimony from Yoneiba
Parra, a prosecutor assigned to Cedeno’s case by the Venezuelan
government. Under subpoena in a Florida court she testified that
“her judgment as a prosecutor was overruled to ensure that
plaintiff would be charged and imprisoned regardless of the
evidence.”  Buy Shares  Cedeno was approached in January 2007 by representatives of
Carreno, then the interior and justice minister, who, according
to the suit, told him Carreno wanted to buy his shares in two
banks he controlled, Bolivar Banco CA and Banpro Banco
Universal.  He refused to sell, he said.  After his arrest, he says he was approached by another
defendant, Ricardo Fernandez Barrueco, known as the “arepa
king” because he held the license to sell the corn flour
Venezuelans use in arepas, their staple flat bread, to the
government’s subsidized food markets. Barrueco claimed to have
“direct access to President Chavez” and could influence his
release if Cedeno sold him his stake in the two banks for $150
million, according to the lawsuit.  Cedeno claims he sold Barrueco his shares yet remained
stuck behind bars.  The case is Cedeno v. Intech Group Inc., 09-cv-09716, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  