-- Venezuelan Economy May Shrink 2 Percent in 2010, Government Official Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-09-23T20:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/venezuelan-economy-may-shrink-2-percent-in-2010-government-official-says.html
Venezuela’s economy will contract
for a second year in 2010, missing the official forecast of
near-zero growth, before rebounding next year, a government
official said in an interview.  Gross domestic product will shrink 1 percent to 2 percent
this year and may expand 2 percent to 3 percent in 2011, the
official, who isn’t authorized to speak publicly, said today in
Caracas.  Inflation  will accelerate to 28 percent by the end of
the year from 20 percent through August, he said.  Venezuela, the largest oil producer in South America, has
remained in recession as the rest of the region expands. A drop
in oil production and a decline in imports as a result of
tighter foreign exchange restrictions have stifled
manufacturing, while President  Hugo Chavez ’s nationalizations of
companies chase away foreign investors.  The median forecast of 10 banks surveyed by Bloomberg,
including Barclays Plc and Morgan Stanley, is for the economy to
shrink 4 percent this year and grow 1.55 percent in 2011.  Venezuela’s economy will be the only one to contract in the
Western Hemisphere this year, according to the International
Monetary Fund.  The government, which last month sold $3 billion of 12-year
bonds, “probably” won’t sell more dollar-denominated debt
securities this year, the official said.  Petroleos de Venezuela
SA , the state oil company, will sell $3 billion of bonds next
month, he said, without providing more details.  International  reserves , which have fallen 18 percent this
year to $28.7 billion, will remain at about $28 billion through
the rest of the year, the official said. The central bank
transferred $6 billion to an off-budget development fund earlier
this year to finance government infrastructure projects.  The economy should grow next year as the government sells
more dollars to large corporations for imports through the
 foreign exchange board , known as Cadivi, the official said.  Chavez shuttered the unregulated currency market in May
that provided dollars at a weaker exchange rate than the
official rates of 2.6 and 4.3 per dollar.  Small- and medium-size companies, including small
individual dollar requests, can turn to the central bank’s
currency market, known as Sitme, where dollars can be purchased
at 5.3 bolivars, he said.  Sitme has traded $2.2 billion of government and PDVSA bonds
since opening on June 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  