-- Verizon to Move to Tiered Prices in 6 Months, CEO Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-09-23T20:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/verizon-to-move-to-tiered-prices-in-6-months-ceo-says-update1-.html
Verizon Wireless, the  largest  U.S.
mobile carrier, will introduce tiered pricing in the next four
to six months to take advantage of the growth in data traffic as
it rolls out its faster, fourth-generation network.  The company will add in the new pricing as it rolls out new
services,  Verizon Communications Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Ivan Seidenberg  said at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. conference in
New York today.  Verizon’s 4G network, which uses long-term evolution
technology, has been set up in 30 markets, including 50
airports, since June, Seidenberg said. The Basking Ridge, New
Jersey-based wireless company will make the service available to
customers this year.  “We’re going to feather in our pricing over the next
couple of months as we introduce new products, new services and
try to get that value proposition to fit the added excitement
and added capabilities that we’re going to offer,” Seidenberg
said.  Tiered plans typically give users a wider array of price
options for different network usage and eliminate unlimited
packages. Dallas-based AT&T Inc., the second-largest mobile
carrier, introduced tiered plans this year for its 3G network.  Transition to 4G  Seidenberg said that the widespread availability of the
Verizon’s LTE network will encourage smartphone companies,
including iPhone-maker Apple Inc., to build 4G devices. LTE will
make it easier and faster for customers to download high-
definition videos, watch live television and upload pictures to
the Web.  AT&T , which has exclusive rights to sell the iPhone in the
U.S., has said it is moving to LTE next year. Seidenberg didn’t
say when Verizon will start offering the iPhone.  “We’re running our business to make ourselves the
destination for all of the key tablets and devices,” Seidenberg
said. “Hopefully at some point, you know, Apple will get with
the program.”  Verizon will start selling the iPhone next year, two people
familiar with the plans said in June.  “We don’t feel like we have an iPhone deficit,”
Seidenberg said today. “We would love to carry it when we get
there, but we have to earn it.”  Verizon Communications, which co-owns Verizon Wireless with
Vodafone Group Plc,  dropped  22 cents to $32.17 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. The New York-based
company’s shares have gained 3.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  