-- Veterans Failing Shows Hazards of For-Profit Schools in GI Bill
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 2010-09-23T19:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/veterans-failing-to-learn-show-hazards-of-for-profit-schools-under-gi-bill.html
Chris Pantzke suffered a brain 
injury from a car bomb while serving in the Iraq War. 
Determined to get new skills and make a living after returning 
home, he joined more than 300,000 veterans taking advantage of
a new GI Bill offering college tuition.  These days, Pantzke, who has post-traumatic stress 
disorder, or PTSD, yells at his wife and punches the wall when
he can’t understand his homework assignments. He enrolled last
year in the  online division of the Art Institute of Pittsburgh ,
owned by the for-profit college company  Education Management
Corp.  His veteran’s benefit and other federal aid pay the
$20,000-plus annual tab.  Working alone on a computer in his Prince George, Virginia
apartment, Pantzke has failed seven of 18 courses and dropped
two others. The school rejected his pleas for face-to-face
tutoring and simpler homework instructions, he said.  “I stare at the screen and fume and fume,” Pantzke, 41,
said in an interview. “I’m kind of regretting my decision.”  Since the  post-9/11 GI Bill  with expanded education
benefits for returning soldiers took effect Aug. 1, 2009, for-
profit colleges have snared $618 million, or 35 percent, of the
almost $1.8 billion in tuition and fees spent by U.S. taxpayers,
according to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. The
industry, which has tripled revenue in the past decade to almost
$30 billion by taking advantage of federal loans and grants, is
now targeting the more than 1.2 million war veterans deployed
since 2001 in Iraq and Afghanistan, and their rich college
grants.  Phoenix, Kaplan  Five of the top 10 colleges with the most students funded
by the GI bill in April, 2010 were for-profit, mainly on-line
institutions, including Phoenix-based  Apollo Group Inc. ’s
University of Phoenix,  Washington Post Co. ’s Kaplan University,
and San Diego-based  Bridgepoint Education Inc. ’s Ashford
University, according to data from the Department of Veterans
Affairs. Of veterans receiving the new benefits, 22 percent have
enrolled in for-profit colleges, including Assistant Veterans
Affairs Secretary  Tammy Duckworth , a disabled Iraq veteran who
goes to  Capella Education Co. ’s online Capella University. About
10 percent of all U.S. college students attend for-profit
institutions.  Enrolling at online colleges hampers veterans’
reintegration into society and increases their risk of dropping
out, said John Schupp, national director of the nonprofit group
Supportive Education for the Returning Veteran, which has helped
establish veterans-only courses at 10 public campuses
nationwide.  “They don’t transition sitting next to a computer in their
room,” Schupp said in a telephone interview.  Growing Scrutiny  While some veterans with families and jobs say online
schools provide an opportunity for advanced education that they
otherwise couldn’t fit into their schedules, the swelling number
of ex-soldiers at for-profit colleges is drawing scrutiny from
the U.S. Senate education committee, which plans a hearing on
the issue later this year. That’s because these colleges, which
typically charge higher tuitions than public institutions, have
been criticized by federal officials and members of Congress for
enrolling students who aren’t academically ready and are more
likely to default on their federal loans.  An  undercover investigation  by the U.S. Government
Accountability Office, whose results were released in a report
on Aug. 4, found that recruiters at for-profit colleges
encouraged applicants to lie on federal financial aid forms and
misled them by exaggerating graduation rates and potential
salaries. The U.S. Department of Education is proposing
regulations that would crack down on the practice of paying
recruiters on the basis of the number of students they enroll.  Graduation Rates  Graduation rates for bachelors’ degrees are much lower at
for-profit colleges than at other institutions of higher
education. Only 22 percent of first-time, full-time candidates
at for profit-colleges get their bachelors’ degrees, compared
with 55 percent at public institutions and 65 percent at
nonprofit schools, according to the National Center for
Education Statistics.  For-profit colleges including the Art Institute of
Pittsburgh’s on-line division discount tuitions or waive
application fees for veterans and service members, and have
teams of recruiters who specialize in enrolling them.  Psychologists who treat veterans say that attending online
rather than campus-based programs can delay adjustment to
civilian life, especially for the 20 percent of Iraq and
Afghanistan veterans who suffer from post-traumatic stress
disorder.  ‘Socially Isolated’  “It may feel more comfortable in the short run to sit at
home, but in the long run it’s problematic for the veteran with
PTSD to be socially isolated,” said William Brim, a U.S. Air
Force psychologist from 1997 to 2007 and deputy director of the
 Center for Deployment Psychology  in Bethesda, Maryland, which is
funded by the U.S. Department of Defense.  “This notion of folks remaining isolated at home flies in
the face of the whole movement” to help them reintegrate into
communities, said Barbara Van Dahlen, a clinical psychologist
who runs a  national organization  of therapists providing free
mental health services to veterans and their families.  Veterans often opt for online programs because they feel
out of place on traditional campuses with professors whose
political views may offend them and with younger classmates
unfamiliar with the reality of war, Van Dahlen said.  Veterans and active-duty service members prefer online for-
profit colleges because the education is “focused, ‘military-
friendly,’ disciplined, and open to nontraditional students,”
said  Harris N. Miller , president of the Career College
Association, a Washington-based trade group representing for-
profit colleges.  Avoiding Anxiety  Pantzke, 41, says he chose the Art Institute of
Pittsburgh’s online division because he thought he would be too
anxious in a crowded classroom and he had briefly attended an
Art Institute campus in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, from 1988 to
1989.  He told Art Institute officials when he enrolled that he
had post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury,
Pantzke said. He was told that it wouldn’t be a problem and the
institute had services available, he said. The institute didn’t
assess how his disabilities would affect his academic
performance, he said.  When Pantzke, a former sergeant, contacted the institute
before his medical discharge from the Army, its response was,
“’Okay, let’s start the paperwork,” he said. “It was fast and
furious.”  Bullet Burn  Pantzke graduated from high school in Marshall, Minnesota
and became a factory worker, making floating docks and living
from one paycheck to the next. He joined the Army in 2004 and
was deployed in Iraq in 2005-2006, he said. He was injured late
in 2005, when a bomb exploded 125 meters away from him.  “It’s like a bullet burn,” he said. “When the wave blast
goes through your body, it shakes loose the receptors. The
nerves don’t fire quite right.”  Because of his brain injury, Pantzke has trouble following
complex instructions, and needs them broken down step-by-step,
he said. The institute’s accelerated schedule -- each course
lasts six weeks -- leaves him struggling to keep pace, he said.  “If they’re going to offer online courses to veterans,
they need to provide better services,” Pantzke said.  When he can’t figure out an assignment, he rages. His wife,
Rene, “takes the brunt of it,” he said. “I lash out at those
closest to me.”  Pantzke, who would like to get a degree in photography,
almost dropped out in February, changing his mind after
instructors promised more help. In March, he asked for in-person
tutoring and homework that was easier to understand.  School’s Response  A school official responded to Pantzke that “we are not
able to provide face-to-face tutoring” and that simplified
assignments are “typically not considered a reasonable
accommodation at the college level,” according to a subsequent
e-mail to him from Sarah White, assistant director of student
affairs.  “I just thought the school would help more,” said Rene
Pantzke.  In the short autobiography that students are required to
post for each course, Pantzke discloses his disabilities.  “School for me is a real struggle because I do not learn
like any other student,” he wrote for one course. “It takes me
a while to understand what is going on.”  This profile “should be a signal for every teacher that
reads it: This person needs extra help,” Rene Pantzke said.
“They just don’t get it. They don’t make any accommodation.”  The school’s staff “has worked consistently over the past
14 months to address” Pantzke’s concerns, Jacquelyn Muller,
EDMC’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The institute “offers
extensive and flexible tutoring services to students at no
charge,” she said.  Goldman’s Stake  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the New York-based bank holding
company, owns 38 percent of the institute’s parent company,
Pittsburgh-based Education Management. The online division has
about 13,000 undergraduates, and 27 percent of its students
graduate, Muller said. It has a team of recruiters, financial
aid representatives, and academic advisers dedicated to active-
duty service members and veterans, “all trained in and focused
on meeting your unique needs as a military student,” according
to its website.  While President Obama pledged to make improving the
efficiency of veterans’ services a top priority in a  2009 speech 
to the Veterans of Foreign Wars, his administration doesn’t
track their college graduation or job placement rates. Even as
Veterans Affairs spending on education benefits more than
doubled this year to about $9.6 billion, the department stopped
auditing the colleges it funds from September 2009 to June 2010.  Federal Followup  “The VA doesn’t do a good job of followup,” Schupp said.
“When these guys get out of the military, they’re told to check
with the VA. They don’t know who else to trust. The VA helps
them fill out paperwork and gives them money, but it doesn’t
tell them what schools to avoid or go to. It doesn’t track how
well these schools are doing.”  The Veterans Affairs department’s role is to administer
benefits, not to recommend one college over another, said Keith
Wilson, director of its education service.  “We don’t delve into what a veteran believes is the best
mode or location to receive his education benefits,” Wilson
said.  The agency is committed to unearthing any waste or fraud in
the use of education benefits, Wilson said.  While it had to
reassign auditors last fall to process claims under the new GI
bill, “we didn’t like making that decision,” Wilson said.  Community Colleges  Veterans have other educational options. While some public
colleges don’t track veterans on campus or know how many are
enrolled, others cater to them with veterans-only classes and
centers.  Sierra College , a community college in Rocklin,
California, encourages veterans to write about their military
experience in a “Boots to Books” class. Veterans’ enrollment
has doubled in two-and-a-half years, said Catherine Morris,
Sierra veterans’ counselor.  Former Marine Corps sergeant Eddie Black is seeking a
philosophy degree at a public campus, Portland State University
in Portland, Oregon. Class discussions on the morality and
literature of warfare “were better than therapy for me,” said
Black, a veteran of both Iraq wars and a sergeant in the Oregon
National Guard.  The flow of GI Bill money to online for-profit colleges
helps these colleges comply with a 1992 law that caps at 90
percent the proportion of their revenue they can receive from
federal aid. Tuition paid to for-profit colleges under the GI
bill doesn’t count toward the 90 percent ceiling, said  Sarah Flanagan , who was the Senate’s specialist in federal student aid
when the law passed.  Reshaping Society  The Servicemen’s Readjustment Act of 1944 -- known as the
GI Bill -- reshaped American society. It lifted hundreds of
thousands of World War II veterans into the middle class through
free college educations and low-cost loans to buy homes and
businesses, and it democratized elite academic bastions such as
Harvard and Yale. Fourteen Nobel Prize winners, three Supreme
Court justices, three presidents, 91,000 scientists and 67,000
doctors went to college on the GI Bill, according to “Over
Here: How the G.I. Bill Transformed the American Dream,” by
Edward Humes (Houghton Mifflin, 2006).  Little remembered is how the landmark bill proved to be a
boon to the for-profit colleges of another era. In the law’s
first five years, more than 5,000 for-profit trade and
vocational schools sprang up, many of questionable quality and
catering exclusively to veterans, according to a federal report.
Congress responded in 1952 by prohibiting for-profit schools
from having more than 85 percent of their students paid for by
Veterans Affairs.  Living Allowances  In framing the new GI Bill for post-9/11 veterans, Congress
sought to discourage them from enrolling in online colleges. The
law, which President Barack Obama co-sponsored as a senator,
gives veterans a living allowance only if they attend a ground
campus. Based on the college’s zip code, the stipend ranges from
less than $1,000 a month in areas with low housing costs to
$2,751 in Manhattan.  Legislators omitted Web-only programs out of concern that
online for-profit colleges would open offices in cities with the
highest housing allowances, said Eric Hilleman, former
legislative director of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. The
colleges could then lure veterans in Oklahoma or Arkansas by
promising them a stipend based on prices in San Francisco or New
York, he said.  ‘Perfect Microcosm’  Congress also wanted to help today’s veterans reintegrate
into society in the same way that the first GI Bill smoothed the
transition for soldiers coming home for World War II.  “The campus environment is a perfect microcosm to help
veterans readjust,” Hilleman said in an interview. “There’s a
ready support network of mental health counseling and career
counseling. It’s a strong way to welcome them home.”  Now, for-profit colleges are pushing Congress to change the
law, arguing that it’s unfair to online students. Minneapolis-
based Capella University urged service members and veterans on
Facebook in June to contact legislators to support a housing
allowance.  The Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee approved a bill on
Aug. 5 that would give online students a half-stipend. On the
House side, a bill filed by Veterans’ Affairs Chairman  Bob Filner , a California Democrat, to provide the same stipend for
online and campus-based learners, has 30 co-sponsors.  “Everything we needed to have fall into place is falling
into place,” said Patrick Campbell, legislative counsel for
Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, a New York-based
nonprofit group.  Drawn Shades  These days, Pantzke keeps the shades drawn in the rented
mobile home in southern Virginia he shares with his wife, 18-
year-old son, and two cats. He spends most of his time in a
living-room armchair, where he works on the computer during the
day and sleeps at night. There’s a fist-sized hole in the wall
near the armchair; he punched it in a moment of frustration with
a college course. He has picked at his skin until scabs riddle
his right hand and arm.  “There’s been several days I’ve been frustrated so bad
I’ve thrown my books around the house, I’ve verbally attacked my
wife and son,” he said. “I’m just unbearable when I have one
of my fits.”  Pantzke has been awarded more than $50,000 in financial aid
since July 2009, about half of it from the new GI Bill,
according to his records. His dissatisfaction boiled over in
July in a required course, “Fundamentals of the Internet,”
when students were asked how they would use absolute and
relative pathnames for hyperlinking.  He posted on the bulletin board that he was “done” with
the class.  By August, Pantzke logged into his classes so seldom that
the school considered him to have withdrawn, he and Muller said.
Now, while Pantzke has re-enrolled at the institute, he may
transfer to a traditional public campus with in-person tutoring
and counseling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Golden  in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  