-- Volcker Says Fixing `Broken' Mortgage Market Should Be Priority
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-09-23T19:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/volcker-says-fixing-absolutely-broken-mortgage-market-should-be-priority.html
The U.S. mortgage market is
“absolutely broken” and changing the government’s role in
housing must be a top priority, said former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , an adviser to President  Barack Obama .  There is “no ready-made, practical alternative” to the
government’s role in the mortgage market through Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, Volcker said in prepared remarks at a banking
conference today in Chicago. Creating a new framework for the
private mortgage market “is a matter of first priority,” he
said.  The U.S. financial system has yet to be repaired, he said.
“We know parts of it are absolutely broken like the mortgage
market,” Volcker said at the 13th Annual International Banking
Conference held at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.  U.S. regulators are implementing the most sweeping overhaul
of financial oversight since the Great Depression. Signed into
law by Obama in July, the rules were prompted by a credit crisis
that triggered the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
pushed the U.S. economy into a recession.  The regulatory changes, named after their principal
authors, Connecticut Senator  Christopher Dodd  and Massachusetts
Representative  Barney Frank , give the government authority to
unwind failing financial firms that may threaten the entire
system, impose new rules on derivatives markets and create a
consumer-protection agency at the Fed to monitor everything from
home loans to credit cards.  Backing Change  The law includes limits to investments by commercial banks
in private equity or hedge funds, known as the “Volcker Rule”
because of Volcker’s advocacy for the change. Under a measure
that may not take full effect for as long as a dozen years,
banks can invest in private-equity and hedge funds, though they
will be limited to providing no more than 3 percent of the
fund’s capital. Banks also can’t invest more than 3 percent of
their Tier 1 capital.  Volcker said the legislation regarding the Volcker Rule,
though it did not go as far as he would have liked, is a
positive step. “By and large the philosophy is embedded in that
legislation and we’ll see whether it gets embedded in
legislation in other countries,” Volcker said.  The use of derivatives has “far exceeded any pressing need
for hedging in real markets or financial markets and has become
a kind of speculative instrument,” the 83-year-old former
central banker said.  The conference was attended by policy makers such as Bank
of Thailand Governor  Tarisa Watanagase  and  Jose De Gregorio ,
president of Chile’s central bank, and officials from the
International Monetary Fund, including  Jose Vinals , director of
its monetary and capital markets department.  Tame Inflation  Volcker is chairman of the president’s Economic Recovery
Advisory Board. As chairman of the Fed from 1979 to 1987, he
raised  interest rates  to as high as 20 percent to tame
inflation, triggering a recession.  Earlier this month at a separate conference in Calgary,
Volcker said the U.S. and European economies may take years to
rebound from the recession, while emerging countries such as
China are undergoing “remarkable” growth.  “It’s going to take a long time to repair the basic
disequilibrium in the economy,” Volcker said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  