-- West Texas Crude Losing Status as Global Benchmark for Oil: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-09-24T20:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/west-texas-crude-losing-status-as-global-benchmark-for-oil-energy-markets.html
The shutdown of a U.S. oil pipeline
that caused prices to fluctuate twice as much as in Europe is
adding to concern that the benchmark contract for crude is
failing to reflect supply and demand for energy.  The eight-day closing of the Enbridge Energy Partners LP 6A
pipeline, which moves 670,000 barrels a day of Canadian oil to
the U.S., caused West Texas Intermediate crude futures to trade
in a $5.29 range on the New York Mercantile Exchange last week.
That compares with $2.65 for the Brent contract in London.  Oil traders say the combination of last week’s price gap,
the widest since May, and near-record supplies at the U.S.
futures delivery point in  Cushing, Oklahoma , has made West Texas
Intermediate, or WTI, an inaccurate indicator for global demand
at a time when the world economy is growing. Saudi Arabian Oil
Co., the world’s biggest producer, stopped using WTI in January.  “WTI has proven itself over the last year to be a less-
than-ideal proxy for global oil demand,” said  Jason Schenker ,
president of Prestige Economics LLC an Austin, Texas-based
consultant. Hedging with WTI exposes market participants to
risks caused by disruptions and gluts in the central U.S.,
Schenker said.  Volatility averaged over the past 20 days for the contract
closest to delivery, a measure of price swings in futures, fell
to 28.6 percent yesterday from a two-week high of 28.8 in New
York, as Brent declined to 17.4 percent from 19, the lowest
level since April 30.  WTI crude oil for November delivery rose $1.31, or 1.7
percent, to settle at $76.49 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange today. Brent crude for November settlement increased 76
cents, or 1 percent, to end the session at $78.87 on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Additional Hedging Cost  While traders profit from wider price swings, increasing
volatility makes it more expensive for producers and consumers
to use futures as a hedge.  Oil in New York touched $78.04 on Sept. 13, the highest
level since Aug. 11, on speculation that the Enbridge pipeline
shutdown would cause refineries in the Midwest to  divert supply 
from Cushing or the Gulf of Mexico.  WTI traded at a discount to Brent of more than $5 a barrel
from May 12 through May 18, the most in more than a year, when
Cushing stockpiles climbed to a record 37.9 million barrels,
according to the Energy Department, which started keeping
records at the storage hub in 2004.  Cushing is landlocked and connected to pipelines that run
to the Gulf Coast, Texas, the Midwest and Alberta. The closure
of one of these pipelines or a nearby refinery can cause either
a surge or drop in supply at the hub. A fire that shut Valero
Energy Corp.’s McKee refinery near Sunray, Texas, left a glut in
Cushing and depressed WTI prices.  Rising Demand  Oil in New York has dropped 3.6 percent this year, while
Brent crude is rose 1.2 percent, reflecting a rebound in demand
as the world economy recovers from the worst recession since
World War II. Global consumption will rise 1.9 million barrels,
or 2.2 percent, to 86.6 million barrels a day this year, the
Paris-based International Energy Agency said in a Sept. 10
report.  Most of the crude shipped by the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries is high in sulfur and heavy, unlike WTI and
Brent. These grades usually trade at a discount to the U.S. and
European benchmarks. OPEC members were responsible for 57
percent of oil exports in 2008, according to the Energy
Department.  Losing Relevance  “WTI is losing relevance because it’s a high-quality, low-
sulfur crude oil, while most of what’s available is heavier,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of consultant Schork Group Inc.
in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “Brent is also a high-quality
grade, although WTI is higher, but it has more global relevance.
WTI is not as accurate a gauge of the global supply-demand
balance.”  Light-sweet grades are less dense and low in  sulfur , making
them easier to refine into gasoline. Heavy and high-sulfur, or
sour, grades require further processing to meet environmental
requirements.  “Brent is now the only truly global crude oil benchmark,”
 David Peniket , president and chief operating officer at ICE
Futures Europe, said in an e-mail today. “We are seeing its use
in the pricing of physical oil increasing, particularly in
Asia.”  The London-based exchange started Brent futures trading in
1988 when it was known as the International Petroleum Exchange,
and began its own WTI contract in 2006, to compete with Nymex.  Nymex Response  “A benchmark is supposed to respond to what happens in the
market,” said  Bob Levin , a New York-based managing director for
commodity research for the Nymex division of the CME Group Inc.
“We think that’s the strength of WTI and that’s why it trades
more.”  WTI oil volume and open interest are greater than for
Brent. Volume on the Texas grade totaled 616,993 contracts
yesterday and open interest was 1.32 million. Brent volume stood
at 344,025 contracts and open interest was 734,742.  Aramco began to use the Argus Sour Crude Index to price oil
for delivery to U.S. customers in January, abandoning WTI, which
had been used since 1994. The index, published by Argus Media
Ltd, is calculated using three U.S. Gulf of Mexico grades:  Mars ,
Poseidon and Southern  Green Canyon .  Aramco’s chief executive officer,  Khalid Al-Falih , said on
Nov. 8 that WTI is disconnected with the overall market because
most of the barrels his country sold were heavier and sour.  “The Saudi move to adopt a Gulf Coast crude index and the
increasing gap between WTI and Brent add to concerns about the
Nymex contract, which seems to be too tied to the dynamics of”
the central U.S., said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 