-- Where's the Beef? Not in Argentina as Drought Drives Away Brazil's JBS
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-09-23T19:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/where-s-the-beef-not-in-argentina-as-drought-drives-jbs-off-cattle-farms.html
Argentines have lost their title as
the world’s biggest beef eaters after the worst drought in 70
years and government export limits led ranchers to reduce the
number of cattle on the Pampas.  Consumption  is slumping to 57.3 kilos (126 pounds) a year,
the lowest since 1958 and below neighboring Uruguay, where each
person consumes as much as 60 kilos annually, according to beef
industry associations in the two countries.  The decline in  cattle numbers  will “be even worse next
year” because fewer calves were born during the two-year
drought that ended in 2009, said  Ricardo Buryaile , a rancher and
congressman who heads the Agriculture and Livestock Committee in
the Lower House.  The reduced herd caused shipments from what was once the
world’s biggest beef exporter to plunge about 50 percent this
year, allowing Uruguay to pass it as a global supplier. The
contraction is hurting meatpacker profits, leading Brazil’s  JBS
SA , the world’s biggest producer of the red meat, to consider
selling plants in Argentina.  Cattle futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange fell for
a fourth day, dropping 0.2 percent to close at 96 cents a pound
at 1:30 p.m. Prices touched a 23-month high of $1.0265 on Sept.
17. In the past year, prices have gained 16 percent.  Joe Schuele , a spokesman for the Denver-based U.S. Meat
Export Federation, said prices have risen because of an
improving world economy and increased demand.  U.S. exporters have “probably made modest gains” as a
result of Argentina’s drop in production, Schuele said.  Rising Prices  Argentine cattle prices almost doubled in 2010 to 6.67
pesos ($1.67) per kilo from 3.46 pesos at Argentina’s largest
market,  the Mercado de Liniers  in Buenos Aires.  Argentina’s Ministry of Agriculture forecasts beef exports
will exceed 360,000 tons in 2010, ministry spokesman Pablo Lopez
said in a Sept. 22 phone interview from Buenos Aires. Last year,
Argentina exported compared 419,337 tons, ministry data show.  Lopez declined to comment on the effect of export controls
on the industry.  Argentina’s drought, which lasted from 2007 until early
last year, parched pastures, cut wheat production to its lowest
since 1975 and reduced soybean harvests by as much as a third,
according to government data.  Faced with a lack of forage and export controls that
prevented prices from reflecting international values, ranchers
sent a record number of animals for slaughter last year,
Buryaile said.  Production Decline  During the past two years, the national herd dropped 15
percent to 49 million head, data produced by the Buenos Aires-
based Argentine Agricultural Sanitary Agency show.  In the first six months of 2010, beef production dropped 21
percent to 1.3 million tons,  according to Argentina’s National 
Beef Promotion Institute, known as IPCVA. In the same period,
 average  per capita consumption fell to an annualized rate of
57.2 kilos from 69 kilos in 2009.  Argentina’s agricultural ministry this year increased
minimum cattle slaughter weights in a bid to curb declining
supplies. Slaughtering heavier cattle will increase inventories
in the long term, the government said. The weight was raised to
165 kilograms on May 1 from a 154-kilogram limit set on April 1.
Before then the limit was 143 kilograms.  Brazil, the world’s second-biggest beef producer and the
leading exporter, processed  8.95 million tons in 2009 , according
to the Washington-based U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Uruguay Gains  In Uruguay, consumption ran at an annualized rate of 58.2
kilos per person in the first eight months of this year, the
same as in 2009, and may rise to as much as 60 kilos per person
by the end of 2010, Beatriz Luna, the spokeswoman for the
Montevideo-based Uruguayan National Beef Institute, or INAC,
said in a telephone interview on Sept. 20.  After overtaking Argentina as a beef exporter, Uruguay now
ranks sixth in the world, with Argentina seventh, according to
Miguel Jairala, a statistician at the Buenos Aires-based IPCVA.  In the first seven months of this year, Argentina’s
shipments abroad fell to 110,000 tons from 222,000 tons a year
earlier,  IPCVA data show . Shipments from Uruguay rose to 161,317
tons from 147,526 in the same period, according to INAC.  A reduction in the herd, rising livestock prices and export
restrictions that Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  introduced in 2008 to guarantee local supplies are
eroding meatpackers’ profits, said  Luciana Leocadio , an analyst
at Rio de Janeiro-based brokerage Ativa Corretora.  Meatpacker Profits  Higher costs at the Argentine unit of Marfrig Alimentos SA,
the world’s fourth-biggest beef producer, will reduce profit at
the Sao Paulo-based company in coming quarters, Leocadio said in
an Aug. 31 research note. Marfrig’s Argentine unit accounts for
about 12 percent of the company’s revenue.  A Marfrig press officer, who can’t be named under company
policy, declined to comment.  JBS SA said on Aug. 29 it may close three of its six plants
in Argentina.  “Every time you think things cannot become worse it
becomes worse,” Joesley  Mendonca Batista , chief executive
officer of Sao Paulo-based JBS, said in an Aug. 16 conference
call with analysts. “We have six factories, four factories are
not operating.”  JBS spokeswoman  Vanessa Esteves  didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking additional comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Dale Crofts in Buenos Aires at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  