-- World Bank's IFC Leads Push for $13 Billion Bad Debt Market: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-09-24T14:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/world-bank-s-ifc-leads-push-for-13-billion-bad-debt-market-russia-credit.html
For the first time, the World Bank
plans to jump-start lending in Russia with a fund that will buy
bad loans from banks, freeing up cash as the demand for credit
surges in the economy of the biggest energy exporter.  The bank’s  International Finance Corp . is in talks with  OAO
Sberbank  and Russia’s Deposit Insurance Agency, which was set up
in 2008 to buy troubled lenders, said  Timothy Krause , the IFC’s
head of financial markets in central and Eastern Europe in
Moscow. The 2.49 percent Ruble Overnight Index Average that
Russian banks charge one another is five times more than the
0.43 percent  Euro Overnight Index Average.   Non-performing corporate loans in Russia are set to rise to
10.5 percent this year from 9.9 percent at a time when
regulators worldwide are increasing capital requirements,,
according to the Moscow-based debt ratings company, Rusrating.
Demand for dollar credit from Russian companies is the highest
since before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse froze
markets two years ago, according to Renaissance Capital.  “You need incentives from official international
institutions to encourage banks to lend,” said  Simon Quijano- Evans , the head of emerging-market strategy at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux in Vienna, in a telephone interview. “Once you start
to see non-performing loans taper off and start to drop then
banks become encouraged that the quality of their loan book is
improving and they can go ahead and lend more.”  Potential Market  Investors in developed countries trade about 20 percent of
non-performing loans. Rusrating estimates Russia’s bad loans
will reach 2.1 trillion rubles ($67 billion) by year-end,
providing a potential $13 billion market, said  Richard Hainsworth , the agency’s founder.  Russia’s total non-performing loans, including retail
credits, will jump to at least 30 percent by 2012 from 25
percent now, according to a Fitch Ratings report on Sept. 16.
Banks may be understating the amount, partly because there are
few buyers for the debt, according to the IFC’s Krause.  The IFC in Washington is aiming to replicate in Russia its
project for China during the 1990s, when the lender provided
financing for the first corporate debt auction, Krause said. The
IFC participated in taking on as much as 50 percent of
distressed loans from China’s banks, Krause said.  ‘Matter of Time’  The IFC plans to buy more than $100 million of delinquent
company loans in Russia and the central and eastern Europe
region, Krause said. Varde Partners, the Minneapolis-based buyer
of distressed debt that is leading the discussions, is likely to
invest as much as 350 million euros ($490 million), Krause said.  Rick Noel , a partner at Varde in London, declined to
comment in an e-mailed response to questions. Moscow-based
Sberbank’s press service didn’t return calls. Konstantin
Kreventsov, a spokesman for the Deposit Insurance Agency in
Moscow, also didn’t respond to calls.  “The market for non-performing loans is an established
asset class in countries such as Germany, so it’s just a matter
of time before it develops in Russia,”  Leonid Slipchenko , a
banking analyst at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said in a
telephone interview.  Russia’s retail banks are already selling delinquent debt,
including Moscow-based Renaissance Credit, the consumer finance
arm of Renaissance Group, VTB Group’s VTB-24 and Home Credit &
Finance Bank, according to Slipchenko. Almost all of the $1
billion of problem loans traded in Russia are retail, said
Hainsworth at Rusrating.  Bigger Discount  Investors will demand bigger discounts on Russian bad debt
than on European or U.S. loans because bank finances are less
transparent and lower trading levels make the obligations harder
to buy and sell, Hainsworth said. Russian banks would need to
write down their loans by 94 to 96 percent, he said. The
discount is typically 90 to 95 percent in European and U.S.
markets,  Rustam Botashev , deputy head of research at UniCredit
SpA in Moscow, said in a phone interview yesterday.  “The IFC is lobbying for some Sberbank and other bank
portfolios,” said Hainsworth. “It’s possible they will do a
deal but it is a political decision. The banks want to see more
certainty about prices before entering the market.”  Banks won’t want to sell loans owed by the largest Russian
companies, UniCredit’s Botashev said. “We could see the market
develop for small-to-medium sized enterprises but the banks are
going to want to carry on dealing directly with the oligarchs
and developers who owe billions of rubles,” Botashev said.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 7 basis point to 223 today,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ indexes. The
difference compares with 164 for debt of similarly rated Mexico
and 204 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by
Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 61 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell 7 basis
points to 4.543 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 23. The
price of country’s ruble notes due August 2016 rose, pushing the
yield 4 basis points lower to 7.48 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was unchanged at 166 basis
points, according to data provider CMA today. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Basel Rules  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 2 basis points more the contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The ruble climbed 0.8 percent to 30.7755 per dollar today,
its strongest level since Sept. 14. Non-deliverable forwards, or
NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of currency
movements and interest rate differentials and allow companies to
hedge against currency movements, show the ruble at 30.9710 per
dollar in three months.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision reached an
agreement this month on rules that more than double capital
requirements for banks, while giving them as long as eight years
to comply.  ‘Sensible Idea’  Russia’s government expects a resumption of bank lending
and declining overdue loans to help spur an upgrade of Russia’s
credit ratings, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  told reporters in
Moscow on Sept. 21. The economy may expand 4.4 percent this
year, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said in Sochi on Sept. 17,
more than the official forecast of 4 percent, after a 7.9
percent contraction in 2009, the worst slump since Soviet times.
The government has issued more than 2 trillion rubles in
emergency loans to help the financial industry overcome the
crisis, Putin said.  Bank Rossii, which said in November that non-performing
loans are “near a peak,” has cut its key  interest rates  14
times since April to stimulate borrowing.  “The situation with bad loans in Russia appears to have
stabilized,” said  Neil Shearing , senior emerging-market
economist at London-based research consultancy Capital Economics
Ltd. The IFC fund “sounds like a sensible idea, but whether or
not it will persuade banks to lend again depends on the macro
situation, and that comes down to oil in the long run,” he
said.  Record Profit  Sberbank  said in June its non-performing loans climbed to
464 billion rubles on March 31, or 8.9 percent of lending, from
8.5 percent at the start of this year, as it reported record
earnings in the first quarter. VTB Group, the second-largest
lender, posted a record profit in the first half from a loss a
year earlier on Sept. 2, and said its problem-loan ratio fell to
9.5 percent from 9.8 percent at the end of 2009, according to a
statement on the company’s website. U.S commercial non-
performing loans are at 8.8 percent, according to Federal
Reserve data.  “The crisis of short-term liquidity is over” for Russian
lenders,  Garegin Tosunyan , president of the Russian Association
of Banks, told a conference in Nizhny Novgorod on Aug. 26.
Still, “credit is stagnating” because banks are “more serious
about risks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  