-- Yale Women's Ice Hockey Player Completes Stem-Cell Transplant Procedure
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-09-23T19:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/yale-women-s-ice-hockey-player-completes-stem-cell-transplant-procedure.html
Yale University women’s ice
hockey player  Mandi Schwartz  underwent a stem-cell
transplant yesterday as doctors attempt to re-grow the
infection-fighting white blood cells she needs to survive.  Doctors, who eradicated her cancer cells with multiple
chemotherapy and radiation treatments Sept. 15 through 20
at the  University of Washington Medical Center  in Seattle,
used stem cells from two anonymous umbilical cord blood
donors to re-grow healthy, cancer-free cells.  Dean I. Forbes, a spokesman for the Seattle Cancer
Care Alliance, said there were no complications during the
30-minute procedure. Schwartz will remain in the hospital
for three to four weeks while the donor cells grow, he
said.  “She can be one very aggressive girl,” Mandi’s
mother, Carol, wrote on her website. “She will win!”  Yale’s athletic department held drives each of the
past two springs, registering more than 1,600 people with
the National Marrow Donor Program’s “Be The Match”
registry. Drives held in Canada added 2,600 to the Canadian
version of the registry.  Schwartz, 22, an economics major from Wilcox,
Saskatchewan, was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia in
December 2008. The cancer starts inside the bone marrow and
grows from cells that were supposed to become white blood
cells.  When doctors couldn’t find a bone marrow donor, they
turned to umbilical cord blood.  Mandi’s parents, Carol and Rick, and her fiance,
Kaylem Prefontaine, traveled to Seattle for the operation.
Her younger brothers, Jaden and Rylan, both ice hockey
players at Colorado College, visited. Jaden was selected in
the first round (No. 14 overall) of the National Hockey
League draft by the St. Louis Blues in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  