-- Yen Weakens on Speculation Japan Is Intervening to Curb Gains
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-09-24T09:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/yen-weakens-on-speculation-japan-will-intervene-to-curb-gains-in-currency.html
The yen fell versus the dollar and
euro on speculation Japan sold its currency after intervening in
the foreign-exchange market last week for the first time in six
years.  Japan’s currency slid 1 percent in a 10-minute period after
Kyodo News cited an unidentified market source as saying Japan
sold the yen today to protect exporters. The yen subsequently
regained most of the decline. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
said earlier today the government may take “bold” action to
curb excessive yen moves. The euro advanced against the dollar
after German business confidence unexpectedly rose.  “It seems there was some mild intervention today,” said
 Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist at UniCredit SpA
in Milan. “We can imagine that the Bank of Japan will intervene
again in more depth, so traders should be very cautious.”  The yen dropped 0.3 percent to 84.60 per dollar at 9:32
a.m. in London from 84.38 in New York yesterday, after earlier
falling as much as 1.2 percent, the most since Japan intervened
on Sept. 15. The currency weakened 0.8 percent to 113.24 per
euro. The dollar was 0.6 percent weaker at $1.3328 per euro,
leaving it down 2.6 percent this week.  Japan’s currency has gained 1.4 percent against the yen
since Sept. 15. Intervention that day pushed the yen down to a
one-month low from the strongest level in 15 years.  The yen also weakened as Reuters reported that Bank of
Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  may resign. The central bank
later denied the speculation, saying Shirakawa had no plans to
step down.  Outlasting Speculators  Morgan Stanley forecasts the yen will weaken to 93 per
dollar by year-end, predicting Japanese policymakers will
outlast speculators, according to a research note yesterday.  Japan “will again aggressively intervene in the foreign-
exchange markets,” wrote  Calvin Tse , a currency strategist at
Morgan Stanley in New York. “If they intervene with enough
vigor, this may prompt many market participants, who are
currently very long yen, to unwind their positions.”  Europe’s common currency rose against 14 of its 16 most-
actively traded peers. The Munich-based Ifo institute said its
business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
increased to 106.8 from 106.7 in August, the highest since June
2007. Economists had expected a drop to 106.4, according to the
median of 36 forecasts in Bloomberg News survey.  The dollar headed for a second weekly drop against the euro
on concern the Federal Reserve is moving closer to boosting debt
purchases. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks at Princeton
University on lessons from the global financial crisis.  Bernanke and his fellow policy makers said Sept. 21 they
were willing to do more to spur growth and support prices,
indicating they may add securities to the Fed’s holdings, a
measure known as quantitative easing, or QE.  Nomura Forecast  “The Fed’s emphasis on low inflation means the market will
continue to speculate on a new round of quantitative easing,
beginning perhaps as soon as November,” said  Imre Speizer , a
market strategist in Wellington, New Zealand, at Westpac Banking
Corp. “That will keep the dollar under pressure.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. yesterday forecast the dollar would
weaken by year-end and into 2011 on expectations the Fed will
extend purchases of Treasuries into the fourth quarter.  The company lowered its projection for the dollar to end
2010 at $1.35 per euro, compared with $1.25. Nomura forecast the
greenback at 1.04 Swiss franc, compared with 1.12.  “European currencies are likely to respond the most,
especially now that Japan has started to intervene to reduce
strengthening pressure on the yen,” analysts led by  Jens Nordvig , managing director of currency research at Nomura in New
York, wrote in a note.  Ireland’s Banks  Futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange show a 62
percent chance the Fed will keep its target rate for overnight
bank lending between zero and 0.25 percent through its June 2011
meeting, compared with a 52 percent probability a month ago.  Gains in the euro were tempered on concern Ireland’s
banking crisis will worsen, diminishing the appeal of assets in
the 16-nation region.  The cost to insure Ireland’s debt climbed to a record
yesterday on speculation Anglo Irish Bank Corp. won’t pay back
bondholders in full.  “There are worries over Ireland and equities are
falling,” said  Satoshi Okagawa , head of the foreign exchange
and money trading group in Singapore at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp., a unit of Japan’s third-largest banking group. “This may
be leading to euro selling.”  Investors are fleeing Irish bonds on concern bank bailout
costs and a shrinking economy will hinder efforts to curb the
European Union’s largest budget deficit. Government guarantees
covering some of the subordinated debt sold by the nation’s
banks come to an end next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  