-- Yields Hit Five-Month Low as Central Bank Prints Pesos: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-09-23T03:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/yields-hit-five-month-low-as-central-bank-prints-pesos-argentina-credit.html
Record demand from Argentine banks
and companies is pushing yields on four-month notes to the 
lowest since April as the central bank accelerates the printing
of pesos.  The yield on the central bank debt, known as Lebacs,
fell to 11.9 percent at this week’s sale. The Sept. 21 auction
of 2.5 billion pesos ($633 million) of Lebacs attracted a
record 4.7 billion pesos of bids.  Central bank President  Mercedes Marco  del Pont, who was
nominated yesterday to continue at the bank after her term was
set to expire, is spurring  money supply  growth by selling
pesos for dollars to weaken the currency and shore up exports.
Marco del Pont may boost Lebac sales by 10 percent by the end of
the year to mop up more of the pesos she’s printing, said former
central banker  Aldo Ruben Pignanelli .  “Liquidity is growing at a relatively fast pace,” said
 Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group in New York.
“If the central bank was seriously committed to keeping
inflation under control, they would have to step up
significantly the level of the weekly auctions of Lebacs.”  Central bank dollar purchases to weaken the peso pushed
Argentina’s foreign  reserves  to a record $51.2 billion this
week. Nations from Japan to Colombia are also buying dollars to
prevent their currencies from strengthening. In neighboring
Brazil, the central bank last week bought as much as $1 billion 
a day.  Printing Pesos  Argentina’s local debt sales “demonstrate the difficulty
the government has absorbing all the money it is printing to buy
dollars,” Pignanelli said in a telephone interview in Buenos
Aires yesterday.  An Argentina central bank official in Buenos Aires, who
asked not to be identified by name in accordance with official
policy, declined to comment.  Argentine banks’ liquid assets rose to 81.2 billion pesos
in July, a 32.9 percent jump on the year, the central bank said
in its most recent bank sector report released Sept. 16.  The total supply of central bank debt maturing in one month
to three years rose to 60.4 billion pesos from 34.1 billion in
June of last year. It sold 2.4 billion pesos of the
securities Sept. 21 with fixed yields as high as 14.2 percent.  ‘Not Enough’  “What they are doing in terms of increasing the size of
Lebacs is still not enough,” Ramos said.  The weekly auctions have been closed to international
investors since 2007, while the central bank opened them in July
to local companies that can buy notes maturing in up to 90 days.  The central bank will announce next week’s auction on Sept.
27 and release results late the next day. Among other debt
sales, Buenos Aires province officials are meeting with
investors in Europe and the U.S. this week about plans to sell
about $500 million in debt, said a ministry official who
declined to be identified because the terms haven’t been
completed.  Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona SA, an Argentine
manufacturer of turbines and generators, may sell $275 million
of 10-year bonds to yield 10.75 percent, said a person familiar
with the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  Airport Bonds  Shareholders of Aeropuertos Argentinas 2000 SA, the
country’s main airport operator, last week approved plans to
sell as much as $300 million in bonds.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt
declined one basis points yesterday to 750. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 683, according to JPMorgan.  The peso was little changed at 3.9511 per dollar.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy slid 0.01 cent to 11.75 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  central bank  forecasts Argentina’s economy will grow as
much as 9.5 percent in 2010, the highest since 1992.  Higher monetary targets will ensure policy won’t be
“restrictive or inhibit economic growth,” Marco del Pont said
in an Aug. 26 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  