-- Zain Kenya Plans to Overtake Safaricom in Mobile Market by 2014, CEO Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-09-23T14:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-23/zain-kenya-plans-to-overtake-safaricom-in-mobile-market-by-2014-ceo-says.html
Zain Kenya, a unit of  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. , plans to overtake market leader  Safaricom Ltd.  to become
the east African nation’s largest mobile phone operator within
three to four years, Managing Director Rene Meza said today.  Over the next 18 months, the company plans to spend 28
billion shillings ($345 million) expanding Internet coverage to
rural areas and rolling out a third-generation network by year-
end, Meza said in an interview in Kenya’s capital, Nairobi.  That’s more than double the planned investment cited in
July by  Manoj Kohli , chief executive officer of Bharti’s African
unit.  Kenya’s four mobile-phone operators started slashing call
charges last month after the  Communications Commission of Kenya 
halved the fee providers charge each other to carry cross-
network traffic. Zain led reductions by halving its rates to 3
shillings a minute for calls and 1 shilling for a text message.  “Prices in the market are sustainable” for Zain as long
as the company adds new customers, maintains a “low-cost
structure” and increases call volumes, Meza said. On average,
Africa’s mobile phone users talk for about 70 minutes per month
compared with 450 minutes per month in India, he said. “Our
business is about generating volumes,” Meza said.  Zain Kenya plans to attract customers by offering the
lowest prices and it is now signing up 60 percent of new clients
to the domestic telecommunications industry, Meza said.  Currently, Safaricom is Kenya’s largest mobile-phone
operator with 15.8 million subscribers and 78.3 percent market
share, followed by Zain, which has 2.5 million subscriptions.
They rival Telkom Kenya Ltd., a unit of  France Telecom SA , and
Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd., a unit of India’s Essar Group, in a
country where economic growth has helped boost mobile phone
penetration to about 51 percent in a population of 38.6 million.  By the end of next month, Zain aims to recruit as many as
25,000 Zap agents across the country, compared to 3,000
currently, to help boost the popularity of its mobile phone
money transfer service, Meza said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  