-- China New Latin Bad Boy Replacing the U.S.: Alexandre Marinis
-- Alexandre Marinis
-- 2009-06-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-06-30/china-new-latin-bad-boy-replacing-the-u-s-alexandre-marinis.html

          
          
             For the past 50 years, Latin
Americans had a love-hate relationship with the U.S. They loved
American entertainment and hated U.S. foreign policies. They had
particular disdain for Washington’s support for Latin dictators
in the 1960s and 1970s, its campaign against Cuba and, more
recently, just about everything associated with  George W. Bush .  
 Fortunately, anti-U.S. feelings in the region are about to
subside due to momentous changes now occurring. Think of them as
C-3PO. I’m not referring to the android from “Star Wars.” This
is an acronym for crisis, Cuba, China, protectionism, and Obama.
Let’s take them in order.  
 -- The global economic crisis, born on Wall Street and
exported to the rest of the world, has taught everyone a few
things about the U.S. Namely, American economic policies and
financial products aren’t risk-free and shouldn’t blindly be
embraced by other nations.  
 Paradoxically, the worldwide recession will help improve
relations between the U.S. and Latin America. Chastened by the
economic crisis and Iraq War, the U.S. now is less arrogant.
This resonates with Latin Americans in particular, following
decades of being bullied by the superpower.  
 The world’s economic woes have made Latin Americans feel
more pride and confidence in their ability to solve domestic
problems. After all, for the first time in many years, a global
monetary crisis wasn’t caused by the region’s debt default,
currency devaluation or hyperinflation.  
 Rethinking Cuba  
 -- Though irrelevant in terms of the global economy, Cuba
has been a powerful political symbol. Consider how much has
changed.  Fidel Castro  retired. The Organization of American
States agreed to readmit the communist nation after 47 years of
banishment.  
 Also, the U.S. is likely to lift its trade embargo against
Cuba in the near future. Once that happens Cuba won’t be able to
blame the U.S. for its economic backwardness.  
 Over time, these developments will bring closure and
psychological comfort to leftist Latin leaders who built their
political careers in the 1960s and 1970s believing that
communism represented a viable alternative to the U.S.  
 It’s getting more difficult for Latin leaders to blame
U.S.-backed policies for their own misfortunes. Case in point:
The demise of the so-called Washington Consensus, a package of
economic policies the U.S. foisted on developing nations
starting in late 1980s. American politicians argued the measures
promoted the benefits of the free market. Their Latin
counterparts said the measures worsened economic instability.  
 Here Comes China  
 -- Latin Americans share this deep-seated belief: their
region’s social inequality and economic underdevelopment have
been largely due to the exploitation of its vast natural
resources by the developed world, first Europe and then, after
World War II, the U.S.  
 This explains why Venezuela’s President  Hugo Chavez  gave
 Barack Obama  a copy of  Eduardo Galeano ’s “Open Veins of Latin
America: Five Centuries of the Pillage of a Continent”  during
the annual Summit of the Americas in April. The well-publicized
gesture boosted the 1971 classic to No. 2 on Amazon.com’s
bestseller list, up from No. 54,295.  
 Too bad Chavez presented it to the wrong president. China,
not the U.S., looms as the region’s largest and most feared
investor and trade partner.  
 China has already surpassed the U.S. as the largest buyer
of Brazilian exports. It’s taking advantage of the world credit
crunch to buy Latin American companies and provide loans to the
continent’s nations in exchange for the guaranteed supply of raw
materials -- oil, iron ore, soy beans -- the Chinese need to
sustain  economic growth.   
 Protectionism Increases  
 -- Latin Americans are already wondering when China will
replace the U.S. as the latest economic powerhouse to plunder
the region’s natural resources. Brazil’s  Vale SA , the world’s
largest iron-ore exporter, already sells 70 percent of its
production to China and was pressured by Chinese clients to
lower prices.  
 While China becomes the largest buyer of raw materials and
commodities produced in Latin America, low-priced Chinese goods
flood the region. Local makers of shoes, textiles and toys have
been forced out of the market by Chinese competitors and are
pressuring government officials to file antidumping cases
against China.  
 Although only 13 percent of Brazil’s imports come from
China, the Asian country is the target of 35 percent of the 123
antidumping investigations opened by the Brazilian government as
of late March, according to the National Confederation of
Industry.  
 The Obama Effect  
 -- Don’t be surprised if some Latin leaders who now oppose
the U.S. -- including Venezuela’s Chavez,  Evo Morales  in
Bolivia,  Rafael Correa  in Ecuador and even  Cristina Fernandez Kirchner  in Argentina -- suddenly soften their stance. You may
even hear them parrot Obama’s rhetoric encouraging developing
nations to adopt better environmental and labor practices.  
 Obama already appeals to many Latin American presidents as
a completely different kind of U.S. leader. “Obama is the first
U.S. president in many decades who looks like us,” said
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva.  
 The sooner Obama lifts the U.S. embargo on Cuba and
reinforces trade ties with Latin America to prevent China from
becoming the region’s new looter, the sooner leftist Latin
leaders will see him as an ally rather than an enemy.  
 ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 For Related News and Information:
More Marinis columns: NI MARINIS <GO>
More commentary: NI COLUMNS BN <GO>
Top opinion menu: OPED <GO>
More news on Latin America economies: TNI LATAM ECO <GO>  
          
          


  


        