-- Dell investors seen looking past probes to revamp
-- By  Philipp Gollner
-- Fri May 11, 2007 12:31pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/11/businesspro-dell-dc-idUSN1145663520070511

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Dell Inc. DELL.O investors 
appear to be looking beyond investigations into the computer 
maker's accounting and betting that founder Michael Dell and 
his new team can turn the company around. 

  Dell shares are up more than 8 percent since the company 
said on March 29 it was moving toward a conclusion of an 
internal accounting audit. The stock is now more richly valued 
than Hewlett-Packard Co. ( HPQ.N ), which overtook Dell as the PC 
market share leader last year.  "What investors are focusing on is less the ramifications 
of the accounting investigation and (more) on the fundamentals 
of the business," said Brent Bracelin, an analyst at Pacific 
Crest Securities who has an "outperform" rating on Dell stock.  Many expect great things from Michael Dell, who resumed his 
old job as chief executive earlier this year and has been 
recruiting new executives.  "You have a whole new management team. That's what 
investors are focusing on," Bracelin said.
  ACCOUNTING DILEMMA  Dell in a March 29 release said it had found "evidence of 
misconduct" and accounting errors.  It only notified investors in August that the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission had been reviewing its 
finances for a full year, and the company has released few 
details about the accounting probes.  But some analysts including Merrill Lynch & Co.'s Richard 
Farmer believe that if Dell had uncovered problems warranting a 
significant restatement of past results, it would have said so 
on March 29.  Goldman Sachs analyst Laura Conigliaro, who has a "buy" 
rating on Dell, wrote in a recent note that "Dell should be 
able to resolve its SEC investigation over the next few 
months."  A conclusion would allow the company to resume share 
buybacks suspended during the review and to give more details 
on its turnaround plans, she added.  Conigliaro also wrote that Dell's fiscal first-quarter 
profit margins may show improvement as prices for components 
such as memory, hard-disk drives and monitors fell in April. 
She expects revenue to slightly exceed analysts' average 
forecast of $14 billion. Dell is scheduled to report quarterly 
results on May 31.
  DELL RUNNING DELL  Michael Dell has taken a number of steps to turn around the 
company, while cautioning that the changes will take several 
quarters to bear fruit.  The company in January hired Donald Carty, the former CEO 
of American Airlines parent AMR Corp. AMR.N, to replace James 
Schneider as chief financial officer. In February, the CEO 
added Motorola Inc.'s MOT.N Ron Garriques to head a new 
global consumer unit and Solectron Corp.'s SLR.N Michael 
Cannon to oversee operations.  The company last year lost the top PC market share spot to 
HP and Michael Dell last month said that the direct-sales model 
that made the company the largest PC maker "is not a religion," 
the first time he has publicly expressed openness to 
experimenting with other sales strategies.  Dell's stock has been overshadowed by HP's resurgence and 
the accounting investigations for the past year. Shares of Palo 
Alto, California-based HP have risen 36 percent in the past 12 
months, and were trading at $44.92 on the New York Stock 
Exchange on Friday.  In the same time period, Dell is up only 3.3 percent. The 
stock was trading at $25.75 a share on Nasdaq.  But with the recent stock gains, Dell now trades at about 
23.4 times expected 2007 earnings per share compared with HP's 
multiple of 16.2.  HP's stock "has been a champ, but ironically it's 
underperformed Dell in the last quarter," said American 
Technology Research analyst Shaw Wu, who has a "neutral" rating 
on Dell shares and does not own any.