-- Steve Jobs defends options record at Apple meeting
-- By  Duncan Martell
-- Thu May 10, 2007 11:32pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/11/businesspro-apple-annualmeeting-dc-idUSN1048214920070511

 

 CUPERTINO, California  (Reuters) - Apple Inc. ( AAPL.O ) Chief 
Executive Steve Jobs defended the company's record on stock 
option grants and joked about his $1-a-year salary in a 
spirited exchange at the computer and iPod maker's annual 
meeting on Thursday. 

  "What did you know and when did you know it?" an AFL-CIO 
union representative asked Jobs about back-dated options 
granted to senior executives at Apple.  Cupertino, California,-based Apple previously said an 
internal review found two questionable options awarded to Jobs, 
but found no wrongdoing by him or other current management.  The SEC said late last month that it would not bring 
charges against Apple based in part "on its swift, extensive 
and extraordinary cooperation" in the investigation.  Jobs read that statement aloud during the question and 
answer session of the annual meeting at which the discussion 
about options and executive compensation arose.  "I think I'm going to read that sentence again," Jobs said. 
And then he did.  "Unless you think there's a conspiracy with the SEC, I 
don't know what to say," Jobs said.  Apple said in December it would take an $84 million charge 
for misdating more than 6,400 stock options.  Apple is among dozens of companies under scrutiny for their 
accounting of stock options granted to executives. The main 
issue for many companies is whether they changed the date of 
stock options grants to take advantage of a temporary decline 
in the underlying share price.  As expected, all six shareholder proposals were defeated. 
Two of the six, which asked Apple to be more environmentally 
responsible, were withdrawn at the meeting following a letter 
that Jobs posted earlier this month on Apple's Web site about 
the company's environmental policies.  Shareholders pressed Jobs about what determines his 
compensation. Jobs has for years taken $1 a year in salary, and 
the Apple co-founder said: "I get 50 cents a year for just 
showing up. The other 50 cents is based on my performance."  Shares of Apple closed at a record $107.34, up 46 cents.