-- L'Oreal Heiress Bettencourt Asks Court to Block Media Use of Butler's Tape
-- Heather Smith
-- 2010-07-21T17:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/l-oreal-heiress-bettencourt-ask-court-to-block-media-use-of-butler-s-tapes.html

          
          
             L’Oreal SA  heiress  Liliane Bettencourt  asked a Paris court to block a news website’s use of
recordings that sparked a political scandal and led police to
seek to question a member of President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
government.  
 Bettencourt’s right to privacy trumps the freedom of the
press claimed by the website,  Mediapart , her lawyer told the
Paris appeals court. A lower court was wrong to allow the
recordings of conversations she had with friends and advisers to
be used because of their news value, he said.  
 The right to privacy “is fundamental in French law,”
Bettencourt’s lawyer  Thierry Marembert  said in court today.
“These conversations were of a personal nature,” including
several with another of her lawyers.  
 The recordings, made by Bettencourt’s former butler
provided a window into the life of Europe’s richest woman and
sparked a political storm over alleged campaign finance law
violations, tax evasion and influence peddling touching both
Sarkozy and Labor Minister  Eric Woerth . Bettencourt is also
seeking to block the magazine  Le Point  from publishing excerpts
of the recordings.  
 Mediapart contends “that the information had a legitimate
purpose,” said Jean-Pierre Mignard, a lawyer for the news site.
Mediapart restricted its use of the tapes to issues of concern
to French citizens, putting their use outside the protection of
private life, he said.  
 Bettencourt’s Only Child  
 The tapes, made between May 2009 and May 2010, were turned
over to Bettencourt’s only child, who gave them to police. They
appeared on Mediapart in June, just before a trial over the
daughter’s claims her mother was manipulated into giving away 1
billion euros ($1.28 billion) in gifts to a photographer friend.  
 “All France is talking about nothing but this,” said
Renaud Le Gunehec, a lawyer for Le Point. The affair has
provoked debate over issues like judicial reform, tax laws, and
campaign finance, he said, validating the use of the recordings.  
 Bettencourt is joined in her suit by  Patrice de Maistre ,
general director of Thethys SAS, the company set up by the
Bettencourt family to manage their nearly  31 percent stake  in
L’Oreal, the cosmetics company founded by her father.  
 Dissemination of excerpts in which de Maistre asked
Bettencourt to buy him a boat led to him “being condemned by
public opinion,” said the financial advisor’s lawyer, Pascal
Wilhelm, adding that using just snippets of the conversations
was “intellectually dishonest” and “not journalism.”  
 70,000 Euros  
 Bettencourt and de Maistre asked the appeals court to order
the removal of the transcripts, audio files and related stories
and for 70,000 euros in damages.  
 The trial over Bettencourt’s daughter’s claims was
postponed indefinitely to investigate the recordings on July 1.
That same day the lower court in Paris ruled it would allow the
recordings’ use, saying removing them “would restrain
journalists’ ability to effectively fulfill their mission in an
excessive and unjustified way.”  
 Sarkozy’s cabinet today approved the Nanterre prosecutor’s
request to question Woerth. Woerth’s wife, Florence, was
questioned today by police about her former work for de Maistre
in counseling Bettencourt on financial matters. She quit last
month after the tapes exposed her position to scrutiny for a
possible conflict of interest, because of her husband’s former
post overseeing tax policy.  
 An investigation was opened today into slander claims by
Woerth over media reports alleging he improperly used his
position to aid his wife, said a spokeswoman for the prosecutor
in Nanterre, the Paris suburb where most of the related
inquiries are being conducted.  
 The court will issue its decision July 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        