-- `Rock Star' Bachmann Outraises Most Colleagues in U.S. House
-- Jonathan D. Salant
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/-rock-star-bachmann-outpaces-most-u-s-house-colleagues-in-raising-money.html

          
          
             One of the U.S. House’s most
successful fundraisers this year doesn’t have a leadership job
and isn’t rated an endangered incumbent.  
 Still, Representative  Michele Bachmann , a Minnesota
Republican, collected $4.1 million for her campaign committee
through June 30 -- an amount exceeded among House members only
by the chamber’s two top  Republican leaders ,  John Boehner  of
Ohio and  Eric Cantor  of Virginia,  Federal Election Commission 
records show. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
took in $2 million.  
 Bachmann, 54, raised $1.7 million between April 1 and June
30, more than any other House member during that period.  
 “The Bachmann race has transcended ordinary local House-
district politics, with Bachmann’s rock-star conservative
persona attracting funds both in support of her and against
her,” said  Rogan Kersh , associate dean at New York University’s
 Wagner School  of Public Service.  
 Bachmann’s fundraising reach underscores her growing
political profile since she gained national prominence during
the 2008 presidential race. Weeks before the election, she
questioned whether Democratic nominee Barack Obama held anti-
American views. Now, when she speaks, her comments typically
dart through the conservative blogosphere.  
 Adam Brandon, a spokesman for the Washington-based group
FreedomWorks, calls Bachmann “one of the first Internet rock
stars.” FreedomWorks, headed by former House Majority Leader
 Dick Armey , a Texas Republican, is allied with the Tea Party
movement that promotes significantly limited government.  
 Political Switch  
 Bachmann, a former Democrat who worked for  Jimmy Carter ’s
successful 1976 presidential campaign and then supported
Republican  Ronald Reagan  in the 1980 election, has become a
frequent speaker at Tea Party rallies. At one such gathering in
Washington on April 15, she denounced “gangster government.”  
 Endorsed for re-election by Tea Party activists, she  has
formed  a Tea Party Caucus in the House. She is holding a press
conference today to discuss that effort.  
 With a perfect 100 percent rating for her House votes from
the  American Conservative Union , she opposed taxpayer aid to
financial institutions passed in 2008, the economic stimulus
bill approved in 2009 and this year’s health-care overhaul
measure. On a talk radio program in June, she said there was
“no question” Obama is the worst president in U.S. history.  
 Democratic Challenger  
 Opponents of Bachmann’s views, including unions, have
helped pump more than $2 million into the campaign of her
Democratic challenger in this November’s election, state Senator
 Tarryl Clark . The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee
has targeted Bachmann for defeat and is raising money for Clark.  
 Bachmann “is a national lightning rod, who can raise
conservative money for herself and liberal money for her
opponent,” said  John Fortier , a fellow at the  American
Enterprise Institute , a Washington-based research group.  
 A lawyer and former state senator, Bachmann was first
elected to the House in 2006. She sits on the  House Financial
Services Committee .  
 Bachmann has received donations from political action
committees set up by companies including  Bank of America Corp .,
 General Electric Co.  and  Honeywell International Inc .
“Honeywell’s political action committee supports those who
support the policies that are most important to our company,”
said  Rob Ferris , a spokesman for the Morris Township, New
Jersey-based company.  
 Small Donors  
 Most of Bachmann’s money has come in through small-dollar
donations. She raised more than $1 million in the last three
months in contributions of less than $200 apiece.  
 Her supporters are “speaking with their pocketbooks in
support of Congresswoman Bachmann’s message to restrain out-of-
control government spending and say, ‘Enough is enough,’” said
her campaign manager, Gina Countryman.  
 Another outspoken Republican, Representative  Joe Wilson  of
South Carolina, also raised $4.1 million for his re-election
through June 30. Wilson shouted “you lie” at Obama during the
president’s speech to a joint session of Congress in September.
Democratic challenger Rob Miller raised $2.5 million.  
 Cantor, the Republican whip, led all House candidates by
raising $4.7 million through June 30, FEC records show. Boehner,
the Republican leader, raised $4.5 million. House Majority
Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat, raised $3.3 million.  
 Congressional leaders typically use some of the donations
they amass to help their party’s candidates.  
 Bachmann spent $1.9 million through June 30, including
$905,709 in the second quarter, according to the FEC records.
More than half of her expenditures between April and June,
almost $560,000, was spent on efforts to raise more money.  
 Re-election Favorite  
 The nonpartisan  Cook Political Report , which tracks
congressional races, said Bachmann is favored for re-election in
the largely suburban district that surrounds much of Minneapolis
and St. Paul. Republican presidential nominee  John McCain 
carried the district with 53 percent of the vote two years ago.  
 In mid-October of the 2008 campaign, Bachmann said of Obama
that she was “very concerned that he may have anti-American
views.” She also suggested that the media investigate members
of Congress to see if they were “pro-American or anti-
American.”  
 Following those comments, Bachmann’s Democratic opponent in
that year’s election,  Elwyn Tinklenberg , collected $1.3 million
in a week; overall, he raised $3 million. Bachmann raised $3.5
million, including $1 million following her comments, and
defeated Tinklenberg, 46 percent to 43 percent.  
 In this year’s campaign, Clark, 48, raised $2.1 million
through June 30. Clark reported more than 24,000 donors, with an
average contribution of $54, said Carrie Lucking, her
spokeswoman.  
 Her biggest contributions have come from organized labor,
including maximum $10,000 donations from the PACs of the Service
Employees International Union, the Communications Workers of
America and the Teamsters union.  
 Bachmann’s national profile has helped the challenger fill
her campaign coffers, Lucking said. “She needs to be held
accountable for her comments and positions,” Lucking said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bachmann outraises most colleagues in U.S. House  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Minnesota Republican Representative Michele Bachmann raised $1.7 million between April 1 and June
30, more than any other House member during that period. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Minnesota Republican Representative Michele Bachmann raised $1.7 million between April 1 and June
30, more than any other House member during that period. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
