-- Labor Will Ease Ports, Rail Congestion With More Spending, Albanese Says
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-07-21T00:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/labor-will-ease-ports-rail-congestion-with-more-spending-albanese-says.html

          
          
             Australia will increase spending on
roads, railways and ports to address capacity bottlenecks that
threaten exports if the Labor Party wins next month’s election,
Transport and Infrastructure Minister  Anthony Albanese  said.  
 “Infrastructure is a first-order priority for the
government and it will continue to be so -- more will be
announced in coming months,” Albanese said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Infrastructure will be very much part of our
second-term agenda.”  
 The Labor government has announced A$37 billion ($32.7
billion) in transport funding and has so far spent A$15 billion,
including improvements to rail into the Hunter Valley in New
South Wales where  BHP Billiton Ltd. , Rio Tinto Group and Xstrata
Plc mine for coal. Infrastructure projects have created jobs and
boosted the economy, Albanese said.  
 Australia, the world’s largest shipper of coal, iron ore
and alumina, has been hampered by traffic congestion and lack of
capacity at ports and rail lines. The government poured money
into improvements to create jobs and spur spending to safeguard
the A$1.2 trillion economy through the global financial crisis.  
 Building projects include improving metropolitan rail
networks in the nation’s state capitals, expanding the port of
Darwin, and upgrading Network 1, Australia’s busiest road
freight route that stretches along the eastern seaboard from
Melbourne to Cairns.  
 A A$6 billion infrastructure fund announced in May was the
latest commitment to improving the situation. The money will
come from the proceeds of a 30 percent tax on iron ore and coal
earnings at companies like BHP and Rio Tinto. Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  this month watered down a plan by predecessor
 Kevin Rudd  to tax all resource profits by 40 percent.  
 Managing Growth  
 “The extra A$6 billion will build infrastructure in
regions that have been responsible for Australia’s growth in
exports,” Albanese said.  
 The opposition Liberal-National coalition says the
government has “failed” on infrastructure. Opposition
infrastructure spokesman  Barnaby Joyce  said the government had
wasted money on projects, including a shelved program on home
insulation that resulted in the death of four workers and
reported overcharging for school hall construction.  
 Gillard’s government is leading in opinion polls ahead of an
election on August 21. According to a Newspoll survey published
in the Australian newspaper July 19, Labor is ahead by 10
percentage points with 55 percent of voters preferring the
incumbent, up from a 53 percent to 47 percent split three weeks
ago. The July 16-18 poll of 1,140 voters had a margin of error
of 3 percentage points.  
 Boosted by China’s hunger for commodities, Australia’s
economy expanded for a fifth straight quarter in the three
months ended March 31.  
 The infrastructure program has helped keep Australia’s
unemployment rate low, Albanese said. The 5.1 percent rate is
almost half the U.S. and Europe, driven by the need for workers
in Western Australia where more than a third of the nation’s
exports originate.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        