-- Acadian Named by New York City Comptroller as Among 6 Fired Fund Managers
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/acadian-named-by-new-york-city-s-liu-as-among-six-fired-pension-fund-firms.html

          
          
             New York City Comptroller  John Liu 
said  Acadian Asset Management LLC , a Boston company that managed
$646 million for three city pension funds, was one of six
investment advisers dismissed for “poor performance.”  
 Liu’s disclosure yesterday responded to an April 11
Bloomberg News request under the state Freedom of Information
Law that he name the managers he said on April 8 he had fired.
His office said June 11 that Emerald Infrastructure Development
Fund LP and RiverSource Investments LLC were two of the six.  
 The comptroller, elected in November with a vow to open
city finances to more scrutiny, has barred the public from
pension-board deliberations on investment policy. His office
said yesterday it fired Acadian, whose investments for New York
City included Greek stocks, for “underperformance relative to
the market.”  
 “You are directed to cease trading for the accounts as of
close of business on June 8, 2010,” states a letter dated June
9 from  David Jeter , assistant comptroller for asset management.  
 The order to Acadian, which was hired in July 2007, says
assets managed by the firm “were transitioned to other
investment managers” this month.  
 “We also request that all Greek securities held by these
systems be liquidated immediately,” the order says.  
 The pension boards voted April 6 to terminate Acadian,
Sharon Lee, Liu’s spokeswoman, said yesterday. She said the gap
between the June 9-dated order and Liu’s April 8 announcement of
the firings was “part of the process” and didn’t elaborate. On
July 20, she said the office would reveal all six firms by Sept.
15.  
 Investment Losses  
 Acadian managed assets in three city pension funds: for
civilian employees, for police and for firefighters.  
 From July 2007 through May 2010, the $286 million it
managed in the New York City  Employees Retirement System 
covering 300,000 civilian workers had lost 19.4 percent; its
$263 million in the  police fund  lost 17.1 percent, and the $97
million it oversaw in the  firefighters  pension also lost 17.1
percent, Liu’s office said.  
 The funds paid Acadian $7.2 million in management fees in
the period, with another invoice not yet received from Acadian
covering its custody of the funds through the end of June, the
comptroller’s office said.  
 Greek stocks and bonds plunged earlier this year on
speculation the country would default on its debt. As investor
concerns grew about other European countries, the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund created a $150 billion
bailout.  
 Comment Sought  
 A voicemail for  Churchill Franklin , Acadian’s chief
operating officer, wasn’t immediately returned. Acadian has
$49.3 billion under management, according to its June 9
Securities and Exchange Commission registration as an investment
adviser.  
 Five city  pension funds  with $103 billion have investment
policies set by separate boards and are overseen by Liu, 43, the
city’s chief financial officer. All five had liabilities
exceeding assets as of June 30, 2007, the most recent actuarial
valuation in last year’s annual report. To help make up the
difference, the city will spend about $7.6 billion this fiscal
year, or one in five tax dollars, so the funds have enough to
pay benefits.  
 Protecting Assets  
 Liu said in a July 15 interview that it was sometimes
necessary to restrict access to pension investment-committee
meetings and delay disclosure of the names of terminated
managers “to protect the assets.” The policy is unlike that of
funds for police and firefighters in Los Angeles and teachers in
Chicago, and others, which hold open gatherings.  
 Liu first publicly  revealed his dismissal  of the six New
York City pension managers during an April 8 Manhattan breakfast
sponsored by  Crain’s New York Business  magazine.  
 In a news conference afterward, he declined to answer a
question from Bloomberg News seeking to identify the six asset
managers, how much city money they had been given or how much
the pension funds had paid them in fees.  
 The refusal led to the Bloomberg  Freedom of Information Law 
request and Liu’s office said it would respond by June 11. On
that date, Allen Fitzer, the comptroller’s records-access
officer, identified Emerald Infrastructure Development, based in
New York and Belfast, Northern Ireland, and RiverSource
Investments, a subsidiary of Minneapolis-based Ameriprise
Financial Inc., as two of the six.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        