-- Macau Casino Revenue May Rise 72% as Gamblers Return, CLSA, Deutsche Say
-- Wendy Leung
-- 2010-07-21T10:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/macau-casino-revenue-may-rise-72-this-month-as-gamblers-return-clsa-says.html

          
          
             Macau casino gambling revenue may
rise 72 percent this month from a year earlier as gamblers who
wagered on the World Cup resume betting on card games in the
Chinese city, according CLSA Ltd. and Deutsche Bank AG.  
 Casino revenue at the world’s biggest gambling hub may
increase to about 16 billion patacas ($2.1 billion) in July, 21
percent, CLSA’s  Aaron Fischer  and  Huei Suen Ng  and Deutsche’s
 Karen Tang  said in notes to clients. June revenue fell 20
percent from May as the World Cup kept some gamblers away from
the only place in China where casinos are legal.  
 Police in Hong Kong, an hour’s ferry ride from Macau, have
seized records of HK$361 million ($46 million) worth of illegal
bets on  World Cup  games, the South China Morning Post reported
July 17. Revenue for Macau’s casino operators has surged this
year as junket operators, who bring high-stakes gamblers to the
city as well as lend money and collect debts, have benefited
from a  credit boom  in China.  
 Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. , the casino operator part-
owned by Permira Advisers LLP, climbed 4.4 percent to HK$4.50 in
Hong Kong trading while the broader Hang Seng Composite Index
rose 1.2 percent. The stock has gained 40 percent this year.  
 The end of the World Cup on July 11 and the start of the
summer holidays boosted Macau’s revenue in the first 19 days of
July, the CLSA analysts said. “These numbers are expected to
accelerate through until end of the month.”  
 ‘Strong Increase’  
 A “strong increase” in the size of bets placed by high-
limit gamblers drove an 80 percent increase in casino revenue in
the first 19 days of July, Tang said in a note to clients today.
“July is on track for around 16.5 billion patacas in gaming
revenue,” she said.  
 Macau gambling  revenue  rose 67 percent in the first six
months of the year to 86 billion patacas, according to data on
the city’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau website.  
 SJM Holdings Ltd. , controlled by billionaire  Stanley Ho ,
gained 1.6 percent to HK$6.55 in Hong Kong, extending its gain
to 53 percent this year.  Wynn Macau Ltd.  advanced 2 percent to
HK$13.26.  
 Sands China Ltd., Asia’s biggest casino operator by market
value, fell 0.9 percent to HK$11.72.  Melco International
Development Ltd. , which has a casino venture with Australian
billionaire  James Packer ’s Crown Ltd., gained 1.9 percent to
HK$3.18.  
 Deutsche’s Tang said SJM was her top pick among Hong Kong-
listed Macau casino operators. CLSA’s Fischer and Ng selected
 Sands China Ltd. , Wynn Macau and SJM.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        