-- ADB's Madhur Says China May Raise Interest Rates in 2010 to Tame Inflation
-- Tatsuo Ito
-- 2010-07-21T09:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/adb-s-madhur-says-china-may-raise-rates-in-2010-to-curb-inflation-risks.html

          
          
             Chinese policy makers may raise
interest rates this year to cool price pressures, an economist
at the  Asian Development Bank  said, even as slower growth
compels analysts to dismiss higher borrowing costs in 2010.  
 “I don’t rule out the possibility that China may raise
rates this year,” Srinivasa Madhur, senior director of the
ADB’s Office of Regional Economic Integration, which compiles
the lenders’ economic forecasts, said in an interview in Tokyo
today. “China needs to speed up monetary normalization,
preferably by a combination of currency appreciation and
interest-rate adjustment.”  
 Reports last week showed China’s economic expansion eased
to 10.3 percent in the second quarter and industrial production
cooled more than economists forecast in June, signs of slowdown
that may add to risks for the global economy. The data prompted
economists at HSBC Holdings Plc and Barclays Capital to abandon
calls for higher interest rates by year-end.  
 “In our assessment, China is very strong,” Madhur said.
“Inflation is edging up already.”  
 In a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists taken after
last week’s data, nine expected rates to stay unchanged in 2010.
Statistics bureau data showed inflation cooled to 2.9 percent in
June, though prices may gain momentum and increase 3.1 percent
to 3.4 percent this year, China Business News reported yesterday,
citing Xia Bin, an advisor to the central bank.  
 Policy makers in the region have moved to withdraw monetary
stimulus, with central banks from Thailand to Taiwan, Malaysia
and South Korea boosting interest rates in recent weeks. Central
banks in India and Malaysia have raised interest rates three
times this year. Central banks in Indonesia and the Philippines
“can’t wait too long” to join their peers, Madhur said.  
 Ending Peg  
 China last month eliminated the yuan’s peg to the dollar,
allowing gains for the first time since July 2008. China should
accelerate its plans to remove stimulus from the economy to curb
inflation and prevent a “hard landing,” the ADB said.  
 “Over the next 12 to 18 months, interest rates may need to
rise significantly depending on how exchange rate policy is
handled, the degree of fiscal consolidation, and whether growth
moderates from its recent high rates,” the lender said in a
report released yesterday.  
 Letting the yuan appreciate “will help rebalance the
source of growth toward domestic demand rather than external
demand,” Madhur said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
 Tatsuo Ito  in Tokyo at 
 tito2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        