-- Madoff Trustee Sues Fairfield Co-Founder Noel
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-21T17:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/madoff-trustee-sues-fairfield-co-founder-noel-claiming-unjust-enrichment.html

          
          
             Fairfield Greenwich Group’s co-
founder  Walter Noel  was sued by the trustee overseeing the
liquidation of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm as part of an amended
lawsuit that names 43 new defendants.  
 Noel and the other defendants worked with Madoff and his
firm “to commit, and exponentially expand, the single largest
financial fraud in history,” trustee  Irving Picard  said today
in the complaint in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York. “Every
dollar the defendants purportedly ‘earned,’ and every dollar
they kept to unjustly enrich themselves, was stolen money.”  
 Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year term in federal prison in
Butner, North Carolina, after pleading guilty to orchestrating
history’s biggest Ponzi scheme. Fairfield Greenwich was a
marketing and investor-relations arm for Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, helping to enable the scheme, Picard
said.  
 Picard’s suit seeks more than $3.6 billion in
damages from the Fairfield Greenwich defendants.  
 A Fairfield Greenwich spokesman, Thomas Mulligan, reading
from a company statement, said the decision to expand the
lawsuit was “incomprehensible” because the company is involved
in good-faith negotiations with Picard.  
 “The Madoff trustee’s amended complaint is replete with
false, misleading and rehashed accusations,” Fairfield
Greenwich said in the statement.  
 Top Fairfield Greenwich executives invested in Madoff along
with their clients, according to the statement. They lost more
than $70 million the fraud, Fairfield Greenwich said.  
 Suit in 2009  
 Picard in May 2009 sued three Fairfield Greenwich “feeder
funds” that channeled $4.7 billion to Madoff Investment
Securities and withdrew billions from the firm.  
 Picard today added 24 Fairfield Greenwich units and
19 people who held management positions at the firm or marketed
the feeder funds. He claims the feeder funds no longer have most
of the money they got from Madoff.  
 Picard claimed Noel, a founding partner and director of
Fairfield Greenwich, and the other individual defendants made
millions of dollars by ignoring red flags and helping Madoff
accomplish his fraud.  
 “Noel and his immediate and extended family became
exceptionally wealthy due to FGG’s de facto partnership with
Madoff,” Picard said.  
 Life of Grandeur  
 Noel took hundreds of millions of dollars in fees and
profit, allowing him and his family “to live what has been
publicly described as a life of grandeur, including a mansion in
Greenwich, Connecticut, a tropical retreat in Mustique, and
extravagant vacation homes in Palm Beach and Southampton,”
Picard said.  
 Among the other individuals added to the case by Picard
today were Fairfield Greenwich co-founding partners  Jeffrey Tucker  and  Andres Piedrahita .  
 “The defendants were not victims,” Picard said in today’s
complaint. “They were enablers. They were facilitators. They
deepened the pain of Madoff’s customers and their own investors.
The effect of their actions was a catastrophic continuation of
the Ponzi scheme, the worsening of the BLMIS insolvency, and
billions of dollars in additional damages.”  
 When Madoff was arrested in December 2008, account
statements showed $65 billion in nonexistent client investments
in 4,900 accounts, according to Picard. Investors lost about
$20 billion in principal.  
 The case is Picard v. Fairfield Sentry Ltd., 09-AP-1239,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Madoff Trustee Sues Fairfield Co-Founder Noel  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Irving Picard, the trustee overseeing the liquidation of Bernard Madoff's firm. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Irving Picard, the trustee overseeing the liquidation of Bernard Madoff's firm. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
