-- Mahindra to Unveil First Motorcycles This Year, Challenging Honda in India
-- Siddharth Philip
-- 2010-07-21T11:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/mahindra-to-unveil-first-motorcycles-this-year-challenging-honda-in-india.html

          
          
             Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.  plans to
introduce its first motorcycles in India within the next few
months as it challenges  Hero Honda Motors Ltd.  in the world’s
second-biggest two-wheeler market.  
 The company intends to add motorbikes ranging from low-cost
entry models to premium products,  Anoop Mathur , the head of
Mahindra’s two-wheeler business, said in an interview at the
company’s Mumbai headquarters yesterday. He declined to
elaborate further on the product plan.  
 The two-wheeler unit aims to break even next fiscal year
and to become as large as Mahindra’s tractor and  sport-utility
vehicle businesses  within seven years, Mathur said. India’s
largest maker of tractors and SUVs began making scooters in 2008
after buying Kinetic Motor Co. to boost sales in a country where
two-wheelers outsell cars about than five-to-one.  
 “It will be very difficult to break into this market as
the existing players are so dominant,” said  Vaishali Jajoo , a
Mumbai-based Angel Broking Ltd. analyst. “Mahindra will have to
leverage their brand if they want to establish themselves in the
two-wheeler space.”  
 Hero Honda, part-owned by  Honda Motor Co. , and  Bajaj Auto
Ltd.  together control about two-thirds of India’s motorcycle
market, the world’s biggest after China.  
 Shares Rise  
 Mahindra  climbed 2.4 percent to 616.75 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close of trading in Mumbai, the fourth-best performer in
the 30-stock benchmark Sensitive Index, which rose 0.6 percent.
The automobile-maker has climbed 14 percent this year,
 outperforming  a 2.9 percent gain for the Sensex.  
 The company’s scooter sales more than quadrupled in the
quarter ended June to 27,000, according to  Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers  data. Industrywide sales of motorcycles
and scooters rose 28 percent to 2.7 million in the three months
as rising incomes and economic expansion spurred demand.  
 “We’re looking to become a credible player in the two-
wheeler space in India over the next few years,” Mathur said.
“There’s huge potential in the market.”  
 Mahindra’s companywide revenue has increased at an average
pace of 25 percent over the past five years compared with 16
percent for Hero Honda and 15 percent for Bajaj Auto, according
to  Bloomberg data .  
 Mahindra’s tractor business was its fastest-growing  segment 
over the past two years, expanding an average of 29 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Cars, trucks and SUVs
grow at a 14 percent annual rate in the period.  
 Motorcycle Designs  
 Mahindra’s motorcycles will be designed by Engines
Engineering, an Italian design company it acquired in 2008,
Mathur said. The company would consider further acquisitions and
collaborations to boost its two-wheeler business, he said. No
deals are being actively worked on at present, he said.  
 Mahindra, which is considering a financial bid for
Ssangyong Motor Co., the bankrupt South Korean sedan and SUVs
manufacturer, more than doubled its  net income  to 20.9 billion
rupees last fiscal year as vehicle sales surged. Profit may rise
to 21.8 billion rupees in the 12 months to March 31 according to
the  average  of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The  company  may consider exporting motorcycles to markets
including Latin America, Africa and South Asia once sales in
India have begun, Mathur said.  
 Nationwide two-wheelers outsold passenger cars 2.7 million
to 554,566 in India in the April-to-June quarter, according to
data from the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.  
 Sales of motorcycles may increase to 8.04 million in the
year ending March 31, 2011, from 7.34 million last fiscal year,
the group predicts. Scooter sales may gain 14 percent to 1.66
million.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
 Arijit Ghosh  at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        