-- Thailand Exports Rose the Most in More Than 18 Years in June on Auto Parts
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-07-21T04:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/thailand-exports-rose-the-most-in-more-than-18-years-in-june-on-auto-parts.html

          
          
             Thailand’s  exports  rose the most in
more than 18 years to surpass the record value set before the
global financial crisis, adding to evidence of the economy’s
resilience to Europe’s debt woes and domestic political unrest.  
 Shipments jumped 46.3 percent in June from a year earlier
to an unprecedented $18.04 billion, Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said in Nonthaburi province on the outskirts of Bangkok
today. That’s the fastest pace since January 1992, when
Bloomberg data began. The median estimate of seven economists in
a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 34.5 percent gain.  
 The accelerating economy enabled the  central bank  to raise
interest  rates  for the first time in almost two years last week,
as automakers  Ford Motor Co.  and General Motors Co. announced
plans to build new factories or expand production in the past
month. The commerce ministry raised its export target for this
year to 19 percent today, saying the European sovereign-debt
crisis hasn’t hurt exports.  
 “Export growth has been a solid supporter for the Thai
economy so far and will continue to be for the rest of the
year,”  Thammarat Kittisiripat , an economist at TISCO Securities
Co. in Bangkok, said before the report. “Demand for Asian goods
remains strong, so Thailand should follow the same pattern. We
don’t see significant impact from the slowdown in Europe yet.”  
 Governments in Europe are embarking on austerity programs
to cut budget deficits, and households in some of the world’s
largest economies are holding back spending, clouding the
outlook for the global rebound that has lifted Asian exports.  
 Rate Increase  
 “Our exports rose across the board,” Porntiva said.
“Even though exports may soften in the second half, we are
confident that our target is achievable.” The ministry had
previously aimed for a 17 percent increase in overseas sales
this year.  
 The baht traded at 32.29 per dollar as of 11:33 a.m. in
Bangkok, from 32.30 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency has advanced 3.1 percent this year, the
third-best performer among 10 most actively-traded currencies in
Asia outside Japan, partly supported by rising exports.  
 The  Bank of Thailand  raised its benchmark interest rate to
1.5 percent on July 14 after deadly political protests ended
last quarter without derailing the economy. The central bank has
said it expects growth this year to exceed its current
prediction of between 4.3 percent and 5.8 percent. A new
forecast will be announced on July 23.  
 The International Monetary Fund this month raised its
forecast for Thailand’s 2010  growth  to as much as 8 percent,
citing export orders and recovering private investment.  
 Exports to Europe  
 Imports  climbed 37.9 percent in June, the seventh
consecutive month of gains, as the economic recovery boosts
demand for raw materials and consumer goods. The nation reported
a trade surplus of $2.32 billion, compared with a $2.21 billion
surplus reported previously for May.  
 In the first six month, total exports grew 36.6 percent to
$93.07 billion, Porntiva said.  
 Sales to the U.S. gained 38 percent last month, compared
with 27 percent in May, while shipments to Europe rose 37
percent, up from 19 percent. Exports to China jumped 26 percent
compared with a 39 percent increase in May.  
 “The problems in Europe hasn’t had any impact on our
exports so far,” Porntiva said. “We are still monitoring that.
We also don’t see negative impact from the stronger yuan. Our
exports to China remain robust.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        