-- Thailand's Country Group Returns to Profit as Trading Increases, CEO Says
-- Linzie Janis
-- 2010-07-21T05:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/thailand-s-country-group-returns-to-profit-as-trading-increases-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Country Group Securities Pcl ,
Thailand’s second-biggest brokerage by trading volume, returned
to profit in the second quarter on trading fees from individual
investors, Chief Executive Officer  Bee Taechaubol  said.  
 The company will probably break even for the first six
months of the year, after posting a  net loss  of 102.9 million
baht ($3.2 million) in the first quarter, Bee said in an
interview in Bangkok. He declined give further details, except
that full-year profit will exceed earnings in 2009.  
 “Country Group has benefited from higher trading by local
individuals who keep buying shares even as the political
instability scared away foreign investors,” Bee said. Country
Group earns about 90 percent of its revenue from individual
customers, he said  
 Thai  investors  have bought shares in domestic companies as
the economy’s recovery and corporate earnings growth outweigh
concern about political instability following deadly unrest in
April and May. Local  individuals , accounting for about two-
thirds of total trading, bought a net 48.8 billion baht of
equities in the second quarter, while overseas  investors  sold 60
billion baht in the period.  
 Average  trading  on the Stock Exchange of Thailand in the
April-June period rose 20 percent from the previous quarter to
23.1 billion baht a day, according to the bourse’s data. The
benchmark  SET Index  gained 1.2 percent in the quarter, the fifth
straight quarterly advance.  
 Country Group’s  shares  rose as much as 3.7 percent to 0.85
baht, and traded at 0.83 baht as of 12:05 p.m. local time. The
stock has dropped 31 percent this year compared with a 13
percent increase in the SET Index.  
 Stock Outlook  
 The brokerage has a 6.5 percent share of trading turnover
in July, the second-highest among 34 licensed members on the
stock exchange, according to the bourse’s data. That was an
increase from the average share of 5.9 percent in the first six
months.  
 Thailand’s benchmark  SET Index  may rise to as high as 970
by the end of this year on higher economic growth and a calmer
political climate, Bee said. That would be the highest level
since 1996 and an 18 percent gain from yesterday’s close.  
 “Thailand’s overall economic fundamentals remain very
strong with high export growth and a sound financial sector,”
Bee said. “There is a room for further gains of domestic share
prices.”  
 Thailand’s  exports  increased the most in more than 18 years
in June as rising overseas demand spurred sales of electrical
appliances and auto parts, the commerce ministry said today.
Shipments jumped 46.3 percent in June from a year earlier to a
record $18.04 billion. That’s the fastest pace since January
1992, when Bloomberg data began.  
 -- With assistance from  Karolina Miziolek  in Hong Kong.
Editors: Linus Chua, Tony Jordan  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        