-- Airbus, Boeing May Force Supplier Mergers to Reduce Costs
-- Howard Mustoe
-- 2010-07-22T14:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/airbus-boeing-cost-squeeze-may-spark-merger-boom-among-aircraft-suppliers.html

          
          
             Airbus SAS  and  Boeing Co.  may force
mergers among component suppliers in the next 12 months as they
seek to slash production and research expenses, according to
aerospace executives and analysts at the Farnborough Air Show.  
 Consolidation will focus on producers of fuselage, tail and
engine parts that are too small to bear the development costs
Airbus and Boeing want to pass on, according to  Paul Edwards ,
international head of aerospace & defense investment banking at
Jefferies International. GKN Plc, Senior Plc and Fokker
Aerospace say they’re on the lookout for opportunities.  
 Aerostructure companies typically build to designs from
 planemakers , resulting in lower margins than for gear such as
fuel systems. Mergers in the sector, worth about $40 billion in
sales according to Deloitte LLP, would help make bigger
assemblies, paring costs and raising production quality, said
 Louis Gallois , chief executive at Airbus parent company.  
 “Boeing, Airbus and the other airframers are looking to
consolidate their supply chain, and we’re getting back into
acquisition mode now, doing some research,” said  Jerry Goodwin ,
CEO for aerostructures at Senior, which makes parts for planes
including Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner. “We have the equity to make
purchases.”  
 Fokker Talks  
 Many companies that produce composite parts are former
planemakers seeking to adapt to new realities, Edwards said.
Because the fabric of an aircraft isn’t replaced in its
lifetime, they miss out on maintenance and spares orders and
should use mergers to expand into higher-value work, he said.  
 Dutch manufacturer  Fokker , once the world’s biggest
aircraft builder, has already made that transition after filing
for bankruptcy in 1996 and being taken over by Stork NV, which
is owned by U.K. buyout firm Candover Investments Plc.  
 Now focused on specialist products including a glass-
reinforced laminate used in the fuselage of the Airbus A380,
Fokker has been “in communication” with a number of parties
and would be a good fit for bigger suppliers and aerospace
companies in emerging markets such as India, China and Russia,
executive vice president  Henk Valk  said in an interview.  
 GKN  embraced Airbus’s drive to reduce investment costs when
it  bought  the company’s wing plant in Filton, England, for 136
million pounds ($207 million) in 2009, and is seeking purchases
to add new technology, aerospace unit CEO  Marcus Bryson  said.  
 Significant Size  
 “Airbus and Boeing want fewer suppliers that are bigger,
well-funded and can take on risk,” he said. “We are doing
research in terms of what could be a strategic fit.”  
 Purchases must be of a significant size because of the high
fixed costs involved, but smaller than GKN itself, which has a
market value of 2.2 billion pounds, Bryson said in an interview.  
 GKN  makes composites  for planes including the Airbus A380
and A350, a model in which it has invested 170 million pounds in
research and tooling, and is also a supplier on Boeing’s 787.  
 Senior is already producing larger sub-assemblies such as
the box that connects a plane’s wings to its fuselage,
divisional CEO Goodwin said, and is looking at acquisitions that
would add new customers such as Empresa Brasileira de
Aeronautica SA, the world’s fourth-biggest planemaker.  
 Gallois, CEO of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. ,
said Airbus needs to transform more of the supplier base to rein
in its development budget and also to lift production standards.  
 Capacity Concern  
 “With the supply chain, price is certainly important, but
it’s not just about cutting costs,” the executive said in an
interview at the Farnborough show, 30 miles southwest of London.
“It’s about quality, responsiveness and reliability. We want to
establish a relation of partnership with our suppliers.”  
 Jim Albaugh ,  president  of Boeing’s jetliner unit, said his
biggest concern is that suppliers must be able to meet
production increases as the U.S. company and Airbus lift build
rates, new planes such as Bombardier Inc.’s CSeries are brought
to market, and Lockheed Martin Corp. begins to work through
about 3,000 orders for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter from 2015.  
 “There hasn’t been a real surge like this for a number of
years, so this will be a challenge,” Albaugh said, adding that
consolidation shouldn’t come at the expense of competition.  
 Other merger candidates are U.S. companies Spirit
AeroSystems Holdings Inc., spun off from Boeing in 2006, and
Triumph Group Inc., which purchased Vought Aircraft Industries
Inc. for $984 million on June 15, said  Bill Alderman  of Alderman
& Co. Capital, a broker specializing in the aerospace industry.  
 ‘Going to Happen’  
 “There will continue to be some consolidation,” Spirit
CEO  Jeff Turner  said in an interview, while declining to comment
on his own company’s plans. He cautioned that “bigger doesn’t
mean better value if someone’s very good at what they do.”  
 Triumph declined to give an interview at the air show.  
 The Alenia Aeronautica division of Italy’s  Finmeccanica SpA 
may also be involved in the shakeout, Alderman said. Alenia is
making 14 percent of the structure for the 787, and has been
blamed by Boeing for quality-control issues with the horizontal
stabilizer that may push first delivery to January.  Giuseppe Giordo , the unit’s CEO, said at the Farnborough show that
there’s “no major issue” with the project.  
 Bill Ellis , CEO of Derby, England-based precision metals
specialist Doncasters Plc, said consolidation is also likely to
extend to companies that supply the three main engine makers.  
 Heritage  
 To meet customer requirements and boost margins, Doncasters
is taking the “first steps” toward transforming from a
component producer into an engine-ready product supplier, and
eventually aims to make full fan-blade modules, he said.  
 “It’s hard to talk about acquisitions coming out of a
recession, but I think it’s going to happen from what we’re
hearing from the airframers,” Ellis said. “They’re looking to
outsource more and go to fewer suppliers.”  
 Cobham Plc said aerostructures companies shouldn’t shy away
from consolidation. The company made 40 purchases in 10 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and is the biggest
supplier of wing-mounted airborne-refueling gear.  
 “It’s not about forgetting your heritage,” Chief of Staff
 Julian Hellebrand  said in an interview, “just about putting
those products together into a full system.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. CEO Louis Gallois speaks during an interview on the second day of the Farnborough International Airshow. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Tom Enders, chief executive officer of Airbus SAS, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for aircraft orders this year and production of the company's A380 and A320 jets.
     Airbus and Boeing Co. announced 189 orders on the first day of the Farnborough Air Show, more than double the total on day one of last year’s Paris event, as leasing companies returned to the market after the recession. Enders speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
