-- Makuch Says ECB Happy With Higher Market Rates, Benchmark Won't Rise Soon
-- Radoslav Tomek
-- 2010-07-21T12:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/makuch-says-ecb-won-t-raise-rates-soon-higher-market-rates-appropriate-.html

          
          
             European Central Bank council member
 Jozef Makuch  said the bank is happy for market borrowing costs
to rise, though there’s no reason to expect an increase in its
benchmark interest rate this year.  
 “We are not surprised that the market is a little bit
better and for now it seems to us appropriate for the overnight
market rates to rise,” Makuch, who heads Slovakia’s central
bank, said in an emailed response to questions from Bloomberg
News. Asked whether the ECB will wait until next year to raise
its key rate, Makuch said: “There is no reason for speculation
regarding the rate increase until 2011.”  
 Market interest rates are rising after banks tapped the
ECB for less funds than expected before paying back a record 442
billion-euro ($566 billion) ECB loan on July 1, reducing excess
liquidity in the system. Some economists and investors are
concerned that higher market rates may hurt Europe’s recovery
amid the sovereign debt crisis and uncertainty about the health
of the region’s banks.  
 “In my opinion, and in the opinion of the ECB, it is the
consequence of the decision of the banks themselves at the
moment of the renewal of their previous financing to ask for
less than they could have done,” Makuch said. “The banks are
preferring to use more standard operations, so the market is
getting to be standardized and stabilized.”  
 Market Rates  
 The  European Overnight Index Average  rate, or Eonia, rose
to 0.554 percent yesterday, a 13-month high. The rate that banks
charge each other to borrow for three months has increased to
0.88 percent, the highest in 11 months, from 0.63 percent at the
end of March.  
 Makuch said recent economic data were “very good” and
“do not confirm that we could have stagnation or a double-dip
recession.”  
 “Fiscal consolidation plans and accommodative ECB policy
create an environment for sustainable growth in the medium
term,” he said. At the same time, “the monetary analysis of
the ECB confirms that  inflationary pressures  over the medium
term remain contained and that price stability is expected to be
maintained.”  
 The ECB in June predicted the 16-nation economy will expand
1 percent this year and 1.2 in 2011. Inflation, which the bank
aims to keep just below 2 percent, will average 1.5 percent this
year and 1.6 percent next, it said.  
 Debt Crisis  
 Growth may slow as governments across the region cut
spending. Greece’s budget blowout fueled concern among investors
that other debt-strapped nations, such as  Spain  and Portugal,
are losing control of their deficits.  
 The ECB’s response to the debt crisis has been to
reintroduce unlimited lending to banks in its three-month
tenders and start buying the bonds of distressed governments on
the secondary market. Those purchases, which were opposed by
German ECB council members  Axel Weber  and  Juergen Stark , have
dwindled in recent weeks.  
 Makuch said the ECB is focused on the content of the
program, not its duration, adding there’s no need to expand it
to other assets such as commercial paper.  
 “The problem is not if the program will be completed and
the completion date, but if there will be a need,” he said.
“Therefore it is a matter of content. The level of
interventions from the ECB has been progressively diminishing.
There was no new decision and I do not see any purpose to extend
the program to other assets or for changing the ECB’s
strategy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        