-- Malaysian Inflation Accelerated to 1.7% in June, Fastest Pace in 13 Months
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-21T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/malaysian-inflation-accelerated-to-1-7-in-june-fastest-pace-in-13-months.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s  inflation  rate climbed in
June to the highest level in more than a year, an increase that
may be augmented as the government cuts fuel and food subsidies.  
 Consumer prices climbed 1.7 percent from a year earlier
after gaining 1.6 percent in May, the Putrajaya, Malaysia-based
statistics department said in a statement today. That matched
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 13 economists.  
 Bank Negara Malaysia has raised  interest rates  three times
since early March as a regional rebound from last year’s global
recession prompted policy makers from India to South Korea to
boost borrowing costs. Prices are expected to rise at a
“gradual pace” in the coming months as the Malaysian economy
improves and the government adjusts prices of subsidized goods,
the central bank said this month.  
 “Strong growth and improvement in the labor market are the
main reasons why inflation is set to rise going forward,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said
before the report. “Though the effects of the recent fuel and
sugar subsidy cuts are unlikely to be as significant as the last
round in June 2008, there will certainly be some impact on
headline inflation numbers.”  
 The Southeast Asian nation trimmed subsidies for sugar,
gasoline, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas on July 16 to
narrow the budget deficit.  
 Still, Malaysian food and drinks companies gave assurances
to the government they won’t pass on higher sugar and fuel costs
to consumers, Minister for Domestic Trade, Co-operatives and
Consumerism  Ismail Sabri Yaakob  said this week, a move that may
limit price pressures.  
 Food prices, which account for about 31 percent of
Malaysia’s inflation index, rose 2.7 percent in June, today’s
report showed. The cost of housing, utilities and fuels gained
0.8 percent. Transport increased 1.3 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        