-- Mall Owner Unibail-Rodamco Plans $2.2 Billion Payout to Its Shareholders
-- Simon Packard
-- 2010-07-21T18:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/mall-owner-unibail-rodamco-plans-2-2-billion-payout-to-its-shareholders.html

          
          
             Unibail-Rodamco SE , Europe’s largest
publicly traded real estate company, plans to distribute 1.8
billion euros ($2.3 billion) to investors after it raised cash
from disposals.  
 Shareholders will vote in two months on a 20 euros-a-share
payment planned for Oct. 12, the Paris-based company said today
in a statement released after the market closed. First-half
recurring profit rose 0.4 percent to 4.7 euros a share, it said.  
 Unibail-Rodamco weathered the financial crisis by halting
or slowing development projects and selling properties with
limited potential for rental or value growth.  Net debt  equaled
31 percent of the value of the company’s real estate assets at
the end of June after it agreed to or completed asset sales
worth 1.2 billion euros in the first half and expects to raise
an additional 500 million euros in the remainder of the year.  
 Even after the payout, Unibail-Rodamco will be the least
indebted company in its peer group, Chief Executive Officer
 Guillaume Poitrinal  said on a conference call with journalists.
“We will keep the flexibility to do more things in terms of
investment, capital expenditure and potential acquisitions,” he
said.  
 Standard & Poor’s analyst  Maxime Puget  lowered his outlook
on the company’s long-term debt to “negative” from “stable,”
citing the reduced flexibility in the company’s finances. He
reiterated his A rating on the debt, the sixth-highest level.  
 Unibail-Rodamco has a pipeline of development projects for
the next five years that will require 5.7 billion euros of
investment for new malls, or for extending and refurbishing its
existing centers. These include sites in Paris, Vienna,
Stockholm and Lyon, France.  
 Polish Approval  
 Retail properties represented 75 percent of Unibail-
Rodamco’s 23.3 billion euros of assets at the end of June. The
company is the largest mall operator in Europe, with 100
properties in 12 countries.  
 Last week, the Polish antitrust regulator cleared the
company’s 715 million-euro purchase of properties from  Simon
Property Group  Inc. and Ivanhoe Cambridge Inc. on the condition
it gives up management of one center in the country.  
 The CEO reiterated his forecast that  recurring profit  per
share, which excludes changes in property valuations as well as
gains and losses on derivatives, would rise by no more than 2
percent this year, even after the payout announced today.  
 First-half net income totaled 1.11 billion euros, compared
with a loss of 1.32 billion euros a year earlier. Net asset
value rose 2.2 percent from the end of last year to 131 euros a
share.  
 Values Rise  
 Unibail-Rodamco’s real estate appreciated by 969 million
euros as investors bid higher prices for large shopping centers.
Such properties continued to attract shoppers throughout the
recession with big-brand tenants, generating more reliable
rental income than smaller malls.  
 Retail properties accounted for 34 percent of Europe’s 44
billion euros of commercial real estate deals in the first half,
lifting values, broker CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. estimates.  
 Unibail-Rodamco  rose 3.8 euros, or 2.8 percent, to 140.1
euros in Paris trading today. The stock has fallen 5.2 percent
in the past three months on concern that the economy won’t
recover enough to boost rental income and valuations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        