-- Manchester City Wants to Purchase Brazil's Ramires: Soccer Roundup
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-21T10:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/manchester-city-wants-to-purchase-brazil-s-ramires-soccer-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  
 City Chase Ramires  
 Manchester City is negotiating with Portuguese club Benfica
to sign Brazil player Ramires after attempts to buy Aston
Villa’s  James Milner  stalled, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  
 Ramires, who has a 30 million pounds ($46 million) buy-out
clause in his contract, has also sparked interest from Real
Madrid, Chelsea and Fiorentina after his appearances for Brazil
in the World Cup in South Africa. The midfielder joined Benfica
last summer for a fee of 5 million pounds from Brazilian team
Cruzeiro.  
 City Seal Balotelli Deal  
 Manchester City has struck a 23-million pound transfer deal
for Inter Milan striker Mario Balotelli, the  Daily Mail 
reported. That takes the club’s spending spree this summer to
close to 100 million pounds, the paper said.  
 The Italian club had wanted 34 million pounds for the
teenager, who fell out of favor last season with fans and former
Inter manager  Jose Mourinho  because of his behavior on the field
and the training ground. Balotelli had made his Inter Milan
first-team debut under City manager  Roberto Mancini  two-and-a-
half years ago.  
 Ferguson Plans Ozil Swoop  
 Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is trying to sign
Germany and Werder Bremen player Mesut Ozil for the second time
in his managerial career, the  Sun  reported. Ferguson failed to
sign Ozil when he was a teenager.  
 Bremen initially asked for 20 million pounds for the 21-
year-old, who has a year left on his contract. The club has
since dropped its asking price to 8 million pounds.  
 Liverpool’s N’Gog Up For Sale  
 Liverpool has put French striker David N’Gog up for sale
for 6 million pounds as the club tries to raise more money to
buy new players, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  
 Liverpool is keen to buy Nice player Loic Remy, who is
valued at 14.3 million pounds.  
 Spurs in Race for Raul  
 Real Madrid player Raul, who is available on a free
transfer, may move to Tottenham Hotspur next season, the  Sun 
reported.  
 The 33-year-old, who scored 44 goals in 102 caps for Spain,
prefers to end his career in England, the paper quoted his agent
Barry O’Connor as saying. Newcastle is also interested in
signing the all-time Real Madrid top scorer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        