-- Land Securities to Start First Mall Outside London Since Financial Crisis
-- Simon Packard
-- 2010-07-21T07:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/land-securities-will-start-building-536-million-shopping-center-in-leeds.html

          
          
             Land Securities Group Plc , the
U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust, said it will start
work on a mall in northern England that’s the first large retail
development outside London since the financial crisis began.  
 Construction of the 350 million-pound ($536 million)
Trinity Leeds shopping center will begin after the company
secured enough tenants to proceed, London-based Land Securities
said in a statement today. The 750,000 square-foot (70,000
square-meter) mall is scheduled to open in the second quarter.  
 Land Securities decided to go ahead with the project in
Leeds only after retailers committed to lease 47 percent of the
space, reflecting concerns about the economic outlook and the
difficulty in financing projects without tenants in place. Land
Securities gave itself financial leeway by selling properties
and raising 756 million pounds in a March rights offering.  
 “It shows Land Securities is putting its money where its
mouth is,”  Harm Meijer , an analyst at JP Morgan, said in a note
to investors. He estimated that the project will generate a 100
million-pound profit for the company. He has a “neutral”
rating on the shares.  
 Land Securities advanced 6.5 pence, or 1.1 percent, to
587.5 pence in London trading as of 8:26 a.m. local time. That
lifted the company’s market value to 4.48 billion pounds.  
 The company weathered a 44 percent slump in  commercial
building values  in the two years through July 2009 by freezing
most of its development projects, selling assets and raising
money from its shareholders.  
 London Plans  
 Chief Executive Officer  Francis Salway  said in January the
company would restart development projects in London after a
shortage of new prime space improved the likelihood of higher
rents. Falling vacancies reported by the company today indicate
that London will probably be the first U.K. market to bounce
back, while prospects are patchy elsewhere in the country.  
 “Our outlook and plan remain the same -- a recovery in
property values over the medium term, but interspersed by
ripples,” Salway said in the statement.  
 Land Securities raised 303 million pounds from  disposals  in
the second quarter. Most of that came from the sale to Qatar’s
sovereign wealth fund of the Park Place development project on
London’s Oxford Street.  
 About 175 million pounds of the proceeds were reinvested in
acquisitions, including the O2 center in north London and a
stake in an Oxford shopping center.  
 Walkie Talkie  
 Land Securities is still in talks to find an investment
partner in a planned 36-story tower nicknamed the Walkie-Talkie
in London’s main financial district. The company, which
indicated it wants to find a partner by September, has held
talks with Canary Wharf Group Plc, according to two people
familiar with the discussions.  
 New development spending, acquisitions and a 254 million-
pound bond buyback last month lifted  net debt  by 4.9 percent to
4.41 billion pounds at the end of June. That’s 46.1 percent of
the value of its properties as of March 31.  
 Land Securities will pay shareholders a 7 pence  dividend 
which can be received in cash or shares.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Land Securities Group Plc. CEO Francis Salway. Source: Land Securities via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
