-- Aon Faulted by Insurance Buyers for Weighing Fees Once Banned by Spitzer
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-21T20:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/aon-faulted-by-insurance-buyers-for-weighing-fees-once-banned-by-spitzer.html

          
          
             Aon Corp. , the insurance broker that
said today it may resume taking payments previously banned by
former New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer , drew criticism
from a group representing some of its clients.  
 “We’re very disappointed in the decision” by Chicago-
based Aon to accept so-called contingent commissions, Amy
Benson, a spokeswoman for the Risk and Insurance Management
Society, or RIMS, said today in a telephone interview. “It
hurts consumers. It imposes an inherent conflict of interest.”  
 Aon is considering bringing back the once-secret payments
from insurers to  supplement the fees  it takes from the buyers of
coverage. Insurance brokers help clients find the best deal for
policies protecting factories from storm damage and corporate
boards from shareholder lawsuits. Aon, the world’s biggest
broker, has posted  profit declines  in four of the last seven
quarters as the sluggish economy curbed insurance demand.  
 Contingent commissions, which insurers pay to entice
brokers, vary in amount based on the quantity of coverage sold
by the middleman and how profitable the policies turn out to be
for carriers. Spitzer, who conducted the probes and imposed the
restrictions, said the fees could put the interest of the broker
and client in conflict.  
 “By taking contingent commissions you have yet another
potential source of revenue,” said  Paul Newsome , an analyst
with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in Chicago. “And that is
going to be an offset to the ongoing pressure on revenue.”  
 Consulting Business  
 Chief Executive Officer  Greg Case , who took over in 2005
after Aon reached a  $190 million settlement  with Spitzer, is
expanding the broker’s consulting business as the U.S. insurance
market contracts. On July 12, Aon agreed to buy Hewitt
Associates Inc. for $4.9 billion to expand its employee pay and
benefits advisory practice.  
 Aon,  Marsh & McLennan Cos.  and Willis Group Holdings Plc,
the three biggest brokers, were released in February from
restrictions on accepting contingent commissions, the payments
that had prompted Spitzer’s bid-rigging probes. Under the new
rules, brokers must reveal the compensation if asked by clients.  
 The companies had resolved Spitzer’s allegations of fraud
and anticompetitive practices, with Marsh & McLennan agreeing to
pay $850 million and No. 3 Willis $50 million.  
 “Aon has focused on value for price for the last five
years, which coincides with our not taking contingents,”  David Prosperi , a spokesman for Aon, said in an e-mail. “We must
provide the best value for what we get paid. It must be clear to
our clients that the value we provide to them is substantially
greater than the price they are paying for that value.”  
 ‘A Step Backwards’  
 Aon fell 36 cents, or 1 percent, to $35.63 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Marsh & McLennan
slipped 39 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $22.42. Willis dropped 5
cents to $31.75.  
 “RIMS has always maintained the position that contingent
commissions should be universally banned and views Aon’s
intentions as a step backwards with regard to the level of
service it provides to its clients,” the insurance buyers’
group said in a statement.  
 Aon and New York-based Marsh & McLennan appealed to
officials for redress in 2008 as regulators opened a review.
Marsh & McLennan, which was the No. 1 broker at the time of
Spitzer’s probes, said in 2004 that the payments totaled about
$845 million a year, or 12 percent of brokerage revenue. London-
based Willis has said it won’t take contingents and today called
Aon’s stance “troublesome and ambiguous.”  
 ‘A Wake-Up Call’  
 “Aon’s overdue and muted announcement, floated in mid-
summer, should come as a wake-up call to all risk managers and
buyers of insurance to re-evaluate whether their broker really
works for them, or the insurance carrier,” Willis said in a
statement.  
 Marsh & McLennan said on March 24 it will take contingent
commissions on business done by its unit serving mid-sized U.S.
clients. The firm won’t take contingent commissions on business
for U.S. clients in its “core broking operations,” according
to a statement.  
 “The contingent commissions created inherent conflicts and
tensions that led to improper practices that we were trying to
eliminate,” Spitzer said in an interview in February after the
New York Insurance Department repealed the ban.  
 Spitzer left his post without extending the fee ban to
smaller agents. He went on to become governor of New York, a
position he resigned in 2008 amid a prostitution scandal. In the
last two years, Aon, Marsh & McLennan and Willis called for
common rules to be applied to all middlemen.  
 Willis Group  
 Willis, led by CEO  Joseph Plumeri , accepts contingent
commissions stemming from business it gained through the $1.7
billion acquisition of Hilb Rogal and Hobbs Co. in 2008. Under
previous rules, the big brokers were given a grace period after
completing a takeover to take contingent commissions on business
generated by the acquired company. Those payments fell 60
percent to $8 million in the first quarter, Willis said.  
 “We have decided to accept various forms of compensation
available, which may include supplemental and/or contingent
commissions,” said  Steve McGill , chief executive officer of Aon
Risk Solutions, a division of the Chicago-based company, in a
statement today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        