-- Apple Climbs as Revenue Forecast Tops Analysts' Predictions
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-21T13:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/apple-advances-as-demand-for-ipads-iphones-tops-predictions-of-analysts.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  rose the most in more than
two months after forecasting fourth-quarter sales that topped
analysts’ estimates, a sign demand for its mobile computers and
phones will endure even as rivals tout competing products.  
 Revenue in the three months that end in September will be
about $18 billion, Apple said yesterday. Analysts had predicted
sales of $17 billion. The company also reported third-quarter
revenue and profit that exceeded analysts’ predictions.  
 “It never ceases to amaze me how Apple can beat
unreasonably high expectations,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief
investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors, which owns Apple
shares. “They have positioned themselves well for this next
inflection point in technology, which is to handheld devices.”  
 Net income leaped 78 percent and revenue reached a record
last quarter, the first to include sales of the iPad tablet
computer and the newest iPhone. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , 55, vowed to release more “amazing new products” this
year, part of an effort to repel a threat from Google Inc., a
competitor in mobile software and advertising, and such computer
makers as Hewlett-Packard Co., which plans its own tablet.  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, climbed $9.95, or 4
percent, to $261.84 at 9:46 a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. It rose as much as 5.3 percent to $265.15, the
biggest gain since May 10.  
 IPad Sales  
 Customers bought 3.27 million iPads last quarter,
indicating Jobs made headway creating a market for
entertainment-friendly devices that are larger than a smartphone
yet less powerful than laptops. Introduced April 3, the iPad
outsold the almost  decade-old  iPod music player, revenue-wise.  
 Net income rose to $3.25 billion, or $3.51 a share, from
$1.83 billion, or $2.01, a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had forecast per-share profit of $3.11.  
 The iPhone, which generated $5.33 billion on 8.4 million
units, was Apple’s top-selling product for a second-straight
period. The quarter’s $15.7 billion in total sales topped the
$15.3 billion that analysts predict  Microsoft Corp.  will report
tomorrow. Apple surpassed Microsoft as the largest technology
company by market value earlier this year.  
 Even as Apple boosts sales, it faces challenges including
component-supply shortages, criticism of the antenna design on
its latest iPhone and narrowing margins after following through
on a promise to set “very aggressive” pricing for the iPad.  
 Product Pipeline  
 Adding to its hurdles,  Google  is allying with handset
makers including  Motorola Inc.  and HTC Corp. to release devices
that challenge the iPhone, while  Hewlett-Packard , Cisco Systems
Inc. and Dell Inc. get into tablets.  
 Rivals aside, Apple expects gains to continue, forecasting
per-share earnings of about $3.44 this quarter. The company’s
estimates are typically conservative, and  analysts  on average
are forecasting profit of $3.83 a share.  
 “We have amazing new products still to come this year,”
Jobs said in the statement.  
 This year, Apple may ship 12.9 million iPads, ISuppli Inc.
said this week. Previously the El Segundo, California-based
research firm had expected 7.1 million.  
 Apple is taking steps to overcome supply shortages for the
iPad and the new iPhone 4, Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts.  
 “We’re currently selling those products as fast as we can
make them,” Cook said. “In the scheme of things, it’s a good
problem to have.”  
 Killed IPhone ‘Myth’  
 The company also is contending with criticism over the
design of the iPhone 4 antenna, which can diminish signal
strength. Some consumers may opt for handsets that sport
Google’s Android operating system until Apple resolves the flaw,
said  Francisco Jeronimo , an analyst at IDC, a research firm.  
 “It kills the myth that the iPhone is perfect and better
than any other smartphone,” Jeronimo wrote in a research
report. “Now they may consider other devices as the iPhone 4
has a major problem and Apple does not have a solution yet.”  
 After the phone’s June 24 debut, users complained of lost
reception when they held it in a way that covers the bottom-left
corner. Consumer Reports isn’t recommending the device, the
first time the group hasn’t given its imprimatur to an iPhone.  
 Cook said on the conference call that the number of
antenna-related returns is “extremely small.” At a press
conference last week, Apple said less than 1 percent of users
have reported the glitch to its customer service centers.  
 To address the shortcoming, Apple is giving away iPhone
cases. As a result, it will defer $175 million in revenue from
the September quarter to the period that ends in December, Chief
Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  said on the conference call.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs vowed to release more “amazing new products” this
year. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., discusses Apple Inc.’s third-quarter profit and the outlook for the company's performance. 
     Apple's net income rose 78 percent to $3.25 billion, or $3.51 a share. Munster talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg) 
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Tavis McCourt, an analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co., discusses Apple Inc.'s third-quarter profit reported yesterday.
     The maker of the iPhone said net income rose 78 percent to $3.25 billion, or $3.51 a share, beating analysts' estimates. McCourt, speaking from Nashville, Tennessee, talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Marshall, an analyst at Gleacher & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Apple Inc.'s earnings.
     Apple posted a 78 percent surge in third-quarter profit as customers flocked to the new iPad tablet computer and latest version of the iPhone. Sales also topped analysts’ average, fueling a gain in Apple shares in extended trading. Marshall speaks from San Francisco. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bryan Ma, associate vice president of devices and peripherals research for Asia Pacific at research firm IDC, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Apple Inc.'s third-quarter results and outlook.
     Apple posted a 78 percent surge in profit as customers flocked to the new iPad tablet computer and latest version of the iPhone, helping the company benefit from a rebound in consumer spending. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
