-- Marathon Lobster Roll Hunt Has Three N.Y. Winners: Ryan Sutton
-- Ryan Sutton
-- 2010-07-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/marathon-lobster-roll-hunt-has-three-n-y-winners-ryan-sutton.html

          
          
             New York’s best lobster rolls cost
half as much as New York’s best-known lobster rolls. How do I
know? I ate 16 of them.  
 Fish-shack fare in the city is mostly an exercise in
inertia; not much changes and normally intelligent customers
settle for subpar fare. How else explain the popularity of that
$30 mayonnaise-laden roll in the West Village and too-thick,
fatty New England clam chowder on a 100-degree evening? Or why
so few restaurants offer the Manhattan version, which has tomato
tang and acid to cut through the humidity? What’s next, rooting
for the Red Sox?  
 With lobster rolls, there are right ways and wrong ways.
Here’s the right way: boiled or steamed meat on a split top bun;
a dollop of mayonnaise (or unsalted butter) for mouth feel. A
sprinkling of celery for crunch, herbs for aroma, Tabasco or
celery salt for spice. Should come with fries or a tiny bag of
potato chips.  
 Here’s the wrong way: Pretty much anything else.  
 Many New York lobster rolls are little more than expensive
tuna salad sandwiches: bland, flavorless, limp. Where’s the
golden age that’s restored our reputation for the best burgers,
pizza and cocktails? Well, you’ll find it at three spots: Pearl
Oyster Bar, Luke’s Lobster and Red Hook Lobster Pound. All of
which we’ll come to, but first the also-rans:  
 Delicatessen  
 SoHo’s Delicatessen, which bills its fare as international
comfort food, used to be known for its “Model Lounge,” where
only models could gain admission. It will now be famous for its
$18 lobster roll, dressed in enough mayo to get a model fired.  
 Only a deli would serve something this horrific. Tastes
like it’s been scooped out of a plastic wrap-covered bowl. Meat
minced so fine you can’t tell it’s lobster. Bite in and get a
mouthful of fat. Your breath smells of chives. You leave it
mostly uneaten. No fries.  
 Rating: Awful (0.5/10). Other items: a strong Hendrick’s
martini. Delicatessen is at 54 Prince St. Information: +1-212-
226-0211 or  http://www.delicatessennyc.com   
 Ed’s Lobster Bar  
 Whoever’s in the kitchen at Ed’s Lobster Bar in Soho
squirts so much lemon over the $27 lobster roll that the meat
and mayo taste sour. It’s enough acid to make you wonder whether
chef Ed McFarland, a Pearl Oyster Bar alum, was really trying to
make ceviche.  
 Rating: Awful (1.0/10). Alternatives: Skip the clam chowder
with no clam flavor. Also avoid the lobster bisque that tastes
like it’s from a can. Rather, scarf down sweet fried clam
bellies.  
 Ed’s Lobster Bar is at 222 Lafayette St. Information: +1-
212-343-3236 or  http://www.lobsterbarnyc.com   
 Mermaid Inn  
 Apparently, I’m in love. So says a fortune telling plastic
fish I’m given at the end of my meal at the East Village’s
Mermaid Inn. It’s a cute touch for a place with a crummy $26
lobster roll -- served on a suspiciously crunchy brioche bun. A
lobster trap of chives and celery vanquished whatever maritime
flavor could escape from the throwaway bread.  
 Rating: Barely edible (1.5/10). Other items: Tasty Old Bay
fries come with.  
 Mermaid Inn is at 96 Second Avenue. Information: +1-212-
674-5870 or  http://www.themermaidnyc.com   
 BLT Fish Shack  
 Chef Laurent Torondel is no longer chef at BLT Fish Shack,
but the recipe for his $26 lobster roll remains -- and it’s
still a miss.  
 A fat brioche roll is stuffed with a thin layer of meat.
There’s too much bread to taste the lobster. Too little lobster
to taste the ocean. Insufficient mayo to tie everything
together. Result: Boring. And, weirdly, a sellout on one visit.
So go figure.  
 Rating: Rip-off (2.0/10). Other items: None worth your time
or money (except maybe the tasty, pleasantly greasy fried
calamari).  
 BLT Fish is at 21 W 17th St. Information: +1-212-691-8888
or  http://www.bltfish.com   
 Lure Fishbar  
 Soho’s Lure Fishbar is the rare seafood restaurant better
known for its burger than for its fish, which explains why Chef
Josh Capon is opening up a burger joint soon, and which further
explains why his lobster roll is so forgettable.  
 Close your eyes. Take a bite. Can you tell it’s lobster? I
couldn’t. The chunks are too small. The mayo too heavy. Tastes
like it was made at beginning of service. Bun was almost flat,
making the whole mess look like a giant canape.  
 Rating: Serviceable (4.0/10). Other items: New England clam
chowder should be renamed “cream of bacon soup,” not that
there’s anything wrong with that. Fried oysters are good. Try
the rare, juicy, fall-apart burgers.  
 Lure Fishbar is at 142 Mercer St. Information: +1-212-431-
7676 or  http://lurefishbar.tumblr.com   
 Ditch Plains  
 Ditch Plains, run by the people behind Landmarc in the Time
Warner Center, raises an eyebrow for appropriating the name of a
Montauk surf spot but serving only New England clam chowder.  
 The lobster roll also has identity issues. The bun’s too
large, hiding the meat, which is too cold. But the flesh is oh
so tender. The mayo? Just a hint covers it all. And then you
realize it doesn’t taste like lobster. It tastes like licorice,
thanks to an overdose of tarragon. Sweet potato chips (not
always crispy) take the place of fries. Not good.  
 Rating: Fair (4.5/10). Other items: Try the butter-roasted
oysters or the spicy gumbo.  
 Ditch Plains is at 29 Bedford St. Information: +1-212-633-
0202 or  http://www.ditch-plains.com   
 Ed’s Chowder House  
 Ed’s Chowder House isn’t related to Ed’s Lobster Bar, which
explains why this lobster roll can be quite good. Chef Ed Brown
stuffs warm chunks of shellfish into buttery brioche rolls.
Watercress adds a peppery kick.  
 But here’s where price claws its way into the equation. The
cost is $26; add fries and you’re up to $33. Then again, this is
Lincoln Center, where the patrons can afford it.  
 Rating: Very good but it loses half a point for price
(7.0/10). Other items: Clam chowder is thick, buttery, with
little mollusk flavor. Manhattan chowder lets tomato broth
overwhelm the sweet crab meat.  
 Ed’s Chowder House is at 44 W. 63rd St. Information: +1-
212-956-1288 or  http://www.chinagrillmgt.com   
 Mary’s Fish Camp  
 How much is the lobster roll? “$30, and worth every
penny.” That was the cheery, cocky response I got from the host
at Mary’s Fish Camp in the West Village. Mary Redding, also a
Pearl alum, has chutzpah for making her dish one of New York’s
most expensive.  
 Yes, the preparation is compelling. Big chunks of meat in a
warm, buttery roll. The overly generous mayonnaise application
allows the sweet shellfish to come through. Chewy, briny chunks
of roe might make a welcome guest appearance. But is the value
compelling? I’ve waited about an hour outside in the heat for a
seat yet I’ve finished the roll in three minutes flat.  
 Rating: Very good (7.0/10). Other items: Impressive, if
underseasoned bouillabaisse.  
 Mary’s Fish Camp is at 64 Charles St. Information: +1-646-
486-2185 or  http://www.marysfishcamp.com   
 Pearl Oyster Bar  
 The best argument against Mary’s is Pearl Oyster Bar, just
a few blocks away. The lobster roll feels bigger, heavier, and
at $27, a little cheaper. The cholesterol-heavy crustacean
collapses in the mouth just a bit more easily than at Mary’s,
with an equally generous dose of Hellman’s. Fries come with.  
 By the way, Pearl’s space, unlike Mary’s, is large enough
to keep aspirants waiting inside (Pearl’s air conditioner is
also more powerful).  
 Rating: Almost excellent (8.0/10) (N.B. to expense
accounters: Does not take Amex.). Other items: One of the city’s
best versions of bouillabaisse with saffron aiolli. Avoid the
chowder.  
 Pearl Oyster Bar is at 18 Cornelia St. Information: +1-212-
691-8211 or  http://www.pearloysterbar.com   
 Luke’s  
 The best rolls can be had at Luke’s Lobster and the  Red
Hook Lobster Pound . These  trap-to-table  venues buy directly from
Maine and skip the tri-state wholesalers.  
 Luke Holden, a 25-year-old whose father owns the Portland
Shellfish processing company, has his lobster steamed in Maine
and shipped south to two locations, in the East Village and on
the Upper East Side.  
 Only claw and knuckle meat is used -- it’s much more tender
than the tail.  A bit more mayo would help cut the brininess and
counter the celery salt. Small deficits. Cost: $14.  
 Rating: Excellent (9.0/10). Other items: It kills me to say
the New England chowder is almost perfect, just enough cream to
cut the minerality of clams.  
 Luke’s is at 93 E. Seventh St. and 242 E. 81st St.
Information:  http://www.lukeslobster.com   
 Red Hook Lobster Pound  
 Red Hook Lobster Pound’s rolls ($15), available from the
flagship storefront and at the Brooklyn Flea, are better than
Luke’s. Just lemon, salt, butter and paprika. The flesh, laid
into a JJ Nissen bun, is so delicate it’s like biting into
meringue. A gloss of homemade mayo rounds out the flavors. You
can also order a Connecticut butter style roll to set the
maritime intensity in high relief. If Thomas Keller served them
he’d get a Michelin Star.  
 Rating: Outstanding (9.5/10). (No Amex.) Alternatives: A
live lobster and a Whoopee Pie.  
 Red Hook Lobster Pound is at 284 Van Brunt St. Information:
 http://redhooklobsterpound.com   
 ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or qualityrye
on  http://www.twitter.com/qualityrye   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The counter area of Pearl Oyster Bar in New York. Pearl Oyster Bar is at 18 Cornelia Street in the West Village. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Pearl Oyster Bar in New York. The restaurant is at 18 Cornelia Street in the West Village. Photographer: Laura Speyer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A lobster roll at Pearl Oyster Bar in New York. The roll comes with fries and is $27. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Bouillabaisse with garlicky rouille at Pearl Oyster Bar in New York. The seafood restaurant is at 18 Cornelia Street in the West Village. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A classic lobster roll at Luke's Lobster in New York. The split-top roll, using all claw meat, sells for $14 at Luke's Upper East Side location at 242 East 81st Street. Photographer: Ryan Sutton/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lobster rolls, regular and Connecticut style, are $15 at Red Hook Lobster Pound in New York. The restaurant is at 284 Van Brunt Street in Red Hook, Brooklyn. Photographer: Ryan Sutton/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A $30 lobster roll at Mary's Fish Camp in New York. Offering one of the city's most expensive rolls, the restaurant is located at 64 Charles Street in the West Village. Photographer: Ryan Sutton/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lobster Roll  
                       
                         
                           Bullfrog & Baum via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A lobster roll is served at the BLT Fish Shack in New York, U.S. on Sept. 30, 2002. The sandwich costs $26. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A lobster roll is served at the BLT Fish Shack in New York, U.S. on Sept. 30, 2002. The sandwich costs $26. Source: Bullfrog & Baum via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A lobster roll at Lure Fishbar in New York. The Soho restaurant gets fresh lobsters delivered daily from Maine. Photographer: Lance Madson/Lure Fishbar via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Mermaid Lobster roll at Mermaid Inn in New York. The sandwich contains meat from a 1.25 pound lobster and is served on a brioche bun. Source: Bullfrog & Baum via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
