-- Marine Harvest Advances the Most in a Year in Oslo on First-Half Dividend
-- Meera Bhatia
-- 2010-07-21T10:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/marine-harvest-advances-the-most-in-a-year-in-oslo-on-first-half-dividend.html

          
          
             Marine Harvest ASA, the world’s
biggest salmon farmer, rose the most in more than a year in Oslo
trading after declaring a first-half  dividend  for the first
time.  
 Marine Harvest climbed as much as 11 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since June 9, 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows. The stock was up 0.42 krone, or 9.6 percent, at 4.74
kroner at 12:14 p.m. local time, leading gains in Norway’s
benchmark  OBX Index  and giving the Oslo-based company a market
value of 16.9 billion kroner ($2.7 billion).  
 An extraordinary general meeting will be convened to
approve a payout of 0.2 krone per share, Marine Harvest  said 
today on its website. The fish farmer also returned to profit in
the second quarter, predicted higher selling prices and said
operating improvements aimed at boosting “long-term dividend
capacity” will be a focus for managers.  
 “The share is up because the announcement of semiannual
dividends is positive,”  Dag Sletmo , an analyst at ABG Sundal
Collier Holding ASA in Oslo, said in an e-mail today. He  advises 
buying Marine Harvest shares, which have added 12 percent this
year after quadrupling in 2009.  
 Second-quarter net income was 737.3 million kroner, Marine
Harvest said, more than the 568.8 million kroner estimated by
analysts. The company lost 66.2 million kroner a year earlier.
Sales fell 9.9 percent to 3.56 billion kroner.  
 Marine Harvest’s Norwegian division had “weak price
achievement” in the quarter, partly because of contract selling
prices below those in the spot market, Chief Executive Officer
 Alf-Helge Aarskog  said in the statement. He took over this week.
The unit is the company’s biggest generator of sales and
operating profit.  
 “It is also positive that the new CEO is so clear that he
is not satisfied with the margin in Norway in relation to
current market prices, which means he will take action,” Sletmo
said. “Finally, the outlook statements are positive.”  
 Marine Harvest also declared a cash dividend with the
release of third-quarter results in November.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        