-- Lance Armstrong Hires Los Angeles Criminal Defense Attorney in U.S. Probe
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-07-21T22:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/armstrong-hires-criminal-defense-attorney-in-u-s-probe-against-cyclist.html

          
          
             Lance Armstrong , the record seven-
time winner of the Tour de France, hired a criminal defense
lawyer to help him in an investigation by federal prosecutors in
Los Angeles.  
 Bryan Daly, a white-collar defense attorney with  Sheppard
Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP , confirmed today in a phone
interview that he had been hired by Armstrong. Daly said he had
“no idea” yet what the government was looking into.  
 “We’re trying to find out as soon as possible,” Daly
said.  
 The New York Daily News reported last month, citing
unidentified people, that the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Los
Angeles is assisting the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in an
investigation of doping allegations by former Armstrong teammate
 Floyd Landis . Armstrong told reporters last week in France that
he will cooperate with a “credible and fair” investigation.  
 Thom Mrozek , a spokesman for the U.S. attorney’s office,
declined to comment today on the investigation.  
 Armstrong, 38, won the Tour de France, the sport’s most
prestigious event, each year from 1999 to 2005 after surviving
testicular cancer that had spread to his brain and lungs. The
Texas-native has never failed a doping test and has denied using
banned performance-enhancing drugs.  
 Blood Transfusions  
 Landis, who was stripped of his 2006 Tour de France title
for doping, sent e-mails to cycling officials in April and May
accusing Armstrong and other members of the team sponsored by
the U.S. Postal Service of wrongdoing, including Armstrong using
illegal blood transfusions in the 2003 and 2004 Tour.  
 In a July 3 statement, Armstrong said in response to a Wall
Street Journal article detailing Landis’s allegation that these
were baseless and that his former teammate had “zero
credibility.”  
 Daly is a former prosecutor who represented securities law
firm  Milberg LLP  in a criminal investigation of illegal
kickbacks it paid to clients. The New York firm won dismissal of
the charges in 2008 after paying $75 million and accepting
responsibility for the conduct of some of its former partners.  
 The Daily Journal, a legal newspaper in Los Angeles, first
reported that Armstrong had hired Daly.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        