-- Harvard Doctors Will Refuse Industry Gifts, Meals Under Conflicts Policy
-- John Lauerman
-- 2010-07-21T05:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/harvard-doctors-to-shun-industry-gifts-meals-under-new-conflicts-policy.html

          
          
             Harvard Medical School
tightened its policy on conflict of interest, banning
faculty from receiving corporate gifts and meals and
restricting them from speaking on behalf of companies.  
 The policy is “one of the most stringent of any
medical college in the country,” the Boston-based medical
school  said  today in an e-mailed statement. Dean Jeffrey
Flier approved the revisions, which were produced by a
review committee of 34 faculty members and will be
introduced in January, Harvard said.  
 Harvard, Columbia University in New York and Johns
Hopkins University’s medical school in Baltimore have
stepped up oversight of interactions with companies
following reports showing some doctors hold financial ties
to companies whose products they were evaluating. Two of
Harvard’s biggest affiliated hospitals announced their own
set of stiffened conflict-of-interest guidelines in October.  
 “Within and outside industry, many recognize that
industry and academia must seek a new model of academia-
industry collaboration to achieve greater success at
discovery and development of new treatments while fully
protecting academic values and those of the medical
profession,” Flier said in the statement.  
 Across Campus  
 Harvard University also adopted a campus-wide policy
on conflict of interest, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
school said on its website. The new policy was adopted by
Harvard’s board, often called the President and Fellows of
Harvard College, or the Harvard Corporation.  
 It’s the first time such a policy has been created to
cover faculty members across the campus, the university
said. The policy is intended to serve as a framework for
schools to craft their own sets of conflict-of-interest
guidelines, it said.  
 “We’re living in a period of history when the news
media, the general public, and members of Congress and
government agencies are very concerned that potential
financial conflicts might interfere with the kind of
objective exploration and reporting of science that is at
the very heart of the academic enterprise,” said Harvard
Provost Steven Hyman in the statement on its website.  
 The medical school was earlier stung by criticism when
Senator  Charles Grassley  said Harvard psychiatrist  Joseph Biederman  failed to disclose some payments from drug
companies while he conducted research recommending their
medications for treating children with mental disorders.
Grassley questioned the value of Biederman’s research on
medicines.  
 Updated Guidelines  
 The new guidelines update recommendations that Harvard
Medical School first approved in 1990, the statement said.
Under the new policy, all relevant financial interests of
the school’s faculty will be disclosed on a website, it
said. In addition to the prohibition on participation in
speaker’s bureaus, faculty will be barred from speaking
engagements that limit intellectual independence.  
 The medical school said it will continue to educate
students, doctors-in-training and faculty members about the
importance and potential pitfalls of such conflicts, and
restrict drug and device sales officials from accessing the
campus. Industry advertising programs and exhibits will
also be separated from Harvard educational events, it said.  
 Harvard Medical School has more than 7,500 full-time
faculty working at its campus and in its 17 affiliated
hospitals and research institutes, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman leaves the quadrangle at The Harvard Medical School. Photographer: Michael Fein/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
