-- U.S. Stocks Drop, Treasuries Gain on Bernanke's Growth Outlook
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-21T20:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/asian-stocks-gain-on-apple-profit-dollar-drops-before-bernanke-testimony.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks slid, while Treasuries
and the dollar rallied, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economic outlook remains “unusually
uncertain” without offering additional measures to stimulate
growth. Oil dropped on an unexpected increase in inventories.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.3 percent to
1,069.59 at the 4 p.m. close in New York, halting a two-day
advance. The yield on two-year Treasuries sank to a record low
for the fourth time in five days and the Dollar Index surged 0.6
percent. Oil slipped below $77 a barrel, while copper rallied 3
percent after Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. said the
outlook for the metal is “positive.”  
 Equities slid to their  lows  of the session as Bernanke said
central bankers “remain prepared” to act as needed to aid
growth, without providing any specific details. U.S. stocks
staged a late-day rally yesterday as investors speculated
Bernanke would announce plans today to stimulate the world’s
largest economy.  
 “Bernanke didn’t say anything positive,” said  Sarah Hunt ,
research analyst at Alpine Mutual Funds in Purchase, New York.
Alpine oversees $6.5 billion. “People were waiting for some, ‘By
the way, we’re going to make some announcement that we’re going
to fix the world.’”  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America Corp. and Hewlett-
Packard Co. lost more that 2.4 percent to help lead the Dow
Jones Industrial Average down 109.43 points, or 1.1 percent, to
10,120.53. Yahoo! Inc. slumped 8.5 percent and spurred a retreat
in technology and media companies after sales missed analyst
estimates on a drop in ad revenue from online searches.  
 Earnings Season  
 U.S. equities opened the session higher after  Morgan
Stanley , Apple Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co. joined the 83 percent
of S&P 500 companies that have  beaten  the average analyst
estimate for second-quarter profit so far in the earnings
reporting season, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
S&P 500 has rallied 4.6 percent from a 10-month low on July 2
amid optimism earnings growth will signal a stabilizing economy.  
 Equities turned lower when Bernanke’s prepared testimony
was released at 2 p.m. While Fed officials plan to eventually
raise interest  rates  from almost zero, “we also recognize that
the economic outlook remains unusually uncertain,” Bernanke
said today in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee.  
 “We will continue to carefully assess ongoing financial
and economic developments, and we remain prepared to take
further policy actions as needed to foster a return to full
utilization of our nation’s productive potential in a context of
price stability.”  
 Speculation Foiled  
 Investors were speculating before the testimony that
Bernanke was preparing to announce more stimulus measures, such
as cutting the interest paid on excess reserves to spur lending,
 Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based global head of foreign-exchange
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, wrote
in a note.  
 “There was some expectation that the Fed would lower the
rates they’re paying on excess reserves, and they didn’t,” said
 Jeffrey Schappe , who oversees $19 billion as chief investment
officer at BB&T Asset Management Inc. in Raleigh, North
Carolina. “I’d argue there is a need for it, to induce banks to
lend.”  
 Two-year Treasury  note yields  fell 2 basis points to 0.5520
percent, the lowest ever, after previously reaching record lows
July 15, 16 and yesterday. Thirty-year bond yields dropped 10 
basis points to 3.88 percent and 10-year yields sank eight basis
points to 2.88 percent.  
 The Treasury prepared to announce tomorrow a round of two-,
five- and seven-year note sales next week that’s forecast to be
smaller in size for the third straight month.  
 Oil Slumps, Copper Gains  
 Crude oil for September delivery lost 1.3 percent to $76.58
a barrel in New York after a U.S. Energy Department report
showed inventories climbed 360,000 barrels to 353.5 million in
the week ended July 16.  
 Copper prices rose the most in five weeks after Freeport-
McMoRan Chief Executive Officer  Richard Adkerson  said markets
for copper “are really stronger than economic indicators in the
U.S.” Futures for September delivery rose 9.15 cents, or 3
percent, to $3.093 a pound on the Comex in New York. That’s the
biggest gain for a most-active contract since June 14.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rallied 1.2 percent after Fiat
SpA returned to a profit and Reckitt Benckiser Plc agreed to buy
SSL International Plc., maker of Durex condoms, for $3.9
billion, bringing total deals in Europe to $368 billion this
year, 6.8 percent more than the same period in 2009. Global
takeovers have reached $1 trillion so far in 2010, 6.5 percent
more than at the same time last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 Asian, Emerging Markets  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 0.2 percent and the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose for a second day, climbing 1
percent. Benchmark indexes in Russia and Turkey advanced at
least 2 percent to lead gains among major developing-nation
equity gauges, while benchmark indexes in Poland, the Czech
Republic, Hungary and South Africa also rallied more than 1.5
percent.  
 The Dollar Index, which gauges the U.S. currency against
six major trading partners, surged 0.6 percent to 83.273. The
yen appreciated against all 16 of its major counterparts, rising
0.6 percent against the dollar and climbing 1.4 percent versus
the euro. The dollar rose 0.9 percent $1.2768 per euro.  
 German 10-year bonds were little changed, with the yield at
2.63 percent, after the government failed to sell all of the 4
billion euros of 30-year securities it offered. Portugal
borrowing costs rose at an auction of 1.253 billion euros of
bills due in July 2011. Still, the nation’s 10-year bond yield
lost one basis point to 5.42 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Dye  in New York at 
 cdye@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Keith Springer, president of Capital Financial Advisory Services, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Springer also discusses the outlook for the U.S. stock market and his investment strategy. Springer talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks fell, ending a two-day rally, after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the economic outlook remains "unusually uncertain" without offering additional measures to stimulate growth. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
