-- Latin America's Economies May Grow 5.2% This Year, Led by Brazil, UN Says
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-21T16:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/latin-america-s-economies-may-grow-5-2-this-year-led-by-brazil-un-says.html

          
          
             Latin America’s economies may expand
5.2 percent this year, led by 7.6 percent growth in Brazil, the
United Nations’ economic unit for the region said.  
 The regional economy may expand 3.9 percent in 2011, the
Santiago-based Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean, known as Cepal for its initials in Spanish, said
today. Economic output shrank 1.9 percent in 2009, it said.  
 Latin America will be one of the fastest-growing regions in
the world this year, along with emerging markets in Asia, as
programs to fight last year’s economic slowdown supplement
supportive external factors such as Asian  demand  for the
region’s metal and grain exports and easier access to credit,
the commission said. The favorable backdrop may be short-lived
and is unlikely to continue into next year, the unit said.  
 “Growth is higher than was previously forecast,” Cepal
Executive Secretary  Alicia Barcena  said in an e-mailed
statement. “But performance is very uneven within the region.”  
 Venezuela’s economy may shrink for a second consecutive
year, contracting 3 percent, while Haiti’s shrinks 8.5 percent
following January’s devastating earthquake, the commission said.
Venezuela is the only country where inflation is a cause for
concern, Barcena said.  
 Central America and the Caribbean won’t benefit from the
commodities boom as they are net importers of food, fuel, metals
and minerals. While Central America may benefit from increased
remittances from the U.S., the 0.9 percent growth forecast this
year in the Caribbean will fail to reverse last year’s 2.3
percent decline.  
 Chile’s economy may expand 4.3 percent in 2010 and 6
percent in 2011, making it the fastest-growing major economy in
the region next year, when Brazilian economic growth will slow
to 4.5 percent, the report said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Randall Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net  or
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at =4013 or
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        