-- Australia's Skies May Prove Too Small For Carriers in Price War
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-22T06:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/australia-s-skies-may-prove-too-small-for-three-carriers-amid-air-fare-war.html

          
          
             Kerry Dillow, a Perth advertising
executive, made the 3 1/2 hour flight to Melbourne last week to
visit friends after paying A$366 ($321) for a round-trip ticket,
about a quarter of her fare in 2005.  
 “We are definitely taking advantage of the cheap prices as
soon as they are available,” said Dillow, 31, who flew with
 Richard Branson -backed Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. “It’s
completely about the price.”  
 Australian fares have tumbled as  Tiger Airways Holdings
Ltd.  challenges Virgin Blue and  Qantas Airways Ltd.  in a market
that has never previously supported more than two national
carriers for longer than two years. Capacity may also grow 4.2
percent a year until 2014, as domestic airlines begin to receive
the 184 narrowbody planes they have on order, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 “The mother of all domestic battles is brewing,” said
 Peter Harbison , managing director at the Sydney-based Centre for
Asia Pacific Aviation. “There are going to be some very bruised
bodies as this intensifies.”  
 Qantas and its budget unit  Jetstar , which together carry
about two-thirds of domestic passengers, have already reported
lower passenger load factors on internal routes as capacity
growth outpaces traffic. In May, the Qantas brand carrier filled
75.4 percent of domestic seats with paying passengers compared
with 77.9 percent a year earlier, according to a company  filing .
Jetstar’s domestic flights were 74.4 percent full, a decline of
7.2 percentage points.  
 Shares Tumble  
 Virgin Blue, the nation’s No. 2 carrier, in May cut its
profit forecast as much as 75 percent citing falling demand for
leisure travel and rising capacity. The  carrier  was unchanged at
31 Australian cents at the 4:10 p.m. market close and has lost
47 percent of its value this year.  
 Sydney-based Qantas fell 1.7 percent to A$2.36 after
earlier dropping as much as 2.1 percent. The carrier has tumbled
21 percent this year, the second-worst performance among the 30
stocks in the  Bloomberg World Airlines Index .  
 “It’s a very competitive market, which is never great for
airline profitability,” said  Sean Fenton , who helps manage $740
million at Tribeca Investment Partners in Sydney. “It won’t
change until the new planes are reined in.”  
 Orders Backlog  
 Qantas and Jetstar have at least 150 new planes on order,
some of which will be used on international routes and to
replace existing aircraft. The carrier yesterday announced an
order for seven Bombardier Inc. propeller planes.  
 Virgin Blue, with a fleet of 53  aircraft , has ordered as
many as 105 Boeing Co. 737s including options. Singapore
Airlines Ltd.-backed Tiger has nine planes based in Australia.
It plans to eventually boost its  fleet  in the country to 30.  
 Qantas will add 340,000 seats on domestic routes this year,
including at Jetstar, said spokesman  David Epstein , affirming
the company’s February forecast. He declined to comment further.
 Melissa Thomson , a spokeswoman for Brisbane-based Virgin Blue,
declined to comment.  
 Australia’s small population and geographical spread are
the main challenges faced by carriers on domestic routes. The
country is home to 22 million people, less than the state of
 Texas , and few overseas markets can be reached with single-aisle
planes. About two-thirds of Australia’s inhabitants are also
concentrated in eight cities, which further limits the number of
routes available.  
 Tiger Charges  
 Tiger began domestic Australia flights in November 2007 and
has now set up  hubs  in Melbourne and Adelaide. The Singapore-
based airline has kept costs and fares down since entering the
market through steps including charging extra for food, airport
check-in and reserved seating.  
 That has helped give Tiger the lowest costs in the market,
according to Citigroup Inc. Excluding fuel, it costs Tiger 2.75
Australian cents to fly each seat a kilometer, analysts at the
bank, including  Shavarsh Bedrossian  said in a July 16 note.
Jetstar’s cost is 5 cents a kilometer, compared with 5.75 cents
at the Qantas-brand carrier and 6.25 cents at Virgin Blue, they
said.  
 The cost-savings have allowed Tiger to offer lower ticket
prices, which other carriers have followed. A  government-run
index  tracking discounted fares on the nation’s 70 busiest
routes has plunged more than 42 points since Tiger began flying
in November 2007 to a reading of 55.2 this month.  
 “It’s no coincidence that competition in the domestic air-
travel sector has never been greater since Tiger Airways
arrived,” Tiger’s Australian commercial director  Steve Burns 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 Falling Unemployment  
 Economic growth may help fares rebound even without any
reduction in a capacity, according to Citigroup. Australia’s
economy may expand 3 percent in 2010-11, with unemployment
falling to 4.75 percent the following year, the government said
earlier this week.  
 “Rationalization of domestic low-cost carrier capacity is
not the necessary precursor to yield recovery -- economic
recovery is,” Citi’s Bedrossian said in the report. “Downward
pricing pressure resulting from Tiger entering the market is no
different to that of Virgin Blue and Jetstar when they entered
the market.”  
 Leisure Challenge  
 Jetstar , which first flew in May 2004, and Tiger are
competing for leisure traffic that has been Virgin Blue’s focus
since Branson founded the carrier in 2000 with  two planes  and
A$10 million. Virgin Blue’s new Chief Executive Officer  John Borghetti , an ex-Qantas executive, is now challenging his former
employer in the corporate market and is looking to cooperate
with Air New Zealand Ltd. to help fill planes.  
 The start of Virgin Blue a decade ago contributed to the
2001 collapse of Ansett Holdings Ltd., which was then the
nation’s second-largest carrier with a 41 percent share of the
domestic market. Owner Air New Zealand placed Ansett in
administration the day after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The
same year, Qantas bought Impulse Airlines, a regional carrier
that had added Sydney-Melbourne flights in 2000 in an attempt to
become a national airline.  
 In the 1990s, Ansett and state-owned Australian Airlines,
which merged with then-internationally focused  Qantas  in 1992,
saw off a challenge from  Compass Airlines . The newcomer began
flying in 1990 as the government liberalized the air-travel
market. It collapsed a year later. A revived company lasted
about as long after taking off in 1992.  
 “Australia’s aviation history suggests price wars will
keep going until the new entrant goes broke or one of the
incumbents goes broke,” said Tribeca’s Fenton.  
 For now, Dillow, the advertising executive from Perth, is
enjoying the bargains and planning more trips following her
visit to Melbourne. She has already booked A$180 one-way tickets
for a trip across the country to the beach resort of Cairns next
month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Richard Branson, chairman and founder of Virgin Group Ltd.  
                       
                         
                           Jay Mallin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Richard Branson, chairman and founder of Virgin Group Ltd., listens during a summit in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Richard Branson, chairman and founder of Virgin Group Ltd., listens during a summit in Washington. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 8 (Bloomberg) -- Qantas Airways Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce talked with Bloomberg's Philipp Encz yesterday in Berlin about the company's business strategy and the outlook for the global airline industry.
     Joyce was attending the annual meeting of the International Air Transport Association. IATA said the airline industry will post a $2.5 billion profit in 2010, reversing two years of losses, scrapping an estimate for a $2.8 billion deficit as the global economy rebounds. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
