-- Pakistan Takes Control of 2nd Test After Australia Collapses to 88 All Out
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-07-21T17:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/australia-slumps-to-73-6-at-lunch-on-first-day-of-second-pakistan-test.html

          
          
             Pakistan took command of the second
cricket Test against Australia after dismissing their opponents
for 88 runs, and leads by 60 at the end of the first day.  
 Teenager Mohammad Aamer and Mohammad Asif each took three
wickets at Headingley, Leeds, as Australia recorded its second-
lowest Test innings score against Pakistan. The worst was 80 at
Karachi in 1956. In reply, Pakistan reached 148-3 by the time
bad light and rain ended play early, soon after 5:30 p.m. today.  
 Four Australian batsmen were trapped leg-before-wicket in
the morning session as Pakistan’s seam-bowlers gained the
initiative in favorable, overcast conditions that helped the
ball swing.  
 Simon Katich , on 13, was dismissed by Aamer, then Asif
got  Shane Watson  out in the next over with the score on 20.
Michael Clarke was bowled by  Umar Gul , and captain  Ricky Ponting  and Michael Hussey fell to Asif and Gul.  
 Umar Amin got his first Test wicket when Marcus North, on
16, edged to wicketkeeper  Kamran Akmal  as Australia struggled to
73-6 at lunch.  
 Left-arm pace bowler Aamer, 18, took two wickets in his
first two balls after lunch to reduce Australia to 73-8, clean-
bowling Steven Smith and  Mitchell Johnson . Ben Hilfenhaus was
run out and Tim Paine was the last man to go, just before 2 p.m.  
 Katich, North, Paine (17) and Smith (10) were the only
batsmen who got into double figures. Aamer took 3-20, Asif 3-30
and Gul 2-16.  
 Watson Strikes  
 With Pakistan batting, Watson took 2-12, dismissing Imran
Farhat for 43 and Azhar Ali for 30.  Salman Butt , who took over
the Pakistan captaincy after the surprise resignation of  Shahid Afridi , was bowled by Hilfenhaus for 45. Amin and Umar Akmal are
not out 1 and 8, respectively.  
 Australia had won the toss and decided to bat first, having
won the first match in the two-game series by 150 runs.  
 The matches are being held in England because of security
concerns over staging games in Pakistan. It counts as a home
series for Pakistan.  
 Pakistan: Salman Butt (captain), Imran Farhat, Azhar Ali, Umar
Akmal, Umar Amin, Shoaib Malik, Kamran Akmal, Mohammad Aamer,
Umar Gul, Danish Kaneria, Mohammad Asif.  
 Australia: Shane Watson, Simon Katich, Ricky Ponting (captain),
Michael Clarke, Michael Hussey, Marcus North, Tim Paine,
Mitchell Johnson, Steven Smith, Ben Hilfenhaus, Doug Bollinger.  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australia all out for 88 in first innings against Pakistan  
                       
                         
                           Julian Herbert/Getty Images 
                         
                         Mitchell Johnson of Australia is bowled during day one of the 2nd Test between Pakistan and Australia at Headingley Carnegie Stadium in Leeds, England. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mitchell Johnson of Australia is bowled during day one of the 2nd Test between Pakistan and Australia at Headingley Carnegie Stadium in Leeds, England. Photographer: Julian Herbert/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
