-- Australian Dollar to Advance as Yield Advantage Over U.S. Widens, RBS Says
-- Lisa Pham
-- 2010-07-21T06:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/australian-dollar-to-advance-as-yield-advantage-over-u-s-widens-rbs-says.html

          
          
             The Australian dollar may rise to a
two-month high as the South Pacific nation’s widening yield
advantage over the U.S. attracts investors to its assets, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia is likely to resume  rate 
increases as the nation’s economy continues to grow, expanding
the gap between its benchmark rate and the Federal Reserve’s
record low of between zero and 0.25 percent. A possible slowdown
in the U.S. economy may see an extension the Fed’s pledge to
hold down borrowing costs, extending Australia’s advantage.  
 “The Australian dollar looks cheap,” Sydney-based RBS
currency strategist  Greg Gibbs  said in a research note. Lower
rates for longer in the U.S. “have successfully allowed risk
appetite to improve significantly,” he said.  
 The so-called Aussie traded at 88.19 U.S. cents as of 3
p.m. in Tokyo, after dropping as low as 86.34 cents on July 19.
Gibbs forecast it will climb toward 90 U.S. cents. The last time
the Australian currency rose to that level was on May 13.  
 Policy makers have kept the Federal Reserve funds rate
unchanged since December 2008 and the bank’s has said the
benchmark will stay very low for an “extended period” since
March 2009. The Reserve Bank of Australia kept the overnight
cash rate target at 4.5 percent for a second month in July after
raising borrowing costs by 1.5 percentage points between October
and May.  
 Inflation Concerns  
 Those increases helped stoke a 27 percent gain in
Australia’s dollar in the 12 months through April 30, making it
the second-best performer among the world’s 16 most-traded
currencies. It has since declined about 5 percent on signs the
global economy is cooling.  
 Reserve Bank of Australia officials said in minutes of
their July 6 meeting released yesterday that they’ll use the
results of European bank stress tests and local inflation
figures due next week to decide whether to resume raising
interest rates.  
 “The RBA’s credibility is on the line,” Gibbs said in his
note. “There is inflation being generated in rents and
electricity prices reflecting infrastructure shortages.”  
 National Australia Bank Ltd., the nation’s largest lender
by assets, expects more tightening towards the end of the year
as the U.S. continues to keep its rates low.  
 “Australian yields will rise relative to the U.S.,”  Peter Jolly , Sydney-based head of market research for the investment-
banking unit of National Australia Bank, said in a research
note. He forecast the Australia-U.S. 10-year  spread  will widen
further. The gap yesterday reached 2.27 percentage points, the
most in two years.  
 “Our yield curve will be biased to flatten as the hawkish
RBA underpins short yields and the dovish Fed drags down long
yields,” Jolly said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        