-- Australian Retailers to Benefit From Early Election Call, Woolworths Says
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-21T07:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/australian-retailers-to-benefit-from-early-election-call-woolworths-says.html

          
          
             The shortest Australian federal
election since 2001 will boost consumer spending by removing the
uncertainty that typically emerges in longer campaigns,
according to Woolworths Ltd, the nation’s largest retailer.  
 “Our past experience has been that when you go into an
election, people tend to slow down discretionary spending,”
Chief Executive Officer  Michael Luscombe  said in a telephone
interview today. “It’s good that we have a short and sharp
election process, particularly for the pre-Christmas sales.”  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  last week called a general
election for Aug. 21, less than a month after her ascension led
to a revival in opinion polls for the ruling Labor party. The
33-day gap between the dissolving of parliament and the formal
poll is the shortest since a campaign of the same length in 2001,
according to the Australian Electoral Commission.  
 Gillard, whose party was elected in November 2007, could
have held an election as late as April, potentially affecting
the Christmas trading period, Luscombe said.  
 “It’s important that we don’t go into those peak selling
periods with consumers nervous,” Luscombe said today after
announcing a 4.7 percent rise in full-year sales to A$51.7
billion. “Having an election this early is a good thing for
discretionary retailers.”  
 Labor leads the opposition Liberal-National coalition by 10
percentage points with 55 percent of voters preferring Gillard,
up from a 53 percent to 47 percent split three weeks ago after
she ousted  Kevin Rudd , a Newspoll published in the Australian
newspaper on July 19 showed. The margin of error is plus or
minus three percentage points.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        