-- Auto Dealer Cull May Push Survivors' Second-Quarter Sales to Two-Year High
-- Theo Keith
-- 2010-07-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/auto-dealer-cull-may-push-survivors-second-quarter-sales-to-two-year-high.html

          
          
             U.S. auto retailers may post the
highest sales in almost two years after General Motors Co. and
Chrysler Group LLC closed thousands of smaller dealerships.  
 AutoNation Inc. , the largest dealer group, may post $3.06
billion in second-quarter sales when it reports earnings
tomorrow, the average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. That would be the highest revenue since the third
quarter of 2008.  Penske Automotive Group Inc.  and  Sonic
Automotive Inc. , the second- and third-largest retailers, may
post the highest sales in two years July 29, analysts estimate.  
 Chrysler and GM had said they would shut about 2,800
dealerships as they headed toward bankruptcy last year so the
surviving stores could sell more vehicles at higher prices and
 Ford Motor Co.  closed some locations in urban areas. While a
government watchdog this week criticized some closings as adding
to unemployment, dealer groups say they cut ailing stores.  
 “We’re seeing the remaining stores do significantly
better,” Greg Young, Sonic’s vice president of finance, said in
a telephone interview. “In markets where other Cadillac or
Chevy dealers closed, our Cadillac or Chevy stores are doing
much better.”  
 Sonic may have $1.75 billion in second-quarter sales, the
average estimate of five analysts.  
 Penske Automotive Group Inc.  may post $2.61 billion in
second-quarter sales, the average of six analysts’ estimates.
That would be the highest quarterly revenue in almost two years.
Profit is estimated to be 29 cents a share when the Bloomfield
Hills, Michigan-based company reports results.  
 Penske Brands  
 Penske, led by Chief Executive Officer  Roger Penske ,
focuses on imports and luxury brands, with only 5 percent of its
new-car sales coming from traditional U.S. brands. The retailer
plans to keep that mix constant because there still is an excess
of dealers selling U.S. autos, said  Tony Pordon , a spokesman.
The company also gets more than a third of its revenue outside
of the U.S.  
 “We still believe there are too many domestic brand
dealerships across the United States right now,” Pordon said in
an e-mail. “There needs to be a further culling.”  
 AutoNation, based in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, gets about
one-third of its revenue from U.S. brands. The dealer has
trimmed domestic brand outlets for five years and now has about
200 U.S. locations, said  Marc Cannon , a spokesman. The company,
led by Chief Executive Officer  Mike Jackson , lost a total of
eight GM and Chrysler stores in the restructurings.  
 AutoNation is expected to report profit of 36 cents a share
tomorrow, the average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 Pre-Crisis Sales  
 The retailer’s sales still would trail levels from before
the financial crisis in 2008 as the 9.5 percent unemployment
rate and weakening consumer confidence restrain spending.
AutoNation’s sales in the second quarter of 2007 were $4.56
billion, 49 percent higher than the estimate for the same period
this year.  
 Demand from customers remains near a historic low. The
percentage of Americans who said they  planned  to buy a new car
tumbled to 3.7 percent in June, the lowest since records began
in 1967, according to the Conference Board’s June confidence
index.  
 U.S. auto sales slowed to an 11.1 million annualized rate
in June from 11.6 million in May. Last year, consumers purchased
10.4 million cars and light trucks, the fewest in 27 years. In
2006, about 16.5 million vehicles were sold.  
 Sonic, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, is focusing on
repair and maintenance services and used-car sales to drive
profit as new-vehicle sales weaken, Young said. Used-car volume
has jumped 20 to 30 percent, he said.  
 Sonic Estimates  
 The company, led by Chief Executive Officer  Bruton Smith ,
lost six GM stores and one Chrysler location. Second-quarter
profit is expected to be 27 cents a share, the average estimate
of five analysts.  
 GM had 5,100 dealers and Chrysler had 2,315 on June 30.
Ford had 3,553 at the start of the year, the latest figure the
automaker provided.  Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s largest
carmaker, has about 1,500 U.S. stores for its namesake brand and
Lexus luxury vehicles.  
 Toyota had the highest average sales per store in the first
half of 2010, with 564, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
GM stores averaged 212 sales, Chrysler had 228 and Ford had 277.  
 The number of new car and truck dealers in the U.S. fell to
18,200 as of July 1, a 12 percent decline from two years ago,
according to the National Auto Dealers Association.  
 Arbitration Cases  
 GM may have trimmed as many as 1,400 locations by the end
of the year after the company said it would reinstate 600 of the
2,000 stores it planned to cut. About 500 of the franchises GM
still plans to close have gone to arbitration to be reinstated.
Those cases have now been completed, said Ryndee Carney, a GM
spokeswoman, without saying how many dealers won.  
 Chrysler planned to shut down 789 dealers, and 30 have won
arbitration cases. A number of other, mostly rural franchises
accepted a company offer to become retailers for the post-
bankruptcy Chrysler, said  Mike Palese , a spokesman for the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based automaker. He declined to give a
specific number of how many accepted the offer.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration pushed to
speed up the GM and Chrysler dealership closings, which may have
added tens of thousands of workers into unemployment,  Neil Barofsky , special inspector general for the Troubled Asset
Relief Program, said in a July 19 report.  
 “Such dramatic and accelerated dealership closings may not
have been necessary and underscores the need for Treasury to
tread very carefully when considering such decisions in the
future,” Barofsky said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theo Keith  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 tkeith6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Penske Automotive Group Inc. CEO Roger Penske. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
