-- Lawyer Bartlit Said to Join Obama's Oil-Spill Commission as Lead Counsel
-- Alison Fitzgerald
-- 2010-07-21T21:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/lawyer-bartlit-said-to-join-obama-s-oil-spill-commission-as-lead-counsel.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama ’s commission
investigating  BP Plc ’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill hired  Fred Bartlit , the lawyer who represented former President  George W. Bush  in the 2000 election dispute, as lead counsel, according to
a person with knowledge of the decision.  
 Bartlit, 77, is among three senior staffers hired for the
investigative panel, said the person, who asked not to be
identified before an announcement.  
 The group includes former  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  deepwater
exploration executive  Richard Sears  as science and engineering
adviser. Sears, a geophysicist who is on loan from the oil giant
to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, made a speech in
February titled “Planning for the End of Oil.”  
 The commission also appointed  Jay Hakes , director of the
Jimmy Carter Presidential Library and former head of the Energy
Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department, as director of research.  
 Republicans including Representative  John Sullivan  of
Oklahoma have said the panel lacks industry experience.  
 “Does anyone here have experience in drilling wells and
worked in the oil and gas industry at all?” Sullivan asked
yesterday at a House Energy Committee hearing. “It’s too late
now, but I don’t know why they didn’t include someone that’s
from the industry that could actually, you know, use real-life
experiences with this.”  
 Graham, Reilly  
 The seven-member commission is co-chaired by Democrat  Bob Graham , a former U.S. senator and Florida governor, and
Republican William Reilly, former administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency.  
 The members include  Frances Beinecke , president of the
nonprofit Natural Resources Defense Council; Donald Boesch,
president of the University of Maryland Center for Environmental
Science; and  Terry D. Garcia , vice president for mission
programs at the National Geographic Society.  
 Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said he is confident the
panel will uncover the cause of the April 20 explosion aboard
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig leased by BP, which led to
the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 “They were selected because they were the kinds of elder
statesmen that would do a great job in reporting out the cause
of what happened here and making recommendations,” Salazar said
at yesterday’s hearing. He said “they are putting in the
subject matter expertise that will ultimately be needed” to do
their jobs.  
 ‘Outlier’ Determination  
 The commission, which held its first public meeting last
week in New Orleans, has until Jan. 11 to report to Obama. The
panel must determine whether the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
is an “outlier,” Graham told reporters before the July 12
hearing.  
 “Was it an oil rig that was outside the normal standard of
safety or was it representative of other rigs?” Graham asked.  
 Bartlit represented Bush in the 2000 presidential election
trial ultimately decided when the Supreme Court stopped a
recount in Florida, leaving Republican Bush with more electoral
votes than Vice President  Al Gore . He previously helped
investigate the Occidental Piper Alpha 1988 North Sea platform
explosion in which 166 lives were lost.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
 Alison Fitzgerald  in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        