-- Tax-Free Bond Shortage Aids New York-New Jersey Port Selling $400 Million
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-07-21T04:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/tax-free-bond-shortage-aids-new-york-new-jersey-port-selling-400-million.html

          
          
             The Port Authority of New York and
New Jersey, which slashed its 10-year capital spending plan by
17 percent, is selling $400 million in revenue bonds amid a
shortage of tax-exempt debt from the two states.  
 The pace of borrowing in New Jersey has dropped by almost
50 percent in the past year, as revenue declined and opened a
projected $11.5 billion budget deficit for fiscal 2011 which
began this month. The state sold $1.2 billion in tax-exempts
last year after averaging $2 billion annually from 2007 to 2009,
Bloomberg data and state debt reports show.  
 The dearth of highly rated tax-free bonds from New Jersey
will help attract investors to the authority’s debt, according
to  Mike Pietronico , chief executive officer of New York-based
Miller Tabak Asset Management.  
 “There’s been so little high-quality supply in the state
of New Jersey, that even though this is a dual-exempt bond, New
York and New Jersey, I think New Jersey, in and of itself, could
absorb it,” said Pietronico, who oversees $275 million in
municipal securities. “I expect it to be bid very aggressively
by the street.”  
 New York state investors may be drawn to the sale because
it hasn’t issued much debt as it struggles to pass a budget,
according to  Howard Cure , managing director at Manhattan-based
Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which oversees about $1.5
billion.  
 “They have a lot of debt issuances on hold, particularly
the personal-income tax bonds, until they essentially pass a
budget,” Cure said. “The fact that there hasn’t been a lot of
New York state paper makes this pretty attractive.”  
 New York Deficit  
 New York, the nation’s third-most populous state, has
operated without a complete budget since the fiscal year began
April 1, as lawmakers and Governor  David Paterson  failed to
agree on how to close the deficit in a $135 billion expenditure
plan Paterson proposed in January.  
 Yields on top-rated tax-exempt general obligations due in
10 years are  2.88 percent , the lowest in at least nine-and-a-
half years, according to Municipal Market Advisors data. Yields
on Build Americas, meanwhile, have risen this month amid waning
demand for the taxable securities.  
 The bonds, which provide issuers with a 35 percent rebate
on interest-rate costs, have an uncertain future. An extension
of the Build America program, which is set to expire in
December, stalled in Congress. The bonds have offered
international buyers higher yields than some corporate bonds,
coupled with lower default risk.  
 Greater Demand  
 “The tax-exempt demand right now is greater than BABs,”
said Pietronico. “The situation with BABs is a little bit
different in a sense that there’s more supply, perhaps more
questions about the extension of the program. That combination
is keeping that market a little under pressure.”  
 Tax-exempt borrowing costs, coupled with difficult rules
for issuing Build Americas, led the authority to eschew the
federally subsidized obligations, spokesman  Steven Coleman  said.  
 “Under the BAB rules, we have to carry the bonds on our
financial statements at the taxable rate, which limits the
amount of bonding capacity we can do,” Coleman said in an e-
mail. “The current tax-exempt rate is the lowest in years.”  
 Yields on 30-year top-rated tax-exempt debt are  4.42
percent , the lowest since February 2008, MMA data show.  
 The  $6.3 billion budget  approved in December reduced the
authority’s 10-year capital spending plan to $24.5 billion from
$29.5 billion as a result of the worst economic slowdown since
the Great Depression. A 150-position reduction in the current
budget has reduced employment to the lowest level in 40 years,
according to preliminary offering documents.  
 Competitive Sale  
 The bulk of tomorrow’s competitive sale, which will
refinance debt and fund the capital spending, are backed by
system revenue, and will mature in 21 to 30 years, preliminary
offering documents show. The bonds are rated Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, third-highest, and AA- by Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, one step lower. All three assigned a stable
outlook.  
 The 89-year-old  Port Authority’s  facilities include two
tunnels and four bridges between New York and New Jersey, five
airports, six marine terminals and the Trans-Hudson ferry
service, as well as the World Trade Center site, according to
the preliminary documents. The authority is able to set tolls
and other fees at its facilities.  
 “The near monopoly over regional transportation
infrastructure and the resilient demand for transportation
services in the regional economy continue to keep the
authority’s finances healthy, despite very large, complex, and
growing future capital needs,” according to a July 15 report
from Moody’s.  
 Passenger Traffic  
 Usage of the authority’s commercial airports is up 0.6
percent this year through April after a 4.8 percent decline in
2009, analysts  Maria Matesanz  and  Kurt Krummenacker  wrote in the
report, adding that “aviation enterprises provided
approximately 58 percent of authority net operating revenues”
or 61 percent of net operating income in 2009.  
 The authority added about $157 million to its reserve
balance in 2009, according to Fitch.  
 “It’s a very solid credit,” Cure said. “Critical
transportation links around the metropolitan area, and that the
airports have been pretty resilient is all good. The development
of the World Trade Center is the biggest challenge.”  
 Port Authority owns the land on which the World Trade
Center was situated and is responsible for building Tower One,
formerly called the Freedom Tower, the signature building that
will stand 1,776 feet high.  
 Tax-Exempts  
 The authority sold $300 million in tax-exempts in October,
with bonds due in 2037 priced to yield 4.75 percent,  4 basis
points  above AAA debt, according to MMA. Those same securities
traded yesterday at an average yield of 4.44 percent,  8 basis
points  above comparable maturity top-rated obligations.  
 Debt from an authority tax-exempt sale of about $117
million in March, with a coupon of 2 percent, has performed even
better with five-year bonds yielding as much as 14 basis points
less than  AAA debt  in trading on July 12.  
 “It’s just an extremely liquid bond and there should be a
good demand,” Pietronico said.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 MASSACHUSETTS , the state with the second-most net tax-
supported debt per person, plans to sell about $293 million in
general obligation bonds tomorrow to fund capital projects and
refinance existing debt. The tax-exempt securities will be
marketed by underwriters led by  Citigroup Inc.  Massachusetts is
rated Aa1 by Moody’s and AA+ by Fitch, second-highest, and AA by
S&P, one step lower.  Connecticut  has the highest tax-supported
debt per person, according to Moody’s. (Updated July 21)  
 SACRAMENTO MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT, which provides
electricity to more than 1 million northern  California 
residents, plans to issue $250 million in tax-exempt securities
today for capital-improvement projects. The revenue bonds are
rated A1 by Moody’s, A+ by S&P, the fifth-highest for both, and
A by Fitch, its sixth-highest grade. The debt will be marketed
by a group led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. (updated July 21)  
 NEW YORK CITY, the third-largest U.S. municipal borrower,
plans to sell $800 million in general-obligation bonds as early
as next week to refinance debt. The bonds, rated Aa2 by Moody’s
and AA by S&P and Fitch, all third-highest, will be marketed by
a group led by Barclays Plc. (Updated July 20)  
 UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA, the school started by Thomas
Jefferson that in April 2009 held the first sale under the
federal Build America Bond program, plans to issue $190 million
in Build Americas on July 21 through a competitive sale.
Proceeds of the sale will go toward funding capital improvements
including the construction of a parking garage, student housing,
research buildings and the expansion of the university bookstore
and medical facilities. The securities carry top ratings from S&P,
Moody’s and Fitch. (Added July 21)  
 TEXAS TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION, which oversees the
department that manages highway, rail, port and rural transit
systems in the  second-largest  U.S. state, plans to sell $1.5
billion in securities including $1.38 billion of Build America
Bonds and $116 million in tax-exempt debt on July 26 to pay for
highway improvements. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will lead the
marketing of the bonds, which have top ratings from S&P and
Moody’s.  Alaska  is the biggest U.S. state by area. (Added July
21)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        