-- Bachmann, 23 Other Republicans Attend First Tea Party Caucus in Congress
-- Lisa Lerer
-- 2010-07-21T17:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bachmann-23-other-republicans-attend-first-tea-party-caucus-in-congress.html

          
          
             Representative  Michelle Bachman 
formally announced her Tea Party caucus today, saying she wants
the congressional group to be a “listening ear” for the
fiscally conservative movement that is playing an increasing
role in the Republican Party.  
 Bachmann, of Minnesota, led a meeting of the caucus on
Capitol Hill attended by 23 other Republican House members;
currently, 178 Republicans serve in the chamber. At least two
members of the Republican House leadership have joined the
caucus -- Conference Chairman  Mike Pence  of Indiana and
Representative  Pete Sessions  of Texas, who heads the party’s
campaign committee for the chamber.  
 House Minority Leader  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican,
declined to join the caucus, following his policy of not being a
member of such groups, his office said.  
 Caucuses are common in Congress, serving as a way for like-
minded lawmakers to rally around a common agenda. There’s a
congressional black caucus, a congressional Hispanic caucus, a
rural veterans caucus, even a bicyclists caucus.  
 Bachmann, whose rising political profile has turned her
into a potent fundraiser within conservative circles, told
reporters after her caucus meeting that “I am not here to speak
on behalf of the Tea Party movement.” Rather, she said, her
group’s “whole purpose is to be a listening ear for the Tea
Party and nothing more.”  
 Tea Party activists have emerged as a growing force in some
Republican primaries this year, mobilizing a network of
supporters who often have opposed candidates backed by party
officials.  Rand Paul  of Kentucky and  Sharron Angle  of Nevada are
among the Republicans who won Senate primaries with the aid of
Tea Party support.  
 Party Principles  
 Bachman and other lawmakers said today the Tea Party stood
for three principals: lower taxes, cutting federal spending and
a strict interpretation of the U.S. Constitution.  
 “I am very proud to be a member of the Tea Party caucus
and work my heart out in the upcoming session to just say no to
new taxes and new spending,” said Representative  John Culberson , A Texas Republican.  
 About 10 Tea Party activists attended today’s meeting, a
group that included blacks and Hispanics. The movement consists
of “people from various ethnic groups; that should dispel an
awful lot of the rumors about racism” surrounding the Tea
Party, said Representative  Dan Burton , an Indiana Republican.  
 The National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People adopted a resolution at its convention last week saying
that elements of the Tea Party are racist.  
 The National Tea Party Federation expelled the authors of a
letter mocking the NAACP, which was “clearly offensive,” David
Webb, a Tea Party organizer, said July 18 on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” program.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        