-- BAE, Rolls-Royce Face U.K. Defense Talks as Government Seeks Cost-Savings
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-07-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bae-rolls-royce-face-talks-with-u-k-defense-ministry-on-cost-savings.html

          
          
             The U.K.  Defense Ministry  is to hold
cost-saving discussions with 11 of its top suppliers, including
 BAE Systems Plc , Rolls-Royce Plc and QinetiQ Group Plc, as the
government seeks to narrow the record  budget deficit .  
 Senior ministry officials will also meet this summer with
 Lockheed Martin Corp. , Finmecannica SpA, Thales SA and others,
the minister in charge of defense procurement,  Peter Luff , said
in an interview in London yesterday. The immediate aim is to
save more than 100 million pounds ($150 million) before making
deeper spending cuts.  
 The U.K. is reviewing its defense capabilities for the
first time since 1998 and the ministry wants suppliers to work
with it to cut costs. It will also talk to Serco Group Plc,
MBDA, Babcock International Group, Hewlett-Packard Co. and
 European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co.   
 “It’s partly an attempt to focus the defense contractors’
minds on how serious this challenge is,” Luff said. “We are
going to have a ‘ Dragon’s Den ’ later on in the summer to test
these ideas.”  
 The minister was referring to the BBC television program,
in which prospective entrepreneurs pitch ideas to five
multimillionaires willing to invest their own cash.  
 ‘Tell Us How’  
 “You are a big supplier to our department, you sell the
ministry lots of things,” Luff said, “Tell us how together we
can do things better, tell us how we can save money.”  
 Some companies supplying equipment to the U.K. armed forces
are likely to find out as early as October whether their
programs will go ahead after the review, though others may not
know until next year, Luff said, speaking before a speech to the
Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association tonight.  
 The defense ministry will publish its Strategic Defense and
Security Review once Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
outlines the cuts he’ll be making to individual departments’
budgets, known as the Comprehensive Spending Review, on Oct. 20.  
 “The SDSR will define what we need and the CSR will tell
us how much money we have to do that and then we will decide how
we do it,” Luff said. The defense review “is likely to give
green lights, amber lights and red lights to various programs.”  
 There’ll then be informal discussions with suppliers,
followed by a formal consultation with industry, before the
ministry publishes draft legislation early next year.  
 Asked at what point contractors and manufacturers will be
clear about which weapons and equipment programs will be saved,
cut or downgraded, Luff said it would depend on individual
programs.  
 “Clarity will emerge step-by-step in the process,” he
said. “There will be decisions in the SDSR which give some
people all the certainty they need,” though other companies may
need to wait for the consultations or the draft bill “before it
is clear what will happen” to their contracts.  
 Luff said there will be winners and losers, with small and
medium-sized businesses possibly doing well, as they can be
“agile,” providing “innovative solutions.”  
 “The bigger contractors may experience difficulties, but
there may be exceptions to that,” Luff said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        