-- BAE Seeking U.S. Acquisitions, Won't Buy Northrop Shipyards, Hudson Says
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2010-07-21T16:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bae-seeking-u-s-acquisitions-won-t-buy-northrop-shipyards-hudson-says.html

          
          
             BAE Systems Inc., the U.S.
subsidiary of  Europe’s biggest defense company , said it is
looking to buy information-technology companies and providers of
military repair-services.  
 “We have a large pipeline of targets and we are working
our way through them,”  Linda Hudson , chief executive officer
for BAE’s North America subsidiary, said in an interview at the
Farnborough Air Show near London. The companies that Arlington,
Virginia-based BAE is interested in are “not massive, but
they’re in the range of a few $100 million,” she said.  
 Hudson, 59, who became chief executive in October,  has cut
jobs  and reorganized the company since losing a $3 billion U.S.
military trucks order in February.  BAE Systems Inc’s  repair-
service unit maintains ships and military aircraft, while the IT
business provides cyber-security to avoid unauthorized computer
access.  
 “The two areas she’s targeting are big markets to start
with and are growing faster than U.S. defense spending,”  Anita Antenucci , managing director of Houlihan Lokey, an investment
banking firm in McLean, Virginia, said.  
 BAE’s parent company, based in London, rose 2.3 pence, or
0.7 percent, to 315.2 pence in  London trading today .  
 No Northrop Bid  
 BAE will not bid for  Northrop Grumman Corp .’s shipyards,
Hudson said. The U.S. defense contractor announced plans last
week to sell or spin off its yards that make Navy transports,
aircraft carriers and submarines.  
 BAE wants to focus on repair services for ships, planes and
military trucks and not get into building them, Hudson said. One
example of that plan is the July 13 offer for Mobile, Alabama-
based Atlantic Marine, a privately held ship repair services
company. BAE paid $352 million for the acquisition.  
 The defense contractor is looking for similar companies
located in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world offering repair
services for naval vessels and military aircraft, Hudson said.  
 Hudson declined to specify the amount at her disposal for
acquisitions, saying the company does not “set a bound.”  
 “If we find the right acquisition, I’m quite certain we’ll
find the way to buy it,” Hudson said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        