-- Bahrain Telecom Second-Quarter Net Drops 20% as Competition Erodes Sales
-- Anthony DiPaola
-- 2010-07-21T14:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bahrain-telecom-first-half-profit-drops-14-to-124-million-on-competition.html

          
          
             Bahrain Telecom Co.  said second-
quarter profit declined 20 percent as greater competition in the
company’s home market eroded sales.  
 Net  income fell to 22.3 million dinars ($59.2 million), or
15.5 fils per share, from 27.9 million dinars, or 19.4 fils, a
year earlier, the company said in a  filing  with the Bahrain
bourse. Revenue dropped 2.4 percent to 84.8 million dinars.  
 Batelco, as the company is known, increased its total
number of clients to 7.3 million, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Kaliaropoulos  said, according to an e-mailed statement.  
 “Gross revenues did not grow in the first half
predominantly due to the entry of the third mobile operator in
the Bahrain market,” Chairman Shaikh Hamad Bin Abdulla Al
Khalifa said in the statement. “Reduced market share for mobile
and broadband services and strong price erosion adversely
affected our revenues and profits.”  
 Viva, a unit of  Saudi Telecom Co. , became Bahrain’s third
mobile-phone company when it started services in March. Batelco
also competes for customers with Kuwait’s Mobile
Telecommunications Co., known as Zain.  
 Middle Eastern telephone service providers are expanding
outside their home countries into markets with young and growing
populations. These countries often have lower penetration rates,
or proportions of people with mobile phones, than more developed
European or Persian Gulf markets.  
 Batelco, which has Middle East units in countries including
Jordan, also said profit was lower in the period as it earmarked
cash to start an operation in India. Batelco will look for
acquisition targets in North Africa, India and Asia-Pacific
regions, Kaliaropoulos said.  
 Active mobile subscribers rose 47 percent in the first half
to 6.88 million and broadband Internet users rose 54 percent to
230,600, according to the statement. Price pressure may continue
to hurt profit even as client numbers rise, the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        