-- Baidu Profit Surges as China Dispute Hampers Google
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-07-21T21:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/baidu-profit-doubles-as-china-dispute-hampers-rival-google-shares-advance.html

          
          
             Baidu Inc. , operator of China’s most
popular online search engine, reported second-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates as a censorship dispute with
Chinese regulators hampered main rival  Google Inc.   
 Net income for the three months ended June more than
doubled to 837.4 million yuan ($123.6 million), or 2.40 yuan per
American depositary receipt, Baidu said today in a statement.
That exceeded the 710.4 million yuan average of 14 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. In the year-earlier period,
Baidu’s profit was 383.3 million yuan, or 1.10 yuan per ADR.  
 Baidu gained advertisers from Google after the U.S. company
shut its China-based search site in March and redirected local
users offshore to avoid censorship rules in the world’s biggest
online market. The Beijing-based company’s stock has climbed 78
percent in U.S. trading this year, making it the  best performer 
in the Morgan Stanley Internet Index.  
 “We believe the market-share gain for Baidu versus the
market-share loss for Google is likely related to Google China’s
partial exit,” Citigroup Inc. analyst  Alicia Yap  wrote in a
July 19 report. The changes in Google’s China site “caused
increasingly bad user experiences,” according to Yap.  
 Outperforming Rivals  
 Baidu’s ADRs fell less than 1 percent in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading today before the earnings announcement. The stock
has outperformed online rivals in China this year including
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. , the country’s biggest Internet company by
market value, and  Alibaba.com Ltd. , the leading local e-commerce
operator.  
 Sales during the three-month period were 1.9 billion yuan,
compared with 1.1 billion yuan a year earlier. Revenue is
expected to rise to as much as 2.26 billion yuan in the third
quarter, Baidu said. This compares with the 2.18 billion yuan
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The adoption of Baidu’s Phoenix Nest advertising system
also boosted the company’s sales, according to Citigroup’s Yap.
In December, Baidu introduced the program, which is designed to
facilitate the sales of online-search keywords to clients.  
 Baidu  accounted for 70.8 percent of China’s search-engine
market by revenue in the second-quarter, rising from 67.8
percent three months earlier, according to research company
iResearch. Google’s market share dropped to 27.3 percent from
29.5 percent.  
 In March, Google defied the Chinese government by ending
self-censorship of its local search service and redirecting
users to an unfiltered Hong Kong site. The U.S. company won the
renewal of its Internet license in China this month after
submitting a revised application on the grounds that it would
now point users to the Hong Kong site, instead of redirecting
them automatically.  
 China had an estimated 420 million Internet users at the
end of June, an increase of 36 million from six months earlier,
according to data from the government-sponsored China Internet
Network Information Center.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past the Baidu Inc. office in Shanghai. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Jin Yoon, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Baidu Inc.'s financial results and outlook.
     Baidu expects third-quarter revenue to rise 77 percent to 2.26 billion yuan ($333 million) as it gained a record number of customers in the previous three months. The Beijing-based company's second-quarter profit more than doubled after Google shut its China-based search site in March and redirected users offshore to avoid censorship rules in the world’s biggest online market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
