-- Balcerowicz, Author of Polish Shock Therapy, Slams Bank Renationalization
-- Nathaniel Espino
-- 2010-07-21T12:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/balcerowicz-author-of-polish-shock-therapy-slams-bank-renationalization.html

          
          
             Two decades after  Leszek Balcerowicz’s  “shock therapy” helped catapult Poland from
communism to capitalism, the former central bank governor says
the government is hindering the economy’s free-market progress.  
 Poland’s cabinet is backing an attempt by state-controlled
 PKO Bank Polski SA , Poland’s largest lender, to buy Allied Irish
Banks Plc’s majority stake in  Bank Zachodni WBK SA , created in
2001 from two formerly state-owned banks. Other plans discussed
in recent months may slow the state’s exit from the oil refining
and power industries.  
 “The bigger the politicians’ share in the banks, the worse
it is for stability and the higher the risk of a crisis,”
Balcerowicz said at a news conference in Warsaw today.
“Diverting cash from a PKO dividend to the purchase of Zachodni
is a waste of money.”  
 Balcerowicz also criticized last month’s sale of 5 percent
of  Tauron Polska Energia SA , the country’s second-largest power
group, to copper producer KGHM Polska Miedz SA, and a bid by
Tauron’s larger rival PGE SA to buy the No. 4 player, Energa SA,
calling deals that limit competition “harmful and anti-
development.”  
 Maciej Wewior , a spokesman for the Treasury Ministry, which
manages state-owned companies, wasn’t immediately available to
respond to Balcerowicz’s comments.  
 “Pseudo-privatizations” could account for one-third of
all state asset sales this year if PGE buys Energa and No. 2 oil
refiner Grupa Lotos SA is bought by larger rival PKN Orlen SA or
dominant gas company Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA,
Balcerowicz said.  
 Wewior said earlier that the ministry “isn’t excluding
anyone from bidding or forcing anyone to bid” for Lotos. He was
commenting on a report in the Rzeczpospolita newspaper yesterday
that the Economy Ministry, which shares responsibility for the
energy industry, would approve a sale only to a state-controlled
bidder.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathaniel Espino  in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net 
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        