-- Mafia Money-Laundering Profits Swell in Credit Crisis
-- Steve Scherer
-- 2010-07-21T08:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bank-of-italy-says-financial-crisis-fosters-mafia-driven-money-laundering.html

          
          
             The mafia has cranked up money
laundering activities in Italy after the credit crunch prompted
banks to stop lending, leaving a funding gap that criminal
capital has filled, according to the Bank of Italy.  
 “The crisis has given organized crime room to thrive
because access to credit has become more difficult,” said  Anna Maria Tarantola , the central bank’s deputy general director, in
a July 12 interview in her Rome office. “Whoever holds large
amounts of cash, like crime groups, can make investments that
aren’t possible for others. They can now invest in fully legal
businesses.”  
 The central bank’s  financial intelligence unit  tracked
15,000 suspicious transactions in the first half of 2010, up 52
percent from a year earlier, and exceeding the total for all of
2008, said Tarantola, who’s in charge of banking oversight.  
 Money laundering occurs when criminals hide illegal income
by funneling it through legitimate channels. Last year
investigators seized Rome’s Café de Paris, famous for its
appearance in Federico Fellini’s 1960 film “La Dolce Vita,”
alleging it was owned by the Calabrian ‘Ndrangheta mafia.
Sicily’s Cosa Nostra mafia has used supermarket chains it owns
for similar purposes, according to court reports in Palermo.  
 Smuggling Cocaine  
 Italy’s economy, Europe’s fourth biggest, shrank more than
5 percent last year and the central bank forecasts growth of 1
percent for 2010. Bank lending slowed in 2008 and 2009. Central
bank Governor Mario Draghi said July 15 during a speech to
Italy’s banking association that “demand for credit is
increasing, but there’s the impression that for many businesses,
especially the small ones, demand isn’t being fully satisfied.”  
 Organized crime groups boosted their revenue by 4 percent
to 135 billion euros ($174.6 billion) last year, according to
estimates from Rome-based anti-racketeering group SOS Impresa.  
 Mob arrests have underscored the growing role of the mafia
and money laundering in the legal economy. A sweep against the
‘Ndrangheta, Italy’s wealthiest organized crime group, netted
more than 300 suspects last week and showed how the organization
has taken root around Milan, the country’s financial capital.  
 Today authorities sought 67 alleged ‘Ndrangheta members
near Milan and in Calabria for drug trafficking, extortion and
usury, and seized assets worth 250 million euros, according to
an e-mailed statement from Italy’s finance police. Authorities
consider the ‘Ndrangheta (pronounced en-DRANG-eta) to be Italy’s
most dangerous mafia, surpassing Cosa Nostra, because of funds
earned from smuggling cocaine into Europe from South America.  
 FastWeb, Sparkle  
 Investigators in Rome have accused managers at Telecom
Italia Sparkle SpA and  FastWeb SpA  of running a 2 billion-euro
tax fraud and money-laundering program from 2003 to 2007,
according to a February arrest warrant. The companies, through
their lawyers, said they were unknowingly involved in the scam
and deny any wrongdoing.  
 The financial intelligence unit alerted police about
suspicious operations involving Telecom Italia Sparkle and
FastWeb, Giovanni Castaldi, head of the unit, said in the same
July 12 interview.  
 Of the 21,000 suspicious reports in 2009, the central bank
judged that 14,800 warranted further investigation and 4,000
were later labeled crimes and reported to prosecutors, Tarantola
said. This is proof the Bank of Italy is spearheading the
crackdown on money laundering, she said.  
 “More than 20 percent of the reports have led to criminal
investigations,” Tarantola said.  
 Draghi urged senior bank executives last week to lead the
fight against money laundering after inspections this year at
120 lenders in high-risk mafia areas showed that poor training
and management led to inadequate communication of suspicious
transactions.  
 Crime Hurts Growth  
 The  International Monetary Fund  estimates that money
laundering amounts to an annualized 2 percent to 5 percent of
the worldwide gross domestic product. Laundering in Italy may
equal as much as 11 percent of GDP, according to former chief
mafia prosecutor  Pier Luigi Vigna .  
 The central bank is conducting its own studies to evaluate
the scale of the problem in Italy, Tarantola said. Credit costs
are higher and growth is lower in the southern regions of Italy,
where organized crime is most prevalent.  
 “There’s a very strong correlation between economic growth
and organized crime,” Tarantola said. “During the period 1983
to 2007, the five regions with the most mafia activity are the
ones that had the lowest per capita growth.”  
 The financial intelligence unit has ordered banks to
scrutinize withdrawals or deposits that involve 500-euro bills,
Tarantola said.  
 Big Bills  
 Big bills facilitate money laundering since they make large
sums of cash easier to hide and transport, the Bank of Italy
said in a 15-page internal report last year. As much as 6
million euros can fit in an overnight bag, and 10 million euros
in a 45-centimeter (18-inch) safe-deposit box, the document
said. The Bank of Canada withdrew its 1,000-dollar ($961) bill
in 2000 to fight organized crime and money laundering.  
 Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government passed a law
last year granting amnesty to tax evaders who agreed to
repatriate savings stashed abroad. That led to about 100 billion
euros being declared to authorities and more than 5 billion
euros in tax revenue.  
 Of the 206,000 transactions related to the amnesty, 340, or
0.2 percent of the total, have so far been flagged as
“suspicious,” said Castaldi.  
 The Paris-based  Financial Action Task Force , set up in 1989
to fight money laundering, sent a letter to Italian Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti  in October expressing “concerns”
about the amnesty. The task force drafted a new set of
principles this year for countries passing tax amnesties.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 sscherer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Central bank Governor Mario Draghi said during a presentation to Italy’s banking association that “demand for credit is increasing, but there’s the impression that for many businesses, especially the small ones, demand isn’t being fully satisfied.” Photographer: Victor Sokolowicz/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
