-- Basel Committee Nears Agreement on Definitions of Capital, Leverage Ratio
-- Yalman Onaran
-- 2010-07-22T18:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/basel-committee-nears-agreement-on-definitions-of-capital-leverage-ratio.html

          
          
             The  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , nearing agreement on how to redefine capital and
when to impose borrowing caps on banks worldwide, has left a
final decision to its governing board, which meets next week.  
 The committee, a body of regulators and central bankers
from 27 countries that sets capital standards, narrowed
differences about how to count minority stakes in other
financial institutions, deferred tax assets and  mortgage -
servicing rights, according to people with knowledge of the
discussions that took place in Basel, Switzerland, last week.  
 It plans to present to its governing board two or three
choices on how much of each of these items should be deducted
from a bank’s capital, the people said. The board, which is made
up of central bank governors and heads of supervisory agencies,
will also decide on a time frame for making the leverage ratio
binding on banks, they said.  
 “Before the committee makes big decisions, they’d like to
run it through the board,” said  Barbara Matthews , who used to
lobby the committee on behalf of banks and now follows it as
managing director of BCM International Regulatory Analytics LLC
in Washington. “These issues are so contentious that it’s not
surprising the board is summoned at this point. Something
concrete will come out of the meeting next week.”  
 German Credit  
 Germany is trying to make sure that the revised rules don’t
suffocate its regional savings and cooperative banks, which are
at the heart of lending to small businesses, said the country’s
deputy finance minister,  Steffen Kampeter . Tightening the
definition of capital could force these banks to raise capital,
which may hurt the availability of credit in Germany, Kampeter
said in an interview in New York today.  
 “We’re studying to see how Basel III might impact these
banks,” Kampeter said. “If we destroy these two pillars of our
financial system, we’ll destroy economic growth. That’s our
concern.”  
 France and Germany have led efforts to soften the rules
proposed by the committee in December, concerned that their
banks and economies won’t be able to bear the burden of tougher
capital requirements until a recovery takes hold, according to
bankers, regulators and lobbyists involved in the talks. The
U.S., Switzerland and the U.K. have resisted those efforts.  
 The proposals to be presented to the board when it convenes
on July 26 will reflect these pressures, giving some concessions
to banks, the people said. The differences have prevented the
committee from agreeing on some issues, such as capital ratios.
The board won’t be settling those next week, members said.  
 Overlapping Membership  
 In theory, the board includes central bankers and heads of
regulatory agencies, while deputies or division heads often
attend quarterly Basel committee meetings. In practice, the
memberships of the two groups sometimes overlap.  
 Two U.S. representatives,  Sheila Bair , chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., and  John Dugan , comptroller of
the currency, attended the committee sessions last week and plan
to be present at the board meeting next week, spokesmen for the
two agencies said.  
 Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King , who weren’t in Basel for the
committee meeting last week, plan to be there next week,
according to spokesmen for the central banks. European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  chairs the board.  
 Minority Interests  
 The Basel committee, asked by Group of 20 leaders to draft
rules after the worst financial crisis in 70 years, proposed
excluding certain assets when calculating the most important
category of bank capital, the cushion that’s supposed to protect
against sudden losses.  
 European banks have lobbied against the proposed exclusion
of minority interests that banks hold in other financial
institutions. Japan has fought the hardest against the
elimination of deferred tax assets, past losses that lenders use
to offset tax charges in future years. The U.S. has opposed
removing mortgage-servicing rights, contracts to collect
payments, which are unique to U.S. banks.  
 The committee will let the board choose among varying
degrees of exclusion, softening its initial stance, according to
three people with knowledge of the talks. The board might also
decide to leave the deferred-tax-asset exclusion intact, while
giving banks five years or more to comply, they said.  
 ‘Similar Standards’  
 “Initially, Basel wasn’t about identical standards, but
about similar standards,” said  V. Gerard Comizio , a former
Treasury Department lawyer who is now a senior partner at Paul,
Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP in Washington. “But as it has
gained credibility and acceptance worldwide, it has become more
specific and is demanding more compliance. That makes it tougher
to reach consensus.”  
 The committee also asked the board to decide when to
require that banks cap their leverage by setting a ratio of
assets to capital, according to committee members.  
 While current Basel rules allow banks to assign weights to
assets based on their risks, the leverage ratio would look at
all assets without a risk assessment.  
 Progress on the issue has come a long way since it was
advocated by the FDIC’s Bair at a committee meeting in Merida,
Mexico, in 2006. U.S. banks already face such a cap under
national laws, and Bair’s proposal to expand the concept
globally was met with almost unanimous opposition at the time.  
 Last week in Basel, committee Chairman  Nout Wellink , who is
also president of the Dutch central bank, reminded members of
Bair’s speech in Merida, acknowledging the change of attitude
toward a leverage ratio since then, according to one of the
participants.  
 Leverage Ratio  
 As envisioned in the December proposal, the leverage ratio
initially will be used to provide guidance to national
regulators in their assessments of banks’ soundness. Only later
would it become a requirement.  
 The committee plans to announce its rules by the time G-20
leaders gather in  Seoul  in November.  
 Wellink last week said the group was “fully on track” to
finish its work by then. Final versions of some rules, including
liquidity requirements for how much cash and cashable securities
banks need to hold against their longer-term liabilities, may
not be agreed upon before then, four committee members have
said. Issues that can’t be resolved by the Basel committee may
be settled by the G-20 leaders in November, members say.  
 The committee also issued a new proposal last week that
would help regulators determine the need for and the size of a
buffer above the minimum capital requirement. The formula, based
on how much credit is extended in a country in relation to its
gross domestic product, builds on the concept of a counter-
cyclical capital buffer introduced in December.  
 Under the plan, banks would be forced to cut dividends if
their capital falls below that level as a way of keeping them
from lowering capital in good times.  
 The banks have until Sept. 10 to submit responses to the
buffer proposal. While the committee aims to include the final
version of the rule in its November package, debate might drag
on until next year, some members said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, pauses during a news conference at the bank's headquarters. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
