-- Beach Bums Throng Banks of Seine: No G-Strings Please
-- A. Craig Copetas
-- 2010-07-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/beach-bums-throng-banks-of-seine-no-g-strings-allowed-a-craig-copetas.html

          
          
             Mayor  Bertrand Delanoe , whose
sumptuous offices are located a short walk from the Seine River,
officially opened the eighth “Paris Plage” on July 20.  
 The two-kilometer stretch of concrete quay is carpeted with
2,000 tons of sand, 3,000 potted palm trees and homeless
Parisians living in tents provided by the charity  Medecins du
Monde , or Doctors of the World.  
 As Delanoe, 60, declared when he inaugurated the ersatz
beach -- which laps water that the Ministry of Health says is
unfit for swimming -- the “raison d’etre” for the $2.7
million, monthlong attraction remains the same.  
 “It’s a gesture of solidarity with Parisians who cannot
afford to go on vacation,” said the socialist mayor, the first
to lead a left-wing alliance in Paris since the 1871 Commune.  
 Call it the New Luxury.  
 France is lumbered with a 9.9 percent unemployment rate
that’s higher in predominantly Muslim suburbs lacerated with
unrest. Paris Beach has become a release valve for metropolitan
tensions during the August “canicule,” or heat wave.  
 For those Parisians unable to make the yearly exodus to the
real Paris Plage in Le Touquet, Normandy, or rush to the
southern coast flush with glamour, politically correct summer
elegance is no longer sipping cocktails at the  Ritz Hotel  before
a Michelin three-star dinner at Alain Ducasse.  
 Topless Crackdown  
 Instead, City of Light officials are urging tourists to
relax on one of the 450 deck chairs plopped on the sand provided
under a sponsorship agreement with the cement maker Lafarge SA.
Expect a rush for the few dozen hammocks. About 3 million people
last year flocked to Paris Beach. They played hide-and-seek with
police handing out $48 fines for topless sunbathing, which
risked riling Islamic sensibilities, and ate sandwiches sold by
project underwriter Monoprix SA, a grocery chain.  
 Shortly after the mock beach was closed for the 2002
season, Delanoe, Paris’s first openly gay mayor, was stabbed in
the stomach during the all-night “Nuit Blanche” (Sleepless
Night) festival. Police said the would-be assassin was Azedine
Berkane, a homophobic 39-year-old Muslim from the suburb of
Bobigny with a record of violence and drug dealing.  
 “People must behave according to good standards to
maintain tranquility, security and public order,” reads now the
city ordinance on Paris Beach. “Notably indecent attire (nude
sunbathing, G-strings and toplessness) is forbidden.”  
 Urban Spectacle  
 Paris Beach, designed by “urban scenographer” Jean-
Christophe Choblet, is a requiem for a city in which self-
indulgence is no longer fashionable. The New Luxury is organized
on other lines. Indeed, the New York-based  Project for Public
Spaces , a non-profit group that supports revitalization
projects, cheers Choblet’s extravaganza of volleyball nets and
temporary swimming pools as an urban marvel.  
 “There are no outrageous logos on display, and the
experience never feels overwhelmed by commercialism,” PPS said
in a statement.  
 Still, it’s often difficult to see anything through the
smoke from hundreds of outdoor barbeques grilling lamb sausages
along the 20,000-square-foot sand strip open between 8 a.m. and
midnight. Yet the global reach of Paris Beach can’t be
underestimated. Similarly gritty urban-coastal theme parks,
which also feature daily concerts and atomizers spraying water
to keep the crowds cool, are now the summer-season rage in Rome,
Berlin, Amsterdam, Budapest, Munich and Brussels.  
 “The economy and social discontent have devalued summer
vacations,” says Liliane Muller, manager of the luxury Paris
tourist consultant company Seatem Group. “Elegance is now a
government product.”  
 For more information about Paris Plage, go to
 http://en.parisinfo.com/show-exhibition/1198779/paris-plages .  
 Paris Plage  
 The eighth edition of “Paris Plage,” reserved for
pedestrians and cyclists on the banks of the river Seine, will
run through Aug. 20 under the following conditions:  
 Right Bank -- Every day during the above dates in the
direction west to east from the entrance to the Tuileries
underpass to the exit of the Henri IV underpass (protected lane
to the Pont  Charles de Gaulle  exit).  
 Left Bank -- Every Sunday during the above dates from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m., except on July 25 due to the  Tour de France 
arriving through the east of Paris. Heading east to west, Voie
Expresse Rive Gauche (entrance Quai Anatole France to the exit
Quai Branly).  
 As in previous years, activities will be organized on the
lower left bank, between Port de la Gare and Pont de Tolbiac,
and an annex of Paris Plage will also be installed at the Bassin
de la Villette in the 19th arrondissement.  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kids cool off under water sprinklers during "Paris Plage" in Paris, France. The two-kilometer stretch of concrete quay is carpeted with 2,000 tons of sand and 3,000 potted palm trees. Photographer: Sophie Robichon/Mairie de Paris via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A promenade with chairs and umbrellas celebrates "Paris Plage." The two-kilometer area was created for Parisians who cannot afford to leave the city on a summer vacation. Photographer: Sophie Robichon/Mairie de Paris via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Paris Plage"  
                       
                         
                           Sophie Robichon/Mairie de Paris via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chairs and umbrellas are set up beside the Seine River during "Paris Plage." Pedestrians and cyclists will also enjoy special activities organized along the Left Bank. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chairs and umbrellas are set up beside the Seine River during "Paris Plage." Pedestrians and cyclists will also enjoy special activities organized along the Left Bank. Photographer: Sophie Robichon/Mairie de Paris via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An opportunity to relax and cool off under water sprinklers during "Paris Plage." A dozen hammocks and 450 deck chairs are available, under a sponsorship deal with cement maker LaFarge SA. . Photographer: Sophie Robichon/Mairie de Paris via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     People cool off under water sprinklers during "Paris Plage" in Paris.  It is hoped that the urban beach will provide relief during the August "canicule," or heat wave. Photographer: Sophie Robichon/Mairie de Paris via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
