-- Bernanke Says Fed Is Prepared to Act as Needed
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-07-21T21:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bernanke-says-fed-is-prepared-to-act-as-needed-to-aid-u-s-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said central bankers “remain prepared” to act as
needed to aid growth even as they get ready to eventually raise
interest rates from almost zero and shrink a record balance
sheet.  
 While Fed officials plan for the exit, “we also recognize
that the economic outlook remains unusually uncertain,”
Bernanke said today in testimony to the Senate Banking
Committee. “We will continue to carefully assess ongoing
financial and economic developments, and we remain prepared to
take further policy actions as needed to foster a return to full
utilization of our nation’s productive potential in a context of
price stability.”  
 Bernanke, responding to questions, outlined options for
further steps, including giving more information on the Fed’s
commitment to low interest rates, and he said officials haven’t
decided which tools they might use. Economic data over the past
month that were weaker than analysts projected have prompted
investor speculation that the Fed may increase monetary stimulus
in a bid to keep the economy growing.  
 Stocks fell and Treasuries climbed after Bernanke’s
testimony. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slid 1.3 percent to
1,069.59 at the 4 p.m. p.m. close of trading in New York. Yields
on two-year Treasuries fell to a record 0.5520 percent.  
 “The Fed is not close to implementing additional
stimulus,”  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital
in New York, said in a telephone interview. Expectations for
additional steps were based on “more hope than fact.”  
 Bullets Remain  
 Tools to boost the economy also include reducing the rate
paid on banks’ reserves held at the Fed and using the central
bank’s balance sheet, Bernanke said. Asked by Republican Senator
 Jim Bunning  of Kentucky if the Fed is “out of bullets,”
Bernanke responded:  
 “I don’t think so. We need to continue to evaluate those
options. As I said, we’re not prepared to take any specific
steps in the near term, particularly since we’re still also
evaluating the recovery, the strength of the recovery. But I do
think that there is some potential for some of those steps to be
effective.”  
 The average growth in private payrolls of 100,000 a month
this year is “insufficient to reduce the  unemployment rate 
materially,” and it will probably take a “significant amount
of time” to restore the almost 8.5 million jobs lost in 2008
and 2009, Bernanke said in his prepared remarks.  
 Growth, Unemployment  
 At the same time, Fed policy makers “expect continued
moderate growth, a gradual decline in the unemployment rate and
subdued inflation over the next several years,” Bernanke said.
Business investment in equipment and software “appears to have
increased rapidly” in the first half, and “stronger exports”
have aided U.S. manufacturing growth, he said.  
 In his eight-page statement to the committee, Bernanke
devoted almost 10 times as many words to discussing the exit
from stimulus as he did to potential actions to boost growth.
Exit options include reinvesting proceeds from maturing
Treasuries into shorter-term issues, selling housing debt and
raising the interest rate paid on the $1 trillion of bank
deposits at the Fed, Bernanke said.  
 The Fed chief said the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory
overhaul signed into law earlier today by President  Barack Obama , “together with stronger regulatory standards for bank
capital and liquidity now being developed, will place our
financial system on a sounder foundation and minimize the risk
of a repetition of the devastating events of the past three
years.”  
 Signing Ceremony  
 The Washington signing ceremony, attended by Senate Banking
Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd and House Financial Services
Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , delayed the hearing’s original
10 a.m. scheduled start by four hours. Bernanke is scheduled to
testify tomorrow before the  House Financial Services Committee .  
 Last month, Bernanke and his colleagues on the Fed’s Open
Market Committee reiterated their commitment to keep the
benchmark rate close to zero for an “extended period” to help
the economy recover from the worst financial crisis and downturn
since the 1930s.  
 At the same time, officials talked about the “need to
consider whether further policy stimulus might become
appropriate if the outlook were to worsen appreciably,” after
“slightly softer” economic indicators recently and “less
accommodative financial conditions,” according to minutes of
the session, released July 14.  
 Stock Decline  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined about 12
percent from its 2010 peak on April 23 amid investor concern
Greece might default on its debt and downgrades of other
European nations’ credit ratings.  
 The Fed’s “somewhat weaker outlook” is due in part to
financial markets that “have become less supportive of economic
growth in recent months,” Bernanke said. European leaders have
“put in place a number of strong measures” to aid Greece and
other euro-area countries, he said.  
 Many banks still have “a large volume of troubled loans on
their books, and bank lending standards remain tight,” Bernanke
said.  
 Bernanke’s testimony included a 19-page addendum
summarizing a series of more than 40 meetings the Fed has held
this year to figure out how to reverse a decline in lending to
small businesses. The section included a summary of
recommendations from participants in the meetings.  
 The National Federation of Independent Business reported
last week that confidence among small businesses fell in June to
the lowest level in three months as their projections for
profits, sales and economic conditions weakened.  
 Forecasts Trimmed  
 Fed policy makers trimmed their forecasts for U.S. growth
and raised unemployment projections at their June 22-23 meeting.
For 2011, officials expect growth ranging from 3.5 percent to
4.2 percent, down from 3.4 percent to 4.5 percent, and a fourth-
quarter unemployment rate of 8.3 percent to 8.7 percent, up from
8.1 percent to 8.5 percent.  
 “The forecasts are qualitatively similar to those we
released in February and May,” even as unemployment will
decline more slowly and near-term inflation will be “a little
lower,” Bernanke said.  
 Growth in U.S. gross domestic product slowed to a 2.7
percent annual pace in the first quarter, compared with a 3
percent estimate issued in May and a 5.6 percent rate in the
last three months of 2009.  
 Estimates Cut  
 Economists at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  last week reduced
their estimate of second-quarter growth to a 2 percent annual
pace from 3 percent after data showed the U.S. trade gap widened
in May to an 18-month high while retail sales fell for a second
straight month. JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts reduced their
projection of growth in the second half by 0.5 percentage point
to 2.75 percent.  
 U.S. factory  output  fell 0.4 percent in June, the most in a
year, a Fed report showed July 15. Yesterday, government figures
showed housing starts declined in June to the lowest level in
eight months after the expiration of a U.S. government tax
incentive caused sales to slump.  
 Private employers added fewer workers to payrolls in June
than economists forecast. The jobless rate has been stuck at 9.5
percent or higher since August and reached 10.1 percent in
October, compared with December 1982’s 10.8 percent. It may take
as long as five or six years for unemployment to return to its
longer-run rate, which  Fed officials  judge to be 5 percent to
5.3 percent, the central bank said in its meeting minutes.  
 Inflation  
 Meantime, inflation is running below Fed officials’ long-
term preferred rate of about 1.7 percent to 2 percent. The core
personal consumption expenditures price index, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 1.3 percent in May from a year earlier.  
 “By a number of measures underlying inflation has trended
down over the past two years,” Bernanke said without discussing
the chance of deflation.  
 International Business Machines Corp., the world’s biggest
computer-services company, said this week sales last quarter
rose 2 percent to $23.7 billion, trailing the average analyst
estimate of $24.2 billion, as demand for services slowed and the
falling euro weighed on revenue.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Al Broaddus, former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, talks about today's testimony by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke before the Senate Banking Committee. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Dino Kos, managing director at Portales Partners LLC, talks about Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke's testimony today before the Senate Banking Committee.
     In his eight-page statement to the committee, Bernanke devoted almost 10 times as many words to discussing the exit from stimulus as he did to potential actions to boost growth. Kos talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
