-- BHP, Dexus, Rio, Seven, Sims, Woolworths: Australian, New Zealand Stocks
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-07-21T06:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bhp-dexus-rio-seven-sims-woolworths-australian-new-zealand-stocks.html

          
          
             Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index 
advanced 0.2 percent to 4,412.70 at the 4:10 p.m. close in
Sydney. New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  gained 0.3 percent to
3,003.41 in Wellington.  
 The following were among the most active shares in the
market today. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company
names.  
 Mining shares: Copper gained for a third day in Asia after
an increase in building permits in the U.S., the second-largest
user of the metal, boosted demand prospects.  
 BHP Billiton  (BHP AU), the world’s largest mining company,
advanced 1.2 percent to A$38.75 in Sydney. BHP said fourth-
quarter iron-ore production rose 16 percent.  
 Rio Tinto Group  (RIO AU), the world’s third-largest mining
company, increased 2 percent to A$67.80. Alcan Global Aerospace,
Transportation and Industry, a unit of Rio Tinto, has signed an
agreement to supply Airbus with a low density alloy suited for
aircraft, according to PR Newswire.  
 Avoca Resources Ltd.  (AVO AU) fell 3.9 percent to A$2.70.
The gold explorer was downgraded to “negative” from
“positive” at Evans and Partners Pty. by equity analyst  Cathy Moises .  
 St. Barbara Ltd.  (SBM AU) declined 1.5 percent to 33
Australian cents.  
 Dexus Property Group  (DXS AU) surged 5 percent to 84.5
Australian cents. Australia’s largest owner and manager of
office properties may be the focus of corporate interest, the
Australian Financial Review reported in its Street Talk column,
without saying where it got the information. A bidding party is
potentially lining up, and may put an equity swap in place for a
stake, the newspaper said.  
 Linc Energy Ltd.  (LNC AU), which converts coal into liquid
fuels, surged 18 percent to A$1.535, its highest close since
April 30, amid speculation the company is close to selling
steelmaking coal assets in Australia to Adani Enterprises Ltd.  
 Macarthur Coal Ltd.  (MCC AU), the world’s largest producer
of pulverized coal used by steelmakers, jumped 4.5 percent to
A$12.75. Peabody Energy Corp., the largest U.S. coal producer,
raised the lower end of its earnings forecast after beating
analysts’ estimates for the second-quarter on increased demand
in China for Australian coal.  
 Seven Group Holdings Ltd  (SVW AU) climbed 2.4 percent to
A$6.02. The broadcaster was raised to “overweight” from
“neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Sims Metal Management Ltd.  (SGM AU), the world’s biggest
recycler of scrap metal, rose 2.3 percent to A$16.69. Schnitzer
Steel Industries Inc., which operates a steel scrap recycling
business in the U.S., was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at
UBS AG.  
 Woolworths Ltd.  (WOW AU) dropped 1.8 percent to A$26.19.
Australia’s biggest retailer posted slower sales growth in the
fourth quarter amid lower food inflation, increased competition
and the absence of government stimulus that stoked revenue the
previous year.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        