-- Billionaire Jack Irving of Canada's Second-Richest Family Dies at Age 78
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-21T19:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/billionaire-jack-irving-of-canada-s-second-richest-family-dies-at-age-78.html

          
          
             John E. (Jack) Irving, a member of
Canada’s second-richest family who helped expand its oil and
construction businesses, died after a brief illness. He was 78.  
 “Today is a very sad day for me as we mourn the passing of
my brother Jack,”  James Irving  said in a  news release  on the
J.D. Irving Ltd. website.  
 Jack Irving was the youngest of three sons, along with
James and Arthur, who led the oil, forest-products, newspaper
and retail businesses in New Brunswick that were started by
their father  Kenneth Colin Irving  and their grandfather James
Dergavel Irving.  
 Jack was born in 1932 in Saint John, New Brunswick. He got
his start in business selling magazines door to door and raising
hens at age eight with his older brothers, according to the text
of a speech in 2001 at the University of New Brunswick, where he
was given an honorary degree.  
 “For more than 50 years, Jack Irving was truly the builder
of the family,” New Brunswick Premier  Shawn Graham  said today
in a statement on the government’s website.  
 Jack Irving joined the family-run oil company, Irving Oil,
in 1952 and later managed construction and engineering
companies. He was appointed a member of the Order of Canada in
2007. He and his brothers were inducted into the Canadian
Business Hall of Fame the following year.  
 The Irvings ranked second in Canada with a net worth of
C$7.3 billion ($7 billion) last year, according to  Canadian
Business  magazine. The family of  Kenneth Thomson , who died four
years ago, ranked first.  
 Quiet One  
 “Jack was the quiet one in the family,’’ Saint John Mayor
Ivan Court said in a phone interview. “He did a lot of great
things and made a lot of donations that people probably aren’t
aware of.”  
 Irving is survived by his wife, three children and six
grandchildren.  
 Irving Oil  -- started with a single garage and service
station in 1924 -- is now one of Canada’s biggest energy
companies. It has a refining capacity of 300,000 barrels a day
and operates from 13 marine terminals, according to its website.
Irving Oil supplies customers in Eastern Canada, Quebec and New
England.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        