-- BlackRock's Fink Must Show Size Won't Hinder Growth as Shares Trail Rivals
-- Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/blackrock-s-fink-must-show-size-won-t-hinder-growth-as-shares-trail-rivals.html

          
          
             Laurence D. Fink  made  BlackRock Inc. 
the world’s largest asset manager with last year’s purchase of
Barclays Global Investors. Now he must convince shareholders
that his firm hasn’t become too big to grow.  
 BlackRock, the top performer among the 10 largest publicly
traded asset managers last year, has become the worst performer
this year,  declining  36 percent in New York trading. Investors
haven’t been able to get a clear picture of how much money
BlackRock can attract into its funds as markets remain volatile,
said  Jeffrey Hopson , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Inc.
in St. Louis.  
 “If BlackRock can establish that they can still grow at a
competitive rate, that will help the shares,” Hopson said.
“Flows are the number one thing we’re looking at.”  
 BlackRock will publish more information on new assets today
when it releases second-quarter results.  Earnings per share ,
excluding some items, probably rose to $2.30 from $1.75 a year
earlier, helped by the Dec. 1 acquisition of BGI, according to
the average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The $15.2 billion BGI purchase added the biggest lineup of
exchange-traded funds and more than doubled assets under
management to $3.36 trillion. After the transaction, some
investors who had money with both managers withdrew some funds
as they consolidated their accounts and reassessed portfolios.  
 Fink’s Warning  
 BlackRock’s long-term funds attracted a net $8.9 billion
new client money in the three months ended March 31, down from
$41.8 billion during the prior quarter. Fink has said investors
shouldn’t annualize fourth-quarter figures to estimate future
earnings.  
 Investors in the U.S. deposited about $50 billion into
stock and bond mutual funds in the quarter ended June 30, with
most of that going into fixed-income funds, preliminary data
from the  Investment Company Institute  in Washington show.
Exchange-traded funds pulled in $30.5 billion during the
quarter, according to Morningstar Inc. in Chicago.  
 Investors have been reluctant to put money to work after
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 12 percent in the three
months ended June 30. The VIX, or the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, reached a one-year high of 45.79 on
May 20, on concern the European debt crisis may spread and
economic growth will slow in the U.S.  
 Share Decline  
 BlackRock’s 36 percent decline in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading this year makes it the worst performer in the
202-member  Russell 1000 Financial Service Index , which is down
1.4 percent. The stock surged 73 percent in 2009, four times the
rate of index, helped by news of the BGI purchase.  
 “The valuation had really gotten ahead of itself,”  Macrae Sykes , an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York, said in
an interview. “People are still getting clarity on the
integration,” he said.  
 Investors also sold the stock after Fink said in March that
BlackRock would use cost savings from the acquisition to
reinvest in certain business units, including ETFs. That
prompted Citigroup Inc. analyst  William Katz  to cut his forecast
for BlackRock’s margins and earnings estimates.  
 Katz, in a March 31 note to clients, also said that
BlackRock’s shares would fall as Wall Street analysts
“realign” their earnings estimates based on the firm’s
decision to spend money on its units.  
 $200 Billion Deposits  
 Nine of the  14 analysts  who cover BlackRock rate the shares
a “buy,” while five of them rate them “hold,” Bloomberg data
show. Katz, who had the only “sell” rating on the shares,
switched to “hold” in April.  
 BlackRock may average $200 billion in annual investor
deposits over the next five years, translating into net new
business of 5 percent to 6 percent, President  Robert Kapito  said
in an interview in April.  
 BlackRock, co-founded in 1988 by Fink, began as a fixed-
income firm and has expanded through a series of acquisitions.
In 2005, BlackRock bought State Street Research & Management to
add more stock, real estate and hedge funds. In 2006, it
expanded its equity business with the purchase of Merrill Lynch
& Co.’s money-management unit. In 2008, BlackRock acquired a
division of Quellos Group LLC to add hedge-fund assets. The
purchase of BGI, the biggest seller of index-tracking ETFs, was
its largest takeover.  
 The firm now has about 12 percent of its assets in mutual
funds aimed at individuals, 15 percent in ETFs and the majority
in institutional products.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Laurence D. Fink,  chairman and chief executive officer of Black Rock Inc. Photographer: Rick Maiman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
