-- Ex-Governor Blagojevich Won't Testify in Own Defense at Corruption Trial
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-21T18:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/blagojevich-defense-rests-in-corruption-trial-of-former-illinois-governor.html

          
          
             Former Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich  told a U.S. judge he won’t testify in his own
defense as his lawyers rested their case in the seven-week-old
corruption trial.  
 “The government, in their case, proved my innocence. They
proved that I did nothing illegal,” the twice-elected Democrat
told reporters gathered in the courthouse lobby in Chicago after
this morning’s proceedings.  
 Blagojevich, 53, faces a 24-count criminal indictment in
which he’s charged with linking official acts, including
selection of a U.S. senator to fill President  Barack Obama ’s
former seat, to campaign contributions and personal favors.  
 Blagojevich is standing trial with his older brother,
Robert, 54, who is accused of being a co-conspirator in some of
the alleged schemes. The men, who face as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of the most serious charges, deny
wrongdoing.  
 U.S. District Judge  James B. Zagel  scheduled closing
arguments for July 26. Zagel is scheduled to consider defense
motions to acquit both defendants today.  
 Sam Adam Jr., a lawyer for Rod Blagojevich, told jurors
during his opening statements last month that they would hear
from his client. In the U.S., prosecutors bear the burden of
proving criminal charges and defendants can’t be forced to
testify.  
 Blagojevich and Adam told reporters today that, while the
governor wanted to testify, they elected to abide by the
judgment of Adam’s attorney father who didn’t believe
prosecutors had proven their case.  
 ‘No Obligation’  
 “The defendant had no obligation to defend himself,” Sam
Adam Sr., who was part of the defense team, told reporters
outside court.  
 Defense attorneys had subpoenaed the testimony of Obama’s
chief of staff,  Rahm Emanuel , White House senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett , Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada, Senator
 Richard Durbin  of Illinois and U.S. Representative  Jesse Jackson Jr.  of Chicago. None of them testified.  
 Prosecutors rested their case on July 13 after about five
weeks of testimony. Prosecution witnesses who testified that the
ex-governor connected fundraising to his agenda included former
chiefs of staff Alonzo “Lon” Monk and  John Harris . Both are
cooperating with the government and agreed to plead guilty to a
single criminal count each.  
 ‘Increasingly Alarmed’  
 Lobbyist John Wyma, who worked for Blagojevich in Congress,
testified against his former boss under a grant of immunity.  
 “I was increasingly alarmed by the level of
aggressiveness,” Wyma said of the drive to raise money.  
 Robert Blagojevich, a retired U.S. Army lieutenant colonel
who chaired his brother’s campaign finance committee, spent two
days on the stand. He said he was instructed never to link his
brother’s acts to solicitations for money.  
 “I was told never to tie the two and I never did,” he
told jurors on July 19.  
 Rod Blagojevich, after being charged criminally, named
former Illinois attorney general  Roland Burris  to fill the
Senate vacancy.  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 For Related News and Information:
Legal headlines: TLAW <GO>
Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW <GO>
Crime news: NI CRIME BN <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Indicted former Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich. Photographer: John Zich/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
