-- Bond Default Is About Too Much Debt, Too Little Time: Joe Mysak
-- Joe Mysak
-- 2010-07-21T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bond-default-means-too-much-debt-too-little-time-commentary-by-joe-mysak.html

          
          
             The last time a  state  defaulted on
its bonds, it took eight years and the federal government’s help
to come up with a remedy.  
 When Arkansas defaulted on its bonds in 1933, the
politicians and investors talked about the same things we would
talk about today. The state blamed underwriters for allowing it
to sell too many bonds. Investors compared the willingness to
repay debt with the ability to pay, and weighed the advantages
of bonds backed by a pledge of taxing powers to those secured by
specific revenue.  
 Unlike today, nobody thought the federal government should
come to the rescue.  
 To be sure, the municipal market was a much different place
in the 1920s and 1930s. States and localities borrowed about $1
billion in long-term debt each year (compared with $400 billion
now), credit research was in its infancy, and the practice of
bond law was only about 50 years old. The 10-year bond call
wasn’t as common as it is today, and there were no prohibitions
on the number of times issuers could refund their bonds. The
market was less codified and more contentious.  
 The framework of the story is eternal: too much debt, too
little time.  
 “We have a state ranking 46th in per-capita wealth in
1929, ranking first in per-capita indebtedness,” was how state
Senator Lee Reaves summed up the matter in a 1943 article for
the Arkansas Historical Quarterly. “Under the best of
circumstances it would have been difficult to meet payments on
the mounting debt.”  
 Good Intentions  
 The story began, as so many do, with the best of
intentions. In 1927, the state of Arkansas took responsibility
for $54.8 million in debt sold by hundreds of road districts to
prevent its default.  
 Combined with the state’s own $84 million in highway-system
bonds and $7.2 million in toll-bridge securities, the assumption
of district bonds pushed Arkansas’ debt to $146 million. Coupons
on the bonds were as much as 5 percent.  
 Fast forward to March 1933 in the depths of the Great
Depression -- not Senator Reaves’s best of circumstances. The
Arkansas General Assembly passed the Ellis Refunding Act, which
sought to exchange all outstanding highway debt for state bonds
carrying a 3 percent coupon, maturing in 25 years.  
 “Interest on highway and toll-bridge bonds, amounting to
$770,500, due March 1, is in default, and this fact spurred the
Governor in his demand for a refunding program that would yield
revenue sufficient to meet any emergency and insure stability to
outstanding obligations,” the New York Times reported.  
 Loaded Word  
 Bondholders were having none of it. They went to Governor
 J.M. Futrell , and protested that the new refunding violated the
state’s contract with bondholders, in that it replaced their
first lien on automobile and gasoline taxes with the state’s own
full faith and credit pledge.  
 Modern readers may pause. There is nothing safer than a
general obligation  bond , secured by a state’s full faith and
credit taxing powers, right? Yet the bondholders in 1933
preferred their portion of a specific, dedicated revenue stream
rather than the state’s promise.  
 The bondholders -- mainly Northern and Eastern banks and
insurance companies -- also said reducing the interest rate
amounted to partial “repudiation.”  
 That was a loaded word in those days. Bond investors were
still smarting from the repudiation of bonds used to build
railroads, the Confederacy, and carpetbagger governments. This
was the catalyst for the creation of the bond counsel business:
Underwriters paid lawyers to certify an issuer’s bonds.  
 ‘Vast Difference’  
 “There is a vast difference between repudiation and
inability to pay,” Governor Futrell told the New York Times.
“Repudiation is refusal to pay when you are able to do so.”  
 The governor then took a shot at bond underwriters:
“Arkansas has been oversold through a wrecking crew with the
assistance of the bond buyers, despite their knowledge that the
State highway issues were excessive. Although Arkansas has not
received full benefit from its highway bonds, the state owes the
debt, and will pay in time, but our peoples are struggling for
existence and cannot pay additional taxes, nor meet present
requirements.”  
 The bondholders headed to Little Rock to negotiate. The
state failed to make $10.5 million in bond payments on Aug. 1.  
 In January 1934, the bondholders got a permanent injunction
against the state, blocking the use of automobile and gasoline
taxes for anything other than highway maintenance and debt
service.  
 Refunding Agreement  
 Now “at the mercy of the bondholders,” in the words of
Senator Reaves, the state in 1934 agreed to a refunding that
extended some maturities and required an increase in both those
automobile and gasoline taxes.  
 That cured the 1933 default.  
 But that’s not the end of the story. State officials said
default was again possible in 1944 -- when $12 million in
principal and interest had to be repaid -- and probable in 1949,
when $41.3 million would come due. So in 1937, and again in
1939, the state tried to refund its $140 million in highway
bonds. It was rebuffed both times.  
 On April 1, 1941, $90.8 million of the outstanding highway
bonds was callable; an additional $45 million was callable on
July 1. The state made plans for another, this time uncontested,
refunding.  
 A syndicate of 250 banks said it would bid on the new
Arkansas refunding bonds, in conjunction with the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, a new entrant in the municipal market and a
creation of  Herbert Hoover ’s administration.  
 RFC Steps In  
 On Feb. 27, 1941, to Wall Street’s shock, the RFC bought
the entire issue single-handed.  
 “In our several conferences with the bankers, they
indicated to us they would not bid for as much as $90 million
and that the interest rate would have to be 3.5 percent,” RFC
Chairman  Jesse Jones  said. “We thought this rate too high for a
tax-exempt bond of a sovereign state,” he told the New York
Times.  
 The RFC bid, which averaged 3.2 percent, saved Arkansas $28
million over the life of the bonds. The corporation later sold
the securities to Wall Street banks at a profit of $4 million.  
 Arkansas never looked back. Today, the state ranks 46th in
tax-supported debt per capita, at $312, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  
 In 1933, nobody thought Washington should get involved in a
state bond default. In 2010, that’s the first place we would
look for help.  
 ( Joe Mysak  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        