-- Booze, Views Make High Line Great on Bar-Hopping Date
-- Catherine Smith
-- 2010-07-21T15:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/booze-views-make-n-y-c-high-line-great-for-bar-hopping-daters.html

          
          
             Walking on the  High Line , an
elevated park on Manhattan’s far west side, a friend and I
recently came across a couple sitting near an open bottle of
wine. Sad-faced, the two were being issued a summons by a pair
of  New York Parks Department  officers for public consumption of
alcohol.  
 Ticket aside, the couple had the right idea: The High Line
is an extraordinary date destination.  
 The first section, open for a little more than a year,
consists of flowers and grasses growing over the tracks of the
former elevated train line, as well as public art and seating
areas. It’s a great spot to take a stroll or see the sunset over
the Hudson River, but save the fine and go somewhere nearby for
a drink.  
 There are lots of choices; the character of your date can
decide the atmosphere of your bar. I’d want my date to drink
Champagne and eat oysters, so we’d start at the Cookshop on 20th
Street and 10th Avenue.  
 The small, bright bar has 12 seats and you can see the
entrance to the High Line from the stools on the side. A half
bottle of Laherte Freres goes for $45; Beau Soleil oysters cost
$3 each.  
 The restaurant is at 156 10th Ave.; information: +1-212-
924-4440.  
 ‘Autumn on the Hudson’  
 Fortified, cross 10th Avenue and ascend the 20th-Street
stairs to the High Line.  
 There on the fence that divides the open and closed
sections of the park hangs an artwork by Valerie Hegarty called
 “Autumn on the Hudson Valley With Branches”  that suggests a
collision of natural and industrial materials -- much like the
High Line. Sometime in 2011, the second section will open and
run from 20th to 30th streets.  
 Around 18th Street, photographic artist Richard Galpin has
set up  “Viewing Station,”  a work that alters the panorama of
Manhattan through cutouts on a metal screen.  
 It also points toward a garden bar and restaurant across
the street on 10th Avenue called The Park. Visually stimulated
dates will enjoy the aesthetic of the 30-foot-tall cluster of
bamboo in the main dining room and the 900-year-old redwood
bench in the separate bar and lounge area.  
 The Park is at 118 10th Ave.; information: +1-212-352-3313.  
 Chelsea Market  
 Tired dates may want to take the elevator down at 16th
Street and enter  Chelsea Market  for more refreshments. The
shopping mall, once a biscuit-factory complex where Premium
Saltines and Oreo cookies originated, has picnic foods and wine
shops in case you want to chance it with the Parks Department.
There’s even a bar in a clothing shop called 202.  
 Chelsea Market takes up the block between 9th and 10th
avenues and 15th and 16th streets.</a>  
 Come back up to the tunnel at 16th through which the High
Line passes to see Spencer Finch’s work called ‘ ‘The River That
Flows Both Ways.”  He photographed the Hudson River’s surface
every minute for 700 minutes and transferred the color of one
pixel from each image to panes of glass. The resulting grid has
a stained-glass effect that changes with the available light.  
 At the 14th Street Passage, bike bells, church bells, the
New York Stock Exchange Bell and a host of others fill the space
with city sounds. This is Stephen Vitiello’s  “A Bell for Every
Minute,”  which rings out through speakers placed around the
area.  
 Hogs & Heifers  
 Rowdy dates that don’t mind heckling will fit in well at
 Hogs & Heifers Saloon , on Washington Street just down from the
14th Street entrance of the park. The dive bar opened in 1992
and was made famous by  Julia Roberts ’s bra. It hangs over the
bar with some 11,000 others.  
 One guy came in and looked around. A bartender shouted,
“Hey buddy! What’re you looking for? The bar? It’s right
here!” A sign says, “NO SNIVELING,” so no one complains.
After a couple of cheap drinks without fruit, and not too much
prompting, we joined the megaphone-toting bartender for a gals-
only dance on the bar to Cher’s cover of “The Shoop Shoop Song
(It’s in His Kiss).”  
 We were asked to contribute our bras, which would hang for
all eternity over the bar, but I wasn’t about to part with my
pink Wacoal on a Monday night at 10 p.m.; Saturday at 2 a.m.?
Perhaps.  
 The saloon is at 859 Washington St., by 13th Street;
information: +1-212-929-0655.  
 Bang Bang  
 The room formally known as Boom Boom is now known as Top of
the Standard or Gold Room. Next door is Le Bain, or Black Room,
complete with a small pool. Both are on the 18th floor of  The
Standard Hotel , which straddles the High Line at 13th and
Washington streets. If your date wants a drop-dead view of the
city with no thought to cost, that’s the place to go.  
 I’ve seen views like that before and thus concentrated on
my $20 Bang Bang, a rum-based specialty cocktail. A drink with
Tito’s Handmade Vodka, from my hometown of Austin, was $18.  
 The ever-changing-name bars at the Standard Hotel are
usually open till 10 p.m. Le Bain reopens as a club at 11 p.m.
Thursday through Sunday. The hotel is at 848 Washington St., by
13th Street; information: +1-212-645-4646. You’d be crazy not to
call first.  
 At the southern end of the High Line, there’s plenty more
for the sturdy. The Collective on Little West 12th at Ninth is
perfect if you and your date need something to talk about. The
room is filled with repurposed materials like buttons, frames,
medicine bottles and slot machines; information: +1-212-255-
9717.  
 Some dates smoke cigarettes. The nearby  Gansevoort Hotel 
has a 14th-floor bar called Plunge with a pool, a wrap-around
terrace and a huge outdoor smoking section. Plunging isn’t
allowed; the pool is for hotel guests only.  
 The hotel is at 18 Ninth Ave., by 13th Street; information:
+1-212-206-6700.  
 ( Catherine Smith  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Smith in New York at 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Benches and trees on the High Line. Open container laws are enforced in the newly opened park. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Cars parked and stacked across the street from the Cookshop Restaurant and Bar. The establishment, near the entrance to the High Line, offers oysters and champagne. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Viewing Station," by Richard Galpin, on the High Line. The High Line includes several site-specific art works. Photographer: Lili Rosboch/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The rooftop bar of the Standard Hotel. The hotel, which has sweeping views of Manhattan, is located at 848 Washington Street and 13th. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The restaurant Park. Located at 118 10th Ave, Park has a thirty-foot-tall cluster of bamboo in the main dining room and a 900-year-old redwood bench in the separate bar and lounge area. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A bartender shakes a drink on the rooftop bar of the Standard Hotel. The establishment offers sweeping views of Manhattan and serves a rum-based specialty cocktail called the Bang Bang. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Bottles of liquor and thousands of bras at the Hogs & Heifers Saloon. The dive bar opened in 1992 and was made famous by Julia Roberts's bra, which hangs over the bar with about 11,000 others. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "The River That Flows Both Ways," by Spencer Finch, on the High Line. The High Line is a great date destination because of the many nearby bars and restaurants. Photographer: Lili Rosboch/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
