-- BP's Spending to Lobby Congress Rose 6% as Well Gushed
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-07-21T18:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bp-s-spending-on-congressional-lobbying-climbed-6-as-gulf-oil-well-gushed.html

          
          
             BP Plc ’s spending to lobby Congress
in the second quarter rose 6.3 percent from the first as the
company dealt with the fallout from its gushing Gulf of Mexico
oil well.  
 London-based BP paid more than $1.7 million to firms such
as Podesta Group and Duberstein Group from April through June,
an increase from $1.6 million for January through March,
according to congressional filings today.  
 “Here is a company that is under siege,” said  Meredith McGehee , policy director for the Campaign Legal Center of
Washington. “They need an ability to reach out to influential
policy makers and go tell their story.”  
 Firms runs by  Kenneth Duberstein , a former chief of staff
to President  Ronald Reagan , and  Tony Podesta , brother of  John Podesta , who ran President  Barack Obama ’s transition team,
received almost $220,000 from BP, according to the filings.
Podesta received $120,000 in the quarter, double the total
reported from BP from January through March. Duberstein reported
$100,000 for each quarters.  
 The lobbying disclosures don’t cover all such expenses
related to the spill, McGehee said. BP hired The Brunswick Group
to direct communications and has used legal and public policy
firm WilmerHale for help on investigations, advertising firm
Purple Strategies on its public response and Ogilvy Public
Relations Worldwide for advice on digital media such as Facebook
and Twitter.  
 Trade Group Dues  
 BP, Europe’s second-biggest oil company by market value,
reported in April that it spent $3.5 million to lobby during the
first quarter. In July, the company filed an amended report
showing $1.6 million on lobbying in the quarter.  
 The company reported $4.03 million for lobbying in the
second quarter last year.  
 The initial first-quarter report and 2009 spending included
dues to the American Petroleum Institute, the industry’s
Washington-based trade group, for grassroots and state lobbying
activities that aren’t covered by the current reports, said
 Scott Dean , a BP spokesman.  
 Trade associations, nonprofit groups, companies and
lobbying firms are required to report every quarter on spending
to influence legislation or policies in the federal government.
Reports were due yesterday.  
 Other companies tied to the worst spill in U.S. history
also turned to lobbyists as congressional panels began
investigating the disaster and policy makers weighed
restrictions on drilling.  
 Transocean, Anadarko  
 Transocean Offshore Deepwater Drilling, the Houston-based
subsidiary of  Transocean Ltd.  of Geneva, paid $120,000 to
Capitol Hill Consulting, a firm that includes former
Representative  Bill Brewster , an Oklahoma Democrat. Transocean
is the owner of the rig that exploded and sank in April.  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , which owns 25 percent of BP’s
ruptured well, spent more than $1.3 million to lobby Congress,
up from $1.2 million in the first quarter, according to the
filings.  
 Anadarko’s lobbyists include former Senator  Don Nickles , an
Oklahoma Republican. The oil production companies paid the
Nickles Group $75,000 in the first and second quarters.  
 Hogan Lovells, a law firm that lobbies lawmakers, also
represented Anadarko in the quarter. Its team includes Michael
House, a former Democratic Senate staff aide, and  Candida Wolff ,
President  George W. Bush ’s former chief lobbyist. Hogan, which
registered to lobby for Anadarko in June, reported $40,000 in
expenses for the quarter.  
 Mitsui, Nalco  
 Mitsui Oil Exploration Co. , a subsidiary of Mitsui & Co.
that owns 10 percent of the well, recently hired Pillsbury
Winthrop Shaw Pittman as its lobbying firm in Washington,
according to public records. The firm didn’t report spending on
Mitsui’s behalf in the quarter.  
 Nalco Holding Co. of Naperville, Illinois, which makes the
Corexit chemical BP is using to break up the oil, paid $160,000
to Ogilvy Government Relations of Washington in the second
quarter. Environmental groups including the Environmental
Defense Fund have said the dispersant may harm the environment.  
 The documents include general descriptions of issues being
discussed with lawmakers. BP paid Eris Group of Washington
$30,000 to lobby on oil-spill issues, according to the records.  
 Jennifer Bendall , a former policy adviser to Republican
Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, and  Jesse McCollum , a former
chief of staff to Democratic Representative  Ron Klein  of
Florida, are representing BP within the Eris Group.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        