-- BP Should Provide Details of $20 Billion Gulf Oil Spill Fund, Lawyers Say
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-07-21T18:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bp-should-provide-details-of-20-billion-gulf-oil-spill-fund-lawyers-say.html

          
          
             BP Plc  should be required to specify
in writing how it will fund, protect and replenish a $20 billion
fund dedicated to paying cleanup and damage claims from the Gulf
of Mexico oil spill, lawyers suing the company said.  
 BP should produce “any and all trust documents, escrow
agreements or other formation documents or agreements to which
BP is a signatory’’ relating to two funds BP agreed to
establish, the lawyers said in a motion filed with U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans. Barbier is presiding over
more than 30 spill-damage cases.  
 One fund is the $20 billion spill-claims escrow account
administered by New York lawyer  Kenneth Feinberg , and the other
is a $100 million companion fund to aid oilfield workers hurt by
a U.S. offshore drilling moratorium imposed after the spill.  
 “No one, it seems, has ever seen a document signed off on
by BP,’’ Steve Herman, an interim liaison lawyer Barbier
appointed to coordinate claims, said in a statement released by
his office today. “What, specifically, has BP committed to do,
and what, specifically, has BP given Mr. Feinberg the authority
to agree to do on behalf of BP?’’  
 BP  faces more than 300 lawsuits, including proposed class
actions, claiming potentially billions of dollars in damages to
commercial fishing interests, tourist businesses and property
owners harmed by the drifting oil. The spill was caused by the
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, leased by BP, off
the Louisiana coast in April.  
 The case is In Re: Deepwater Horizon, 2:10-cv-01156, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        