-- Brazil Central Bank Signals Rate Increases to End Soon as Expansion Cools
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-07-22T13:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/brazil-unexpectedly-slows-pace-of-rate-rises-amid-signs-growth-moderating.html

          
          
             Brazil’s central bank signaled it
may stop raising interest rates soon after policy makers
unexpectedly slowed the pace of increases and said inflation was
less of a threat amid slowing global growth. Yields on short-
term interest-rate futures plunged.  
 The bank’s board, led by  Henrique Meirelles , increased the
benchmark rate by a half-point to 10.75 percent yesterday. The
move, which was anticipated by traders in the interest-rate
futures market,  surprised  48 of 51 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg who expected a third straight 75 basis-point increase.  
 Latin America’s biggest economy shows signs of slowing,
after expanding  9 percent  in the first quarter, the fastest pace
in 15 years. Evidence suggests the global expansion will wane.
Policy makers said in a statement accompanying the decision that
inflationary risks have eased since their June meeting due to
“the recent evolution of domestic and external factors.”  
 “The statement looks like the end of the rate increase
cycle,”  Ures Folchini , head of fixed income at Banco WestLB do
Brasil SA, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The
central bank is seeing that the economy is no longer heated and
that the risk of inflation becoming uncontrolled has fallen.”  
 ‘Under Control’  
 Yields on interest-rate futures contract maturing in
January dropped by the most in two months as traders trimmed
bets the central bank will raise again in 2010, Folchini said.  
 The yield on the contract, the most traded on Sao Paulo’s
BM&F exchange, fell as much as 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, before paring declines to trade at 10.87
percent at 9:13 a.m. New York time, a 10 basis-point decline.  
 “There is no need to raise interest rates again this
year,” Budget Minister  Paulo Bernardo  told reporters in
Brasilia today. “Inflation is back under control.”  
 Consumer prices  fell 0.09 percent in the month through mid-
July, the first drop in four years, the statistics agency said
this week. Annual inflation slowed to 4.74 percent, the lowest
since February, while still above the bank’s 4.5 percent target.  
 The price declines came as economic data show the expansion
may be slowing, reducing demand. Brazil created  fewer jobs  and
collected  less tax revenue  than expected in June, according to
reports last week by the tax agency and the Labor Ministry.
 Retail sales  and  industrial output  also missed estimates in May.  
 Rate Futures  
 The Selic will end the year at 12 percent, according to the
median forecast in a central bank survey of about 100 economists
published July 19.  
 Policy makers may increase borrowing costs another half
point at their next meeting on Sept. 1, or may leave rates
unchanged,  Marcelo Carvalho , an economist with BNP Paribas,
wrote yesterday in an e-mailed report.  
 Brazil’s slowdown comes amid signs that growth in other
major economies may cool. In the U.S., economic data over the
past month that were weaker than analysts projected prompted
investor speculation that the Federal Reserve may increase
monetary stimulus in a bid to keep the economy growing.  
 “We will continue to carefully assess ongoing financial
and economic developments, and we remain prepared to take
further policy actions as needed to foster a return to full
utilization of our nation’s productive potential in a context of
price stability,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday.  
 Broader Context  
 China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from 11.9 percent in the preceding three months,
the statistics bureau said July 15. Industrial-production growth
slowed the most since 2008 in June, as regulators shutter
energy-intensive factories.  
 “Lingering uncertainty over the U.S. and Asia, as well as
the continuing troubles in Europe, may also have” prompted
Brazil’s central bank to slow the pace of rate increases,  Ilan Goldfajn  and Guilherme da Nobrega, economists at Itau Unibanco
Holding SA, wrote in an e-mail to clients.  
 Itau expects the central bank to keep borrowing costs
unchanged until early next year, before resuming increases.  
 Traders anticipated the central bank’s move, paring their
bets for an increase after Meirelles on July 15 said he would
weigh all data released until yesterday’s board meeting.  
 Yields on interest-rate futures contracts showed that
traders cut their bets to a 0.50 percentage point rise, from the
0.75 percentage point rise they expected before July 20.  
 Brazil’s economy will slow in the third quarter, after the
government phased out tax cuts and cut spending, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said July 15. The central bank increased
reserve requirements on cash deposits to 43 percent from 42
percent on June 25.  
 ‘Cycle is Over’  
 Economists reduced their forecast for inflation this year
for the second straight week to 5.42 percent, a weekly central
bank survey of about 100 economists published this week showed.
Consumer prices will rise 4.8 percent next year, the survey
showed.  
 Brazil’s  unemployment  rate fell in June more than expected
to 7 percent, the national statistic agency said in a report
distributed today in Rio de Janeiro.  
 The figure was lower than the median estimate of 7.3
percent among 34 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Unemployment
was 7.5 percent in May.  
 “Unemployment figure shows labor market is still heated,”
 Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA,
said in a phone interview.  
 Padovani expects the central bank will keep rates unchanged
in its Aug. 31-Sept. 1 meeting.  
 “The interest rate increase cycle is over,” he said.
“There are many factors that will hold growth -- loans to
companies are expanding at a slower pace; imports are up,
monetary stimulus is being dialed back and there is the external
situation.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andre  Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        