-- Brazil May Raise Rate for Third Month to 11% to Head Off Inflation Rebound
-- Iuri Dantas
-- 2010-07-21T13:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/brazil-may-raise-rate-for-third-month-to-11-to-head-off-inflation-rebound.html

          
          
             Brazil’s central bank will probably
maintain its “ aggressive ” pace of interest rate increases and
raise borrowing costs for a third straight meeting today to slow
growth to a level that won’t stoke a resurgence of inflation.  
 Policy makers will raise the Selic benchmark rate 75 basis
points to 11 percent from 10.25 percent, according to 46 of 49
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Three analysts expect a half-
point increase, in line with traders’ bets after a report
yesterday showed that prices unexpectedly fell in the month
through mid-July.  
 While traders seized on the first bout of deflation in four
years to push yields on interest rate-futures down in six out of
the last seven trading days, economists such as Barclays Capital
Inc.’s  Marcelo Salomon  say the bank can’t afford to slow the
pace. Inflation has been above the bank’s 4.5 percent  target  all
year and more action is needed to cool the fastest economic
growth in 15 years, he said.  
 “It may seem aggressive if you look at the international
context, but given Brazil’s economic growth it isn’t,” Salomon,
chief Brazil economist at Barclays’ in New York, said in a phone
interview. “The speed of economic expansion was much higher
than expected.”  
 Policy makers will announce the interest rate decision
after 5 p.m. New York time today.  
 Latin America’s biggest economy will expand 7.2 percent
this year, the fastest pace in more than two decades, and
inflation will exceed the government’s goal this year and next,
according to the median forecast in a central bank survey of
about 100 economists published this week.  
 Growth-Inflation Dynamic  
 Economists predict inflation will quicken to 5.42 percent
by December before slowing to 4.8 percent next year, the central
bank survey shows. Prices fell  0.09 percent  through mid-July,
while the annual rate as measured by the IPCA-15 index slowed to
4.74 percent, the statistics agency said yesterday.  
 “The central bank needs to remain alert to prevent demand
from stoking prices -- that’s why it must keep the 75 basis-
point increase” said  Newton Rosa , who helps manage 16 billion
reais ($9 billion) as chief economist at Sao Paulo-based
SulAmerica Investmentos. “Consumption will remain strong in
coming months and will keep pushing economic activity.”  
 Central bank chief  Henrique Meirelles  needs to continue the
current pace of monetary policy adjustments to ensure economic
expansion slows to 4.5 percent, a level compatible with the
bank’s target, Barclays’ Salomon said.  
 Calibrating Growth, Forecasts  
 To be sure, Brazil’s $1.6 trillion economy is showing signs
of cooling from an annual growth rate of 9 percent in the first
quarter, after  job creation  and  tax collection  in June trailed
economists’ forecast.  
 Brazil created 212,952 government-registered jobs in June,
down from 298,041 in May, according to the Labor Ministry.
Industrial output and retail sales expanded in May less than
analysts forecast.  
 Yields on interest-rate future markets tumbled after
Brazil’s statistics agency said yesterday that consumer prices
fell through mid-July. Traders are pricing in a 0.57 percentage
point increase today, according to Bloomberg estimates based on
interest-rate futures contracts.  
 The yield on the contract due January 2011, the most traded
on the BM&F Bovespa exchange, fell 31 basis points, or 0.31
percentage point, since July 1 to 11.00 percent. In trading
today, the yield rose three basis points, the first gain in
seven days. The real gained 0.2 percent to 1.7709 per dollar,
from 1.7742 yesterday, at 9:07 a.m. New York time.  
 Recent economic figures led  Itau Unibanco Holding SA  to
lower its year-end forecasts for Brazil’s benchmark lending rate
to 11.5 from 11.75 percent, Brazil’s largest bank by market
value said in an e-mailed statement July 16.  
 Policy Options  
 The pace of Brazil’s economic expansion will ease in the
third quarter after the government withdrew tax cuts and other
stimulus, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said July 15.  
 The central bank’s seasonally adjusted economic activity
index fell to 139.55 points in May from 139.58 points in April,
also signaling slower growth.  
 Slower global expansion may help reduce commodity prices
and inflationary pressures in Brazil, SulAmerica’s Rosa said.  
 Still, the Brazilian economy is growing above its
potential,  Bertrand Delgado , senior analyst for emerging markets
at Roubini Global Economics, said in a note to clients this
week.  
 He estimates there is a 30 percent chance policy makers opt
for increasing the Selic by less than 75 basis points today.  
 “A smaller increase right now gives the central bank time
to assess economic figures without the pollution of volatility
caused by the financial crisis,” said  Marina Santos , an
economist at Squanto Investimentos Ltda, one of the three
economists expecting a 50 basis point increase today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        