-- Bush Administration Firing of Attorneys Brings No Charges in Justice Probe
-- Justin Blum
-- 2010-07-21T21:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/bush-administration-firing-of-attorneys-brings-no-charges-in-justice-probe.html

          
          
             The U.S. Justice Department has
decided not to file charges related to the firings of federal
prosecutors during the Bush administration.  
 A department investigation, triggered by the 2006 dismissal
of nine U.S. attorneys, concluded there wasn’t sufficient
evidence to pursue a case, according to a letter to lawmakers
today from Assistant Attorney General  Ronald Weich .  
 The firings mired the Justice Department in scandal and led
to resignations of top officials, including Attorney General
 Alberto Gonzales . The department’s inspector general and ethics
office found “substantial evidence” that partisan politics
played a role in removing several federal prosecutors.  
 Attorney General  Eric Holder  accepted a recommendation by
 Nora Dannehy , a career prosecutor from Connecticut, that
prosecution isn’t warranted, according to the letter. Dannehy
was named by former Attorney General  Michael Mukasey , an
appointee of then-President  George W. Bush .  
 Holder “remains deeply dismayed” by the findings of the
inspector general and ethics office and “has taken steps to
ensure those mistakes will not be repeated,” according to the
letter.  
 The investigation examined the firing of U.S. attorney
 David Iglesias  of New Mexico and found there was no
“prosecutable criminal offense,” according to the letter.
There wasn’t enough evidence to expand the investigation beyond
the removal of Iglesias, the letter said.  
 Iglesias’s Performance  
 Dannehy determined that Justice Department leaders never
decided whether complaints about the performance of Iglesias
were legitimate, according to the letter. Republicans had
accused Iglesias of failing to bring voter fraud and public
corruption cases prior to the 2006 elections.  
 “The fact that the investigation of the complaints about
Iglesias’s performance never occurred bespeaks undue sensitivity
to politics on the part of DOJ officials who should answer not
to partisan politics but to principles of fairness and
justice,” according to the letter.  
 There wasn’t enough evidence to show that anyone at the
White House or Justice Department tried to influence Iglesias to
bring a voter fraud or public corruption case in advance of the
November 2006 election or any other time, according to the
letter.  
 The findings “vindicate” the position taken by Gonzales
that he “did not engage in any wrongdoing in connection with
the removal of U.S. attorneys,” said attorney  George J. Terwilliger III  of  White & Case LLP  in Washington, who
represented Gonzales.  
 U.S. attorneys are political appointees who serve at the
pleasure of the president. They can’t be fired for improper
reasons.  
 Mukasey had directed Dannehy to assess the facts in the
report, conduct further investigation as needed and determine
whether any offenses in connection with the firings or testimony
about them merit prosecution.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        