-- Calgary Gasoline Stations Run Dry After `Stampede' Draws Thousands to City
-- Samantha Zee
-- 2010-07-21T02:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/calgary-gasoline-stations-run-dry-after-stampede-draws-thousands-to-city.html

          
          
             Royal Dutch Shell Plc  is shipping
more fuel into Alberta after surging demand from motorists,
including visitors attending the annual Calgary Stampede,
drained pumps dry in the Canadian city.  
 Crowds for the Stampede, which bills itself as “The
Greatest Outdoor Show on Earth,” growing demand for fuel
from motorists as the weather warms, and reduced supplies
because of maintenance at Shell’s Scotford refinery near
Edmonton, Alberta, led to “a kind of a perfect storm,” said
Jeff Gabert, a spokesman for Shell Canada based in Calgary.  
 “We did see a sharp increase in demand and when that
happens we usually have inventory on hand, but demand was so
strong, there were some supply crunches,” he said. “We had a
big event last week in Calgary with the Stampede.”  
 The event , held July 9-18 and featuring rodeos, bull
riding, chuck wagon races and calf roping on its program,
drew more than 1.1 million visitors, according to its website.  
 Landlocked Alberta in Western Canada is geographically
isolated and “when there are gasoline shortages, it’s hard to
make up for the shortages,” said Michael Ervin, a Calgary-based
energy industry consultant at MJ Ervin & Associates.  
 The average retail price of unleaded gasoline in  Calgary 
today was 91.553 Canadian cents a liter ($3.47 a gallon)
according to the GasBuddy.com, a website that tracks gasoline
prices in the U.S. and Canada. The average in Alberta was 90.687
cents a liter.  
 The average U.S. pump price for regular gasoline rose 0.4
cent to $2.722 a gallon in the week ended July 19, according to
a weekly report from the U.S. Energy Department.  
 ‘Strong Economy’  
 “Alberta is blessed with a still strong economy, so we
haven’t seen a decline in demand for gasoline as has been the
case in other provinces and in the U.S.,” Ervin said. “The
summertime demand has been high everywhere and that puts a
logistical strain on supply.”  
 Warmer weather in Western Canada in the past few weeks came
after it was “unseasonably cool,” Ervin said. ‘It wouldn’t
surprise me that folk delayed travel plans until the weather
improved.”  
 While increased visitor numbers for the Stampede, first
held in 1912, may be the biggest drain on fuel supplies this
month, improved driving weather and refinery maintenance, would
also deplete stockpiles, Ervin said. Tightness in fuel supplies
stretched into parts of neighboring British Columbia, he said.  
 Alberta’s gasoline needs are mostly met by production from
three refineries in the province; Shell’s Scotford refinery,
with a capacity to process 98,000 barrels a day,  Suncor Energy
Inc. ’s 135,000 barrel-a-day plant near Edmonton, and  Imperial
Oil Ltd. ’s Strathcona refinery, which has a capacity of 187,000
barrels a day.  
 Full Capacity  
 “The trio of refineries in Edmonton supplies most of the
Prairie Provinces and British Columbia,” Ervin said. “They are
running at full capacity, so whenever there is a production
issue at one of them, this can led to run-outs at gas stations
when there is a spike in demand.”  
 Fuel terminals and gasoline stations in the region are now
having their dwindling supplies bolstered, Shell’s Gabert said.  
 “We have our refinery here, but it’s had some turnaround
work in the past month,” he said. “Things are already easing
up, but we aren’t back in a perfect situation yet. By the end
of the week it should be better. We got fuel from other
sources.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Samantha Zee  in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        