-- U.K.'s Cameron, Pinching Pennies, Goes Commercial
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-07-22T01:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/cameron-travels-commercial-to-show-britons-he-pinched-pennies-on-u-s-trip.html

          
          
             U.S. politicians may dream of one
day sinking into the presidential bed aboard Air Force One.
 David Cameron , returning last night from his first trip to the
U.S. as British prime minister, took a business-class seat on
board a scheduled British Airways flight.  
 Cameron, trying to cut Britain’s  deficit , its largest since
World War II, is scaling back on the chartered jets his
predecessors used for overseas travel and told his staff to book
him on regular flights. Yesterday he traveled to New York from
Washington on Amtrak’s  Acela  train.  
 “We have got a lot of money to save,” the prime minister
told ABC News July 20. “We’ve got a very big budget deficit, so
we can’t go spending money on executive planes, sadly.”  
 While Cameron’s office estimates it is saving several
hundred thousand pounds by forgoing chartered jets, that isn’t
the only consideration. His party fought the May 6 general
election arguing “We’re all in this together.”  
 Cameron, whose ancestors include King Henry VII and at
least seven earls, is seeking to avoid the perception of
splashing public money around on travel when he’s cutting
welfare payments to the poor.  
 “He just wants to show that, in every aspect of his life,
his behavior is exemplary,” said  Bill Jones , a professor of
politics at Liverpool Hope University. “He’s overdoing it, he’s
over-spinning. People don’t expect him to travel on his bike.”  
 Protection Squad  
 Secret Service agents and officers from Amtrak Police’s
Special Operations Unit joined Cameron’s British Special Branch
protection squad for the three-hour train journey. Two of the
train’s four business-class cars were sealed off, one for
Cameron’s team and a second for traveling press.  
 “I hope you’re all fans of  ‘The Wire’ ,” Cameron joked to
reporters when the train passed through Baltimore, referring to
the TV series that stars  Dominic West , a friend of his wife,
Sam. As the train crossed the Susquehanna River in Maryland, he
paused from his briefing to admire the view.  
 The austerity program has had its hiccups. Thirty years
after the BBC comedy series  “Yes Minister”  first aired an
episode titled “The Economy Drive,” in which fictional
politician Jim Hacker gives up his ministerial limousine only to
discover that security rules mean his paperwork still has to
travel by car, the same scenes were played out in reality.  
 Education Secretary  Michael Gove ’s wife, Sarah,  revealed  in
a newspaper column that while he, like all ministers in the new
government, now travels to and from work on public transport,
his documents “must arrive in air-conditioned splendor, snug
and secure in the back of a locked car.”  
 Minding Amtrak’s rail cars was assistant conductor Dominic
Lombardi, who said this was a change from his usual clientele.  
 “The most important passenger I ever had?” he said. “For
me, it was  Frank Robinson ,” the star outfielder for the
Baltimore  Orioles  in the 1960s and early 1970s.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       David Cameron, U.K. prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         David Cameron, U.K. prime minister, listens during a joint news conference with U.S. President Barack Obama in Washington, on July 20, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     David Cameron, U.K. prime minister, listens during a joint news conference with U.S. President Barack Obama in Washington, on July 20, 2010. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
