-- Canada, U.S. Inflation Spreads Rise to Highest in 18 Months: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/canada-u-s-inflation-spreads-rise-to-highest-in-18-months-canada-credit.html

          
          
             The difference between Canadian and
U.S. inflation expectations increased to an 18-month high in the
bond market as investors bet Canada will face higher consumer
prices even as the outlook for global growth deteriorates.  
 The  spread  between Canada and U.S. 20-year breakeven rates,
which measure the difference in yield between inflation-linked
and bonds and gauges price expectations, widened to 38.1 basis
points on July 19, the most since January 2009.  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has led colleagues in
the Group of Seven with rate increases as Canada’s economic
growth and job creation rebound faster from last year’s global
recession. Carney raised the target rate for overnight loans
between commercial banks a quarter point to 0.75 percent
yesterday.  
 “Inflation expectations in the U.S. are on the decline
while Canada’s growth recovery, and possible housing bubble, is
fueling expectations of long-term inflation,”  Suvrat Prakash, 
an interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, said
in an e-mailed message. “The fundamental outlook on growth and
inflation does suggest that Canadian break-evens should be above
U.S. break-evens, and we would not be surprised if the spread
went further.”  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, Air Canada, the country’s
largest airline, said it plans to sell through a private
offering $900 million of five-year notes denominated in U.S. and
Canadian currency. Proceeds will be used to repay a term loan
and for general corporate purposes, Montreal-based Air Canada
said. The senior secured notes may be sold next week, according
to a person familiar with the transaction.  
 Ontario, Telus Bonds  
 Ontario, Canada’s largest province, sold an additional
C$750 million of its 3.15 percent bond maturing in September
2015 at 59.5 basis points above comparable Canadian government
bonds. Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit led the sale.  
 Telus Corp., Canada’s third-largest wireless carrier,
announced it sold C$1 billion ($959 million) in 5.05 percent 10-
year notes at 189.3 basis points over government debt.  
 Canada’s bonds are among the worst performers this month on
speculation the nation’s central bank will raise interest rates
more quickly than other countries to temper inflation.
Government debt maturing in more than one year has lost 0.3
percent this month, the fifth-worst return among 26 countries
whose debt is tracked by Bloomberg.  
 In the U.S., Treasury Inflation Protected Securities have
lost 1.1 percent this month, the worst performance for the debt
since December, signaling investors are less concerned that
quickening inflation will erode the value of U.S. bonds. The
difference in yield between inflation-linked and 20-year nominal
U.S. bonds closed at 1.9 percent yesterday. The rate was as high
as 2.57 percent on April 29.  
 Inflation Expectations  
 “Growth expectations, as reflected by equity markets, have
been revised downwards,” said  Mohammed Ahmed,  a strategist at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. “Consequently, inflation
expectations, too, have declined.”  
 By contrast, Canadian government inflation-linked bonds
have lost 1.4 percent this month. Canada’s 20-year breakeven
rate closed at 2.28 percent yesterday, down from as high as 2.64
three months ago.  
 Carney yesterday cut his growth forecast for Canada this
year to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent, and to 2.9 percent from
3.1 percent for 2011, according to a statement from the Ottawa-
based bank.  
 While saying the economy won’t be operating at its full
capacity until the end of next year, six months later than
predicted in April, the central bank kept its forecast that
inflation will advance at about a 2 percent annual rate through
2012.  
 Price Target  
 Unlike the U.S., Canada’s central bank targets a 2 percent
inflation rate that sets the pace for price and wage increases
in the country.  
 “Increasingly, inflation is stubborn,” said  Mark Chandler,  head of Canadian fixed-income and currency strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada. “That’s because the credibility of the
bank or inflation expectations just don’t shift.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        