-- Loonie Falls for First Time in 3 Days as Bernanke Raises Recovery Concern
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-21T21:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/canada-s-dollar-strengthens-on-advances-in-equities-and-crude-oil-prices.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar declined for the
first time in three days after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economic outlook in the U.S., the nation’s
largest trading partner, is “unusually uncertain.”  
 The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the one-dollar coin, erased an earlier gain as
Bernanke’s comments raised concern about the consequence of a
U.S. economic slowdown, spurring demand for the safety of the
greenback and the yen. The Bank of Canada will release its
monetary policy report tomorrow.  
 “It’s a bit of a kneejerk reaction bringing us back to
reality,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a currency strategist in Toronto
at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit. “The Canadian
currency is going to get hit a little bit as people express more
caution.”  
 The loonie dropped 0.5 percent to C$1.0491 per U.S. dollar
at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0436 yesterday. One
Canadian dollar buys 95.32 U.S. cents.  
 The Bank of Canada raised the benchmark  interest rate 
yesterday to 0.75 percent, the second increase in less than two
months. It also cut the nation’s growth forecast to 3.5 percent
from 3.7 percent for this year and to 2.9 percent from 3.1
percent for 2011 and said further action will be “weighed
carefully against domestic and global economic developments,”
according to a statement from the Ottawa-based bank.  
 The Canadian dollar fell 1.1 percent to 82.97 yen today.
Japan’s currency strengthened against all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts as investors sought a refuge from slower growth.  
 ‘Further Policy Actions’  
 The Fed chairman, in his semiannual report on monetary
policy to the U.S. Senate Banking Committee, said “the economic
outlook remains unusually uncertain.” Policy makers are
prepared “to take further policy actions as needed,” he said,
even as they prepared to eventually raise interest rates from
almost zero and shrink a record balance sheet.  
 U.S. policy makers trimmed growth forecasts for this year
and next at the Federal Open Market Committee’s June meeting,
according to minutes released July 14.  
 “As much as this impacts the outlook on U.S. growth, I
don’t think anything has really changed,” Bank of Nova Scotia’s
Tihanyi said.  
 The Bank of Canada’s decision to raise interest rates
yesterday had greater influence on the Canadian dollar, he said.  
 The Fed has held the key U.S. interest rate at a record low
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, while the
Canadian central bank has widened the rate differential to at
least a half-percentage point with the two rate increases.  
 Canada’s government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the
 10-year note  down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 3.16 percent.  
 Retail sales in Canada increased 0.4 percent in May after
falling 1.2 percent the previous month, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey before Statistics Canada
releases the data tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        