-- Caribbean Weather System Less Likely to Strengthen, Hurricane Center Says
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-21T17:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/caribbean-weather-system-less-likely-to-strengthen-hurricane-center-says.html

          
          
             A system bringing heavy rain to the
Dominican Republic, Haiti and Puerto Rico is less likely to
strengthen into a depression or tropical storm, the National
Hurricane Center said.  
 The system has a 50 percent chance of developing into a
stronger storm within two days, the center  said  in an advisory
on its website at about 1:30 p.m. Miami time. That’s down from
the center’s 70 percent probability earlier today.  
 “A tropical depression is not expected to form today but
environmental conditions are still favorable for some
development,” the center said. “Heavy rains could cause life-
threatening flash floods and mudslides in mountainous areas.”  
 The mountainous regions of the Dominican Republic,
increased wind shear in the northern Caribbean and a pocket of
dry air are all conspiring against the storm getting better
organized, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at
 Planalytics Inc.  in Pennsylvania.  
 Rouiller said he doubts the storm will be able to organize
itself before striking Florida later this week. It will probably
cross southern Florida as a tropical depression and won’t form
into a tropical storm until it reaches the Gulf of Mexico early
next week.  
 Hurricane Unlikely  
 “I feel confident now we won’t have to deal with a
hurricane because it won’t have enough time,” Rouiller said by
telephone. Yesterday, some computer models were suggesting the
storm could reach hurricane strength of 74 mph (119 kph).  
 The threat of a tropical storm prompted  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc  to begin evacuating non-essential personnel from its
operations in the eastern Gulf, according to a company
statement.  
 The Gulf accounts for about 31 percent of U.S. oil output
and 10 percent of its natural-gas production and is home to
seven of the 10 busiest ports, according to the Energy
Department.  
 Downpours will drench the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, the
Dominican Republic and Haiti today and the Bahamas over the next
two days, the center said. The system is moving west-northwest
at about 10 mph. If it keeps that track, the storm would be on a
course that may take it over the Gulf of Mexico oil slick.  
 A tropical system entering the Gulf has the potential to
drive the oil from the  BP Plc  spill, the worst in U.S. history,
into the coast of Louisiana and Mississippi or disperse it over
a wider area of water, according to the center.  
 “This storm doesn’t really represent a threat to the rigs
and platforms in the Gulf,” Rouiller said. “I am still worried
about how it will move the oil slick into the coastal areas of
Louisiana and Mississippi.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        