-- Carney Breaks With G-7 by Taking Rates Higher While Talking `Like a Dove'
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/carney-breaks-with-g-7-by-taking-rates-higher-while-talking-like-a-dove-.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
increased  interest rates  for a second month yesterday and gave
himself room to delay further moves by cutting his growth
forecast and raising new doubts about the global recovery.  
 Carney, 45, increased the target rate for overnight loans
between commercial banks by a quarter point to 0.75 percent,
breaking with his Group of Seven peers who are all keeping their
policy rates at or near record lows. He said further action will
be “weighed carefully against domestic and global economic
developments” and cut his growth forecast by 0.2 percentage
point this year and next, to 3.5 and 2.9 percent respectively.  
 Carney “walks like a hawk, talks like a dove,” said
 Stewart Hall , an economist at HSBC Securities in Toronto. “What
it does is keep all options fully open an in an uncertain
time.”  
 The bank may raise rates by a half point over its three
remaining meetings this year as evidence mounts that the
 recovery  is waning, according to a Bloomberg survey. Since
Canada recorded a 6.1 percent annualized growth rate for the
first quarter, reports have been mixed: Economic growth stalled
in April while  employment  growth last month meant the country
has recovered almost all the jobs lost in the recession that
ended last year.  
 “The bank has more wiggle room,” said  Sherry Cooper ,
chief economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “The
Canadian economy seems to be slowing now.”  
 ‘Considerable’ Stimulus  
 Policy makers said yesterday the economy won’t operate at
full capacity until the end of next year, six months later than
predicted in April.  Consumer prices  and the bank’s core measure
of inflation that excludes eight volatile items will both
advance at about a 2 percent annual rate through 2012, the bank
said, adding “considerable monetary stimulus” remains in the
economy. The bank will release a quarterly economic forecast
paper tomorrow followed by a press conference.  
 Canada’s housing market, which helped lead the country out
of recession last year, has cooled.  Housing starts  fell for a
second month in June, and building permits fell 10.8 percent in
May.  
 “Housing activity is declining markedly from high levels,
consistent with the Bank’s view that policy stimulus resulted in
household expenditures being brought forward into late 2009 and
early 2010,” the bank’s statement said.  
 Slower Global Growth  
 “The global economic recovery is proceeding but is not yet
self-sustaining,” the Bank of Canada said yesterday. While
European governments have taken steps to lower the chance of
“an adverse outcome” from the continent’s debt crisis, their
response will slow global growth, the bank said. The statement
also added a new reference to the U.S., Canada’s biggest  trade 
partner, saying that private spending is “picking up but
remains uneven.” A combination of slower growth abroad and
reduced domestic consumer spending will hamper growth, it said.  
 “They have clearly become more cautious on the global
outlook,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at CIBC World
Markets in Toronto.  
 The U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank will
keep their key rates at record lows this year, according to
Bloomberg economist surveys, and the Reserve Bank of Australia
signaled July 6 it’s prepared to refrain from further increases
in coming months as signs mount that economies around the world
will slow.  
 “Given the considerable uncertainty surrounding the
outlook, any further reduction of monetary stimulus would have
to be weighed carefully against domestic and global economic
developments,” the bank said, repeating a phrase used in the
June 1 rate  increase .  
 ‘Stay on Hold’  
 “The same language in June didn’t preclude a rate hike in
July. Investors shouldn’t be surprised if the Bank of Canada
carries forward with rate hikes in September and October,” said
Shenfeld. “Odds are that by December they will have seen enough
of a slowing to stay on hold for a while.”  
 The six-month overnight index  swap  rate, which measures
what investors predict the bank’s policy rate will average over
that period, rose 2.5 percent yesterday to 0.9090 percent. The
Canadian dollar also rose, reversing an earlier decline, after
the decision.  
 Canada’s six largest commercial banks, beginning with
 Toronto-Dominion Bank , raised their prime lending rates to 2.75
percent from 2.5 percent, effective today.  
 Canada’s key rate is now the highest since March 2009, and
below the last peak of 4.5 percent in December 2007. Canada’s
“moderate recovery” means rates will keep rising so the
central bank can keep inflation close to its 2 percent target,
said  Craig Wright , chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada, the
country’s biggest bank by assets.  
 “The question from here is how much and how aggressively
to move,” Wright said. “Uncertainty is with us for a while, so
for a central bank you want to have as much flexibility as you
can.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        