-- Carney Should Raise Rates Faster, Former Bank of Canada Adviser Ragan Says
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-21T19:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/carney-should-raise-rates-faster-former-bank-of-canada-adviser-ragan-says.html

          
          
             The Bank of Canada should raise
interest rates faster than markets and economists expect because
the economy’s strength threatens to stoke inflation, said a
former adviser to the central bank and finance minister.  
 Governor  Mark Carney  raised his  benchmark interest rate  by
a quarter point yesterday for a second month, to 0.75 percent,
and said further action will be “weighed carefully against
domestic and global economic developments.” The bank said the
response to Europe’s debt crisis will slow global growth and
added a reference to “uneven” spending in the U.S., Canada’s
biggest trade partner.  
 “Internally, you have this very strong case for rate
increases, I would say slightly softened by the external
environment,”  Chris Ragan  said in an interview today in
Bloomberg’s Ottawa office. “Based on today’s information, I
could see the Bank of Canada’s policy rate going up by something
like 175 to 250 basis points over the next 12 to 14 months.”  
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict Carney will slow
the pace of rate increases, and will refrain from raising rates
at one the bank’s two decisions in the fourth quarter. Carney
will expand on his views tomorrow when he publishes a quarterly
economic forecast paper and holds a press conference in Ottawa.  
 The  one-year  overnight index swap rate, a measure of what
investors predict the central bank rate will average over that
time, was 1.055 percent today. The yield on June 2011 bankers
acceptances contract was 1.56 percent at 3:27 p.m. New York
time. So-called Bax contracts have settled an average of about
20 basis points above the central bank’s overnight target since
1992, Bloomberg data show.  
 ‘Considerable Stimulus’  
 The bank said yesterday it will take until the end of next
year for the economy to reach full capacity, six months later
than it  forecast in April . The bank also referred to the level
of the benchmark rate providing “considerable” stimulus.  
 “I would like to see that idea expressed -- that we know
there is significant tightening ahead, and if things change
fine, but we fully expect that in the future,” Ragan said about
the bank’s statement.  
 Ragan is a  McGill University  economics professor who
finished an 18-month term as a visiting economist at the
country’s finance department earlier this year. He was also a
Bank of Canada adviser in 2004-2005 under then-governor  David Dodge  and now  leads  a monetary policy research group for the
C.D. Howe Institute, a Toronto-based non-profit research
organization.  
 Rapid Recovery  
 Carney has raised rates this year while other Group of
Seven policy makers keep them at or near record lows, as the
economy grew at a 6.1 percent annualized pace in the first
quarter and recovered most of the  jobs  lost in the recession.  
 European governments are cutting spending to curb deficits,
while the U.S. recovery is threatened by falling  housing starts 
and high unemployment that’s eroding consumer confidence.  
 Canada won’t be able raise rates too fast while the U.S.
Federal Reserve has said it intends to keep its key rate near
zero “for an extended period,” said  Nicholas Rowe , an
economist at Carleton University in Ottawa. That would drive up
the Canadian dollar and derail the recovery, forcing Carney to
cut rates again, Rowe said.  
 “In the long-run, our interest rate gets determined in the
world market,” Rowe said. “If you believe the U.S. and
European economies are going to stay weak and their interest
rates are going to stay low, you cannot believe ours is going to
go up and stay high.” He predicts a 2 percent benchmark
Canadian rate a year from now.  
 The Bank of Canada’s main goal is to keep consumer prices
advancing at a 2 percent year-over-year pace, and said this week
that  inflation  will probably remain near that mark through 2012.  
 Meeting that target will be harder if the bank doesn’t
raise its policy rate closer to a “neutral” level that may be
as high as 4 percent, Ragan said, “certainly way above where it
is now.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        