-- Caterpillar's New CEO Inherits Profit Target 32% Above Analyst Estimates
-- Shruti Date Singh
-- 2010-07-21T20:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/caterpillar-s-new-ceo-inherits-profit-target-32-above-analyst-estimates.html

          
          
             Caterpillar Inc. ’s new Chief
Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  inherited an earnings target
that analysts project he won’t meet.  
 Oberhelman, 57, took over as CEO from  Jim Owens  on July 1,
a job that came with a 2012 target for earnings of $8 to $10 a
share. That’s at least 32 percent more than the $6.08 average
 estimate  of analysts tracking the Peoria, Illinois-based
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Investors are looking for the world’s largest maker of
construction equipment to avoid a repeat of the last time there
was sustained sales growth, when Caterpillar failed to raise
profit. The company is boosting output to meet increased orders.
It announced in the past seven weeks at least $1.52 billion of
investment to raise truck and engine output and make shovels.  
 “Show me that you can improve your inventory management,
manage your raw-material inflation and show me you can expand
operating margins,” said  Joel Levington , a managing director of
corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New
York, who tracks Caterpillar because it’s the largest  debtor 
among U.S. industrial companies after General Electric Co. He
declined to comment on the firm’s holdings.  
 “You need more than just revenue growth,” he said.  
 Caterpillar  rose  44 cents to $66.87 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Earnings Estimates  
 Caterpillar is due to report second-quarter results
tomorrow. Adjusted earnings will be 84 cents a share, according
to the average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Caterpillar, which is  forecasting  full-year earnings of $2.50 to
$3.25, declined to comment.  
 “If the company produces higher-than-anticipated earnings
in the short term as we expect, investors may begin to place a
higher probability on Caterpillar’s ability to achieve its
longer-term revenue and earnings targets,”  Andrew Casey , an
analyst for Wells Fargo in Boston who rates the shares
“outperform,” wrote in a June 28 report.  
 Caterpillar’s so-called incremental operating margin, or
the profit on each additional dollar of revenue, shrank in 2007
and 2008, according to data compiled by Jefferies & Co.  Sales 
rose 24 percent from 2006 to 2008 while profit was flat as the
company paid more for raw materials and to get parts faster from
suppliers.  
 Caterpillar’s costs in 2007 and 2008 rose as the company
stepped up production to meet surging demand, said  Mark Demos , a
portfolio manager in Minneapolis for Fifth Third Asset
Management Inc., which holds 125,379 Caterpillar shares as part
of $17.8 billion under management.  
 Komatsu, Deere  
 “They tried to produce too much in too little time,”
Demos said.  
 Japan’s Komatsu Ltd., Caterpillar’s largest competitor,
increased earnings by 83 percent and revenue by 39 percent in
the two years through March 2008.  Deere & Co. , a Moline,
Illinois-based manufacturer of farm and construction equipment,
boosted profit by 21 percent and sales by 30 percent in the two
years through October 2008.  
 Caterpillar  has gained 17 percent this year in New York,
making it the biggest climber on the Dow Jones Industrial
Average. Deere rose 14 percent while Komatsu dropped 11 percent.  
 In the past two years, Caterpillar raised capacity, shrunk
its supplier base and improved the way it buys materials, said
 Robert Wertheimer , an analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York.  
 “A lot of ground work has been laid,” he said. “What the
company needs to do is execute.”  
 Factory Efficiency  
 Caterpillar reported improved factory efficiency and
margins in January through March. Stronger growth in
construction may also make Caterpillar’s goal achievable.
Reporting first-quarter results in April, the company forecast
improving economic growth would fuel sales and earnings,
especially in emerging markets.  
 Caterpillar got 63 percent of its  revenue  from outside
North America in the first quarter.  
 The International Monetary Fund said July 8 that global
growth this year will be stronger than previously forecast while
warning that turmoil stemming from Europe’s fiscal problems has
heightened the risks to the recovery. Problems in advanced
economies may curb capital flowing into emerging markets, said
 Olivier Blanchard , the IMF’s chief economist.  
 “We need to a have a really strong economic recovery” for
Caterpillar to hit its 2012 earnings target, said  Jeff Windau ,
an analyst for Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis. “It’s an
aggressive goal.”  
 Construction Cycle  
 Earning more than $8 a share in 2012 “may not be as big a
stretch as some believe,”  Ann Duignan , an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York, said in a report June 6. She estimates
the company may deliver $8.69 a share.  
 “We believe the market is overlooking what could turn out
to be the beginning of the next multi-year construction cycle in
the U.S.,” Duignan said. She  rates  the shares “overweight.”  
 Oberhelman joined Caterpillar in 1975, the year he
graduated with a finance degree from Millikin University in
Decatur, Illinois.  
 He increased profitability at the company’s engine unit,
which he oversaw as a vice president from 1998 and then as group
president since December 2001, said  Eli Lustgarten , an analyst
for Longbow Research in Independence, Ohio. The unit’s operating
profit as a percentage of sales rose to 12.9 percent in 2009
from 5.1 percent in 2001, according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 Caterpillar said June 1 it would  buy  Electro-Motive Diesel,
a maker of rail locomotives, for $820 million. Two weeks later,
Caterpillar said it would spend $700 million developing mining
trucks and hydraulic shovels. It also plans to raise output in
China and to build a factory in Brazil.  
 “Owens tends to be more cerebral,” said Lustgarten, who
rates Caterpillar shares “neutral.” “Oberhelman will be more
focused on operations and improving profit.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Doug Oberhelman, vice chairman and chief executive officer of Caterpillar Inc..  Source: Caterpillar Inc. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Workers grade a parking lot using Caterpillar heavy machinery in Buckhead, Georgia on July 21, 2009. Caterpillar Inc. Photographer: Chris Rank/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
