-- Cattle Rise as `Extreme' Hot U.S. Weather May Curb Beef Supply; Hogs Gain
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-07-21T18:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/cattle-rise-as-extreme-hot-u-s-weather-may-curb-beef-supply-hogs-gain.html

          
          
             Cattle futures climbed to a nine-
week high on speculation that U.S. beef supplies will be limited
by unusually hot weather that killed some animals and threatened
to halt weight gains for the feedlot herd. Hogs also rose.  
 The  Kansas Livestock Association  has reported cattle deaths
from “extreme temperatures.” Heat indexes in parts of Kansas,
the third-largest producing state, Oklahoma and Missouri may
reach as high as 110 degrees Fahrenheit (43 degrees Celsius)
today, according to the  National Weather Service .  
 “There were those limited deaths in Kansas, but the bigger
deal is the impact on potential weight gains for cattle in the
feedlots,” said  Rich Nelson , the director of research at
Allendale Inc. in McHenry, Illinois.  
 Cattle futures for October delivery rose 0.425 cent, or 0.4
percent, to 94.925 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, after touching 95.025 cents, the highest level for a
most-active contract since May 13. Feeder-cattle futures for
August settlement increased 0.175 cent to $1.1465 a pound.  
 Steers in the U.S.  weighed  an average 1,327 pounds (602
kilograms) at slaughter in the first two days of this week, 3.6
percent less than in the same period a week earlier, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show.  
 Heat-related cattle deaths have occurred since about July
16, primarily in central and western Kansas, said  Todd Domer , a
spokesman for the Kansas Livestock Association, a Topeka-based
trade group. He declined to speculate on the number of animals
killed.  
 Humidity, Little Wind  
 “We’ve talked to our members, and we’ve heard everything
from losses of one or two, on up to 1 percent of their
inventory,” Domer said. “I don’t remember the last time that
we had anything like this. It’s not just the temperatures,
because those cattle can handle extreme temperatures if they
don’t have to experience the high humidity and low wind speeds
we’ve had.”  
 Cattle also gained as  wholesale choice-beef  prices climbed
to $1.5562 a pound at midday, the highest level since July 7,
according to the USDA.  
 Hog futures for October settlement rose 1.125 cents, 1.5
percent, to 75.625 cents a pound on the CME. The most-active
contract is up 30 percent in the past year.  
 Futures were supported after  wholesale pork  jumped 1.7
percent yesterday to 82.82 cents a pound, the highest level
since July 12.  
 “We’ve got a slightly better supply situation in front of
us,” Allendale’s Nelson said. “The last hogs and pigs  report 
said there should be a slight shortfall in hogs in late summer
to early fall, and we’re reaching those periods right now.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        