-- LCH.Clearnet Sees U.S. as `Battleground' for Clearing Interest-Rate Swaps
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-07-21T15:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/lch-clearnet-seeks-u-s-dominance-in-rate-swap-clearing-amid-rule-changes.html

          
          
             LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.,  the world’s
largest derivatives clearinghouse, is gearing up to dominate
U.S. interest-rate swap clearing as new financial rules threaten
to break the decade-long hold banks have exerted on the market.  
 “We see this as the battleground for the next two years,”
Andrew McGuire, a vice president in the new U.S. office of the
London-based company, said in an interview. “It’s very U.S.-
focused.” LCH.Clearnet’s competition will be  CME Group Inc.  and
 International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC  for clearing U.S.
trades in the $349 trillion global interest-rate-swap market.  
 LCH.Clearnet has since 1999 built its leading role in
backing interest-rate swaps by only accepting trades done
between the banks that dominate the market. The U.S. financial
reform that President  Barack Obama  signed into law today
mandates that swaps between banks and major users like hedge
funds and asset managers also be backed by  clearinghouses ,
creating new demand for clearing services.  
 “They all realize what’s at stake because the interest-
rate-swap market is the largest over-the-counter market,” said
 Rich Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners,
referring to LCH.Clearnet, CME Group and IDCG. “LCH is well-
positioned because it clears the existing business” between
dealers, Repetto said.  
 Morgan Stanley estimates that exchanges and clearinghouses
worldwide can earn $190 million a year in revenue from interest-
rate swaps by 2012.  
 CME Group  
 “It’s strategically very important to CME Group,” said
 Laurent Paulhac , managing director of OTC products and services
for the Chicago-based company. “It’s very important to us
because of its size but also because we have a very important
and growing rates business” in futures contracts, he said.
Margin payments on cleared interest-rate swaps and futures can
cancel each other out if the positions oppose each other, for
example.  
 “There’s a lot of synergies and capital efficiencies we
can bring,” Paulhac said. CME Group’s interest-rate-swap
clearing plan is set to begin in the fourth quarter, he said.  
 Clearinghouses, which are capitalized by their members,
increase stability in over-the-counter derivatives markets
because they lessen the effect of a default by sharing the risk
among the membership and use daily margining procedures to keep
accounts current. They also allow regulators to see market
positions and prices.  
 Regulating Swaps  
 The financial reform bill will regulate swaps for the first
time in the market’s 30-year history by requiring most trades to
be processed by clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or
similar systems, taking business from the Wall Street banks that
pioneered the transactions. All trades in the  $615 trillion
market  will be reported to regulators. Dealers and their biggest
clients will face higher capital requirements to use the market.  
 “Obviously the dealers are going to have less control,”
Repetto said. Between exchanges such as CME Group and
clearinghouses “someone’s going to pick up incremental
business,” he said.  
 The push to overhaul the banking industry follows the
collapse of the housing bubble that caused the financial crisis
after credit markets froze, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went
bankrupt, and more than 8 million U.S. jobs were lost. Private
swaps complicated efforts to solve the crisis when regulators
couldn’t easily determine how interconnected banks had become
through trading the contracts.  
 IDCG’s Open  
 IDCG, majority-owned by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.,  has been
open to clear rate swaps since December 2008 and has $8 million
of the contracts in its clearinghouse, said  John Shay , chief
marketing officer for the New York-based company.  
 “We’d like to think our offering is one that will prove
its merits in the marketplace,” he said. “We’re ready today.
We don’t have to wait for something to be built.”  
 LCH.Clearnet, which is majority-owned by banks, is used as
a so-called utility by its owners, meaning its fees are lower
than if it was a for-profit business. The clearinghouse charges
an annual fee to its member banks that equates to about 2.3
cents per $100,000 notional value for each side of a trade,
according Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Celeste Mellet Brown .  
 McGuire, who was the first U.S.-based employee of
LCH.Clearnet’s SwapClear Services, said the company is looking
to increase the number of product managers and risk officers in
New York. SwapClear has guaranteed $225 trillion in notional
amount of interest-rate swaps, the company said this week.  
 U.K. Concerns  
 “One of our biggest challenges is that some might still
perceive that the L in LCH represents just London” because the
company clears interest-rate swaps and other products as a
global business, McGuire said. Another challenge is the
difference in British and U.S. bankruptcy law, he said.  
 The U.S.  Federal Housing Financing Agency , which oversees
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, has expressed reservations about how
collateral for users of SwapClear is treated, McGuire said.
“They have raised some concerns regarding U.K. bankruptcy
laws,” he said.  
 While details are still being worked out, the New York
office aims to solve that by having U.S. client money housed in
custodian accounts in the country, with all the operations of
the clearinghouse remaining in London, McGuire said.  
 The clearinghouse has created a pass-through system for
bank clients such as hedge funds and asset managers to send
trades through their prime brokers and then into the
clearinghouse, what’s known as a futures commission merchant, or
FCM, model. It expects the FCM access to SwapClear to be ready
late this year, McGuire said.  
 FCM Model  
 Having to create an FCM model is “the biggest feature of
the bill for us,” McGuire said. “It’s a legal vehicle for
getting the trade in” that includes required margin set asides
that will be larger than in the swaps market now, he said. It’s
also a necessary function under the financial reform that
mandates that dealers send their swaps trades to clearinghouses
through their FCM units.  
 “We don’t look at clearing as a panacea for the market,”
he said. “Having people clear is a good thing, but be careful
for what you wish for. Effective risk management starts with
dealers.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        