-- Chemtura Can Keep Control of Its Reorganization, Judge Rules in New York
-- Tiffany Kary
-- 2010-07-21T15:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/chemtura-can-keep-control-of-its-reorganization-judge-rules-in-new-york.html

          
          
             Chemtura Corp. , the bankrupt
plastic-additives maker, can keep control of its bankruptcy
reorganization, as a judge said shareholders can’t file a rival
Chapter 11 plan.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Robert Gerber  in Manhattan rejected a
motion from shareholders to end Chemtura’s exclusivity. His
ruling, at a hearing today in which he is also being asked to
approve Chemtura’s outline of its reorganization terms, gives
Chemtura until Nov. 21 to win creditor approval of its own plan.  
 “The equity committee has had a seat at the table,”
Gerber said, citing 22 meetings between the company and a
committee that represents shareholders.  
 If Chemtura had lost exclusivity, it could face more than
one rival plan, as settlements that set a value on the company
and how creditors will share it might fall apart,  Natasha Labovitz , a lawyer for Chemtura, told Gerber today.  
 Jay Goffman , a lawyer for equity holders, argued that there
is more value for shareholders than allowed under Chemtura’s
plan because the economy has improved since Chemtura filed for
bankruptcy.  
 Equity holders said in court documents that the company’s
plan left out material information about settlements with the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., and claims about environmental
damages and reserves for litigation over Diacetyl, a chemical
used to add butter flavor to popcorn. They questioned whether
$120 million in settlements needed to be made.  
 Gerber is scheduled to rule later today on the company’s
disclosure statement, which outlines the terms of its Chapter 11
plan.  
 The bankruptcy case is In re Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
district court case is Chemtura Corp. v. U.S., 10-cv-00503, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        