-- Chinese Companies Raise Decade-High Amount in First-Half IPOs
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-21T03:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/chinese-ipos-raise-31-8-billion-in-first-half-highest-amount-in-decade.html

          
          
             Chinese companies raised the most
this decade in first-half initial public offerings as  Huatai
Securities Co.  and more than 170 other firms tapped the
country’s financial markets.  
 Companies raised 215.3 billion yuan ($31.8 billion) from
IPOs, said  Tong Daochi , the China Securities Regulatory
Commission’s director general of international affairs, at a
conference in Shanghai. The amount is the highest so far this
century for China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 China, home to the worst performing benchmark Asian stock
index, may be the world’s biggest IPO market this year as
companies are likely to raise 500 billion yuan in Shanghai and
Shenzhen, PricewaterhouseCoopers said this month. The first-half
tally doesn’t include Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s $19.2
billion July sale in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  
 “The rising interest in the small and medium board in
Shenzhen and ChiNext definitely pushed the booming IPO market,”
said Wesley Li, an analyst at research company ChinaVenture.
“The regulator has also become more skillful in controlling the
rhythm of approving new IPOs.”  
 Most of the IPOs in the first half were from companies
selling shares on the small and medium-sized board and the
ChiNext startup board, both in Shenzhen, said CSRC’s Tong.  
 Shanghai Slump  
 The nation’s stocks regulator is considering rule revisions
that would make it easier for smaller Chinese companies to list
in Hong Kong, Tong said.  
 The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  has declined 23
percent this year on concern measures by the government to
control real-estate speculation and rising consumer prices will
damp economic growth.  
 Stocks in China rallied yesterday, sending the benchmark
index above 2,500 for the first time since June 28, as the
prospect the government may relax its policy tightening measures
spurred gains for the nation’s banks and property companies. The
composite index was little changed at the 11:30 a.m. break in
Shanghai.  
 China’s securities regulator allowed share sales to resume
in June 2009 after a 10-month moratorium imposed to curb stock
market volatility during the global financial crisis.  
 Huatai Securities’s IPO in February was the biggest in
China since Metallurgical Corporation of China Ltd. in September.
The Nanjing-based brokerage raised 15.69 billion yuan in its
offering.  
 AgriBank Debut  
 Agricultural Bank ’s debut in Shanghai on July 15 came after
a drop in the city’s benchmark stock index this year,
contrasting with the trading starts for its four largest local
rivals, who went public in Hong Kong in 2005 and 2006 in the
midst of a five-year bull market.  
 China will have 300 new listings in 2010, up from 99 last
year, according to a July 5 release from PwC.  
 -- Luo Jun ,  Eva Woo . With assistance from  Frances Liu  in Hong
Kong. Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Andreea Papuc   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Eva Woo in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        