-- Chinese Companies Raise Decade-High Amount in First-Half IPOs
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-21T07:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/chinese-companies-raise-decade-high-amount-in-first-half-ipos.html

          
          
             Chinese companies raised the most
this decade in first-half initial public offerings as  Huatai
Securities Co.  and more than 170 other firms tapped the
country’s financial markets.  
 Companies raised 215.3 billion yuan ($31.8 billion) from
IPOs, said  Tong Daochi , the China Securities Regulatory
Commission’s director general of international affairs, at a
conference in Shanghai. The amount is the highest so far this
century for China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 China, home to the worst-performing benchmark Asian stock
index, may be the world’s biggest IPO market this year as
companies are likely to raise 500 billion yuan in Shanghai and
Shenzhen, PricewaterhouseCoopers said this month. The first-half
tally doesn’t include Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s $19.2
billion July sale in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  
 “The rising interest in the small and medium board in
Shenzhen and ChiNext definitely pushed the booming IPO market,”
said Wesley Li, an analyst at research company ChinaVenture.
“The regulator has also become more skillful in controlling the
rhythm of approving new IPOs.”  
 Most of the IPOs in the first half were from companies
selling shares on the small and medium-sized board and the
ChiNext startup board, said CSRC’s Tong. Both markets are based
in Shenzhen, a city in southern China.  
 Share Exits  
 The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  has declined 23
percent this year on concern measures by the government to
control real-estate speculation and rising consumer prices will
damp economic growth.  
 Stocks in China rallied yesterday, sending the benchmark
index above 2,500 for the first time since June 28, as the
prospect the government may relax policy tightening measures
spurred gains for the nation’s banks and property companies. The
index rose 0.3 percent as of 2:42 p.m. local time.  
 This year’s drop in the gauge hasn’t deterred some foreign
investors including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from looking at
selling stakes in local companies through first-time share sales
in Shanghai or Shenzhen.  
 Since the regulator allowed IPOs to resume in June 2009
after a 10-month moratorium, a total of 12 Chinese companies in
which foreign-backed venture-capital and private-equity firms
owned stock made their debuts, according to ChinaVenture.  
 IPO Queue  
 That compares with just three in 2008 and four in 2007,
according to data compiled by the research company. The IPO
moratorium was imposed by regulators to curb stock market
volatility during the global financial crisis.  
 “A lot more foreign venture capital and private-equity-
backed companies are getting in the queue to list in the A-share
market,” said David Roberts, a Beijing-based partner at law
firm O’Melveny & Myers LLP. Companies in some industries may
receive more market attention and “better valuations” by
listing in China as opposed to outside the country, he said.  
 The growing interest from the foreign investors in Chinese
IPOs also stems from a 2006 Ministry of Commerce decree that
made it harder for pre-IPO investors to invest in Chinese
companies through offshore holding structures, also known as
“roundtrip investments.”  
 Rule Change  
 The rule change prompted companies and investors to use
investment structures in China, with a goal of eventually
listing in the domestic share market, according to Roberts.  
 Goldman Sachs owns 45 million shares in  Shenzhen Hepalink
Pharmaceutical Co. , a maker of the blood-thinner heparin, which
jumped 18 percent on its trading debut in May. Pre-IPO investors
are required to hold their shares for at least a year after the
IPO date, according to Shanghai and Shenzhen exchange rules.  
 Huatai Securities’s IPO in February was the biggest in
China since Metallurgical Corporation of China Ltd. in September.
The Nanjing-based  brokerage  raised 15.69 billion yuan in its
offering.  
 Agricultural Bank ’s debut in Shanghai on July 15 came after
a drop in the city’s benchmark stock index this year,
contrasting with the trading starts for its four largest local
rivals, who went public in Hong Kong in 2005 and 2006 in the
midst of a five-year bull market.  
 China will have 300 new listings in 2010, up from 99 last
year, according to a July 5 release from PwC.  
 -- Luo Jun ,  Eva Woo . With assistance from  Frances Liu  in Hong
Kong. Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Andreea Papuc   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Luo  in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
 Eva Woo  in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Huatai Securities’s IPO in February was the biggest in China since Metallurgical Corporation of China Ltd. in September. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
