-- China Investors Defy Rogoff Crash Warning With Bets on Developers' Bonds
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-22T07:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/china-investors-defy-rogoff-crash-warning-with-bets-on-developers-bonds.html

          
          
             China bond investors are betting
government measures to cool property prices won’t hurt real
estate companies as money managers and economists warn of a
crash that may slow the economy leading global growth.  
 Yields on China developers’ local-currency notes fell to
the lowest ever relative to government debt this year, with the
spread on  Poly Real Estate Group Co. ’s 4.3 billion yuan ($634
million) in 7 percent bonds due 2013 narrowing to a record 95
basis points on July 8, according to Shanghai Stock Exchange
prices on Bloomberg. The spread tightened by 68 basis points to
138 basis points since the end of 2009.  
 Local investors believe “urbanization, improving standards
of living and demographic growth all support the long-term
outlook” for house prices, said  Steve Wang , a credit strategist
for Bank of China International Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
Even if there’s a short-term decline, “China will still be a
major engine for the world economy,” he said.  
 China may contribute a third of global growth this year as
demand for its manufactured goods recovers, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development forecasts. Policy makers
intensified a crackdown on property speculation when the  economy
expanded  at the fastest pace since 2007 in the first quarter,
prompting Harvard University professor  Kenneth Rogoff  to see a
slowdown in price appreciation that began in May as the
beginning of a real estate “collapse.”  
 Property Sales  
 Prices  in 70 Chinese cities rose 11.4 percent in June from
a year earlier compared to 12.4 percent in May, according
statistics bureau data. The value of property sales rose 25
percent in the first half to 1.98 trillion yuan, while
investment in projects rose 38 percent to 1.97 trillion yuan.  
 Property investment accounts for about 10 percent of gross
domestic product and construction consumes half China’s steel
and 36 percent of its aluminum, JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates.  
 Investors “in the short term aren’t worried about the
property market,” said  Tan Weisi , who manages about 700 million
yuan as head of Fortune SGAM Fund Management Co.’s fixed-asset
department in Shanghai. “People haven’t felt a material impact
from the housing market.”  
 The extra yield buyers demand to own  China Vanke Co. ’s 2.9
billion yuan in 7 percent bonds due 2013 instead of government
debt fell 61 basis points to 200 basis points since the start of
January and dropped to a record 153 basis points on May 21,
according to exchange-traded prices on Bloomberg. China Vanke,
the country’s biggest publicly-traded developer, has 137 billion
yuan of assets including land in regional capitals Shenzhen,
Shanghai and Beijing, its regulatory filings show.  
 Milord Spread  
 The spread on 1.8 billion yuan of five-year 7.05 percent
bonds issued by  Milord Real Estate Development Group Co. 
narrowed to 323 basis points from 351, Shenzhen exchange prices
show. Milord is based in the central city of Wuhan, and reported
8.5 billion yuan of assets including properties in Beijing,
Wuhan and Xi’an.  
 China investors “believe in the assets that these property
companies own,”  Ivan Chung , a senior analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service, said in a telephone interview from Hong Kong.  
 Yuan-denominated bonds benefit from a perception that
companies approved to issue onshore have a “stamp of approval”
from regulators, according to  Zhang Zhiming , head of China
research at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. Borrowers must
undergo a “stringent approval process,” he said, and if one
were to default, “to some extent regulators who approved that
issue can be held responsible.”  
 Volatile Prices  
 Some investors also see bonds as a prudent place to “park
money” while stock markets are volatile and bank savings rates
low, said  Wang Yang , co-head of fixed-income research at UBS
Securities Co. in Beijing. One-year bank deposits yield 2.25
percent, while consumer prices climbed 2.9 percent in June from
a year earlier.  The Shanghai Composite Index  has fallen 22
percent this year.  
 China overtook Hong Kong as the world’s hottest housing
market in the first quarter, with prices rising at more than
double the rate anywhere else, according to property adviser
Knight Frank LLP. The government on July 12 vowed to enforce
measures to dampen the market that include a ban on loans for
third-home purchases, higher mortgage rates and tighter down-
payment requirements for second home purchases.  
 While spreads on developers’ yuan-denominated notes have
narrowed, the industry’s offshore dollar bonds have widened as
fund managers  James Chanos  and  Marc Faber  and Citigroup Inc.
economists  Willem Buiter  and  Shen Minggao  warned of a crash if a
property bubble isn’t averted.  
 Buiter and Shen have said it may take three years for the
boom to bust, while Faber said it could happen in a year.  
 Dollar Bonds  
 The spread on  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. ’s $300 million
in 10 percent notes due 2016 increased to 709 basis points from
620 this year, ING Groep NV prices show. Agile, which builds
villas and apartments in China’s southern Guangdong province and
other cities in the nation, has sold only dollar-denominated
notes, Bloomberg data show.  
 The spread on  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. ’s $350 million
in 8 percent notes maturing 2016 widened to 709 basis points
from 625 on Jan. 1, according to ING prices.  
 Maggie Mui, a spokeswoman for Agile, and Shimao spokeswoman
Tammy Tam declined to comment on their companies’ bond prices.  
 International investors have “overreacted” to the
government’s housing market controls, said  Thomas Kwan , a fund
manager who helps oversee $250 million at ICBC Credit Suisse
Asset Management Co. in Beijing. When they realize the measures
aren’t “as scary or severe as they thought,” the spread on
developers’ dollar bonds will probably narrow, he said.  
 Fueled by Cash  
 Because China’s property boom is fueled by cash rather than
debt, it’s unlikely the market will plunge on the type of forced
selling that exacerbated the U.S. subprime crisis, according to
 Michael Klibaner , head of China research at Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc., the second-largest publicly traded property broker.  
 As the government oversees an orderly decline in property
prices, overseas investors’ concerns about a collapse will ease,
said  John Sun , executive director for Citic Securities
International Co. in Hong Kong.  
 “I don’t believe those major property names are going to
go bust,” Sun said in an interview. “Nobody, including the
government, wants a crash in the property market, which is a
very important part of the whole Chinese economy.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Credit derivatives: TNI CDRV <GO>
Top China Stories: TOP CH <GO>
Top Financial News: FTOP <GO>
Top Corporate Finance: TOP DEAL <GO>
Bond Market News: TOP BON <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kenneth Rogoff, Harvard University professor of Economics, speaks at the OCBC. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
