-- China's Car Dealers Cut Prices, Hand Out IPods as Sales Slow
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-22T09:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/china-car-dealers-proffering-ipods-heralds-downturn-in-largest-auto-market.html

          
          
             China’s  appetite  for cars has slowed
and Zhu Dongwei, an auto salesman in the central Chinese city of
Zhengzhou, is doing all he can to whet it.  
 Customers at Zhu’s General Motors Co. dealership get a 14
percent discount, a refund of sales tax and a chance to win a
free iPod if they buy a 41,800 yuan ($6,170) Matiz compact car.  
 “This is our biggest promotion this year,” Zhu said.
“Without discounts, many people would wait, not buy.”  
 Demand in the world’s largest vehicle market may drop from
year-earlier levels in the second half of this year, triggering
price wars as dealers compete to clear inventories, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG and IHS Automotive. Wholesale passenger-
car deliveries in June gained at the slowest pace in 15 months
as  inflation  reduced buyers’ purchasing power.  
 “Some dealers and automakers may panic and offer the
largest discounts they can,” said  Yale Zhang , a Shanghai-based
analyst at consultant IHS Automotive. “If prices of daily
necessities keep soaring, people’s expectations of their future
financial security will be undermined, reducing their desire to
buy a car.”  
 China’s auto sales, which have increased every month since
February 2009, began growing at a slower pace in April amid
rising prices for consumer goods and signs of economic cooling.  
 Easing GDP Growth  
 The government also raised the sales tax on small cars to
7.5 percent this year after halving it to 5 percent in 2009. The
tax cut helped last year’s vehicle sales surge 46 percent to
13.6 million, surpassing the U.S. for the first time.  
 Wholesale passenger-car sales in June grew 19 percent from
a year earlier, the slowest pace in 15 months, as China’s
inflation rate stood at 2.9 percent, the second-highest rate
this year. The nation’s gross domestic product expansion eased
to 10.3 percent in the second quarter from 11.9 percent in the
preceding three months, the statistics bureau said on July 15.  
 “The uncertainty of the macro-economy will influence
people’s confidence, leading to a slowdown in auto sales
growth,” said  Xu Minfeng , an analyst at Central China
Securities in Shanghai. “The phasing out of some favorable
policies for car buyers last year, such as the increased sales
tax, has also contributed.”  
 Average prices of China’s locally made passenger cars fell
by 2.08 percent in June from a year earlier, the biggest decline
this year, according to the  National Development and Reform
Commission .  
 Capacity Expansion  
 Even as car demand may stall, automakers including GM,
 Volkswagen AG , Honda Motor Co. and  Nissan Motor Co.  are rushing
to boost capacity and introduce new models as they compete for
bigger market share.  
 Nissan, the largest Japanese carmaker in China by sales,
aims to expand production capacity in the nation 68 percent to
900,000 vehicles a year by 2012 and plans further increases
after that, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in April.  
 The slowdown in sales growth since April “doesn’t affect
our plan,” said Sharon Shen, Nissan’s Beijing-based spokeswoman.  
 Shares in  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. , Nissan’s partner in
China, have declined 11 percent this year and fell 1.2 percent
to HK$9.96 in Hong Kong today. SAIC Motor Corp., China’s largest
homegrown carmaker and a partner of GM and Volkswagen, has
fallen 26 percent in 2010.  
 SAIC and GM’s minivehicle-making venture SAIC-GM-Wuling
Automotive Co. said last month it plans to boost capacity by 47
percent to  1.31 million  vehicles annually by 2012. “We will
remain aggressive in our approach to China,” said Deng Xiaoyan,
a GM spokeswoman in Shanghai.  
 Output Exceeds Sales  
 Domestic auto output exceeded sales by 1.29 million
vehicles in the first half of this year, the  China Automotive
Technology & Research Center  said on July 5. The average
stockpile period, a measure of the time between car production
and registration, was 55 days in June, compared with 41 days in
February, the center said.  
 “Automakers should reduce supply rather than getting into
a price war,” said  Zhao Hang , president of the center.  
 The slowdown in demand growth has left some automakers,
including  BYD Co.  and  Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co. , lagging
behind their full-year sales targets.  
 Warren Buffett -backed BYD, which aims to double annual
sales to 800,000 vehicles, met 36 percent of its goal in the
first six months. Anhui Jianghuai, based in the eastern city of
Hefei, achieved 31 percent of its full-year target of 300,000
passenger cars.  
 BYD’s share price has declined 24 percent in Hong Kong
trading this year, and the carmaker said July 14 it may delay a
planned share sale in Shenzhen to seek “better pricing.”  
 Premiums to Discounts  
 While carmakers’ discounts may vary based on their profit
margins, price cuts of as much as 5 percent on average are
likely, IHS’s Zhang said. Imported vehicles carry higher price
tags and may be subject to steeper cuts, he said.  
 “Automakers and dealers in China aren’t enjoying the good
life like last year,” said Guo Yong, a manager at Beijing Asia
Games Village Automobile Exchange, a market that includes 130
vehicle dealers. Sales outlets are offering 7 percent to 8
percent discounts on vehicles with sticker prices between
110,000 yuan and 120,000 yuan, he said.  
 By contrast, some customers in Beijing paid a 20,000 yuan
premium to skip ahead of a waiting list for  Toyota Motor Corp .’s
RAV4 sport-utility vehicles in February, according to Wu Bin, a
salesman with Beijing Guangshun Toyota Sales Co.  
 The dealership had to stop charging the premium and cut the
vehicle’s price in March when sales declined amid global recalls
of Toyota models, and is now offering a 5,000 yuan discount,
according to Wu.  
 “With the discounts, sales have started to recover,” Wu
said.  
 -- Tian Ying  and  Ying Diao . Editors:  Terje Langeland ,  Jonathan Annells   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Carlos Ghosn, chief executive officer of Nissan Motor Co., speaks during a news conference. Photographer: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
