-- China Plan to Start Implementing Property Tax Trial in 2012, Official Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-21T13:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/china-may-start-property-tax-trials-in-some-cities-in-2012-netease-says.html

          
          
             China plans to start implementing a
property tax in 2012 on a trial basis, the 163.com website run
by Netease said in a report today, citing a finance ministry
meeting in Beijing.  
 The issue will be one of the ministry’s top tasks in 2012,
the report said, without citing any official by name. Due to the
difficulties of implementing such a levy nationwide, the tax may
be rolled out first in a few cities, the  report  said without
naming them.  
 Premier Wen Jiabao has restricted loans to real-estate
developers and imposed higher interest rates and down payments
for second mortgages to help cool surging property prices that
rose by records in some cities in the second quarter. The State
Council said in May it approved proposals from the nation’s top
economic planning agency to gradually introduce a property tax.  
 Shanghai and Chongqing have already drawn up plans for a
property tax, according to reports in China’s state media.
Chongqing Mayor Huang Qifan said the city wants to impose a 1
percent levy on homes that are three times the average market
price, the Shanghai Securities News reported last month.  
 The tax may generate 120 billion yuan ($17.7 billion) of
revenue annually for the government nationwide based on a rate
of 0.8 percent of the market value of properties and levied on
people with multiple homes, according to a report by Australia
and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in May.  
 Mortgage Curbs  
 Property prices in 70 cities rose 11.4 percent in June from
a year earlier, slowing for a second month, the government said
July 12. The  China Se Shang Property Index  has tumbled 26
percent this year on concerns that curbs on mortgage lending
will hurt developers’ earnings.  
 China should announce a timetable for the introduction of
the tax to help stabilize expectations, Qin Hong, deputy
research head of the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural
Development, said on July 12. A timetable should be made public
as early as possible to prevent “panic” when it starts, she
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        