-- China Property Policy Easing Is `Wishful Thinking,' HSBC Economist Qu Says
-- Nick Gentle
-- 2010-07-21T08:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/china-relaxing-property-market-curns-is-wishful-thinking-hsbc-s-qu-says.html

          
          
             China won’t immediately relax
policies aimed at restraining property prices, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc’s Greater China Chief Economist  Hongbin Qu .  
 “It is unrealistic for the market to expect policy easing
in China any time soon,” Qu said in an interview in Hong Kong.
“Yes, the economy is slowing and that is controlling upside
pressure on inflation. But premature easing could easily fuel
inflationary expectations and lead to a quick rebound in
property prices.”  
 China has raised  bank reserve ratios  three times this year
and introduced controls on lending for second and third homes to
contain  property prices . The  China Se Shang Property Index  has
tumbled 26 percent this year. It has rebounded 4.1 percent since
July 15, when China said  economic growth  slowed in the second
quarter, prompting speculation the restrictions may be relaxed.  
 “This is basically wishful thinking from the market,” Qu
said. “It’s likely that policy makers will keep the status quo
on the policy for the next few months and then take a look at
the economic data before deciding their next move.”  
 China’s gross domestic product growth eased to 10.3 percent
in the three months to the end of June from a year earlier, less
than an 11.9 percent increase in the first quarter, the
statistics bureau said on July 15.  Inflation  cooled to 2.9
percent in June, the statistics bureau reported. Qu said the
slower economic growth was a “soft patch” rather than a sharp
slowdown.  
 ‘Designboard Direction’  
 “We believe the economy will still, by relying on domestic
demand, grow at 9 percent in the second half of this year,” Qu
said. “Policy makers will have no interest in stimulating
growth back above 10 percent; every time that happens you see
inflation pressure building up.”  
 Qu said the Chinese government’s policies had been
effective at containing both asset prices and economic growth,
and therefore inflation, and the country was now headed in what
policy makers referred to as the “designboard direction.”  
 “Growth of 9 percent is exactly what they want to see,”
Qu said. “It may be slower, but it is less inflationary and is
more sustainable.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nick Gentle  at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        