-- China Will Let Yuan Weaken If Exports Fall, Adviser Says in Asahi Report
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-21T07:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/china-to-let-yuan-weaken-if-exports-fall-sharply-pboc-adviser-tells-asahi.html

          
          
             Chinese central bank adviser  Zhou Qiren  said that the nation will let the yuan weaken if exports
fall sharply, according to a report in a Japanese newspaper.  
 The currency’s renewed flexibility means declines are
possible, the Asahi newspaper quoted Zhou as saying in an
 interview  published on its website in English today and Japanese
yesterday. Zhou couldn’t be contacted through his office in
Beijing to confirm the comments.  
 Any sustained weakening of the yuan could set China on a
collision course with trading partners, who say the nation’s
exports are bolstered by an undervalued currency. U.S. President
 Barack Obama  said he expected the yuan to rise “significantly”
after a two-year peg to the dollar ended June 19.  
 The fixed exchange rate should have ended earlier because
central bank sales of yuan to maintain it resulted in an
excessive amount of money entering China’s financial system,
Zhou said, according to the Asahi. He added that the economy had
overheated, the newspaper reported.  
 Yuan forwards dropped today to the weakest level this month
on concern a slowing economy and a clouded outlook for exports
will prompt the central bank to limit gains. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards declined 0.1 percent to 6.6870 per dollar
as of 12:35 p.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting bets the currency will
strengthen 1.4 percent from the spot rate of 6.7783.  
 The yuan has advanced 0.7 percent since the peg ended.  
 Zhou is an academic member of the central bank’s monetary
policy committee. His appointment was announced in March.  
 -- Steven McPherson ,  Paul Panckhurst ,  Sophie Leung . Editors: Lily
Nonomiya, Cherian Thomas  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7574 or
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        