-- Clegg Calls 2003 U.S.-Led Invasion of Iraq `Illegal' in Split With Cameron
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-07-21T16:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/clegg-calls-2003-u-s-led-invasion-of-iraq-illegal-in-split-with-cameron.html

          
          
             U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  called the 2003 U.S.-led invasion of Iraq illegal in the
biggest sign yet of a policy split with his partners in the
Conservative-led coalition government.  
 Clegg made the comments during an exchange at prime
minister’s questions in Parliament in London today with  Jack Straw , who was foreign secretary in  Tony Blair ’s Labour
government at the time of the war. Clegg, the leader of the
Liberal Democrats, was standing in for Prime Minister  David Cameron , who is on his first visit to the U.S. this week.  
 “Perhaps one day he will account for his role in the most
disastrous decision of all: the illegal invasion of Iraq,”
Clegg said of Straw during the clash in the House of Commons.
Clegg voted against the war in 2003, while Cameron backed it.  
 Cameron’s spokeswoman  Vickie Sheriff  told reporters after
the exchange that Clegg was not speaking on behalf of the
government and that “the deputy prime minister is entitled to
express his own view.” Sheriff also said the coalition
administration has yet to express a view on the legality of the
invasion and that Cameron was awaiting the conclusions of an
inquiry led by a retired civil servant,  John Chilcot .  
 “I am not aware of the government’s expression of a view
of the legality of the Iraq war,” Sheriff said.  
 Conservative Foreign Secretary  William Hague  distanced
himself from Clegg’s comments, saying that “the deputy prime
minister has a different history from mine on that subject,”
according to the  BBC news website .  
 The Iraq probe, which opened on Nov. 24, is the fifth into
the war since  Saddam Hussein  was toppled from power. Blair’s
government sent more than 40,000 troops to support the invasion,
costing him popularity at home that eventually led to his
resignation in 2007.
For Related News and Information:
Top Stories: TOP <GO>
Stories on U.K. politics: TNI POL UK <GO>  
          
          


  


        