-- U.S. Seeks China's Backing to Enforce New Sanctions Against North Korea
-- Peter S. Green
-- 2010-07-22T00:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/clinton-gates-visit-korea-s-armed-border-in-show-of-solidarity-with-south.html

          
          
             The U.S. will ask China to help it
enforce new sanctions against  North Korea , targeting members of
 Kim Jong Il ’s regime and the front companies and foreign banks
that help sustain the country’s weapons industry.  
 “China obviously has a big role to play in this,” State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in Washington
yesterday after the new restraints were announced by Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  at a briefing in Seoul. The U.S. will
consult with China on “additional steps that it can take,” he
told reporters.  
 The tightening of U.S. sanctions may raise tensions as
Clinton heads to  Hanoi  for a meeting on regional security that
includes her counterparts from North Korea and China. North
Korea, whose economy has been battered by existing trade
restrictions, has threatened to retaliate against new curbs.  
 “These measures are not directed at the people of North
Korea, who have suffered too long due to the misguided and
malign priorities of their government,” Clinton said in Seoul.
“They are directed at the destabilizing, illicit and
provocative policies pursued by that government.”  
 In Washington, Crowley said the sanctions were partly
intended to punish North Korea for the March 26 sinking of a
South Korean warship, the Cheonan, near the two countries’
maritime border. The North denies any part in the incident.  
 “The measures seem to be aimed at what would hurt North
Korea the most: its cash line,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a professor
of North Korean studies at Seoul-based Dongguk University. “It
remains to be seen how far the U.S. is willing to push it
through, as it wouldn’t want a total collapse in dialogue.”  
 Envoy’s Trip  
 Clinton’s adviser for nonproliferation and arms control,
 Robert J. Einhorn , will travel to China early next month on a
trip to drum up support for the new sanctions across Asia,
Crowley said. The measures are expected to be put into effect in
about two weeks, Crowley said.  
 North Korean Foreign Minister  Pak Ui Chun  arrived in Hanoi
for the summit on a Vietnam Airlines flight from Beijing. He
smiled and waved to reporters at the airport before climbing
into a Mercedes-Benz E-Class sedan without making a comment.  
 The U.S. didn’t discuss the new sanctions with China before
Clinton’s announcement, and Clinton will explain the move to
Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  at the Hanoi conference,
Crowley said.  
 “These are concrete actions, they are not about
rhetoric,” Crowley said. “We want to send an unmistakable
signal to North Korea that provocative actions like the kind
that we saw recently, the sinking of a ship, have a
consequence.”  
 Lessons Learned  
 The U.S. has learned lessons from existing sanctions that
will help make the new measures more effective, Crowley said.
The sanctions will target diplomats and North Korean companies
involved in illegal activities such as money laundering,
counterfeiting, cigarette smuggling and trafficking in
conventional weapons, he said.  
 Much of those profits are used to support the North’s
nuclear weapons program and to import luxury goods for the
country’s leaders, he added.  
 UN sanctions imposed on North Korea over its defiance of an
international ban on missile tests caused the country’s
international commerce to shrink 9.7 percent last year,
according to the Seoul-based trade agency, Kotra. North Korea
doesn’t release its own trade figures.  
 Further Punishment  
 Continued threats against South Korea and military
provocation would only lead to further punishment for the North
Korean regime, Clinton said.  
 The sinking of the Cheonan has prompted the U.S. and South
Korea to showcase their military and political alliance. The two
countries said they will conduct joint naval and air exercises
off South Korea’s east coast next week.  
 Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates  and Admiral  Mike Mullen ,
the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were among defense
officials who were also in South Korea for what Clinton
described as “a real show of solidarity” and to mark the 60th
anniversary of the outbreak of the Korean war.  
 The 97,000-ton aircraft carrier USS George  Washington  and
three destroyers arrived in the country yesterday.  
 In a joint statement after the talks, the U.S. and South
Korea urged North Korea to acknowledge that it was behind the
attack. The North has said that the evidence of its involvement
in the sinking was cooked up as an excuse for the U.S. to wage a
“war of aggression.”  
 Containing China  
 The U.S. drills mask a hidden aim to “pressurize and
contain other big powers by force of arms in the region,” the
state-run Korea Central News Agency said yesterday.  
 China, North Korea’s biggest economic partner, said it is
“firmly opposed” to foreign military activities off its
coastal waters.  
 China has refused to join international condemnation of
North Korea, saying that it has no independent evidence of the
North’s role in the ship sinking.  
 Clinton and Gates made an unprecedented joint trip to the
armed border dividing the Korean peninsula yesterday.  
 Clinton said that as she looked across the line that
divides North from South “it struck me that although it may be
a thin line, these two countries are worlds apart.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Seoul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter S. Green  in Washington at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton  
                       
                         
                           Paul J. Richards/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton listens to a briefing at the truce village of Panmunjom in the Demilitarised Zone separating the two Koreas. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton listens to a briefing at the truce village of Panmunjom in the Demilitarised Zone separating the two Koreas. Photographer: Paul J. Richards/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
