-- Conrad Black Freed on $2 Million Bail as He Appeals Convictions for Fraud
-- Linda Sandler
-- 2010-07-21T21:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/conrad-black-may-be-freed-after-posting-2-million-bail-can-t-leave-u-s-.html

          
          
             Conrad Black , the ex-Hollinger
International Inc. chairman, was freed from prison after posting
a $2 million bail bond guaranteed by a family friend.  
 Black, 65, today left the  Coleman Federal Correctional
Institution , where he had been since March 2008, prison
spokesman Gary Miller said. Black will be free as he appeals
mail fraud and obstruction of justice convictions.  
 U.S. District Judge  Amy J. St. Eve  in Chicago set the bail
amount today and said Black isn’t permitted to leave the U.S. at
this time. He must make his way to Chicago for a July 23 hearing
at which the judge will instruct him on terms of his release.  
 “His home is in Canada,” defense attorney  Miguel A. Estrada  told St. Eve at this morning’s bail hearing, seeking
greater freedom for his client. The judge said she would
consider it after seeing a Black financial statement and hearing
from a pretrial services officer.  
 Black departed from the prison without being spotted by
about 30 reporters and photographers across the road from the
low-security institution.  
 Shortly after noon, a black Lincoln Navigator entered the
grounds. The assembled press didn’t see it again. About 45
minutes after it arrived, two men in the parking lot said they
saw Black leave in the vehicle by another exit.  
 Black earlier this week won the right to bail from a
federal appeals court, based on a June 24 Supreme Court
decision. The high court narrowed the scope of a law prosecutors
used to convict him. The court ordered the Chicago-based appeals
court to reconsider its prior ruling upholding the conviction.  
 Bail Guaranteed  
 The bail was guaranteed by  Roger Hertog , a former vice
chairman of Alliance Bernstein Holding LP and chairman of the
New York Historical Society. Hertog attended today’s hearing,
declining to comment afterward.  
 Black will probably spend his first days of freedom with
his wife, Barbara, who divides her time between Florida and
Toronto, said Peter White, a longtime friend and former
Hollinger executive who has stayed in touch by e-mail.  
 “The key question about where Conrad will spend his first
days of freedom is whether the terms of his bail allow him to
leave the U.S.,” White said in a phone interview. “He’s still
a wealthy man, but his wealth will be affected by the outcome of
outstanding lawsuits against him.”  
 Before trial, St. Eve required Black to post $21 million
worth of property and cash to secure his freedom. She restricted
his travel to the regions surrounding the federal courthouse in
Chicago and his Palm Beach, Florida, mansion. He was barred from
traveling to his native Canada.  
 Florida Home  
 Black, writing in an April  column  for Canada’s National
Post newspaper, denied that his Palm Beach home had been
foreclosed on and sold. Toronto’s  Globe and Mail  newspaper in
March reported the property was conveyed to a Connecticut
investment firm, Blackfield Holdings LLC.  
 Local property records show the house at 1930 South Ocean
Blvd. was sold in February for $11.6 million. Palm Beach real
estate agent Linda Gary, reported by Toronto’s Globe and Mail to
be handling the sale, didn’t return calls seeking comment
yesterday.  
 St. Eve, inquiring about the status of the property today,
was told by Estrada that Black has retained a “contract
interest” in the house and can reacquire title if he pays an
outstanding lien by September.  
 The house is on the market, Estrada told the judge.  
 Black’s Conviction  
 Black and three associates were found guilty of stealing
$6.1 million from Hollinger International as they engineered
sales of its assets. Black was sentenced to 6 1/2 years on the
obstruction of justice charge and received a five-year
concurrent sentence for fraud.  
 The amount of Black’s new bond was agreed to by both sides,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Julie Porter told St. Eve today.  
 The Supreme Court, siding with Black and former Enron Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling  in separate rulings,
said a law that makes it a crime to “deprive another of the
intangible right to honest services” may be used only in cases
involving bribery or kickbacks. Black faced no such allegations
in his prosecution, the justices said.  
 The Supreme Court didn’t deal with Black’s crime of
obstructing justice.  
 Black led Hollinger, then the world’s third-largest
publisher of English language newspapers, as its CEO from 1995
to 2003, and served as its chairman from November 2003 to
January 2004. The Chicago-based company is now known as the  Sun-
Times Media Group Inc.   
 IRS Case  
 The U.S. Internal Revenue Service claims Black owes the
U.S. government almost $71 million in unpaid taxes and
penalties, according to court records.  
 The IRS said Black failed to pay taxes on his personal use
of Hollinger jets, corporate money he spent on papers by
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  and his private secretary, and
Hollinger’s 2000 purchase of a $5.9 million New York apartment
for his use. Black wrote a biography of Roosevelt.  
 Black has asked the U.S. Tax Court to throw out the
assessment, which covers payments due for 1998 to 2003. He said
in a petition that the IRS relied on “sloppy and careless”
findings, from an investigation that led to his conviction, when
authorities compiled estimates of his income and unpaid taxes.  
 Black said he wasn’t required to file tax returns because
he wasn’t a U.S. resident, court records show.  
 The IRS suit against Black was filed April in federal Tax
Court in Washington.  
 SEC Allegations  
 A hearing on U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
allegations against Black is set for Dec. 16.  
 The SEC sued Black in 2004 claiming he and former Hollinger
President  David Radler  stole $85 million from the company. The
agency won a partial judgment in 2008 that Black broke the law
by making false statements about Hollinger’s dealings.  
 Separately, Radler settled with the SEC in 2007. Black’s
bankrupt holding company Hollinger Inc. did so the next year.
Sun-Times Media agreed in 2007 to pay investors $30 million to
settle U.S. and Canadian securities-fraud cases.  
 The trial court case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
appellate case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Sandler  in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Conrad Black Granted Bail While Appealing Conviction  
                       
                         
                           Tim Boyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Conrad Black, former chief executive officer of Hollinger International. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Conrad Black, former chief executive officer of Hollinger International. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
