-- Conrad Black Granted $2 Million Bail, May Be Freed Today From Florida Jail
-- Linda Sandler
-- 2010-07-21T15:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/conrad-black-may-be-set-free-today-in-florida-as-he-appeals-conviction.html

          
          
             Conrad Black , the former Hollinger
International Inc. chairman, was granted $2 million bail
guaranteed by a family friend and may be released from a federal
prison as early as today.  
 U.S. District Judge  Amy J. St. Eve  in Chicago granted
Black’s request for bail and said he isn’t permitted to leave
the U.S. at this time. St. Eve signed the release order, which
will be transmitted to the prison. Black is required to make his
way to Chicago for a July 23 hearing at which St. Eve will
instruct him on the terms of his release.  
 “His home is in Canada,” defense attorney  Miguel A. Estrada  told St. Eve, seeking greater freedom for his client.
The judge said she’d consider that request after seeing a Black
financial statement and hearing from a pre-trial services
officer.  
 Black, 65, has been in the low-security  Coleman Federal
Correctional Institution  since March 2008. He’s appealing his
fraud conviction.  
 A federal appeals court granted Black’s petition for bail
this week, following a U.S. Supreme Court decision narrowing the
scope of a law relied upon by prosecutors in their case against
him.  
 When he’s freed from prison, Black must immediately return
to Chicago to be instructed by St. Eve on the terms of his
release and what he can and can’t do.  
 Release Maybe on Friday  
 Estrada’s co-counsel,  Marc Martin , told the judge that
could happen as soon as Friday, depending on when his client
exits the Coleman facility. Martin was part of the team that
defended Black at trial in 2007.  
 The bail amount was guaranteed by  Roger Hertog , a former
vice chairman of Alliance Bernstein Holding LP and chairman of
the New York Historical Society.  
 Hertog, who attended today’s hearing, afterward declined to
talk to reporters.  
 When he gets out of prison, Black will likely spend his
first hours and days of freedom with his wife, Barbara, who
divides her time between Florida and Toronto, said Peter White,
a longtime Black friend and a former Hollinger executive who
remains in touch with him by e-mail.  
 “The key question about where Conrad will spend his first
days of freedom is whether the terms of his bail allow him to
leave the U.S.,” White said in a phone interview.  
 Still Wealthy  
 “He’s still a wealthy man but his wealth will be affected
by the outcome of outstanding lawsuits against him,” he said.  
 Joan Maida, an assistant to Black, declined to comment
yesterday. She said e-mail at the prison in Coleman hasn’t been
working since July 16 and Black couldn’t be reached for comment.
Black’s wife didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  
 Before trial, St. Eve required Black to post $21 million
worth of property and cash to secure his freedom and restricted
his travel to the regions surrounding the federal courthouse in
Chicago and his Palm Beach, Florida, mansion. He was barred from
traveling to his native Canada while on bail.  
 Black, writing in a  column  for Canada’s National Post
newspaper in April, denied that his Palm Beach home had been
foreclosed on and sold. Toronto’s  Globe and Mail  newspaper in
March reported the property was conveyed to a Connecticut
investment firm, Blackfield Holdings LLC.  
 Property Records  
 Local property records show the house at 1930 South Ocean
Blvd. was sold in February for $11.6 million. Palm Beach real
estate agent Linda Gary, reported by Toronto’s Globe and Mail to
be handling the sale, didn’t return calls seeking comment
yesterday.  
 St. Eve, inquiring about the status of the property today
was told by Estrada that Black has retained a “contract
interest” in the house, under which he can reacquire title if
he pays off an outstanding lien by September.  
 The house is on the market, Estrada told the judge.  
 Black and three associates were found guilty of stealing
$6.1 million from Hollinger International as they engineered
sales of its assets. Black was sentenced to 6 1/2 years in
federal prison for obstruction of justice. He also got a five-
year concurrent sentence for fraud.  
 Representing the U.S. in court today was Assistant U.S.
Attorney Julie Porter, the last member of the four-person
prosecution team still working under Chicago U.S. Attorney
 Patrick J. Fitzgerald .  
 Bond Amount  
 The amount of Black’s new bond was consensual, she told the
court today.  
 Siding with Black and former Enron Corp. Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Skilling  in separate rulings on June 24, the
Supreme Court said a law that makes it a crime to “deprive
another of the intangible right to honest services” may be used
only in cases involving bribery or kickbacks. Black faced no
such allegations in his prosecution, the justices said.  
 The Supreme Court didn’t deal with Black’s crime of
obstructing justice.  
 This month, Black asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Chicago to grant him bail while he continues his appeal.  
 Black led Hollinger, then the world’s third-largest
publisher of English language newspapers, as its CEO from 1995
to 2003, and served as its chairman from November 2003 to
January 2004. The Chicago-based company is now known as the  Sun-
Times Media Group Inc.   
 IRS Claims  
 The U.S. Internal Revenue Service claims Black owes the
U.S. government almost $71 million in unpaid taxes and
penalties, according to court records.  
 The IRS said Black failed to report and pay taxes on income
stemming from personal use of Hollinger’s corporate jets, the
use of corporate money to acquire papers written by former
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  and Roosevelt’s private
secretary, and Hollinger’s 2000 purchase of a $5.9 million New
York apartment for his use. Black wrote a book on Roosevelt.  
 Black has asked the U.S. Tax Court to throw out the
assessment, which covers payments due for 1998 to 2003. He said
in a petition that the IRS relied on “sloppy and careless”
findings, from an investigation that led to his conviction, when
authorities compiled estimates of his income and unpaid taxes.  
 Black said he wasn’t required to file tax returns because
he wasn’t a U.S. resident, court records show.  
 The IRS suit against Black was filed April in federal Tax
Court in Washington.  
 A status hearing on remaining U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission allegations in its case against Black, which was on
hold while criminal proceedings advanced, is set for Dec. 16,
according to a July 19 court filing.  
 The SEC, which sued Black in 2004 claiming he and former
Hollinger President  David Radler  stole $85 million from the
company, won a partial judgment in 2008 that Black violated
securities laws by making false statements about Hollinger’s
dealings.  
 Separately, Radler settled with the SEC in 2007 and Black’s
bankrupt holding company Hollinger Inc. settled with the SEC in
2008.  
 The trial court case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
appellate case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former Hollinger International Inc. chairman Conrad Black. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
