-- Contador's Tour de France Lead Faces Biggest Test on Mountain Road Stage
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-21T22:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/contador-s-tour-de-france-lead-faces-biggest-test-on-mountain-top-finish.html

          
          
             After 1,900 miles and almost three
weeks, the outcome of this year’s Tour de France may rest on an
11.6-mile climb to a mountain-top finish today.  
 Spain’s  Alberto Contador  leads  Andy Schleck  of Luxembourg
by 8 seconds ahead of the 17th stage, which hinges on the ascent
to the Tourmalet mountain pass, according to Schleck. There are
two more flat stages and a time trial before the race ends July
25 in Paris.  
 Contador, seeking a third title in four years, is a time-
trial specialist who beat Schleck by 1 minute, 45 seconds in the
discipline over 25 miles last year.  
 “We’re running out of time, I can’t wait until he has a
bad day,” Schleck told reporters yesterday. “Tourmalet is
definitely the highlight of this year’s race.”  
 Last year’s runner-up, Schleck is seeking to become the
first Luxembourg winner of cycling’s premier race since Charly
Gaul in 1958.  
 While Tour de France riders have climbed Tourmalet more
than 70 times since 1910, it’s only the second time a stage has
finished atop the 2,115-meter (1.3-mile) summit.  
 Schleck said he couldn’t say how much advantage he would
need to secure over Contador going into the 32-mile time trial
between Bordeaux and Pauillac on July 24.  
 “I can’t say if 2 minutes or 30 seconds will be enough,”
Schleck said. “With 1 minute I will be happy.”  
 Yvon Sanquer, general manager of Contador’s Astana team,
said whoever earns the yellow jersey today will get a
psychological boost for the time trial.  
 “Wearing that jersey gives you an extra edge,” Sanquer
said in an interview in Pau yesterday.  
 Chain Glitch  
 Schleck lost that jersey when his bike chain sprang off as
he attacked three days ago, allowing Contador to race ahead.
Schleck spent about half a minute trying to fix the problem.
Riders sometimes slow when a rival has a mechanical fault or
crash, and some fans jeered the Spaniard after the last two
stages because he didn’t.  
 Contador, 27, apologized during the stage after the
incident, Schleck said, adding that he’d forgiven him. Schleck,
who rides for Team Saxo Bank, had initially said his “stomach
is full of anger” and he wanted revenge.  
 “The story is finished for me,” Schleck said. “I don’t
think people should whistle him, he’s a great champion.”  
 Contador, who won the Tour last year in a race marked by
his rivalry with then-teammate and seven-time champion Lance
Armstrong, didn’t speak to reporters yesterday. Schleck and
Contador were staying in the same hotel in Pau, where today’s
108-mile stage starts.  
 Schleck, 25, said he wouldn’t dwell on the incident even if
he finishes the race less than half a minute behind Contador.
He’s saving his energy for today.  
 “I haven’t given everything yet and that gives me
confidence,” Schleck said. “I still haven’t spoken my last
word in the Tour.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Pau, France, via the London sports
desk   aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Yellow jersey of Overall leader, Spain's Alberto Contador. Photographer: Lionel Bonaventure /AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
