-- Corn, Soybeans Rise as Hot, Dry Weather in U.S. Midwest May Threaten Crops
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-07-21T19:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/corn-soybeans-rise-as-hot-dry-weather-in-u-s-midwest-may-threaten-crops.html

          
          
             Corn rose for the first time this
week and soybeans gained for a second straight day on
speculation that drier weather may damage crops in the U.S., the
world’s largest grower and exporter.  
 A lack of rain in Illinois, Indiana and Ohio may stress as
much as 15 percent of the crops, the  Commodity Weather Group LLC 
said today in a report. Precipitation in June stunted root
development, leaving plants more vulnerable to heat. Corn prices
have risen 5.4 percent in July, and soybeans are up 8.4 percent,
heading for the first monthly gain since April.  
 “The crops are unusually variable because of the wet
weather last month,” said  Brian Grete , the senior market
analyst for the Professional Farmers of America newsletter in
Cedar Falls, Iowa. “Uncertainty about the impact on final
yields is encouraging some buying interest.”  
 Corn futures for December delivery rose 6 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $3.935 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
most-active futures slid 4.8 percent the previous two days on
expectations that rain would nurture the Midwest crop.  
 Corn has risen 14 percent since June 29, the day before the
government said U.S. farmers planted less this year than they
had planned.  
 Soybean futures for November delivery rose 5.5 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $9.785 a bushel in Chicago. The oilseed has
rallied after the government said U.S. reserves as of June 1
were the lowest in six years.  
 Crop Conditions  
 Crop conditions reported by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture have worsened over the past five weeks because parts
of the Midwest received record rain in June, said  Gail Martell ,
the president of MartellCropProjections.com in Whitefish Bay,
Wisconsin.  
 Iowa, the largest corn- and soybean-producing state, had
the second-wettest June on record, according to data from the
 High Plains Regional Climate Center  in Lincoln, Nebraska.
Rainfall in Illinois and Nebraska was the third most ever last
month, while Michigan had its wettest June ever.  
 About 67 percent of U.S.  soybeans  were in good or excellent
condition as of July 18, down from 73 percent in the week ended
June 13, USDA data show. The top ratings for  corn  in the 18
largest producing states fell to 72 percent this week, down from
77 percent five weeks earlier.  
 “Crop watchers may believe more rain is better for
developing corn and soybeans, but just the opposite is true,”
Martell said today in a report to clients. “Too much rain, not
too little, is the problem in Midwest crops that flooded in
June.”  
 Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government figures
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        