-- Credit-Rating Rules Won't `Freeze' Securitized-Debt Markets, Analysts Say
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-21T19:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/credit-rating-rules-won-t-freeze-securitized-debt-markets-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Credit raters’ reactions to the U.S.
financial-regulation law that boosts their legal risks are
unlikely to “freeze” the securitization market even while
forcing changes in practices and potentially slowing sales, RBS
Securities Inc. and Bank of America Corp. analysts said.  
 Issuers will probably do more so-called private placement
or 144a transactions, which can be bought only by large,
sophisticated buyers and aren’t affected by the regulatory
changes,  Paul Jablansky , a senior debt strategist at Stamford,
Connecticut-based RBS Securities, said in a telephone interview.  
 If they do, sales of new debt into the almost $4 trillion
market for bonds backed by U.S. loans and leases can probably
continue for a while at the same or only “slightly higher”
yields over benchmarks, partly because “supply has not been
particularly robust,” he said. Jablansky and Bank of America
analysts, in a report, said a shift away from public deals
registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission isn’t a
“long-term” solution.  
 “Eventually if you drove enough issuance into the 144a
market, the investors who can buy would require wider spreads,”
said Jablansky, whose Royal Bank of Scotland Plc unit was the
second-ranked underwriter of worldwide structured-finance deals
last year, according to the  newsletter  Asset-Backed Alert.
“That’s because they would have the leverage to get them.”  
 The financial legislation, signed today by President  Barack Obama , eliminates credit-rating companies’ shield from lawsuits
when underwriters include their assessments in documents used to
sell debt. The law subjects ratings companies to so-called
expert liability, which means the firms will face the same legal
risks as accountants and other parties that participate in bond
sales.  
 Firms Scrutinized  
 Investors including public pension funds have accused
Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s
of helping to fuel the financial crisis by giving top rankings
to mortgage bonds that plunged in value when the U.S. housing
market collapsed in 2007. Congress scrutinized the firms at
hearings.  
 Moody’s and Fitch have already told Wall Street that
because of an increased risk of being sued, they will no longer
let underwriters use ratings in bond-registration statements.
S&P has signaled a similar stance on the issue.  
 The lack of consent, when combined with an existing SEC
rule that restricts non-144a sales of asset-backed debt without
ratings in offering documents, will put a “flash freeze” on
the market,  Tom Deutsch , executive director of the  American
Securitization Forum , said yesterday.  
 Higher Funding Costs  
 “Many investors cannot participate in the 144a market, so
we do not think that market provides a long-term solution,”
 Chris Flanagan  and  Theresa O’Neill , the New York-based Bank of
America analysts, said yesterday in a report. “A shift to the
144a market has the potential of increasing funding  cost s to
issuers and consequently consumers. Instead of seeing their
funding costs rise, some issuers may reduce origination
volumes.”  
 Deutsch said in an interview yesterday that “a number of
transactions that had been planned for the upcoming weeks have
been shelved indefinitely given this proposal.”  
 The market is indeed being roiled by “confusion among the
issuers and the investment banks,” with even some planned 144a
sales being delayed,  Jeffery Elswick , the director of fixed
income at San Antonio-based Frost Investment Advisors LLC, said
in a telephone interview.  
 Less Disclosure  
 “Still, even over the long term, the market can handle
it” if all transactions are private deals “because even today
the biggest investors are investors such as ourselves” who are
allowed to buy such debt, said Elswick, whose firm oversees
almost $7 billion, mainly in individual client accounts and
mutual funds.  
 Sales of debt through private placements, which are subject
to fewer disclosure rules, were first permitted under the
 Securities Act of 1933 . In 1990, the SEC adopted  Rule 144a  to
make offerings more appealing to qualified institutional buyers,
known as  QIBs , who had more than $100 million in assets, by
eliminating a two-year holding period.  
 Issuance of U.S. asset-backed securities, excluding
mortgage debt, has totaled about $77 billion so far this year,
the same as during the year-ago period, according to industry
newsletter Asset-Backed Alert. About two-thirds of transactions
have been private placements, the opposite of last year, when
two-thirds were public.  
 Similar Pricing  
 In the first week of this month, Bank of America and a
lender majority owned by  Citigroup Inc.  both issued bonds backed
by government-guaranteed student loans, with little discernible
impact on pricing created by their different decisions on the
type of transaction to use, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The top-ranked $1.2 billion, AAA rated class of Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America’s private deal sold at
yields that float 80 basis points, or 0.8 percentage point,
above the three-month London interbank offered rate. Student
Loan Corp. sold $855 million of similar bonds in a public
transaction at a higher spread of 87.5 basis points.  
 Still, deals already in progress may pose problems for the
industry, said  Jason Kravitt , a partner in New York at law firm
Mayer Brown LLP, who works with underwriters and issuers.  
 “If someone has been marketing and they’ve not yet
finished their marketing, they can’t just switch to 144a,” he
said in an interview. They must first go through a “cooling-off
period,” which can take one to six months, he said.  
 Petitioning SEC  
 The SEC could revise the rule that forces sellers of asset-
backed debt, if sales are “conditioned on the assignment of a
rating,” to include credit grades in registration statements
and prospectuses for public transactions. Corporate bonds don’t
have similar rules.  
 The industry has begun “petitioning the SEC,” the Bank of
America analysts wrote.  
 The agency has been “reviewing what, if any, transitional
steps may be appropriate,” said  Meredith Cross , director of the
SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance. “While the number of
registered transactions in this area has not been significant
recently, we recognize the importance fostering a registered
market in these securities.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        