-- Credit Suisse May Post Drop in Second-Quarter Profit on Debt Trading Slump
-- Elena Logutenkova
-- 2010-07-21T07:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/credit-suisse-may-report-drop-in-earnings-on-debt-trading-slump.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s
second-largest bank, may report lower second-quarter earnings
tomorrow, after Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis made clients more
reluctant to trade.  
 Credit Suisse will say net income fell 22 percent from a
year earlier to 1.23 billion Swiss francs ($1.17 billion),
according to the median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The Zurich-based bank’s earnings probably
dropped 40 percent from the  first quarter .  
 Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  is building up the
bank’s debt trading unit to gain market share in a business that
propelled earnings at investment-banking rivals in the first
three months of the year. In the second quarter, swings in bond
and stock markets and doubts about the strength of the U.S.
economic recovery led clients to curb risk-taking, weighing on
earnings at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Citigroup Inc.  
 “The second quarter has been relatively weak for
investment banks and particularly for fixed-income trading,”
said  Florian Esterer , who helps manage about $48 billion at
Swisscanto Asset Management in Zurich. “The question for Credit
Suisse is how sustainable its investment bank proves to be.”  
 Credit Suisse  declined  16 percent in Swiss trading this
year through yesterday, compared with a 6.7 percent drop in UBS
AG, the largest Swiss bank. The 54-company Bloomberg  Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index  shed 7.9 percent in the
period.  
 Falling Revenue  
 New York-based Goldman, Citigroup and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
as well as Bank of America Corp. of Charlotte, North Carolina,
on average reported a 41 percent drop in trading revenue in the
second quarter from the first. The total revenue decline at
their investment banks averaged 31 percent.  
 The analysts surveyed forecast a 23 percent slump in
investment-banking revenue at Credit Suisse from the first
quarter, and a 21 percent drop for Zurich-based UBS.  
 Credit Suisse and UBS reported the lowest trading revenues
among their biggest competitors in the first quarter after
cutting risk-taking. While UBS is still rebuilding its
securities unit after amassing $57.4 billion in writedowns and
losses in the credit crisis, Credit Suisse’s second-quarter
results will be “particularly important,”  Matt Spick , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said in a note.  
 “If Credit Suisse doesn’t demonstrate lower earnings
volatility, we expect the market to be disappointed,” Spick
said. He has a “buy” rating on Credit Suisse and “hold” on
UBS.  
 UBS Client Redemptions  
 UBS may report net income of 1.12 billion francs when it
publishes earnings on July 27, compared with a  loss  of 1.4
billion francs a year earlier, according to analysts. Earnings
may decline 49 percent from the first quarter, the survey found.  
 Europe’s debt crisis may make it more difficult for UBS to
reverse withdrawals by wealthy clients this year,  Juerg Zeltner ,
who heads wealth management at the bank, said in an interview
this month. He declined to comment on second-quarter
developments.  
 Net redemptions from UBS’s wealth management units may have
slowed to 12.1 billion francs from 15.4 billion francs in the
first quarter, according to the survey of analysts. Credit
Suisse may have added 13 billion francs in net new funds at its
private bank in the same period, according to analysts.  
 While UBS has attracted funds from rich customers over the
past couple of quarters, that hasn’t offset money leaving UBS as
a result of pressure on Swiss banking secrecy and departing
client advisers, Zeltner said. He added that the bank is
“relieved” the U.S. cross-border case, in which UBS was
accused of helping clients evade taxes, is drawing to a close.  
 The Swiss parliament last month approved the agreement with
the U.S. to disclose information on as many as 4,450 accounts of
UBS’s American clients suspected of evading taxes. The Swiss tax
authorities have until Aug. 24 to issue decisions on all
accounts.  
 The 18-month deferred prosecution agreement that UBS signed
to avoid criminal charges in the U.S. also runs out in August,
after which the U.S. government may seek dismissal of the case
against the bank.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Credit Suisse CEO Brady Dougan. Photographer: Adrian Moser/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
