-- Daly Takes Cherry Bomb Trousers to Canada After `Extreme' British Open
-- Peter Evans
-- 2010-07-21T23:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/daly-takes-his-cherry-bomb-trousers-to-canada-after-extreme-british-open.html

          
          
             John Daly ’s trousers are brighter
than his golf game at the moment.  
 Daly, who led for parts of the first round of the British
Open last week, is a 150-1 longshot at the RBC Canadian Open,
which starts today. His two victories in majors came more than
10 years ago, the 1991 PGA Championship and the 1995 British
Open, and his last PGA win was in 2004. He’s made $102,385 this
year, after two years of less than $70,000 from the PGA tour.  
 Still, he has fans who follow his progress at most events,
and that was enough for Loudmouth Golf, a San Mateo, California-
based clothing maker that signed the 43-year-old to wear its
products in February 2009. His pants were a major  discussion  at
the British Open again, as was his marketing of the trousers.  
 “The amount of attention we received each day was
incredible,” Alan Wallace, sales director at Loudmouth, said in
an e-mail. “We had a 40 percent increase in sales during the
entire tournament.”  
 The American wore psychedelic purple pants in the opening
round, that the Daily Telegraph described as resembling “a pair
of curtains designed by Jimi Hendrix.”  
 They were followed by a neon pink effort, while the third
round brought a more somber red tiger print. The trousers have
names including Cherry Bomb and Cotton Candy. He wore some
featuring an American flag motif for the final 18 holes.  
 ‘Technicolor Pants’  
 Deadspin, an U.S. website that comments on sports and
media, said the weekend’s winner was “Daly’s Technicolor pants
party explosion, which added some needed zing to an otherwise
boring British Open.”  
 Daly’s sponsorship deal is dependent on sales. The two-time
major winner and his girlfriend were selling trousers in St.
Andrews in the evening of July 15, after Daly had finished the
opening round in third place, according to the U.K.’s Daily
Mail.  
 Wallace declined to release total sales figures for the
British Open or Loudmouth’s annual revenue. Daly, who was 6-
under par after the first round, finished tied for 48th place at
1-over.  Louis Oosthuizen  shot a 16-under 272 to win the
tournament by seven strokes.  
 “It is a trend in golf to wear more fashionable and more
colorful apparel though Daly is a bit extreme, he is known as
the enfant terrible of the scene,” said  Peter Steiner , an
amateur player and analyst at BHF Bank in Frankfurt.  
 Daly has won more than $9 million so far in his career and
is the 7th longest driver on the PGA tour this year. He was
suspended for six months last year, and the career of the crowd-
pleasing golfer includes problems with alcohol, gambling and
violent behavior.  
 Longshot Odds  
 The odds on Daly from U.K. bookmaker William Hill mean a
successful $1 bet will bring in $150 plus the original stake.
That compares with 12-1 odds for favorite  Sean O’Hair  and 16-1
for Englishman  Paul Casey . Sixty golfers have better odds than
Daly.  
 When Daly plays, he is often followed by supporters trying
to match his attire. Watching the “wild thing” in a golf
tournament can be a colorful occasion.  
 “I’m going to wear them to company parties as well as the
golf course. I have no problem with that,” said Jay Swaun, an
accountant from Seattle following Daly in Scotland and sporting
a design of large squares in red, blue, yellow, orange and
green. “Golf can be such a stuffy sport, the trousers are such
a big change.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Evans  in London at 
 pevans15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       John Daly of the USA  
                       
                         
                           Stuart Franklin/Getty Images 
                         
                         John Daly of the USA swings during during the final round of the 139th Open Championship on the Old Course, St Andrews on July 18. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     John Daly of the USA swings during during the final round of the 139th Open Championship on the Old Course, St Andrews on July 18. Photographer: Stuart Franklin/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
