-- Dart Aims to Spend $88 Million on Exploration, Development Through 2011
-- James Paton
-- 2010-07-22T06:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/dart-energy-raises-31-million-in-share-sale-trading-set-to-begin-today.html

          
          
             Dart Energy Ltd., the  Arrow Energy
Ltd.  spinoff whose shares began trading in Sydney today, aims to
spend A$100 million ($88 million) on exploration and development
through 2011 and to expand in Europe and southern Africa.  
 The shares  reached  78 Australian cents by the market’s 4:10
p.m. close, valuing Dart at about A$286 million. The gas
explorer said today it raised an initial A$35 million selling
shares to institutions at 69 cents apiece. Dart may seek a
further A$45 million later this year selling shares, Chief
Executive Officer  Simon Potter  said in a telephone interview.  
 “There was obviously strong support from existing
shareholders of Arrow,” Potter said from Singapore, where Dart
has its headquarters. “A lot of people have made a lot of money
from the success of Arrow and are betting on hopefully the
management team carrying on with that success at Dart.”  
 Arrow agreed in March to sell its Australian business to
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and PetroChina Co. for A$3.5 billion.
Arrow investors also received one share in the newly formed Dart
for every two they held in Arrow. Dart, which holds exploration
assets in China, Indonesia, India and Vietnam and stakes in
Australian-listed companies Bow Energy Ltd., Liquefied Natural
Gas Ltd. and Apollo Gas Ltd., expects first gas sales in 2012.  
 Dart is likely to trade below an estimated value of 90
cents a share in the “near term,” according to  John Hirjee , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank in Melbourne. Its coal-seam gas
holdings offer “significant upside if the commercial viability
of assets can be demonstrated,” he said in a July 21 report.  
 Risk Profile  
 Nik Burns , an analyst at RBS Morgans in Melbourne,
forecasts Dart will climb to A$1 a share in the next 12 months.
Dart will face “headwinds in the short-term,” he said.  
 The company will need to raise additional equity and
“there is likely to be a level of churn in the registry as
existing Arrow shareholders seek to exit Dart because of the
change in the risk profile of the company,” he said by phone on
July 20. “Arrow was certainly a lower-risk proposition for
investors. Dart has minimal reserves and no production.”  
 Dart intends to start exploration drilling on the
Dajing permit in China in October and to grow reserves in that
country “pretty substantially in the near term,” Potter said.  
 New Hope Corp.  and other shareholders in Arrow indicated
they plan to keep their shares in Dart Energy or add to their
holdings, said Potter, who traveled to Asia, Australia, Europe
and the U.S. to pitch the company to investors. New Hope owned
about 17 percent of  Arrow , or 123 million shares, at the end of
January, the Queensland-based shareholder said in March.  
 New Hope  
 “We’ve been there for the journey so far, and all I can say
is that we’re in that space and we’d expect to continue to be in
that space,”  Robert Neale , New Hope’s chief executive officer,
said in a phone interview today. New Hope also owns almost 20
percent of Australian coal-seam gas company  WestSide Corp.   
 Dart’s next capital raising is at least 90 days away, and
any sale of shares in 2011 to fund growth would depend on the
success of the company’s exploration campaign, Potter said today.
Dart Energy has about A$20 million in cash, he said.  
 Europe and southern Africa are areas being evaluated for
potential expansion, he said. “There’s a thriving energy demand
in southern Africa, with a coal-bed methane resource right on
its doorstep,” he said. “The same in Europe, where there is
considerable resource and extensive infrastructure.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        