-- DAX Index Futures May Retreat If `Neckline' Is Broken: Technical Analysis
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-21T12:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/dax-index-futures-may-decline-if-neckline-is-broken-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Futures on Germany’s benchmark  DAX
Index  may sink to a five-month low if the contracts complete a
head-and-shoulders pattern, according to a technical analyst at
ING Groep NV.  
 “We could see further pressure in the very short term,”
Amsterdam-based  Roelof-Jan van den Akker  said in a phone
interview. With the measure making “a lower top and possible
right shoulder in the hourly chart at around 6,060-6,065 today,
prices are likely to fall and plunge below the support at 5,920,
which marks the neckline to this bearish pattern.”  
 A head-and-shoulders pattern occurs when share prices form
three consecutive peaks, with the middle being the highest. The
start of a decline is signaled when prices fall below a support
level in line with the low points between the peaks.  
 DAX futures expiring in September rose 1.3 percent to
6,048.5 as of 2:25 p.m. in Frankfurt. Should the  contract  fall
below the 5,920 support level, it may slide another 350 points,
or the difference between the head of the pattern and its
neckline, Van den Akker said. That would leave the futures at
the lowest level since February.  
 “For the validity of this pattern, a break should be
expected between here and the end of this week and we should see
the 350-point drop in just a couple of days,” Van den Akker
said. “The most likely scenario is still a consolidation in the
5,300-6,300 trading range. There’s no sign for this to change in
the coming months.”  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        