-- Germany's DAX Index Snaps Four-Day Loss as Infineon, ThyssenKrupp Climb
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-07-21T15:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/dax-rebounds-from-four-day-loss-as-infineon-thyssenkrupp-daimer-advance.html

          
          
             German stocks  rebounded from four
days of declines as Infineon Technologies AG rallied on Apple
Inc. earnings and steelmakers followed European basic-resource
producers higher.  
 Infineon, Europe’s  second-biggest maker  of semiconductors,
climbed 1.5 percent as Apple forecast sales that beat analysts’
estimates.  ThyssenKrupp AG  and Salzgitter AG, Germany’s largest
steelmakers, advanced at least 1.5 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG ,
the country’s biggest bank, increased after Morgan Stanley
reported second-quarter profit that topped projections on higher
trading revenue.  
 The  DAX  rose 0.4 percent to 5,990.38, the biggest gain in a
week. The measure has fallen 5.4 percent from this year’s high
on April 26 amid concern the global economic recovery is losing
steam as indebted European governments slash spending and China
takes steps to cool growth. Stocks dropped yesterday after
Hungary raised less than planned in a debt sale and a report
showed U.S. housing starts declined last month. The broader  HDAX
Index  climbed 0.6 percent today.  
 “We are seeing a traditional trading market, in which bad
economic data stand opposite partly convincing corporate
earnings, such as those from Apple,” said  Stefan Risse , a
strategist at CMC Markets in Frankfurt.  
 While second-quarter net income of Standard & Poor’s 500
Index companies have topped analysts’ projections by 12 percent
on average, revenue has exceeded estimates by only 3.5 percent,
according to Bloomberg Data.  
 Infineon, Steelmakers  
 Infineon, which delivers chips for Apple’s iPhone, climbed
1.5 percent to 4.94 euros. Apple’s revenue in the three months
that end in September will be about $18 billion, the company
said yesterday. Analysts had predicted sales of $17 billion. The
company also reported third-quarter revenue and profit that
exceeded estimates.  
 Separately, Infineon is considering forming a cell-phone
chip venture with its South Korean competitor Samsung, Manager-
Magazin reported on its website, without saying where it
obtained the information.  
 ThyssenKrupp climbed 3.1 percent to 22.66 euros, while
Salzgitter advanced 1.5 percent to 49.51 euros. European basic-
resource shares in the Stoxx 600 Index rallied 2.6 percent as
aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc all increased on
the London Metal Exchange.  
 Deutsche Bank gained 0.8 percent to 47.73 euros. Morgan
Stanley reported earnings from continuing operations of 80 cents
a share in the second quarter, including a 20-cent tax benefit.
That compared with the 47-cent average estimate of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Volkswagen, MAN  
 Volkswagen AG  advanced for the first time this week,
gaining 1.7 percent to 75.46 euros. Europe’s largest carmaker
will probably begin building an engine plant in Mexico in
September, to supply its North American assembly lines starting
in 2013, Handelsblatt said, citing  Wolfgang Hatz , Volkswagen’s
head of engine development.  
 MAN SE, Europe’s third-largest, rallied 2.5 percent to
71.52 euros. Italy’s Fiat SpA returned to profit in the second
quarter on higher sales of trucks and agricultural machines and
said it may raise its forecast later this year.  
 Separately, Volkswagen plans to integrate MAN’s Diesel &
Turbo unit and the transmission-making Renk division into a new
industrial unit together with its block heat and power plant
business after acquiring the truckmaker, Manager-Magazin
reported, without citing anyone.  
 Alstria Office REIT AG soared 4.4 percent to 8.87 euros as
the real-estate investment trust was raised to “hold” from
“sell’ at Societe Generale SA.  
 Baader Bank AG fell 2.7 percent to 3.31 euros after saying
second-quarter net income declined to 3.6 million euros ($4.6
million) from 6.9 million euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        