-- Deutsche Bank Fined $7.5 Million forErrors in Subprime Mortgage Products
-- Joshua Gallu
-- 2010-07-21T19:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/deutsche-bank-is-fined-7-5-million-by-finra-over-misleading-subprime-data.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG ’s investment-bank
unit will pay $7.5 million to settle claims that it misled
investors by understating delinquency rates on subprime
mortgage-backed securities it sold in 2006, a U.S. brokerage
regulator said.  
 New York-based Deutsche Bank Securities calculated past-due
rates for six subprime securitizations worth $2.2 billion using
a different method than it described in offering materials, the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said in a statement
today. The case is part of a wider probe of possible
misstatements related to subprime-linked securities,  James Shorris , Finra’s acting chief of enforcement said today in an
interview.  
 Defaults on residential mortgages to people with poor
credit histories helped spur a financial crisis that led to more
than $1.7 trillion in writedowns and losses worldwide. Investors
relied on reported delinquency rates to evaluate the fair market
value and yields of mortgage-backed securities, Finra said.  
 In one case, Deutsche Bank reported 8.75 percent of loans
were 30 to 59 days past due when its described method would have
shown 24 percent of mortgages at that stage of delinquency.  
 “Delinquency rates constitute material information for
investors,” Shorris said in a statement. “Deutsche Bank
Securities’ failure to ensure that the delinquency information
was accurate is an unacceptable failure to meet this important
obligation.”  
 Washington-based Finra has been probing since at least 2007
whether brokers made inaccurate disclosures about securities
backed by subprime mortgages. In the aftermath of the financial
crisis, Finra has investigated the accuracy of marketing
materials for other financial products, including the sale of
auction-rate securities and variable annuities to smaller
investors.  
 Deutsche Bank, which didn’t admit or deny the  allegations ,
also failed to correct errors by a third-party vendor that
underreported historical delinquency rates for 16 subprime
securities it sold in 2007, Finra said. While Deutsche Bank
detected errors and gave the vendor corrected information, it
never ensured that the accurate data appeared on a website for
investors.  
 “We have cooperated with FINRA throughout its
investigation and we are pleased to have resolved this matter,”
Deutsche Bank spokeswoman  Renee Calabro  said today in an
interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        