-- Deutsche Bank Bond Analyst Jha Leaves Firm After Research `Similarities'
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-21T21:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/deutsche-bank-bond-analyst-jha-leaves-firm-after-research-similarities-.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG  research analyst
 Pankaj Jha  has departed from the firm after it told clients that
one of his reports contained “significant similarities” to an
article from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 Jha left his position in New York as a mortgage-bond
analyst this week, according to people familiar with the matter
who declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
discuss it. Jha and  John Gallagher , a spokesman for the
Frankfurt-based bank, declined to comment.  
 While an analyst borrowing from the research of a
competitor isn’t unusual, it’s rare for attention to be drawn to
the issue, said  Linda Lowell , who spent more than 20 years as a
mortgage-bond analyst at firms including Paine Webber, Credit
Suisse First Boston and RBS Greenwich Capital.  
 “I can tell you from personal experience that people copy
other people’s research,” said Lowell, now principal at
OffStreat Research LLC in Ossining, New York. “There’s also a
ton of complaining that, ‘This looks just like what I did last
week.’ If it’s something that can be demonstrated, man, I feel
sorry for the guy. People are under so much pressure to
produce.”  
 Deutsche Bank sent a revised copy of its regular “The
Outlook: In MBS and Securitized Products” report on July 19,
excising an article by Jha, “Aspects of Convexity Hedging in
the Current Environment,” that was included in an original
version dated five days earlier.  
 ‘Significant Similarities’  
 “That article has been removed after finding significant
similarities to an article entitled ‘Convexity Hedging in a Low
Rate Environment’ published by The Royal Bank of Scotland on 30
June 2010 and authored by  Greg Reiter ,  Jeana Curro  and  Sarah Hu ,” the bank said in a note appended to the first page of the
report. “We apologize for the confusion and inconvenience.”  
 Deutsche Bank didn’t state that the similarities were
intentional or the result of wrongdoing.  
 Michael Geller , a spokesman for Royal Bank of Scotland’s
RBS Securities Inc. unit in Stamford, Connecticut, declined to
comment.  
 Jha joined Deutsche Bank in November, after serving for
four months as a “Senior MBS Trader/Analyst” at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, according to his profile on the
LinkedIn website.  
 He previously worked in mortgage research at RBS from 2006
to 2008, and before that Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to the  website .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        