-- Deutsche Bank Bond Analyst Jha Leaves Firm After Research `Similarities'
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-21T22:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/deutsche-bank-bond-analyst-leaves-after-research-containing-similarities-.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG  research analyst
 Pankaj Jha  left the firm after it told clients one of his
reports contained “significant similarities” to an article
from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 Jha departed his position in New York as a mortgage-bond
analyst this week, according to people familiar with the matter
who declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
discuss it. Jha and  John Gallagher , a spokesman for the
Frankfurt-based bank, declined to comment.  
 While an analyst borrowing from the research of a
competitor isn’t unusual, it’s rare for attention to be drawn to
the issue, said  Linda Lowell , who spent more than 20 years as a
mortgage-bond analyst at firms including Paine Webber, Credit
Suisse First Boston and RBS Greenwich Capital.  
 “I can tell you from personal experience that people copy
other people’s research,” said Lowell, now principal at
OffStreat Research LLC in Ossining, New York. “There’s also a
ton of complaining that, ‘This looks just like what I did last
week.’ If it’s something that can be demonstrated, man, I feel
sorry for the guy. People are under so much pressure to
produce.”  
 Deutsche Bank  distributed a revised version of its regular
“The Outlook: In MBS and Securitized Products” report on July
19, excising an article by Jha, “Aspects of Convexity Hedging
in the Current Environment,” that was included in the original
issue dated five days earlier.  
 ‘We Apologize’  
 “That article has been removed after finding significant
similarities to an article entitled ‘Convexity Hedging in a Low
Rate Environment’ published by The Royal Bank of Scotland on 30
June 2010 and authored by  Greg Reiter ,  Jeana Curro  and  Sarah Hu ,” Deutsche Bank said in a note appended to the first page of
the report. “We apologize for the confusion and
inconvenience.”  
 Deutsche Bank didn’t state that the similarities were
intentional or the result of wrongdoing.  
 Michael Geller , a spokesman for Royal Bank of Scotland’s
RBS Securities Inc. unit in Stamford, Connecticut, declined to
comment.  
 Jha joined Deutsche Bank in November, after serving for
four months as a “Senior MBS Trader/Analyst” at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, according to his  profile  on the
LinkedIn website.  
 He previously worked in mortgage research at RBS from 2006
to 2008, and before that Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to the website.  
 ‘Runner-Up’ in Rankings  
 “I am an II ranked analyst with over 10-years of
experience in MBS research and strategy,” he said in the
profile, referring to Institutional Investor magazine survey
rankings.  
 Jha co-led a team at RBS Greenwich Capital, a former name
for RBS Securities, that earned a “runner-up” ranking in the
“MBS/Agency - Structured Products” category in 2007, meaning
below a top-three placing, according to the magazine’s  website .  
 At Deutsche Bank, he wrote about mortgage-backed securities
carrying government-backed guarantees.  
 “The Fed MBS purchase program not only helped in lowering
mortgage rates, but kept them range-bound, which in turn
stabilized mortgage prices, reducing the need to hedge out
volatility and convexity,” Jha’s last report began.  
 The June 30 report by RBS Securities strategists started,
“The Fed MBS buying program not only lowered mortgage rates in
2009 but kept them range-bound, stabilizing mortgage prices and
the need to hedge out volatility and convexity.”  
 His report included five charts that were the same or
almost identical to ones in the RBS article.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        