-- Direct Edge Says IPO Possible as Its Markets Receive Stock Exchange Status
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-07-21T04:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/direct-edge-says-ipo-possible-as-its-markets-receive-stock-exchange-status.html

          
          
             An initial public offering for
Direct Edge Holdings LLC, whose two stock markets became
registered exchanges this week, is a “possibility,” according
to  William O’Brien , its chief executive officer.  
 The venues, known as EDGX and EDGA, began their conversion
to exchanges earlier this month and completed the shift on July
19, giving Direct Edge the same regulatory status as  NYSE
Euronext , Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and Bats Global Markets. Jersey
City, New Jersey-based Direct Edge is majority owned by
International Securities Exchange, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Citadel Investment Group LLC and Knight Capital Group Inc.  
 U.S. securities markets such as the New York Stock Exchange
converted into for-profit companies over the last decade, with
some becoming publicly held, as competition and rules
encouraging electronic trading forced them to improve technology
and lower costs. Both NYSE Euronext, owner of the Big Board, and
 Nasdaq  OMX bought exchanges to boost market share and augment
their offerings. The New York-based companies are now expanding
their derivatives and technology businesses.  
 “We’re building a company that can endure,” O’Brien said.
“An IPO could potentially be an important milestone. We’re
looking very carefully at how the CBOE IPO went, both initially
and in the after-IPO market.” He said Direct Edge has been
profitable since the fourth quarter of 2007 and plans to “grow
the core business and build out adjacent businesses.”  
 Options IPO  
 CBOE Holdings Inc. , operator of the largest options venue
and the last major U.S. securities exchange that was member-
owned, began trading on June 15. The stock closed yesterday at
$26.08, down from the IPO price of $29.  
 The Chicago Board Options Exchange traded 29.3 percent of
the industry’s volume last month and has exclusive licenses to
transact products on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  and Dow
Jones Industrial Average. Options on indexes represented 5.4
percentage points of the exchange’s share of trading in June,
according to data from the Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp.  
 EDGX and EDGA accounted for between 9 percent and 11
percent of equities volume for most of this year, enabling
Direct Edge to compete with Bats Global Markets in Kansas City,
Missouri for the title of third-largest stock market operator,
based on data from  Macquarie Group Ltd . Bats, which converted
its platform into an exchange in 2008, traded 10.8 percent of
equities last month, compared with Direct Edge’s 9.8 percent.  
 Gauging Demand  
 “There isn’t anything about Direct Edge’s model that
meaningfully differentiates it from the other players right
now,” said  Michael Vinciquerra , an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in Atlanta. “It’s difficult to tell how much demand
there would be for shares in the company without it having some
proprietary or exclusive products.”  
 The ISE, owned by Frankfurt-based Eurex, acquired a 31.5
percent stake in Direct Edge in December 2008. New York-based
Goldman Sachs, Jersey City-based Knight and Citadel in Chicago
each own 19.9 percent. An additional 8.8 percent belongs to a
group of five brokers, including New York-based  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  Buying and selling by Direct Edge’s main broker-dealer
owners helped the company grow and now represents less than 20
percent of its order flow, down from 30 percent in 2008, O’Brien
said.  
 Direct Edge was formed in 2005 when  Knight  bought the
trading platform from Domestic Securities Inc. O’Brien, the
former chief operating officer of BRUT LLC, a venue Nasdaq
acquired in 2004, joined the company in July 2007 after three
years at Nasdaq. The company had 19 employees at the time and
now has 84, O’Brien said. Knight spun off Direct Edge in 2007.  
 Market Data  
 Operating exchanges will give Direct Edge revenue from
market data it produces and sells to providers such as  Thomson
Reuters Corp.  and Bloomberg LP, which owns Bloomberg News. In
2008, 11 exchanges received  $464 million  in revenue and paid
$14.9 million in expenses relating to market data, according to
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Direct Edge will also
save money on clearing its trades.  
 As an exchange, Direct Edge controls the quotes it sends
the systems that aggregate the best-priced orders from market
centers. Previously, as an electronic communications network, it
published its best quotes to another exchange or a system
operated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, adding
another hop in the transmission of data and subjecting it to
technology processes over which it had no control.  
 “It’s difficult for the four big venues to differentiate
themselves,” Vinciquerra said. “ Direct Edge  was first with two
venues that offered two different pricing models and others
decided to copy them, but there’s only so much you can do.” As
markets offered customers different pricing to win a bigger
share of trading, competition over fees has grown, he said.  
 Midpoint Match  
 One innovation on Direct Edge’s EDGX platform is its
Midpoint Match product, which the ISE Stock Exchange created to
attract orders larger than the average trades on most equities
venues, O’Brien said.  
 Midpoint Match allows participants to solicit the venue’s
users publicly to trade a stock at the midpoint of the
industry’s best bid and offer price. The ISE Stock Market,
started by the International Securities Exchange in 2006, became
a subsidiary of Direct Edge in December 2008 and ceased trading
on July 16 as part of the deal that gave the options market a
stake in Direct Edge.  
 Midpoint Match traded 34 million shares on July 19,
compared to an average daily volume of about 5 million to 6
million when it operated on the ISE Stock Exchange, O’Brien said.
He said the matching service is available only on EDGX, which
accounts for about 60 percent of Direct Edge’s volume.  
 First Example  
 “It was the first example of deploying a new product on
our exchange platform,” he said. “We’re pleased with the early
results.”  
 Direct Edge is the only one of the largest American markets
still offering flash orders, which the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission proposed banning in September after
criticism from Senator  Charles Schumer  and NYSE Euronext. Those
orders enable investors, whose buy and sell requests can’t be
matched on a particular venue, to seek out liquidity from some
users instead of having their orders sent to another market.  
 The company’s market share for equities trading this month
was 8 percent, down 1.8 percentage points from last month,
according to a  Macquarie  report. Bats, which accounted for 11.2
percent so far this month, surpassed Direct Edge’s volume in May
and June. Direct Edge’s share of trading outpaced Bats in the
second half of last year.  
 The decrease in market share this month is “acceptable,”
O’Brien said. “It’s because of the enormity of the
transition,” he said. “What we did is something no stock
exchange has done before -- completely migrating its technology
to a new platform and moving into a new data center at the same
time.” Direct Edge this month moved its systems to a data
center in Secaucus, New Jersey operated by  Equinix Inc.   
 “We’re excited by our ability, with the new platform and
technology architecture, to deliver new products that are
innovative,” O’Brien said. “That will help Direct Edge stand
out.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Direct Edge CEO William O'Brien. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
