-- Lebanese Military Court Sentences Citizen to Death for Spying for Israel
-- Massoud A. Derhally
-- 2010-07-21T17:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/lebanese-military-court-sentences-citizen-to-death-for-spying-for-israel.html

          
          
             A court in Lebanon sentenced a 58-
year-old Lebanese man to death after he was found guilty of
spying for Israel, the state-run  National News Agency  said.  
 The military court headed by Brigadier General Nizar Khalil
ruled today that Hassan Ahmed al-Hussein gave Israel information
on the location of the leadership of the Shiite Muslim  Hezbollah 
movement, which fought a monthlong war with Israel in 2006, and
sites used by the group, the  agency  said.  
 Hussein was convicted of contacting Israeli intelligence
services in 2008, entering the Jewish state without Lebanon’s
permission and illegal possession of weapons. The ruling is
subject to appeal to Lebanon’s highest court. The death sentence
is the third handed down by a military court for a defendant
found guilty of spying for Israel.  
 Last month,  Lebanon’s army  said its intelligence service
arrested a man who works for one of the country’s two mobile
phone operators and is alleged to have spied for Israel.
Lebanese local media reported two additional arrests.  
 Lebanon, which has no diplomatic relations with the Jewish
state and is technically at war with its neighbor, arrested at
least 35 people, including Hussein, on charges of spying for
Israel last year.  
 Major General  Ashraf Reefi , head of Lebanon’s  Internal
Security Forces , said in a February interview that a man had
confessed to being a Mossad agent. The suspect was arrested as
part of an investigation that led to the detention of 17 people.
The general declined to identify the suspect.  
 Assassination  
 One of those detained on espionage charges last year is
believed to have been involved in the assassination of Ghaleb
Awali, a senior commander of Hezbollah’s military arm who was
killed in a car bombing in 2004, according to Reefi.  
 The suspects in the spying case include a retired Lebanese
general, several security officials and the deputy mayor of a
town in the Bekaa Valley. Lebanese media have reported that
serving army colonels are also implicated.  
 There has been no comment from Israel about the arrests.  
 At least three alleged spies have fled to Israel, Reefi
said in February. In televised news conferences last year,
Lebanese officials displayed what they said was surveillance
equipment used by Israeli agents.  
 Hassan Nasrallah , Hezbollah’s leader, has said the
breaching of the country’s telecommunications infrastructure
represents a grave danger to Lebanon’s national security and
that convicted spies should receive the death penalty.  
 Hezbollah joined Lebanon’s coalition government in
November. Lebanese law prescribes the death penalty or life
imprisonment with hard labor for convicted spies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        