-- Cohu, EBay, F5 Networks, Netflix, Qualcomm, Starbucks: U.S. Equity Preview
-- Stephanie Borise
-- 2010-07-22T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/ebay-f5-netflix-qualcomm-starbucks-u-s-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  
 Cohu Inc.  (COHU US): The maker of testing equipment for
semiconductors reported second-quarter earnings excluding some
items that were more than double the average analyst estimate in
a Bloomberg survey.  
 EBay Inc.  (EBAY US): The owner of e-commerce sites and the
PayPal online payment service reported second-quarter profit
that topped analysts’ estimates. EBay lowered its sales and
profit forecasts as a foreign-currency slump hurts revenue from
overseas.  
 F5 Networks Inc.  (FFIV US): The maker of software to handle
Internet traffic and content forecast fourth-quarter revenue and
earnings per share that exceed analysts’ estimates.  
 Intuitive Surgical Inc.  (ISRG US): The maker of systems
that control surgical instruments during operations said second-
quarter sales outpaced the cost of revenue. Earnings excluding
some items beat the average analyst estimates by 6.4 percent.  
 Netflix Inc.  (NFLX US): The movie rental service provider
reported second-quarter sales that fell short of analysts’
projections.  
 Qualcomm Inc.  (QCOM US): The biggest maker of chips that
run mobile phones forecast sales that beat some analysts’
predictions.  
 Revenue this quarter will be $2.67 billion to $2.93
billion, San Diego-based Qualcomm said in a statement. That
compares with $2.77 billion, the average of analysts’
projections compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Starbucks Corp.  (SBUX US): The world’s largest coffee-shop
chain said third-quarter profit rose 37 percent, in line with
analysts’ estimates when some items are excluded. The company
raised its forecast for the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Borise  in New York at 
 sborise1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        