-- EBay Lowers Forecast as Currency Weighs on Revenue
-- Joseph Galante
-- 2010-07-22T00:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/ebay-lowers-forecast-as-falling-foreign-currencies-cut-into-overseas-sales.html

          
          
             EBay Inc. , the owner of e-commerce
sites and the PayPal payment service, reported second-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates while predicting that a
foreign-currency slump would eat into overseas sales this year.  
 Second-quarter  net income  rose 26 percent to $412.2
million, or 31 cents a share, from $327.3 million, or 25 cents,
the company said today in a statement. Excluding some costs, the
earnings were 40 cents a share. Analysts had estimated 38 cents,
according to a  Bloomberg survey .  
 Even as EBay recovers from a slowdown in e-commerce
spending, the company’s international focus threatens the pace
of its turnaround. The falling euro and other currencies are
diminishing the value of receipts reported in dollars. EBay gets
more of its revenue from overseas than any other large U.S.
Internet company, including Google Inc., Yahoo! Inc. and
Amazon.com Inc.  
 “The currency is a one-time thing affecting most
international businesses,” said  Bill Smead , head of Seattle-
based Smead Capital Management, an EBay investor. “We like this
report.”  
 The currency impact will hurt annual sales by as much as
$250 million, trimming EBay’s forecast for earnings excluding
some costs to $1.60 to $1.65 a share. In April, the company had
predicted earnings of $1.63 to $1.68 this year. Third-quarter
earnings will be 37 cents at most, the company said today,
missing the average estimate of 39 cents.  
 Shares Rise  
 EBay rose 59 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $20.76 in extended
trading after the report. The  shares , down 14 percent this year,
fell 62 cents to $20.17 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading.  
 Second-quarter sales rose 5.6 percent to $2.22 billion, the
San Jose, California-based company said. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had predicted $2.16 billion.  
 Revenue in the third quarter will be $2.13 billion to $2.18
billion, EBay said. Analysts had  anticipated  $2.2 billion.  
 In March, EBay lowered and eliminated some listing fees in
its Marketplaces business to encourage more merchants to use the
service. The company said those changes would boost results in
the second half of the year.  
 ‘Not Great’  
 While confident the changes will help the company in the
long run, Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe  said he wasn’t
satisfied with the progress of the main site in the U.S.  
 “I have high expectations for our company, our employees
and for our customers,” Donahoe said in an interview. “We did
good, not great in our execution in the U.S.”  
 The Marketplaces unit, which includes the main e-commerce
site, ticket reseller StubHub and the classified-advertising
service, accounts for most of EBay’s revenue.  
 “We saw a material headwind for EBay, even aside from the
currency issues,” said  Scot Wingo , CEO of ChannelAdvisor Corp.,
which helps retailers sell online. “We’ve taken a couple steps
forward and then a step back. This is a step-back quarter.”  
 Mobile services have become a source of growth for the
company. Though it trails Amazon.com in overall growth, EBay has
become the top mobile retailer in the U.S., according to BGC
Partners LP. Goods sold through Apple Inc.’s iPad, iPhone and
other mobile devices will more than double to $1.5 billion this
year, EBay has said.  
 The company’s Payments unit, made up of PayPal and
BillMeLater, is growing faster. Agreements with banks in China,
Singapore and Australia have helped drive PayPal’s expansion.  
 In the second quarter, total payment volume rose 28 percent
to $21.4 billion. The business’s revenue climbed 22 percent to
$817 million. That beat some estimates, according to BGC.  
 EBay bears similarities to Yahoo, said  Colin Gillis , an
analyst at BGC in New York. Just as Yahoo is struggling to catch
up with Google, EBay trails the dominant e-commerce company:
 Amazon.com .  
 “PayPal is an overperforming asset, but it’s attached to
the Yahoo of commerce,” said Gillis, who has a “hold” rating on
EBay shares.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        