-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise on Apple Earnings, Rising Commodities Prices
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-21T20:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/emerging-market-stocks-rise-on-apple-earnings-rising-commodities-prices.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks reached their
highest level in a month on higher prices for industrial metals
and better-than-estimated earnings by Apple Inc.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  traded 1 percent higher at
963.09 as of 3:49 p.m. New York time, adding to yesterday’s 0.9
percent advance. Russia’s Micex Index climbed 2 percent for its
steepest gain since July 6 and China’s Shanghai Composite Index
rose 0.3 percent, its third day of advances in its longest
winning streak since April. Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rose
0.1 percent and earlier gained as much as 1.1 percent to the
highest intraday level in a month.  
 Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, rallied for
a third day, gaining 0.6 percent.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-biggest steelmaker, gained 2.7
percent as the company said it plans to raise steel prices after
raw-material costs increased.  
 “There’s better growth out of emerging markets versus
developed markets,” said  Philip Orlando , a New York-based chief
equity market strategist at Federated Investors Inc., which
manages about $350 billion of assets. He spoke in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “The stock market globally is extremely
attractive.”  
 OAO Lukoil , Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, rose 2.9
percent, its biggest gain in six weeks, and OAO  Gazprom , the
world’s largest gas company, was 2 percent higher as oil earlier
rose to its highest level in three weeks in New York before
dropping 1.4 percent after the U.S. government reported an
unexpected increase in supplies and the highest rate of refinery
operation in almost three years.  
 Samsung Electronics Co. , which supplies semiconductors for
Apple, rose 2.4 percent after the U.S. firm beat analysts’
estimates for third-quarter net income and sales.  LG Chem Ltd. ,
the iPhone battery supplier that reported record quarterly
profit yesterday, rallied 4.4 percent.  
 Apple Beats Estimates  
 Apple’s  net income  increased to $3.51 a share, compared
with the $3.11 forecast by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 KGHM Polska Miedz SA , Poland’s sole copper producer,
climbed 5.1 percent, its biggest gain in 10 weeks. Copper
futures for September delivery rose the most in five weeks,
gaining 3 percent after Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., the
world’s biggest publicly traded producer, said the metal’s
outlook is “positive.”  
 New World Resources NV , the largest Czech supplier of coal
to steelmakers, rose 4.8 percent, its biggest jump since May 10,
after saying customers had agreed to an increase of coking coal
and coke prices.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy for global stocks. 
     Orlando, speaking from New York, also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy and stock market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ally Ma, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for Chinese airline stocks. 
     Chinese airlines carried 21.8 million passengers in June, 23.2 percent more than a year earlier, the Civil Aviation Administration of China said on its website yesterday. Ma also discusses China's aerospace industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
