-- EnCana Drops After Falling Short of Profit Estimates, Increasing Spending
-- Irene Shen
-- 2010-07-21T20:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/encana-drops-after-falling-short-of-profit-estimates-increasing-spending.html

          
          
             EnCana Corp. , Canada’s biggest
natural-gas producer, dropped 4.8 percent in Toronto trading
after falling short of analyst earnings estimates and increasing
its capital budget amid below-forecast fuel prices.  
 EnCana  slid C$1.64 to C$32.85 as of the 4 p.m. close of
Toronto Stock Exchange trading. Second-quarter profit excluding
the impact of currency fluctuations on foreign-denominated debt
and a drop in the value of hedging contracts locking in gas
prices was 11 cents a share, half the average  estimate  in a
Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts.  
 EnCana said in a statement that it will increase capital
investment by $500 million to boost output, even as it cut its
estimate for average gas prices this year by 13 percent.
Including the currency and hedging items, the company had a net
loss of $505 million, or 68 cents a share, compared with profit
of $92 million a year earlier.  
 “They lowered their gas-price deck and are spending more
in a bearish market,” said  Kristopher Zack , an analyst at
Raymond James Ltd. in Calgary. The stock-price drop is “an
endorsement of a more bearish view on gas prices.”  
 The results don’t include EnCana’s former oil-production
and refining units, which were spun off as  Cenovus Energy Inc. 
on Nov. 30. EnCana’s stock, which has 10 buy  ratings  from
analysts, 13 holds and 1 sell, had risen 1.1 percent this year
before today.  
 Second-quarter production per share rose 12 percent from a
year earlier, EnCana said. The company boosted its full-year
 output  forecast to the equivalent of 3.365 billion cubic feet of
gas a day.  
 China National Negotiations  
 Chief Executive Officer  Randy Eresman  said in an interview
last month that the company is actively looking for partners to
defray the cost of exploring and developing its holdings in
shale formations in Canada and the U.S.  
 EnCana signed a memorandum of understanding in June with
China National Petroleum Corp., which may lead to a venture with
the company to produce gas from shale in northeastern British
Columbia. Joint-venture negotiations are progressing, EnCana
said today.  
 The company said it has acquired about 250,000 net acres of
land in the Collingwood shale formation in Michigan. It also
said production in the Haynesville shale in the U.S. South will
end the year at about 500 million cubic feet a day. Shale
formations require the use of a high-pressure mix of water, sand
and chemicals to fracture dense rocks and make gas flow.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gene Laverty  in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net ;
 Irene Shen  in Calgary at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        