-- Henderson's Lee Has Analysts' Backing in Face of Lawmakers' Ire
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-07-22T08:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/henderson-billionaire-lee-has-analysts-backing-as-hong-kong-probes-sales.html

          
          
             Henderson Land Development Co. , the
flagship company of Hong Kong’s second-richest man, has lost 20
percent of its market value this year as it became the focus of
government efforts to curb property prices and police raided its
offices. Now some  analysts  say it’s time to buy.  
 “Whatever the outcome, it’ll only be the tip of the
iceberg compared to the sheer size of their business,” said
 Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research director at Cinda
International Holdings Ltd. “It won’t have much impact on the
fundamentals.”  
 Henderson, founded by  Lee Shau-kee  in 1973, said in October
it sold 24 luxury flats for as much as a record HK$88,000 a
square foot. Eight months later, it said 20 of the sales fell
through, sparking a government probe. The company has denied any
wrongdoing.  
 The investigation may have tarnished the public image of
the 82-year-old billionaire, though 17 of 25 analysts who cover
Henderson rate the stock a “buy,” according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. Lee has steered the company to buy land outside of
government auctions, the main source of development plots in
Hong Kong, to build a 40 million-square-foot (3.7 million-
square-meter) landbank in the rural New Territories, the most
among local developers.  
 “This controversy has no doubt dented their reputation and
image,” Pang said.  
 The average 12-month price forecast of 20 analysts who
provided targets is HK$58.24, 25 percent higher than the shares’
closing price yesterday. That’s the most bullish forecast among
the seven developers in the  Hang Seng Property Index .  
 Henderson shares rose 1.3 percent to HK$47.10 at the 4 p.m.
close in Hong Kong today.  
 Conduit Road  
 Henderson said June 15 it will take a charge of HK$734
million ($94 million) against earnings after prospective buyers
canceled purchases of 20 apartments at the 39 Conduit Road
luxury development in the Mid-Levels district. Among those was
an apartment with a price tag of HK$439 million, or a record
HK$88,000 per square foot.  
 The shares have  dropped  1.5 percent since then, while the
property index  rose  5.6 percent in the period.  
 The government said on June 18 that regulatory and law
enforcement authorities would probe the Conduit Road
transactions. Police seized documents from the developer’s
offices July 14, while lawmakers in the city’s parliament met
twice to discuss Henderson. The company declined an invitation
to appear before a July 12 Legislative Council meeting.  
 Home prices in the city have risen 38 percent since January
2009, sparking government policies to stem the climb such as
higher stamp duties and selling more land.  
 Henderson has insisted the transactions were “genuine.”
Lee, whose fortune Forbes magazine estimated at $18.5 billion in
March, last spoke publicly when Henderson announced that the
sales fell through, and declined to comment to Bloomberg News.  
 Shell Companies  
 “The company strongly rejects” allegations that there
have been irregularities in the sale of the apartments, it said
in a statement published in the English-language South China
Morning Post newspaper last week.  
 The sales were to shell companies, which Henderson has said
is a “common practice” in the industry.  
 Given the incentives and the size of the transactions
“there is nothing unusual in the fact that the buyers in
Conduit Road were all companies,” said  David Webb , a Hong Kong-
based shareholder activist who defended the company in regard to
Conduit Road in a July 12 report on his Webb-site.com.  
 The prices reported and recorded with the Land Registry
represented agreements to buy, not completed purchases, he said.  
 Landbank  
 The government probe may lead to “more pressure for
legislation to rein in the developers in Hong Kong where they
are seen often to have way too much power,”  Peter Churchouse ,
chairman of Hong Kong-based property investment firm Portwood
Capital, told Bloomberg Television July 19.  
 Industries such as banking and property currently decide
half of the city  legislature’s  60 seats. The  Election Committee 
that picks the city’s Chief Executive includes the heads of
developers including Lee and the city’s richest man,  Li Ka-shing ,
chairman of  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. , the world’s second-
biggest developer by market value.  
 CLSA Ltd., the regional brokerage unit of Paris-based
Credit Agricole SA, has an “outperform” rating on Henderson
because of the company’s low debt level and rental income, said
 Nicole Wong .  
 “There may have been some issues lately, but given the
strength of the property market and its current price level,
this is the appropriate rating,” said Wong, Hong Kong-based
regional head of property research at CLSA. “Henderson’s
balance sheet and landbank are still sound.”  
 Negotiating Tactics  
 Lee was born in the neighboring Chinese province of
Guangdong and arrived in Hong Kong at 19. He helped co-found  Sun
Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , now the world’s biggest developer by
market value, in 1963. Ten years later, with HK$50 million and
about 50 staff he started Henderson, according to Feng Bangyan,
author of “A Century of Hong Kong Real Estate Development” and
a professor at  Jinan University  in Guangzhou in Guangdong
province.  
 Lee, who still  holds  shares and is a vice-chairman and
independent director of Sun Hung Kai, listed Henderson on the
Hong Kong exchange in 1981. The shares have risen more than 20-
fold since 1986, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The developer’s landmark properties include the
International Financial Center, co-developed with Sun Hung Kai,
and luxury residential projects such as the Grand Promenade in
Sai Wan Ho in the Eastern district of Hong Kong Island and the
Grand Waterfront in East Kowloon.  
 While most rivals bought land through  government auctions ,
Lee sent negotiators to persuade owners of dilapidated buildings
in older residential areas in the New Territories that border
the mainland to sell. Henderson also acquires agricultural land
from the government and owners.  
 Old Buildings  
 “This strategy means they can often add land bank at a
very cheap price without any competition,” said Feng. “It is
Henderson’s killer move and not one that can be easily emulated.
It takes a lot of experience to build up a team like this and
the negotiations are often lengthy.”  
 Taking advantage of rising incomes among the city’s working
class, Lee focused on building apartments of 300 square feet to
500 square feet as he expanded Henderson into a HK$100 billion
company. About 50 percent of the city’s 7 million residents live
in subsidized housing.  
 In 1975, the company led a group comprised of Sun Hung Kai
and Cheung Kong that won the right to develop the first phase of
a 10,600-apartment complex in the Shatin district, the first of
projects Henderson would develop in the New Territories.  
 Henderson’s acquisitions of old buildings “have picked up
significantly,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Theo Cheng  said
in a June 18 report. “Its shares have been held back by bad
press.” They have an “overweight” rating on the stock.  
 Bullish Beliefs  
 Lee is showing no signs of wavering from his bullish view
on property prices, which he has said will be driven by demand
from mainland China. Henderson plans to build 45,000 units
across the city, Lee said June 1 without giving a timeframe.  
 Lee’s youngest son Martin, who is married to a former model
and actress, bid HK$1.82 billion for a site at the Peak, Hong
Kong’s most exclusive residential area, in May to build a family
residence, setting a per-square-foot record for a Hong Kong
public auction.  
 After the sales at 39 Conduit Road were canceled, the elder
Lee said the flats may fetch an even higher price later.  
 “I doubt he’d change his style or the way he does business
because of this” investigation, said Anita Leung, author of
Lee’s 1997 biography and a sequel to be published later this
year. “He has been a property developer his whole life and has
been tested many times in the past.”  
 Lee, who still goes to work every day at his office in the
International Finance Centre, Hong Kong’s second-tallest
building, is known for his frugal lifestyle and his interest in
the Taoist philosophy, which emphasizes compassion, moderation
and humility.  
 Taoism  
 He is an honorary adviser of the Hong Kong Taoist
Association and has made donations to other Taoist organizations
and spoken at their forums. He’s donated millions of dollars to
universities in Hong Kong and mainland China, and various
charity organizations, including 10 million yuan ($1.5 million)
to a Taoist forum in 2007 and 100 million yuan to victims of the
Sichuan earthquake in 2008.  
 It’s unlikely there will be “any real serious” charges
brought against the company, said Portwood’s Churchouse.
“Perhaps the shares have been marked down a little aggressively.
It has a great portfolio of properties, it does great business
in Hong Kong and China.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lee Shau-kee, chairman of Henderson Land Development Co., attends a news conference in Hong Kong. Photographer: Timothy O'Rourke/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The 39 Conduit Road residential building  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The 39 Conduit Road residential building, developed by Henderson Land Development Co., center rear, rises above the surrounding buildings of Hong Kong. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The 39 Conduit Road residential building, developed by Henderson Land Development Co., center rear, rises above the surrounding buildings of Hong Kong. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
