-- Nuclear Levy Will Bring in Less Than Half What Auction Would, Author Says
-- Patrick Donahue
-- 2010-07-21T08:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/merkel-s-nuclear-levy-will-yield-50-of-auction-alternative-author-says.html

          
          
             German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
opted for a levy on nuclear-power plants that will raise less
than half the revenue of an alternative proposal to auction
licenses to the industry, one of the authors of the plan said.  
 Auctioning off licenses allowing nuclear-power plants to
operate for longer could raise 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion)
for every extra year the lifespan is extended,  Manuel Frondel ,
who heads the Environment and Resources Department of the Essen,
Germany-based RWI economic institute, said in an interview. That
compares with a 2.3 billion-euro annual levy on the industry
approved by Merkel’s government regardless of an extension.  
 “We find it more than legitimate that well over half of
the profit gets skimmed off” as part of an auction, Frondel,
one of three co-authors of the auction proposal, said by phone
from Essen yesterday. He compared the plan to the government’s
auctioning of UMTS mobile-phone network licenses 10 years ago, a
three-week process that  generated 50.5 billion euros  in revenue.  
 Merkel’s coalition announced the nuclear tax last month as
part of an 81.6 billion-euro program of budget cuts and revenue-
raising measures to reduce the deficit and shore up the euro.
The chancellor opposes the idea of a license auction because it
would take too long to set up and doesn’t address the central
matter of extending plants’ lifespan, the Sueddeutsche Zeitung
reported on July 14, citing unnamed government officials.  
 ‘Fair Share’  
 Under the auction proposal, the government would sell
nuclear licenses by the terawatt hour, with energy providers
reaping about 6 billion euros in extra profit per year of
extension. In addition to the levy, the government has said it
will take a “fair share” of the extra profit generated from
any extension, though it hasn’t specified how much that might
be. The coalition is set to unveil its detailed energy policy by
the end of September, including its plans for nuclear power.  
 RWE AG , EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG and  Vattenfall
AB  have declined to comment on the auction proposal, citing a
lack of information. E.ON AG spokeswoman  Petra Uhlmann  didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  
 Merkel won re-election in September on a platform that
includes reversing a decision by her predecessor’s government to
shut down all 17 nuclear plants in Germany by about 2022.
Members of Merkel’s Christian Democrats including  Joachim Pfeiffer  favor an extension of 20 years for the life-cycle of
nuclear reactors, yielding an estimated 25 billion euros in
windfall profit.  
 The auction proposal gained currency last week when
Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen suggested the government
would consider it, then stepped back.  
 “It’s not an option for this year,” ministry spokesman
Thomas Hagbeck said yesterday. “Whether such a proposal could
arise at a later point, we’d have to look at that.”  
 Auctioning would be an alternative to the nuclear levy if
energy companies challenge the government tax in court, Frondel
said. It’s also more efficient, with the potential to raise some
40 billion euros in one go for an eight-year extension, he said.  
 While the proposal “isn’t loved right now,” it will come
back into play “later in the summer or in the fall,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        