-- Merkel Defends Debt Focus During Crisis, Says Germany to Emerge Stronger
-- Brian Parkin
-- 2010-07-21T11:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/merkel-defends-debt-focus-during-crisis-says-germany-to-emerge-stronger.html

          
          
             Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said her
insistence on addressing Europe’s debt problems was right and
will enable Germany to emerge stronger from the “turbulent”
months of crisis.  
 Europe’s biggest economy is experiencing a “powerful”
recovery,  with unemployment , which fell in June for a 12th
straight month, witnessing a “minor miracle,” Merkel told
reporters in Berlin today. The need to tackle bloated budget
deficits has meanwhile been accepted worldwide, she said.  
 “For all the many difficult problems, Germany and its way
of grappling with these issues have earned recognition,” Merkel
said. “The state proved itself to be capable of handling the
crisis.”  
 Merkel faced down public resistance in May to push through
22.4 billion euros ($28.7 billion) in loan guarantees for Greece
followed the same month by as much as 148 billion euros for a
broader euro rescue package. Her coalition has paid the price
politically, with support tumbling to historic lows in polls.  
 The chancellor last month unveiled an 81.6 billion-euro
program of budget cuts and revenue-raising measures including a
tax on nuclear power, cuts to welfare and a levy on air travel.
France, Spain and Italy are among euro-region nations also
addressing budget deficits to stem the sovereign-debt crisis
spreading from Greece.  
 Such savings “are sometimes painful,” she said. “But
they’re absolutely necessary.”  
 Chinese Euro Support  
 Merkel, who traveled to China and Russia last week, said
that leaders there backed her stance on reducing budget deficits
to support the euro. The euro, which reached a two-month high of
$1.3029 yesterday, was at $1.2804 as of 1:15 p.m. in Berlin.  
 “When I saw in China recently that the prime minister made
it clear again that they have confidence in the euro, and how
Russia said that, then I think it was right not to help
superficially and hastily, but to go to the true roots of our
weakness,” Merkel said.  
 Domestically, Merkel lost control of the  upper house of
parliament  after an election defeat last month in Germany’s most
populous state blamed on aid for Greece. Bickering between the
coalition parties over policy from tax cuts to solar subsidies
has also helped drive down the government’s popularity.  
 Poll Low  
 Merkel’s Christian Democrats and her Free Democratic Party
coalition partner dropped one percentage point to a combined 34
percent in a weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine released
today. That’s almost 15 points below their tally in September’s
election. It compares with 47 percent for the opposition Social
Democrats and their Green Party allies, up more than 13 points
from the election.  
 Merkel alluded to Germany’s introduction last month of a
ban on some short-selling, which initially alienated her
government and helped drive the euro to a four-year low.  
 There were “concerns that Germany was forging its own
path, that we were concentrating too much on ourselves,” she
said. “The best Europeans aren’t those who jump out and say
‘I’ll help,’ but rather those who focus on bringing Europe onto
the proper path.”  
 Germany will continue to press for a tightening up of the
European Union treaty measures that limit government deficits
and debt in the bloc, Merkel said. That will ensure “Europe
will be in pretty good shape after this crisis,” she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        