-- EU Banks May Disclose Sovereign-Debt Holdings With Stress Tests
-- Jann Bettinga
-- 2010-07-21T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/eu-banks-may-disclose-holdings-of-sovereign-debt-with-stress-test-results.html

          
          
               Europe ’s largest banks may give
breakdowns of their sovereign-debt holdings when they release
stress-test results, according to a document from the  Committee
of European Banking Supervisors .  
 European regulators asked the region’s biggest banks to
publish a list of each lender’s gross and net exposure to
central and local governments in 30 countries in the region,
including  Greece ,  Spain , Ireland, Italy and Portugal, according
to a confidential draft template obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 European Union regulators are examining the strength of 91
banks to determine if they can survive potential losses from
both a recession and a decline in the value of their government-
bond holdings. The tests are being used to reassure investors
about the health of financial institutions from  Germany ’s WestLB
AG and Bayerische Landesbank to Spanish savings banks as the
debt crisis pummels the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal.
Banks and regulators will release results of the tests tomorrow.  
 The “template for disclosure of sovereign exposures,”
prepared by London-based CEBS, “will be used in individual
disclosures by banks and/or supervisory authorities,” according
to the draft.  
 Banks will be asked to provide details of whether they
booked their sovereign-debt holdings in the banking or trading
book, according to the template, which was dated July 15. The
document will show debt holdings for the 27 EU members as well
as Liechtenstein, Norway and Iceland.  
 Defaults Not Included  
 Under accounting rules, banks have to adjust the value of
sovereign bonds held in the trading book according to changes in
market prices, said  Konrad Becker , a financial analyst at Merck
Finck & Co. in Munich. For government debt held in the banking
book, lenders must write down the value only if there is serious
doubt about a state’s ability to repay its debt in full or make
interest payments, he said. Banks currently hold most of their  government bonds  in the banking book, according to Becker.  
 The stress tests won’t include the possibility of sovereign
defaults, Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said last
week.  
 CEBS coordinates national banking authorities and makes
policy recommendations to the European Union on regulation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Jann Bettinga in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jan Kees De Jager, the Netherlands's finance minister  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jan Kees De Jager, the Netherlands's finance minister, arrives for the European Union finance ministers meeting in Luxembourg. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jan Kees De Jager, the Netherlands's finance minister, arrives for the European Union finance ministers meeting in Luxembourg. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Wolf, chief executive officer of Swedbank AB, talks about the outlook for European stress test results on the Baltic region's largest bank tomorrow.
     Speaking with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown," Wolf also comments on the bank's second-quarter earnings and the prospects for declining loan losses. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Westaway, chief European economist at Nomura International, talks about the European bank stress tests. 
     He speaks on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse" with Andrea Catherwood. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ann Cairns, head of European financial industry at restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, talks about the need for contingency plans should any banks fail European stress tests.
     She speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Uwe Parpart, chief economist and strategist for Asia at Cantor Fitzgerald HK Capital Markets, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for the euro-zone economy.
     Parpart, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the stress tests of European banks, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's testimony, and the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
