-- European Stocks Rally on Apple, Fiat Earnings
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-21T16:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/european-stock-index-futures-climb-arm-fiat-ssl-international-may-gain.html

          
          
             European stocks  climbed the most in
a week as companies from Apple Inc. to Fiat SpA and Accor SA
reported better-than-estimated results and Reckitt Benckiser
Group Plc agreed to buy SSL International Plc.  
 ARM Holdings Plc  rallied 2.5 percent after Apple posted a
78 percent surge in third-quarter profit. Fiat rose more than 6
percent after the carmaker’s trading earnings topped analysts’
forecasts. Accor soared 5.6 percent after sales at Europe’s
largest hotel company beat estimates. SSL jumped 33 percent
after Reckitt Benckiser agreed to buy the condom maker for 2.5
billion pounds ($3.83 billion).  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 1.2 percent to 249.24 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the biggest gain since July 13.
The gauge is still down 8.4 percent from this year’s high on
April 15 on concern about the strength of the global economic
recovery as indebted European governments slash spending.  
 “We’ve got a war of attrition going on between the non-
believers who are focused on economic data and others who say if
companies are doing well I want to be a part of it,” said  David Buik , a London-based market strategist at BGC Partners. “We’ve
also had good earnings out of the U.S. Investors are today
deciding it’s better to own it than not.”  
 National benchmarks climbed in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  gained 1.5 percent,
France’s CAC 40 increased 0.8 percent and Germany’s DAX rose 0.4
percent.  
 ARM Advances  
 ARM, the U.K. designer of semiconductors used in Apple’s
iPhone, gained 2.5 percent to 308 pence as the U.S. company
forecast fourth-quarter sales that topped analyst estimates and
posted third-quarter revenue and profit that beat predictions.  
 Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo & Co. also reported earnings
that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Of the 75 companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that have  reported  results since
July 12, all but 12 beat their per-share profit forecasts,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Fiat  rallied 6.7 percent to 9.67 euros after Italy’s
biggest automaker returned to profit in the second quarter on
higher sales of trucks and agricultural machines and said it may
raise its forecast later this year.  
 Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains or
losses, which Fiat calls trading profit, more than doubled to
651 million euros ($840 million), beating the 359 million-euro
average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Net income was
90 million euros, compared with a 168 million-euro loss a year
earlier.  
 Accor, SSL  
 Accor climbed 5.6 percent to 24.49 euros after first-half
sales rose 6 percent to 2.85 billion euros. Excluding the
services unit, which was spun off this month, second-quarter
revenue increased to 1.72 billion euros from 1.57 billion euros
a year earlier, beating the 1.64 billion-euro average  estimate 
from four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 SSL  jumped 33 percent to 1,177 pence after Reckitt
Benckiser offered to buy the maker of Durex condoms and Scholl
shoes for 1,163 pence a share. SSL shareholders will also be
entitled to a proposed final dividend of 8 pence a share.
Reckitt advanced 3.5 percent to 3,300 pence.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. gained 2.5 percent to 1,918.5 pence as
the world’s largest mining company said fourth-quarter iron ore
production rose to 31.2 million metric tons, driven by
expansions at its Australian mines and surging global steel
demand.  
 BP Gains  
 BP Plc climbed 3.2 percent to 399.9 pence after the company
battling a record oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico agreed to sell
assets in North America and Egypt to Apache Corp. for $7 billion
as part of its plan to raise cash to fund liabilities.  
 Separately, the London-based Times reported that  Robert Dudley  is the front-runner to replace Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Hayward , who is set to step down in the next 10 weeks. The
newspaper cited unnamed people close to the company. Hayward has
the full support of the board and will stay in office, a BP
spokesman said.  
 Marine Harvest ASA jumped 10 percent to 4.76 kroner for the
second-best performance in the  Stoxx 600 . The world’s biggest
salmon farmer rallied after declaring a first-half dividend for
the first time.  
 Svenska Cellulosa AB rallied 7.5 percent to 102.4 kronor,
the most in more than a year, after Europe’s largest tissue
maker reported second-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates on lower production costs.  
 Roche Retreats  
 Roche Holding AG  sank 4.2 percent to 137 Swiss francs, the
biggest drop since April 2009, after scientific advisers to the
Food and Drug Administration voted 12-1 to rescind Avastin’s
clearance in breast cancer.  
 The panel found that the drug paired with chemotherapies
didn’t work better than other medicines alone. The agency
usually follows panels’ advice, though it isn’t required to do
so. Roche said it will continue to discuss data with the FDA.  
 Smith & Nephew Plc , Europe’s largest maker of shoulder and
knee implants, dropped 4.5 percent to 560.5 pence after
Citigroup Inc. sold 8 million shares for an institutional
investor. The shares were placed at 559 pence apiece, according
to terms of the deal obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 Ocado Group Plc , the unprofitable U.K. online grocer, sank
7.2 percent to 167 pence on the first day of conditional trading
in London after skepticism over the valuation led the company to
reduce the price for its initial public offering.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs laughs as he talks about the Apple iPhone 4 at a news conference. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy for global stocks. 
     Orlando, speaking from New York, also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy and stock market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Christian Blaabjerg, chief equity strategist at Saxo Bank A/S, talks about the outlook for European bank stress tests and their effect on investor confidence.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee from Copenhagen on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
