-- Euro Passes Stress Test as Debt Panic Ebbs, Bank Exams Loom
-- Simon Kennedy
-- 2010-07-22T14:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/euro-passes-stress-test-with-debt-panic-ebbing-as-bank-exam-results-loom.html

          
          
             Europe may already have passed its
biggest stress test.  
 The euro has rallied 8 percent from a four-year low last
month. Greece, Spain and Portugal have sold 50 billion euros
($64 billion) of debt since May 10, when the need to save the
single currency forced finance ministers to create a nearly $1
trillion rescue fund and European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  to begin buying bonds.  
 “The market seems to be much more convinced following the
bailout that the euro zone is working and the peripheral
countries will be able to finance their debt,” said  Christoph Kind , head of asset allocation at Frankfurt-Trust, which manages
$17 billion. “This goes hand-in-hand with the appreciation of
the euro against the dollar.”  
 The euro and European stocks rallied today after data
showed growth in the euro area’s services and manufacturing
industries accelerated as the debt crisis eased. The next stage
in the EU’s effort to show the euro can withstand the fallout
from the Greek-led turmoil comes tomorrow when officials publish
results of bank stress tests. Regulators are relying on the
exams to reassure investors about the health of financial
institutions from Germany’s WestLB AG to Spanish savings banks.  
 “Sovereign and bank risks had become interwoven in
markets’ eyes, and the stress tests will go some way toward
alleviating fears that weakness in banks is going to undermine
sovereigns,” said  David Page , an economist at Investec
Securities in London.  
 ‘Reality Check’  
 The cost of insuring against losses on bonds issued by
Europe’s banks and insurers fell to the lowest in a week today
on expectation of successful stress tests.  
 The tests are a “crucial reality check,” said  Marco Annunziata , chief economist at UniCredit Group in London. If
they prompt a negative market reaction, the ECB may face greater
demand for liquidity from banks and have to extend the timeframe
it lends unlimited amounts of cash to six or even 12 months,
potentially delaying interest rate increases, he said.  
 The extra cost investors demand to buy  Spanish  and
 Portuguese  bonds instead of comparable German securities
declined after debt sales this week and those spreads have
narrowed 24 percent and 19 percent respectively from euro-era
highs in May. The cost of insuring against sovereign default has
also slid and the Frankfurt-based ECB last week bought the
lowest amount of bonds since its asset-purchase program began.  
 ‘Long Path’  
 “The recent evolutions on the markets show we are in the
process of winning back the confidence that we’ve lost, but the
path will be long,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said yesterday in Paris. “To advance on this path and to avoid
a repeat of this sort of crisis, we cannot sit on our laurels.”  
 Demand for funding from the high-deficit nations will also
ease. Spain is poised to pay off 24.7 billion euros in bonds and
bills in July, the stiffest monthly redemptions remaining this
year, and doesn’t face another bond maturity until July 2011.
Portugal doesn’t have bonds maturing until April and Ireland has
said it is fully funded until the second quarter of 2011.  
 “If we continue to see calmness in Europe between now and
the end of summer, where unrest generally is the most
pronounced, I think we will have a significant rally in the
sovereign credits and in the European markets,”  Laurence D. Fink , chief executive officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s
largest asset manager, said in an interview yesterday with
Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker .  
 German Growth  
 A German-led economic rebound is also easing investor
concern that the euro-area was headed for disaster. Economists
at BNP Paribas SA yesterday revised up their growth estimates to
show Europe’s largest economy expanding 1.5 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. last week reversed an earlier forecast and predicted
the euro will strengthen further against the dollar by January.  
 “We’re convinced the recovery for now is in play,” Page
of Investec said.  
 Investors and policy makers are far from declaring mission
accomplished, even with Trichet warning investors on July 8
against being “excessively pessimistic” about Europe. Budget
cuts intended to tame deficits and calm markets may stall growth
and are stoking public anger. Rising unemployment and austerity
threaten to topple minority governments in Spain and Portugal.  
 “We are not the Titanic, but let’s not fool ourselves into
thinking we are safe just because we have first-class tickets,”
Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said July 20 at the
University of Fribourg, Switzerland.  
 Hungary Austerity  
 Pushback against austerity in Hungary highlights the risks
for euro-region countries. Talks between Hungary’s two-month-old
government of  Viktor Orban , the EU and International Monetary
Fund broke down this week, delaying payments from a 20-billion
euro aid package. Orban sought to widen the country’s  deficit 
targets after five years of belt tightening that led the economy
to contract 6.3 percent last year. The standoff sent the forint
to a 14-month low on July 19.  
 Workers in Spain, Portugal and Greece have taken to the
streets to protest against the budget cuts that include higher
taxes and lower wages for civil servants, typically the core
supporters of the socialist parties that rule all three
countries.  
 Greece, which triggered the crisis with the revelation that
its deficit was more than four times the EU limit, is trying to
trim the shortfall to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product this
year, from 13.6 percent last year. Spain’s shortfall reached
11.2 percent last year with Portugal’s at 9.4 percent. None will
return to the EU’s 3 percent limit before the start of 2013.  
 ‘Not Out of the Woods’  
 Even if Greece achieves its deficit-cutting goals, the
country’s debt is forecast by the government to peak at almost
150 percent of GDP in 2013, a level that may require a
restructuring, says  James Nixon , co-chief European economist at
Societe Generale SA in London.  
 “We’re not out of the woods by any means,” said Nixon, a
former ECB economist. “We’re dealing with a long-running,
multi-year problem. You can have a good year, but you have to
come back and do exactly the same next year and the year
after.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Hertling  in Paris at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank (ECB), gestures while speaking during a news conference at the bank's headquarters in Frankfurt. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer of Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Florida, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about European bank stress tests, and his investment strategy for the region's stocks.
     European stocks climbed for a third day yesterday as unexpected growth in the region’s manufacturing and services industries and rising U.K. retail sales eased concern that the economic recovery may be faltering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Uwe Parpart, chief economist and strategist for Asia at Cantor Fitzgerald HK Capital Markets, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for the euro-zone economy.
     Parpart, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the stress tests of European banks, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's testimony, and the U.S. economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Westaway, chief European economist at Nomura International, talks about the European bank stress tests. 
     He speaks on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse" with Andrea Catherwood. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ann Cairns, head of European financial industry at restructuring firm Alvarez & Marsal LLC, talks about the need for contingency plans should any banks fail European stress tests.
     She speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Dariusz Kowalczyk, Hong Kong-based senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for European bank stress tests and Euro-zone economies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
