-- Mexico Mortgage Agency Seeks $1.5 Billion From China, World Bank, CEO Says
-- Adriana Lopez Caraveo
-- 2010-07-21T19:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/mexico-mortgage-agency-seeks-1-5-billion-from-china-world-bank-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Mexico is seeking a $1 billion loan
from a Chinese development bank and another $500 million from
the World Bank to finance home lending, said the agency in
charge of developing Mexico’s mortgage market.  
 The Chinese loan may be signed as soon as September,  Javier Gavito , chief executive officer of Mexico City-based Sociedad
Hipotecaria Federal, said today in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Mexico City office.  
 “The amount of funds and opportunities for investments are
considerable,” Gavito said.  
 Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, or SHF, obtained a $1 billion
loan from the World Bank in 2008, and is receiving installments
from a $2.5 billion 10-year conditional credit line granted by
the Inter-American Development Bank. The SHF is using the funds
to inject liquidity into Mexico’s mortgage market.  
 “We want another credit line from the World Bank for $500
million,” Gavito said.  
 Banks globally tightened loan conditions after sub-prime
lending dragged some of the biggest financial institutions into
bankruptcy and triggered the worst global recession since World
War II.  
 Increased Funding  
 Mortgage lenders such as Hipotecaria Su Casita SA have
increased their funding from SHF after a drop in the mortgage-
backed securities market when investors around the world shunned
mortgage bonds and related securities amid rising U.S. defaults
on the underlying loans.  
 Mexico had a housing shortage of 8.9 million units at the
end of last year, according an SHF report dated May 26. The
figure is the broadest measure of housing needs and includes
families without a residence as well as those living in homes
that are overcrowded or in ill-repair. SHF forecasts that 1
million mortgage loans will be signed in Mexico this year.  
 Infonavit, Mexico’s state-owned mortgage lender, will sell
6 billion pesos ($466 million) in mortgage bonds in the second
half of the year, Gavito said. Private banks “will sell at
least 3 billion” pesos in mortgage securities this year, he
said.  
 An increase in unemployment caused by last year’s recession
led to a higher delinquency rate at Mexico’s Sofoles,
specialized lenders, which now fund their operations partly
through financing from the SHF. Mexico’s economy shrank by 6.5
percent in 2009, the most since 1932.  
 Delinquency Rate  
 The delinquency rate for Sofoles rose to 8.7 percent in
March from 5.2 percent in the same month last year, the banking
commission said in a statement on May 26.  
 Standard & Poor’s downgraded its credit rating for
Hipotecaria Su Casita SA, Mexico’s largest Sofol, for the third
time this year on July 19. S&P cut Su Casita’s long-term
counterparty credit rating to “CCC” from “B-” on a global
scale and maintained a negative outlook on the lender. Su
Casita’s financial position will “weaken further,” the ratings
agency said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The SHF has asked mortgage lenders to increase their
capitalization in 2011.  
 “If they want ours loans, next year they must follow the
capital requirements similar to the required to banks,” Gavito
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Manuel Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        