-- Facebook, American Express, Glaxo, L'Oreal, Kagan, Black in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-21T10:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/facebook-american-express-glaxo-l-oreal-kagan-black-in-court-news.html

          
          
             A lawyer for Facebook Inc. said she
was “unsure” whether company founder Mark Zuckerberg signed a
contract that purportedly entitles a New York man to 84 percent
of the world’s biggest social-networking service.  
 Paul Ceglia filed a complaint against Facebook and
Zuckerberg in state court in New York’s Allegany County on June
30. Ceglia claims that a contract he and Zuckerberg signed in
April 2003 entitles him to ownership of most of the closely held
company. Ceglia’s lawyer produced the document yesterday at a
hearing in federal court in Buffalo, New York.  
 “Whether he signed this piece of paper, we’re unsure at
this moment,” Facebook lawyer Lisa Simpson told U.S. District
Judge Richard Arcara.  
 Facebook, which has yet to call the alleged contract with
Ceglia a phony, has “serious questions” about its
authenticity, Simpson said. Facebook is worth $24.6 billion,
according to SharePost.com, a marketplace for closely held
firms.  
 “Mr. Zuckerberg did have a contract with Mr. Ceglia,”
Simpson said. Zuckerberg, 26, worked for Ceglia as a computer
coder, she said.  
 Ceglia has asked the federal court to extend a state
judge’s order barring the transfer of ownership interests in the
Palo Alto, California-based company.  
 Facebook said Ceglia remained silent for more than six
years and his claim is probably too old to pursue. Also, Ceglia
claims his alleged contract, which refers to “The Face Book,”
was signed about nine months before the company was founded,
Facebook said.  
 The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 10-CV-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  
 For more, click here.  
 Drill-Ban Foes Challenge U.S. Bid to Dismiss Suit  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other oil-service
companies asked a judge to reject a U.S. request to dismiss
their lawsuit challenging the federal moratorium on deep-water
oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans on June
22 threw out the six-month ban imposed by federal regulators on
oil and gas drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet, finding it
was too broad. A three-judge panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in New Orleans on July 8 refused regulators’ request
to put Feldman’s order on hold while the government appeals.  
 Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar issued a revised ban on
July 12 that may allow new wells if the industry shows it has
strengthened safety standards. The government also asked both
courts to dismiss the Hornbeck lawsuit. The new policy
“repackages the prior moratorium,” lawyers for offshore
service companies said in court filings.  
 The new halt “in all critical respects, is a mirror image
of the moratorium the secretary issued on May 28 and which the
court preliminarily enjoined,” Carl Rosenblum, a lawyer for
companies suing to overturn the ban, said in papers filed
yesterday in New Orleans federal court.  
 President Barack Obama imposed a six-month suspension on
deep-water drilling in reaction to the  BP Plc  oil spill, the
worst in U.S. history, caused by the sinking of the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig off the Louisiana coast in April. Obama
said the moratorium is needed to give a presidential commission
time to study the safety of offshore operations.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar, 2:10-
cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 Toyota Faces Grand Jury Scrutiny on Steering Rod Flaw  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , working to rebound from its worst
recall crisis, said it faces additional scrutiny over potential
defects in vehicle steering rods.  
 The company said in a  filing  yesterday that a federal grand
jury in New York issued it a subpoena to provide documents
related to flaws in steering relay rods. The National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration in May said it opened an
investigation on the matter.  
 “We’ll cooperate with the investigation,” Steve Curtis, a
spokesman for Toyota’s U.S. unit, said in a phone interview.
Toyota isn’t discussing specific models involved at this time,
he said.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, has been under
investigation this year by the Transportation Department and its
NHTSA auto-safety regulator for responses to safety defects in
the company’s cars and trucks. The automaker in April agreed to
pay a record $16.4 million fine over a delayed defect
notification for accelerator pedals that can stick.  
 The office of the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan won’t confirm
or deny whether there is an investigation of the steering rods,
spokeswoman Yusill Scribner said yesterday, citing agency
policy. Toyota first learned of the subpoena on June 29, the
company said yesterday in the filing.  
 “We all know the government has been investigating this,”
John Kristensen, a lawyer suing Toyota, said yesterday.
Kristensen, of O’Reilly Collins in San Mateo, California,
represents the family of Michael Levi Stewart, 18, who died when
his 1991 Toyota pickup truck rolled over into a ditch in Idaho
on Sept. 15, 2007.  
 The lawsuit filed on behalf of Stewart’s family claims a
defective steering relay rod led to the fatal accident. A trial
in that case is scheduled to begin in November in state court in
Los Angeles.  
 For more, click here.  
 American Express Wins Dismissal of Investors’ Fraud Suit  
 American Express Co.  won dismissal of a proposed class-
action shareholder lawsuit claiming the company misled investors
about its underwriting guidelines and delinquent-cardholder
payments.  
 U.S. District Judge William Pauley in New York on July 19
granted American Express’s request to throw out the 2009 suit.
The suing investors failed to establish that defendants
including Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault and Chief
Financial Officer Daniel T. Henry knew of any fraud or acted
with reckless disregard, Pauley said.  
 “The complaint’s allegations, taken collectively, reveal a
company attempting to increase its share of the credit card
market during significant financial turmoil,” Pauley said,
calling the case “a classic example of fraud by hindsight.”  
 The plaintiffs alleged that American Express officials
touted the New York-based company’s credit-risk management and
later made misleading statements about its underwriting
guidelines, the credit quality of its portfolio and the level of
loss reserves.  
 “AMEX pursued its expansionary strategy at the wrong
time,” Pauley said. “That a business plan turned out to be
ill-timed and, in hindsight, ill-advised, does not transmogrify
it into a securities fraud.”  
 “We’re delighted with the ruling,” said Joanna Lambert, a
spokeswoman for American Express.  
 Beth Kaswan, a lawyer for the plaintiffs declined to
comment.  
 The case is Local No. 30 International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers Pension Fund v. American Express, 09-CV-3016,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Stanford Officers Seek to Not Testify in Lloyd’s Case  
 Former Stanford Financial Group executives shouldn’t be
forced to testify at an insurance-coverage trial about their
roles in an alleged $7 billion fraud run by R. Allen Stanford
before a criminal trial can be held, their lawyer said in a
court filing.  
 Former Chief Investment Officer Laura Pendergest-Holt and
two former top accounting officers at Stanford’s financial
services firm said in a court filing yesterday that Lloyd’s of
London is trying to “place the civil cart before the criminal
horse” in their lawsuit against the underwriters.  
 The executives sued Lloyd’s for denying them access to
legal defense funds under Stanford’s $100 million directors and
officers liability policies.  
 The attempt by Lloyd’s to force the executives to testify
and provide written answers to justify their activities forces
them into “a constitutional Hobson’s choice” over their right
against self-incrimination, said their lawyer, Lee Shidlofsky,
in the filing in federal court in Houston.  
 Stanford, Pendergest-Holt, former Chief Accounting Officer
Gilbert Lopez and former global controller Mark Kuhrt were
indicted in June 2009 on charges they swindled investors through
a scheme built on allegedly bogus certificates of deposit issued
by Antigua-based Stanford International Bank.  
 The executives have denied any wrongdoing. A separate trial
of Stanford is scheduled for January. The other three executives
will face a jury after Stanford’s trial.  
 All four defendants sued Lloyd’s in November, after the
underwriters denied their claims because former Chief Financial
Officer James M. Davis pleaded guilty and Stanford’s court-
appointed receiver released a forensic accounting report. The
insurance-coverage case is set for trial in August before U.S.
District Judge Nancy Atlas in Houston.  
 Akin Gump attorney Neel Lane, who represents Lloyd’s of
London, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment
yesterday on the filing.  
 The case is Pendergest-Holt v. Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd’s of London, 4:09-cv-03712, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  
 The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  
 For more, click here.  
 Mustier Insider-Trading Probe Is Dropped by Paris Prosecutors  
 The Paris prosecutor dropped an investigation into alleged
criminal insider trading by former  Societe Generale SA 
investment bank chief Jean-Pierre Mustier a month after the
French market regulator fined him for the same.  
 “The prosecution classified it for no follow-up,” said
Dominique Borron, a spokesman for the prosecutor, by telephone
yesterday. He declined to provide a reason for ending the probe.  
 The Autorite des Marches Financiers fined Mustier 100,000
euros ($130,000) on June 30 for his Aug. 21, 2007, sale of 6,000
shares in Societe Generale. He liquidated most of his equity
portfolio at the same time.  
 Mustier is appealing the AMF decision. Calls to his lawyer,
Jean Veil, for comment were not immediately returned.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Glaxo Said to Have Paid $1 Billion Over Paxil Suits  
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  has agreed to pay more than $1 billion
to resolve more than 800 cases alleging its Paxil antidepressant
caused birth defects in some users’ children, according to
people familiar with the settlements.  
 The accords, which provide an average payout of more than
$1.2 million to families of affected children, leave more than
100 birth-defect cases still pending, the people said. Officials
of Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, said July 19 they set
aside $2.4 billion to resolve litigation over Paxil and its
Avandia diabetes drug.  
 The birth-defect settlements bring to more than $2 billion
the amount Glaxo has agreed to pay to resolve a variety of
Paxil-related suits, including claims it caused suicides or
attempted suicides and addiction problems, the people said.  
 Glaxo officials confirmed July 19 they agreed to settle
some Paxil birth-defect cases filed against the drugmaker. They
refused to comment on the terms of the settlements.  
 “The company has agreed to these settlements, despite its
litigation defenses, in order to avoid the costs, burdens and
uncertainties of ongoing litigation,” Sarah Alspach, a Glaxo
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “GSK believes it acted properly and responsibly in
conducting its clinical trial program, in marketing the
medicine, in monitoring its safety once it was approved for use
and in updating pregnancy information in the medicine’s label as
new information became available,” Alspach added.  
 Alspach refused yesterday to specify how much of the $2.4
billion charge is devoted to resolving Paxil litigation and how
much has been set aside to deal with Avandia lawsuits. She also
declined to say how much of the reserve will be used to pay the
company’s legal fees for both cases.  
 The company has agreed to pay more than $500 million so far
to settle suits alleging Avandia posed an increase risk of heart
attacks and strokes in diabetics, people familiar with those
accords said earlier this month.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Prosecutors Probe L’Oreal Contract for Bettencourt Friend  
 Paris prosecutors are investigating a complaint by a
 L’Oreal SA  investor over an artistic consulting contract the
company has with a friend of Liliane Bettencourt, daughter of
the company’s founder and its largest shareholder.  
 The complaint was filed July 5 by a retiree and alleges the
10-year contract, which pays photographer and writer Francois-
Marie Banier 405,000 euros ($523,000) a year, was a misuse of
company funds, the investor’s lawyer said yesterday.  
 Dominique Borron, a spokesman for the prosecutors, said
yesterday the preliminary investigation, which seeks to
determine if there are grounds for a criminal probe, was opened
last week.  
 Bettencourt’s daughter has pursued a private prosecution
against Banier in nearby Nanterre, claiming he manipulated her
87-year-old mother into giving him about 1 billion euros in
gifts ranging from artwork to real estate. The trial was
postponed indefinitely earlier this month, when the judge
decided to investigate new evidence from secret recordings made
by a former butler.  
 “Did he really give artistic advice on things like the
color of perfume bottles?” Frederik-Karol Canoy, the investor’s
lawyer, questioned in a telephone interview yesterday. He didn’t
name his client.  
 The complaint wasn’t filed against a specific person,
leaving it up to investigators to determine whom to target.  
 L’Oreal is aware of the complaint and can’t comment further
because its content is unknown, spokeswoman Guylaine Mercier
said. She confirmed the company has a 10-year contract with
Banier that lasts through 2011.  
 A call to Banier’s lawyer wasn’t returned.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Rosneft Chief to Testify in Khodorkovsky Trial, Interfax Says  
 OAO Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Sergei Bogdanchikov
will testify this week in the second trial of former Yukos Oil
Co. billionaire Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Interfax reported, citing
defense lawyers.  
 State-run Rosneft’s press service declined to comment
immediately. Rosneft became Russia’s largest oil company after
acquiring Yukos’s biggest assets in government auctions to
recover more than $30 billion in back taxes.  
 Khodorkovsky is serving an eight-year prison term for fraud
and tax evasion and is now being tried on similar charges in a
Moscow court. He has repeatedly denied wrongdoing, calling the
case against him political retribution for his opposition to
then-President Vladimir Putin.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Supreme Court Nominee Kagan Is Cleared by Senate Committee  
 The  Senate Judiciary Committee  approved the nomination of
Elena Kagan to the U.S. Supreme Court, clearing the way for
President Barack Obama’s second pick for the high court to be
confirmed by early August.  
 The panel voted 13-6 yesterday, with Senator Lindsey Graham
of South Carolina the only Republican on the panel to support
her. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, plans
a vote by the full Senate during the week of Aug. 2.  
 Democratic control of the Senate all but ensures Kagan will
become the 112th justice in U.S. history and the third woman on
the current court.  
 She would replace Justice John Paul Stevens and likely
align as he did with the court’s more liberal members, leaving
intact the court’s 5-4 conservative majority on such issues as
abortion, gun rights and campaign finance.  
 For more, click here.  
 On the Docket  
 Conrad Black Bail Hearing Set for Today by Trial Judge  
 Conrad Black, the former Hollinger International Inc.
chairman serving a 6 1/2 year federal prison sentence for fraud,
may be free on bail as soon as today.  
 U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve in Chicago, who presided
over the four-month 2007 jury trial that ended with the
convictions of Black, 65, and three other men, scheduled a
hearing, according to a court docket entry yesterday.  
 A federal appeals court granted Black’s petition for bail
July 19, leaving the terms to St. Eve. The Chicago-based court’s
ruling followed a U.S. Supreme Court decision last month
narrowing the scope of a law relied upon by prosecutors in their
case against him.  
 While Black headed Hollinger, it was the world’s third-
largest publisher of English language newspapers. The Chicago-
based company is now known as the  Sun-Times Media Group Inc.   
 Black and his fellow executives were convicted of stealing
$6.1 million from the company as they engineered its sale of $3
billion in assets from 1998 to 2001.  
 Since March, 2008, the Canadian-born Black has been in the
low-security U.S. prison in Coleman, Florida.  
 The trial court case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-727, in the
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The appellate case is
U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, U.S. 7th Circuit Court of Appeals
(Chicago).  
 For more, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Veritas’s McKeon Can’t Be Represented by Schulte Roth  
 Robert B. McKeon, founder of the private-equity firm
 Veritas Capital Management LLC , can’t be represented by the law
firm  Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP  in litigation with an ex-employee,
a New York appeals court ruled.  
 The court yesterday upheld a lower-court ruling that
Schulte Roth and partner Benjamin M. Polk were barred from
representing McKeon in the suit because McKeon’s “interests are
adverse to other members” of the Veritas entities, including
the plaintiff, Thomas Campbell.  
 In dueling litigation, Campbell accuses McKeon and the
Veritas entities of pushing him out of an investment in DynCorp
International Inc., and Veritas accuses Campbell of violating
his employment terms by entering deals with  Omnicom Group Inc. 
to help the advertising company hide losses. Both cases have
been on hiatus until the legal-representation question was
decided.  
 McKeon had sought to overturn the lower court’s ruling on
representation while Campbell asked the appellate division of
New York Supreme Court to reverse a determination that the law
firm can represent McKeon’s entities. The appeals panel upheld
both decisions.  
 Ronald E. Richman, a lawyer for Veritas and McKeon at New
York-based Schulte Roth, said he couldn’t comment on the ruling.
Edward M. Spiro, a lawyer for Campbell at Morvillo, Abramowitz,
Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer PC, didn’t return a call for
comment.  
 The cases are Campbell v. McKeon, 600673/2008, and Veritas
Capital Management LLC v. Campbell, 650058/2008, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Fortress Credit Sues Ruskin Moscou Law Firm Over Dreier Fraud  
 Fortress Credit Corp. sued law firm  Ruskin Moscou
Faltischek PC  for issuing what it called “utterly false” legal
opinion letters that Marc S. Dreier used to defraud the
investment manager.  
 Fortress loaned more than $50 million in 2006 and 2007 to
companies it believed to be controlled by a New York real-estate
developer that Ruskin Moscou purported to represent, according
to the lawsuit filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan.  
 Dreier misappropriated the proceeds, Fortress said. Dreier
is serving a 20-year sentence in federal prison in Minnesota
after admitting he sold at least $400 million in phony notes to
hedge funds to finance a lavish lifestyle and prop up his now-
defunct 250-lawyer New York firm, Dreier LLP.  
 “Ruskin Moscou simply acted as an ‘opinion mill’ for
Dreier, providing him with on-demand legal opinion letters that
helped propel and perpetuate his Ponzi scheme,” Fortress said
in the complaint.  
 “We believe the suit is baseless and look forward to
complete vindication through the judicial process,” Barbara
Cerrone, a spokeswoman for Uniondale, New York-based Ruskin
Moscou, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The case is Fortress Credit Corp v. Ruskin Moscou,
651023/2010, New York Supreme Court (Manhattan).  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        