-- Fannie Subpoenas to Show $30B Bad Mortgages, Rosner Says
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-21T14:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/fannie-freddie-subpoenas-reveal-30-billion-of-bad-mortgages-rosner-says.html

          
          
             Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ’s
regulator may identify as much as $30 billion of debt included
in mortgage bonds that the companies can force sellers to
repurchase, according to  Joshua Rosner , an analyst who in 2007
predicted the collapse in the market for the securities.  
 The Federal Housing Finance Agency this month  said  it
issued 64 subpoenas seeking loan files and other documents
related to so-called non-agency mortgage securities bought by
the two government-supported companies. The U.S. is trying to
determine whether misrepresentations might require issuers to
repurchase debt, producing funds from firms that may include
Wall Street’s largest banks to help repay taxpayer money.  
 Rosner’s estimate of the amount of bad  loans  the FHFA might
find doesn’t equal how much Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may
recover because banks can argue some misstatements weren’t
“material,” the New York-based analyst at independent research
firm  Graham Fisher  & Co. said in a telephone interview. At the
same time, the move bolsters other investors’ efforts, he said.  
 “The most important thing is probably that the subpoenaed
documents will support other private actions and other
government-agency actions,” said Rosner, co-author of a May
2007 paper that said the failure of mortgage bonds would roil
housing and financial markets. “It will cause a lot of
unhappiness on Wall Street.”  
 Corinne Russell , an FHFA spokeswoman, declined to comment.  
 Fannie Mae, based in Washington, and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac have already been forcing repurchases of loans they
insure or hold directly at a pace drawing industry complaints.
In the first quarter, the companies required lenders to buy back
$3.1 billion, up 63 percent from a year earlier.  
 Boosting Reserves  
 In 2006 and 2007, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bought $227
billion of bonds backed by subprime or Alt-A mortgages,
according to a  report  to Congress by their regulator. Those
years produced the worst-performing non-agency securities, which
lack guarantees from the companies or federal agency Ginnie Mae.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup
Inc. were among banks that reported adding to reserves for their
representations on sold or insured mortgages as they announced
quarterly results this month. JPMorgan Chief Financial Officer
 Michael J. Cavanagh  said July 15 on a conference call that his
New York-based bank had received an FHFA subpoena, probably
along with “all the major broker-dealers.”  
 Alex Samuelson , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
and  Rick Simon , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America, declined to comment.  
 Litigation Over Disclosures  
 The FHFA, which is tasked with limiting  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac’s losses after placing them into conservatorships in
2008, also oversees the Federal Home Loan Banks, the 12
government-charted cooperatives owned by U.S. financial firms.  
 At least three of the FHLBs have filed lawsuits against
Wall Street firms for mortgage-bond disclosures, with the San
Francisco FHLB in March suing nine dealers over $19.1 billion in
securities. Similar lawsuits by other investors have been
dismissed by judges before reaching discovery because
bondholders failed to offer enough evidence of inaccurate
information.  
 Mortgage servicers have hindered investors’ efforts to get
debt repurchased by denying them access to loan files, citing a
right to do so if they don’t own at least 25 percent of the
deals, said  Bill Frey , head of Greenwich, Connecticut-based
securities firm Greenwich Financial Services LLC.  
 “The subpoenas will hopefully stop the silliness,” Frey,
who sued Bank of America’s Countrywide unit in 2008 over its
servicing practices, said in a telephone interview.  
 ‘Fraud Involved’  
 Almost 38 percent of  subprime mortgages  contained in non-
agency bonds are at least 60 days late, in foreclosure or
already have been turned into seized property, according to
Bloomberg data, which doesn’t cover liquidated debt. For loans
deemed  Alt-A  because they fell between prime and subprime in
terms of expected defaults, the figure totals almost 29 percent.  
 “With what’s happened in the mortgage sector, we realize
there was a great deal of fraud involved,”  William Sidford , a
senior vice president at AllianceBernstein LP, which manages
almost $200 billion in fixed-income assets, said July 15 at the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association conference
in New York. “That being said, investors aren’t in a position
to enforce the claims on those reps and warranties, rather we’re
relying on the trustees and servicers to take action for us.”  
 Those parties are often affiliates of the companies that
would be forced to buy back bad loans, a conflict of interest
that limits their actions,  Laurie Goodman , an analyst at Amherst
Securities Group, said at the conference.  
 “I’ve had situations where a flagrant fraud is flat-out
ignored,” Frey said. “A couple of years from now, these
subpoenas will be seen as the first concrete step toward the
recreation of the U.S. mortgage market.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        