-- Fiat Turns to $116 Million Second-Quarter Profit on Truck, Tractor Demand
-- Sara Gay Forden
-- 2010-07-21T16:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/fiat-turns-to-116-million-second-quarter-profit-on-truck-tractor-demand.html

          
          
             Fiat SpA , the carmaker that acquired
20 percent of Chrysler Group LLC last year, reported its first
profit in three quarters on increased sales of Iveco trucks and
New Holland tractors.  
 The stock  rose  the most in 10 weeks in Milan. Second-
quarter  net income  was 90 million euros ($116 million), compared
with a 168 million-euro loss a year earlier, Fiat said today.
Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains or losses
more than doubled to 651 million euros, beating the 359 million-
euro average estimate of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Fiat said today it may raise its full-year forecast as a
recovery in demand for the Turin-based company’s trucks and
agricultural equipment made up for a slump in European car sales
following the end of “cash-for-clunker” government incentives.
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , 58, is holding back
on new models this year as the auto industry emerges from its
worst crisis in decades.  
 “These are very good numbers,” said  Philippe Houchois , an
analyst at UBS AG in London who has a “neutral” rating on the
shares. “The beat probably comes from the light commercial
vehicles, for example the Fiat Ducato, which can be very
profitable.”  
 Fiat confirmed today its forecast for full-year revenue of
more than 50 billion euros and a trading profit of 1.1 billion
euros to 1.2 billion euros.  
 Forecasts  
 Fiat may “significantly” raise its targets when the
Italian company presents third-quarter results, Marchionne said
today on a conference call with analysts.  
 The shares jumped 6.7 percent, the steepest gain since May
10, to close at 9.67 euros. Before today, the stock had lost 12
percent this year, the worst performance in the Bloomberg EMEA
Auto Manufacturers Index.  
 Fiat’s board approved the spinoff of the truckmaking and
agricultural units before the end of the year, the manufacturer
said today.  CNH Global NV , Iveco and the some industrial and
marine units will become part of the newly created Fiat
Industrial SpA.  
 Shareholders will get one share in the new unit, which will
be listed on the Milan stock exchange before the end of the
year, for every Fiat share they own. The deal allows Marchionne
to focus on the auto business as there are limited synergies
between the two divisions, said  Daniel Schwarz , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  
 Financing Package  
 CNH reported today that its second-quarter operating profit
more than doubled to $330 million and said the Amsterdam-based
unit may raise its full-year forecast later this year.  
 Eight Italian and international banks have offered a
4 billion-euro financing package to help replace inter-company
loans and provide working capital, Fiat said. The debt will be
split about 50-50 between the two companies, Marchionne said.  
 The automotive unit will have about 10 billion euros in
cash while the industrial unit will have about 3 billion euros,
due to higher capital needs in the auto business, the CEO said.
Net industrial  debt  fell by about 1 billion euros to 3.7 billion
euros during the quarter, Fiat said.  
 Moody’s Investors Service placed Fiat’s Ba1 ratings under
review for possible downgrade, citing “the approval of the
spinoff plan and its possible impact on the remaining Fiat
operations focusing on the car business and related components
businesses.” Moody’s said it aims to complete the review
process in three months.  
 Sales Increases  
 Second-quarter  revenue  rose 13 percent to 14.8 billion
euros, beating the average estimate of 13.3 billion euros by
analysts. Trucks sales rose 18 percent, while revenue from
construction and agricultural equipment climbed 16 percent. Auto
sales rose 6.7 percent.  
 Deliveries of passenger cars fell 12 percent to 455,100 in
the quarter, led by a slump in demand in Germany and Italy.
Light commercial vehicle sales rose 30 percent to 99,200, helped
by the Doblo and the Fiorino.  
 “This is the moment of truth: can you sell fewer cars and
make more money?” said  Jose Asumendi , an analyst at RBS in
London with a “buy” rating on the shares. “Marchionne made it
clear he was going to be disciplined about costs and offering
incentives.”  
 Fiat said it expects improvement in all of its operations
in the second half except the auto business, as demand is still
hurt by the discontinuation of government incentives.  
 Flagging Europe  
 European auto sales fell for a third consecutive month in
June, led by Fiat, Ford Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. Fiat
recorded the biggest decline among the major manufacturers, with
sales falling 20 percent, according to the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association.  
 Volkswagen AG ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Daimler AG’s
Mercedes-Benz have boosted sales this year on surging demand in
China, the world’s largest auto market. A rebound in demand for
premium models has benefitted the luxury carmakers and largely
bypassed Fiat, whose best-selling cars are lower-priced compact
models such as the Punto and the Panda.  
 Fiat, which  employs  more than 190,000 people, is Italy’s
biggest manufacturer. As Europe’s fourth-largest economy shrank
5.3 percent last year, Fiat is increasingly relying on emerging
markets such as Brazil to increase sales.  
 Fiat’s share of the Italian market shrank to 30 percent,
down 4.1 percentage points, in the second quarter as the lack of
eco-incentives hurt sales of Puntos and Pandas.  
 Marchionne said he has shifted some investment to a plant
in Serbia due to the difficulty of reaching agreements with
Italian labor unions over boosting production. He called for
“quick resolution” of labor accords, particularly for Fiat’s
plan to produce the Panda model at a plant in Pomigliano, Italy.  
 Cleaner Engines  
 Fiat is equipping more of its cars with reduced-emission
Multi-Air engines this year, rolling out a 500-model subcompact
with a new 2-cylinder engine and beginning sales of the
Giulietta hatchback under the Alfa Romeo brand.  
 Cooperation with Auburn Hills, Michigan-based  Chrysler  is
slated to include both companies’ use of the Giulietta compact
platform as the basis for new models. Chrysler will provide its
Italian partner with a sport-utility vehicle this year as well
as five more vehicles for Fiat or its Lancia division in 2011,
according to April presentations on Fiat’s website.  
 Chrysler, which will report earnings in early August, had
an operating profit in the second quarter, Marchionne said.
Chrysler’s U.S. sales of new cars and trucks rose 25 percent to
293,004 in the second quarter from 234,215 in the first quarter.  
 Second-quarter earnings were helped by a stronger U.S.
dollar and Brazilian real against the euro, which translate into
higher sales when converted back into the local currency.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sara Gay Forden  in Milan at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne is holding back on new models this year as the auto industry emerges from its worst crisis in decades. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Vincent Boland of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team discusses Fiat SpA's second-quarter profit reported today and business outlook.
     The carmaker that acquired 20 percent of Chrysler Group LLC last year said net income was 90 million euros ($116 million), marking its first profit in three quarters. Boland talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
