-- Fidelity National Profit Rises on Gain From Stake Sale, Mortgage-Rate Drop
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-07-21T21:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/fidelity-national-profit-rises-on-gain-from-stake-sale-mortgage-rate-drop.html

          
          
             Fidelity National Financial Inc., 
the largest U.S. title insurer by market share, had a fifth
straight quarterly profit as it posted a gain on an asset sale
and mortgage rates improved.  
 Net income  climbed to $139.6 million, or 61 cents a share,
in the three months ended June 30, from $91.9 million, or 40
cents, a year earlier, the Jacksonville, Florida-based insurer
said today in a  statement  distributed by PR Newswire.  
 Fidelity sold a 32 percent stake in Sedgwick Claims
Management Services Inc. in May. The sale led to a $98 million
gain, Fidelity said. The transaction may have boosted earnings
by 30 cents a share, said  Mark Dwelle , an analyst with RBC
Capital Markets.  
 “The revenues were pretty in line with what we expected,”
Dwelle said in a phone interview. “It was a good quarter but it
wasn’t a great quarter.” Fidelity reported second-quarter
revenue of $1.5 billion, down from $1.56 billion a year earlier.  
 Fidelity  fell 25 cents to $13.54 as of 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, and has advanced less than 1
percent this year. The 24-company  KBW Insurance Index , which
includes Fidelity, has risen more than 4 percent this year.  
 The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage fell to 4.05
percent this month from 4.12 percent a year ago, and the rate on
a one-year adjustable mortgage declined to 7.17 percent from
7.20 percent.  
 Book Value  
 Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, was
$14.93 a share on June 30, compared with $14.46 on March 31.
Revenue from title premiums fell to $897 million from 1.04
billion a year earlier.  
 “Lower mortgage rates and increased order activity will
provide momentum as we move into the third quarter,” Fidelity
Chairman  William P. Foley  said in the statement.  
 Fidelity Chief Executive Officer  Alan Stinson  said in a May
conference call that the consolidation of title-insurance brands
during the quarter would save money if mortgage originations
keep falling. The number of  mortgage applications  filed to
purchase houses dropped in May to the lowest level since 1997,
according to data from the Mortgage Bankers Association.  
 Fidelity and rivals  First American Financial Corp. , Stewart
Information Services Corp. and Old Republic International Corp.
have a combined 89 percent market share in U.S. title insurance,
according to first-quarter  data  compiled by the Washington-based
American Land Title Association, an industry group.  
 ‘Oligopoly’  
 Stinson, who called the title-insurance industry an
“oligopoly” last year, agreed to sell assets in Oregon and
Michigan to settle a regulatory review into anticompetitive
practices.  
 The insurer’s 2008 purchase of bankrupt rival  LandAmerica
Financial Group Inc.  reduced competition in five Oregon regions,
including the Portland area, and in Detroit, the Federal Trade
Commission said in a  statement  this month. The settlement will
require Fidelity to sell assets including data used for
underwriting in those regions.  
 “We are probably in the best rate environment and best
regulatory environment that we’ve been in for a long time,”
Stinson said Sept. 16 at a Barclays Plc conference. “We are
seeing some rationality in pricing. I think you’d expect that as
the industry consolidates,” he said “The industry has become
more or less an oligopoly.”  
 Fidelity issued $300 million in notes in May. Proceeds from
the debt, which matures in 2017, will be used to help pay off
borrowings from a credit facility, the company said.  
 Title insurers use their records and public documents to
verify a seller is the home’s true owner and that the property
is free from liens. They collect a one-time premium at the
closing of the purchase and pay costs that may arise if someone
disputes the new owner’s right to the property -- claiming, for
instance, that the boundaries weren’t properly recorded.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at   sfrier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        