-- Argentina Province Taps Markets With First Debt Sale Backed by Oil and Gas
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-07-21T21:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/first-argentine-asset-backed-deal-since-07-spurred-by-province-oil-wealth.html

          
          
             Argentina’s biggest crude-producing
province is selling the country’s first oil and gas-backed
securities since 2007 in a bid to borrow at lower rates in
international debt markets.  
 Chubut is issuing this week $150 million of 10-year notes
backed by royalties paid by BP PLC-controlled Pan American
Energy LLC, Argentina’s biggest oil exporter, the province said
in an advertisement published in El Cronista yesterday.  
 The  Patagonian province , the second Argentine issuer to tap
overseas debt markets since the federal government restructured
$12.9 billion of defaulted debt last month, plans to pay an
interest rate of 7.75 percent on the oil-backed notes, 375 basis
points, or 3.75 percentage points, less than the coupon on bonds
sold by  IRSA Inversiones y Representaciones SA , Argentina’s
biggest real estate developer, earlier this week.  
 Chubut’s use of the royalties to back its debt “seems like
a smart thing for them to do,” said  Eduardo Suarez , an
emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.
“Without them, costs would be higher.”  
 Under terms of the securities, Buenos Aires-based Pan
American pays its provincial royalties directly into trusts that
set aside dollars for bond payments before passing the money on
to the government. The notes, which have been sold by provinces
including Neuquen and Salta, are also attractive to investors as
they were among the few securities that didn’t fall into default
when Argentina stopped payment on $95 billion of debt in 2001,
said  Veronica Sosa , an analyst at Buenos Aires research company
Economia y Regiones.  
 “Under the trust, the provinces don’t get their hands on
the royalties directly,” Sosa said.  
 Default Swaps  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 32 basis points
yesterday to 881, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The peso rose 0.1 percent to 3.9326 per dollar. The extra
yield investors demand to hold  Argentine  dollar bonds instead of
U.S. Treasuries fell 15 basis points to 731, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The difference is down from 846 on July 1.  
 Yields on Argentina’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
slid nine basis points to 11.34 percent, according to pricing
from Deutsche Bank AG. Warrants linked to economic growth fell
0.25 cent to 8.9 cents on the dollar.  
 Chubut Governor  Mario Das Neves , who says on his  website 
that he’ll run for president next year, announced plans to sell
the oil-backed securities on a trip to New York last month.
Telephone messages left at Das Neves’s press office weren’t
returned.  
 Credit Ratings  
 The securities, known as VDFs, are being offered on
domestic and international markets through trusts run by Bank of
New York Mellon in the U.S. and Buenos Aires-based Banco de
Valores SA, according to a pre-sale report by Moody’s Investors
Service. They will be denominated in dollars for U.S. investors
and dollar-linked for domestic buyers. Moody’s rates the foreign
securities Ba3, three levels below investment grade, and the
local notes Ba2.  
 Chubut will use proceeds of the bonds, the only asset-
backed Argentine securities sold overseas, to build highways and
housing, said Martin Fernandez, an analyst with Moody’s in
Buenos Aires. The royalties will be primarily derived from the
Cerro Dragon oilfield, Argentina’s largest. Pan American, which
has operated the field since 1958, had its concession extended
last year to 2027 from 2017, according to the country’s Planning
Ministry.  
 “The operating fields, namely Cerro Dragon, and the
company have very good track records,” Fernandez said. “That
makes them interesting securities.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mario Das Neves, governor of Argentina's Chubut province. Source: Gobierno del Chubut via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
