-- Flooding in China Kills 701 People This Year, Most in More Than a Decade
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-21T06:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/floods-in-china-killed-701-people-this-year-most-in-more-than-a-decade.html

          
          
             Floods in China killed 701 people this
year, the most in more than a decade, as the nation prepares for
more heavy rain forecast in at least nine provinces.  
 Flooding in southern China left 347 people missing since the
start of this year, the State Flood Control and Drought Relief
Headquarters and the Ministry of Water Resources said in a
statement distributed at a Beijing briefing today. Since July 8,
floods killed 187 people and left 173 missing, the statement said.  
 Torrential rain may hit 15 provinces and municipalities in
China today as tropical storm Chanthu is forecast to reach the
coast of  Guangdong  province. President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen
Jiabao last week ordered all ministries and local governments to
ensure the safety of residents and to minimize property losses.  
 Floods caused about 142 billion yuan ($20.9 billion) of
economic losses this year and 38 billion yuan of losses since July
8, according to the government statement today. Almost 645,000
homes have been destroyed and 7 million hectares of farmland
damaged this year, it said.  
 Rice output in China, the world’s largest grain producer, may
fall 10 percent because of damage from torrential rain and pests,
industry website  cngrain.com estimated yesterday . In some of the
main producing areas, output may decline by as much as 20 percent,
the website said. Persistent and widespread rain ravaged early
rice crops in Jiangxi and Anhui provinces, it said.  
 Rain Forecast  
 Anhui  and neighboring  Jiangsu  province in eastern China may
receive heavy to torrential rain today, according to the China
Meteorological Administration. The provinces of Gansu, Shaanxi,
Sichuan, Henan, Hubei, Yunnan, Guangxi, Guangdong and Hainan are
forecast to receive heavy to torrential rain tomorrow and on July
23, according to the administration.  
 Sichuan Guangan AAA Public Co. , which generates hydroelectric
power in southwestern China, said today that floods in the Guangan
city where it’s based have cause it to lose 6.78 million kilowatt-
hours of electricity output.  
 China’s Three Gorges Dam, the world’s largest, said water
flows of as much as 70,000 cubic meters a second was recorded
yesterday on the Yangtze River. Water flows were contained and
released at “safe levels,” Huang Hua, assistance director of
public affairs for dam operator China Three Gorges Corp. said
yesterday by telephone. The dam was built to generate electricity
and also for flood control on China’s longest waterway.  
 The dam, which began operations in 2003, can handle 98,800
cubic meters a second of water, Xinhua News Agency reported,
citing Chairman Cao Guangjing. The record for water flow on the
Yangtze was 70,800 cubic meters a second in 1981, Xinhua said.  
 Floods in 1998 killed about 4,000 people in China, forced the
evacuation of 18.4 million people and caused at least 1.66 billion
yuan of economic losses.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on natural disasters in China: TNI CHINA NAT BN <GO>
Bloomberg Weather center: WEAT <GO>
Bloomberg mapping: BMAP <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>  
          
          


  


        