-- Franklin Templeton Property Unit to Start Fund for Energy, Infrastructure
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-07-21T00:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/franklin-templeton-to-invest-in-energy-infrastructure-funds-in-six-months.html

          
          
             Franklin Templeton Real Estate
Advisors  will begin investing in infrastructure, energy, water,
agriculture and timber funds in six months to take advantage of
growing demand for natural resources and new roads and bridges.  
 The property business of  Franklin Templeton Investments 
will create a fund that will buy into real asset funds,
particularly in Asia and Europe, and to a lesser extent in the
Americas, said  Jack Foster , who oversees $3.8 billion as global
head of the unit. It will also invest in those markets
separately on behalf of institutional clients, he said.  
 “Asia is going to have some of the most opportunities for
two reasons,” New York-based Foster said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The growing population and the need for
all the categories, and secondly, to a large extent, doing
business in Asia in terms of building the large public projects
is much more efficient than, say, in the United States.”  
 An expected surge in the global population to more than 9
billion by 2050, according to  U.S. Census Bureau  data, along
with an increase in building as governments commission projects
to boost their economies, are expected to drive demand for
infrastructure financing.  
 Some $41 trillion will be needed to build and repair
infrastructure globally, according to Booz Allen Hamilton Inc.,
a consulting company owned by the Carlyle Group. By 2050, for
the first time, more than 50 percent of the world’s population
will be living in metropolitan areas, Booz Allen said in a 2007
 report .  
 Real Assets  
 Franklin Templeton said in May it will create a team to
specialize in investments in real assets and appointed  Joyce Shapiro , a former executive of Toronto-based Brookfield Asset
Management, as managing director. It is now building up the
group and is in the process of determining the amount it will
seek to raise, Foster said.  
 The unit is expected to invest equally in infrastructure
and energy, with smaller allocations for the other industries,
Foster said.  
 The asset manager will announce this month that it has
raised $50 million for its second Asia-Pacific property fund-of-
funds from North American and European investors, Foster said.
It aims to raise the remaining $250 million target for the fund,
which will invest in both residential and commercial properties,
in the next year, he said.  
 San Mateo, California-based Franklin Templeton Investments,
manager of the Franklin and Templeton group of funds, has $586.8
billion in assets under management.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        