-- Freeport Profit Beats Estimates as Sales Top Forecast
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-07-21T20:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/freeport-mcmoran-s-earnings-tops-analyst-estimates-as-copper-prices-rise.html

          
          
             Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. ,
the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer, reported
second-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates because of
higher-than-forecast sales of the metal.  
 Earnings excluding some one-time items were $1.49 a share,
Phoenix-based Freeport said today in a statement. Analysts
projected profit of $1.26, the average of 18  estimates  in a
Bloomberg survey.  Net income  rose to $649 million, or $1.40 a
share, from $588 million, or $1.38, a year earlier. The shares
climbed as much as 6.3 percent in New York.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Richard Adkerson , 63, is increasing
output at operations where the company slowed production in the
past two years as the global economic slowdown cut demand.
Consolidated copper sales were 914 million pounds, 10 percent
more than the 830 million pounds Freeport forecast in April.  
 “Operationally we are very, very pleased with what’s
happening,”  Anthony Rizzuto , a New York-based analyst with
Dahlman Rose & Co., said today in a telephone interview.  
 The company’s average net cash cost to produce a pound of
copper in the quarter was 97 cents, less than the $1.10 that
Rizzuto expected. He recommends buying the company’s shares.  
 “The variance to the April 2010 estimate primarily
reflects favorable production performance in North and South
America and Indonesia and the timing of shipments,” the company
said in the statement.  
 Possible Buyback  
 Freeport may consider buying back its shares as it
accumulates cash after reducing its debt from the March 2007
acquisition of Phelps Dodge International Corp.  
 “Our tradition has been to return excess cash to
shareholders,” Adkerson told investors and analysts today on a
conference call.  
 Freeport  rose  $1.74, or 2.7 percent, to $66.06 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have
fallen 18 percent this year.  
 Global demand for copper is stronger than signaled by
economic indicators, Adkerson said on the call.  
 “We feel very, very positive about copper,” he said.
“Our order books are filling up more strongly than they have in
some time.”  
 Freeport is evaluating projects in North America, Africa,
Asia and South America to boost copper production.  
 The miner’s second-quarter revenue increased 4.9 percent to
$3.86 billion. Freeport  forecasts  full-year sales of 3.8 billion
pounds of copper and 1.8 million ounces of gold, unchanged from
its projections in April. The company raised its forecast for
2010 molybdenum sales by 1.6 percent to 63 million pounds.  
 Deferred Mining  
 In Indonesia, Freeport plans to defer the mining of about
130 million pounds of copper and 270,000 ounces through 2014 at
its Grasberg mine for safety reasons, Adkerson said on the call.  
 “The ore is still there and we’re still going to get it,”
he said. “It is a question of timing.”  
 The company is working in the Democratic Republic of Congo
to  resolve issues  with the government over Freeport’s 57.8
percent-owned Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt operations in
Katanga province.  
 “We’re operating under our contract,” Adkerson said. “We
believe we’re closing in on these discussions about our contract
review.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        