-- Gene-Testing Companies May Need U.S. Regulators Review, FDA Letters Say
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-07-21T23:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/gene-testing-companies-may-need-u-s-regulators-review-fda-letters-say.html

          
          
             Interleukin Genetics Inc . and  CyGene
Laboratories Inc.  are among 13 makers of genetic tests sold
directly to consumers told by U.S. regulators that their
products may be medical devices needing federal approval.  
 The U.S. Food and Drug Administration sent  letters  to the
companies saying the tests “appear to meet the definition of a
device.” Interleukin doesn’t believe its tests are devices and
will provide information to regulators to support its position,
the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company said today in a
regulatory filing.  
 The FDA sent similar letters in May to makers of gene-
testing kits such as Mountain View, California-based  23andMe
Inc.  and San Diego-based  Pathway Genomics  that offer their
services to the public. Agency officials have said they intend
to regulate the area more closely and require test-makers to
prove their products are effective and provide useful
information.  
 Interleukin sells tests through the company’s  website  to
help consumers learn about their heart health and choose diets
that best fit them based on their individual genes.  
 CyGene offers “personal DNA testing that makes a
difference” to help consumers learn if they have genetic
predispositions to visions disorders including glaucoma and
macular degeneration and heart problems, diabetes and obesity,
the Coral Springs, Florida-based company said on its website.  
 The FDA also sent a letter to a 14th company,  Sequenom
Inc. , based in San Diego, which markets prenatal diagnostic
tests through doctors to help pregnant women learn if their
unborn children have genetic abnormalities that may lead to
birth defects. The letter said the diagnostic test may meet the
definition of a device subject to federal review.  
 The U.S. House of Representatives Energy and Commerce
Committee is scheduled to conduct a  hearing  tomorrow on gene-
testing services.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        