-- Harvard Research on Glaxo's Avandia May Point Way to New Diabetes Options
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2010-07-21T19:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/glaxo-avandia-risk-explained-in-harvard-study-outlining-less-toxic-option.html

          
          
             Harvard University researchers
discovered how  GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s  diabetes drug Avandia works
to prevent the illness, a step that may show the way to develop
less-toxic drugs that are just as effective.  
 The study identified how Avandia and similar drugs work by
blocking a cell process involved in diabetes, and suggests that
side effects may come from a separate action also triggered by
the pill. That opens the door to developing newer treatments
without the toxic activity, the researchers say.  
 Sales of Avandia, once the world’s best-selling diabetes
medicine, plunged after a 2007 analysis linked the medicine to a
43 percent increased risk in heart attacks. A U.S. advisory
panel’s call for stronger warnings about heart risks tied to
Avandia may eliminate 95 percent of the drug’s use, said  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, in a
interview last week.  
 “The mechanism of action in terms of these drugs is not
the function that people thought,”  Bruce Spiegelman  of Harvard
Medical School said in an interview from Boston. “The benefits
are largely due to modification of the protein, not just
generally activating it.”  
 Avandia, known by the generic name rosiglitazone, also
decreases hemoglobin levels, may raise cholesterol and can cause
swelling and weight gain, according to previous studies.  
 New Generation  
 Almost 21 million Americans and 170 million people
worldwide have diabetes, according to the National Institutes of
Health. There is an epidemic of type 2 diabetes under way,
fueled by rising obesity rates, age and sedentary lifestyles,
public health officials said.  
 The cells of those patients don’t properly use insulin, a
hormone that turns blood sugar into energy. Persistent high
blood sugar eventually damages the nerves and blood
vessels,leading to blindness, kidney failure and death.  
 Avandia belongs to a family of medicines known as
thiazolidinediones, or TZDs, that have been taken by more than
15 million people since they were made available in 1999.  
 They work by activating a cell protein known as PPAR that
makes diabetics more sensitive to the hormone insulin, while
also triggering side effects including higher blood lipids and
heart failure risk. Today’s study found that some TZDs other
than Avandia may mobilize PPAR in a way that still increases
insulin sensitivity without causing the side effects.  
 Benefit Without Harm  
 Subtle modifications to Avandia and other medicines in the
class to circumvent the side effects could lead to a new
generation of diabetes drugs, Spiegelman said.  
 “Avandia has very good effects clinically, there is a good
reason to try to see how we get the benefit without the negative
effects,” Spiegelman said. “This should point the way to how
one can separate the good and bad effects of these drugs. At
least that’s the hope.”  
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. ’s rival pill Actos, which is in
the same family of diabetes medicines as Avandia, has been shown
to work as well as Avandia without the same risks. It is not
clear why.  
 “Different compounds don’t have to be in lockstep,” he
said. “Since the beneficial effects are not coming from the
mechanism that was previously thought you can understand how you
could get different ratios of risk and benefit.”  
 Speigelman said new compounds taking the research into
account could enter clinical trials within one to three years.
“How to move this forward becomes pretty obvious,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Trista Kelley  in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        