-- Glaxo Earnings Plunge After Avandia, Paxil Legal Costs
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2010-07-21T15:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/glaxo-earnings-plunge-after-avandia-paxil-legal-costs.html

          
          
             GlaxoSmithKline Plc  said second-
quarter profit slumped 92 percent, hurt by costs to settle
lawsuits over the Avandia diabetes medicine and the Paxil
antidepressant.  
 Earnings excluding restructuring costs dropped to 130
million pounds ($198.5 million), or 2.6 pence a share, from 1.57
billion pounds, or 31 pence, in the same period a year ago,
London-based Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, said in a
statement today. Profit excluding restructuring costs and legal
expenses totaled 29.3 pence a share, beating the average analyst
 estimate  of 28.1 pence.  
 Glaxo said last week it would record a 1.57 billion-pound
charge in the second quarter to settle cases including claims
that its Avandia diabetes treatment led to heart attacks. The
news mostly resolved the question of how much the company will
have to pay for the lawsuits, said  Alex Evans , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in London.  
 “Now that the Avandia litigation has largely been settled
it removes a major overhang and makes Glaxo more investable,”
he said in an interview. “You can now assess the business much
more on its pure fundamentals.” Deutsche Bank has a “hold”
 recommendation  on Glaxo’s stock.  
 Patent Expirations  
 Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  has said the worst of
Glaxo’s patent expirations are over, meaning the drugmaker can
turn its focus to expansion in emerging markets and consumer
products while spurring innovation in its own labs. Sales
climbed 4.1 percent to 7.02 billion pounds. Excluding vaccines
and antiviral drugs for pandemic flu, sales declined 2 percent,
the company said.  
 Glaxo  shares  rose 12.5 pence, or 1.1 percent, to 1,186
pence at the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London. The stock has
fallen 10 percent this year,  compared with  a 1.8 percent drop in
the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  
 Glaxo’s earnings exclude costs related to some  acquisitions 
and expenses from a restructuring program, which Witty expanded
in February. Including those items, the company posted a loss of
6 pence a share, compared with a profit of 28.3 pence a year
earlier. Glaxo raised its quarterly  dividend  7.1 percent, to 15
pence a share, the 14th consecutive increase, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 In the U.S., drug revenue slumped 13 percent to 1.9 billion
pounds in the quarter, hurt by sales of generic copies of
Glaxo’s Valtrex treatment for genital herpes and price pressures
resulting from the overhaul of the U.S. health-care system.
Avandia sales sank 26 percent to 152 million pounds.  
 European Prices  
 Budget constraints in European countries also will lead to
pressure on prices, with annual declines of more than 3 percent,
Witty said on a conference call with reporters. Pricing pressure
in Europe “will be a 2011 phenomenon in how it ramps up,” he
said. “The outlook is less positive than it was three to four
months ago.”  
 The legal charge covers Avandia cases, settlements over a
U.S. government probe into the company’s former manufacturing
site at Cidra, Puerto Rico and product-liability and antitrust
cases relating to Paxil. Avandia generated $1.1 billion last
year for Glaxo, only about a third of the revenue it had before
researchers linked the medicine in 2007 to a 43 percent
increased risk of heart attacks.  
 An advisory panel last week recommended that the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration keep Avandia on the market with stronger
warnings about the risks of heart ailments and with restrictions
on which patients can be prescribed the medicine. The agency
“will come to a decision as soon as possible” about Avandia’s
fate,  Janet Woodcock , director of the FDA’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, told the panel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Trista Kelley  in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     GlaxoSmithKline Plc CEO Andrew Witty has said the worst of Glaxo’s patent expirations are over. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
