-- Goldman's V Shape Is Starting to Look Vulnerable: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-07-21T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/goldman-s-v-shape-is-starting-to-look-vulnerable-william-pesek.html

          
          
             Journalists call it a buried lead.  
 It’s when the real story is below the newspaper fold and
drowned out by a tidbit that seems more sexy or appealing. Such
is the case with the  Asian Development Bank ’s latest outlook.  
 Markets moved on the headline: the ADB upgraded its 2010
forecast for 14 East Asian economies to 8.1 percent from 7.7
percent projected in April. Buried was the news that three major
risks must break Asia’s way to keep prosperity alive: a double-
dip global recession, destabilizing capital flows and the
successful unwinding of stimulus measures.  
 “While most emerging East Asian economies are assured of a
sharp V-shaped recovery this year, it’s too early to say that
the V stands for ‘victory,’”  Srinivasa Madhur , a senior
director at the Manila-based ADB, said on July 20.  
 Asia has had an impressive crisis, and China’s rapid growth
is bolstering confidence in the region. China’s dynamism even
prompted Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to raise its targets for a key
index of Asian stocks. Yet Asia is moving into a precarious
period, arguably the most challenging since the late 1990s.  
 Goldman’s V stands for “valuations,” and its bet on Asian
shares makes perfect sense in the short run. In a July 14
report, analysts led by  Timothy Moe  raised their three-month
forecast for the MSCI Asia-Pacific excluding Japan Index to 425
from 405, increased their six-month target to 440 from 430 and
maintained their 12-month target of 485. The  index  is now 395.  
 V for ‘Vulnerable’  
 The V may really stand for “vulnerable” as U.S. growth
disappoints, investors poke and prod Europe to assess default
risks and Japan’s woes deepen. Whether healthy growth can be
maintained will depend on the decisions that policy makers take
today about Asia’s three big challenges.  
 First, the global economy. The historic wave of debt
issuance over the last two years stabilized growth. It didn’t
stimulate it as hoped, and economists are talking about a return
to recession. The same goes for unprecedented interest-rate
cuts. Free money helped banks get back on their feet, but did
little to create new jobs or encourage increased  consumption .  
 The trouble is, leaders are applying conventional thinking
to very unconventional situations. Calls in Washington for
deficit reduction ignore how comatose the biggest economy
remains. Concerns in Europe that inflation is just around the
corner overshadow the odds of deflation. Talk of recovery in
Tokyo defies reality on the ground.  
 ‘Protracted Sluggishness’  
 All the stimulus Asians threw at their economies means
little if  Stephen Roach , Morgan Stanley’s non-executive chairman
for Asia, is right that the U.S. faces a period of “protracted
sluggishness.” Export-dependent Asia can live for a year
without help from a $14 trillion economy. Three or four years
would be another story. Sure, China is booming, yet a $4.3
trillion economy with an undervalued currency is no replacement
for the U.S. economic-growth engine.  
 That gets us to challenge No. 2: hot money. Zero-interest-
rate policies in Washington and Tokyo are ricocheting around
Asia and increasing inflation risks. The U.S., Europe and  Japan 
are putting off finding exit strategies from post-crisis growth
stimulants. Asia doesn’t have that luxury.  
 As inflation pressures mount, countries from South Korea to
 Malaysia  are letting currencies strengthen. That approach is
more palatable for politicians since China’s move last month to
scrap its peg to the dollar.  
 Currencies on Move  
 “Now that the Chinese yuan is moving again, they can
afford stronger currencies and it’s less damaging than interest-
rate hikes,” says  Simon Grose-Hodge , a strategist at LGT Group
in Singapore.  
 The dynamic may lead to additional obstacles. Overseas
investors seeking profit from the trend may rush to Asia,
swamping the region anew with short-term capital. Managing the
cash glut won’t be easy. Handled poorly, it will add to asset-
price inflation that Asia will find difficult to control.  
 The third risk -- unintended policy errors -- also looms.
This one may say the most about whether Goldman’s present
optimism translates into enduring gains for Asia’s economies and
investors in them.  
 It would be challenge enough if it were just a matter of
unwinding fiscal measures. Central banks also need to mop up
untold amounts of liquidity -- much of it flowing their way
thanks to ultralow rates in the world’s biggest economies.
Politicians and monetary officials need to work together to get
the balance right.  
 On the one hand, inflation risks are heating up. On the
other, the bulk of the world’s poor live in Asia. Getting this
mix right is much easier said than done. Asia has never faced
such a delicate process of recalibrating drivers of growth.
After Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008, policy
makers turned on the stimulus and left things on autopilot.  
 That was the easy part. The hard part comes as officials
work to move back to normalcy. That time is now, and getting
from “vulnerable” to “victory” could be a bumpy ride for
those depending on Goldman’s “valuations.”  
 ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        