-- Goldman Sells Bonds as Yields Drop to Lowest in Six Years: Credit Markets
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-07-22T17:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/goldman-sells-bonds-as-yields-drop-to-lowest-in-six-years-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  Morgan
Stanley  led $14.2 billion in U.S. corporate bond sales in the
busiest day in almost four months as yields on company debt fell
to the lowest in six years.  
 Goldman Sachs raised $3 billion in a two-part bond offering
yesterday, its biggest since January 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley also issued $3 billion of
debt after it reported second-quarter earnings that surpassed
analyst estimates.  
 Companies from  Wynn Resorts Ltd.  of Las Vegas and oil
driller  Noble Corp.  to Wall Street banks sought lower borrowing
costs as average yields on U.S. corporate debt declined to 5.104
percent, the least since April 2004.  Federal Reserve  Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the economic outlook is
“unusually uncertain,” while President  Barack Obama  signed
into law the biggest financial regulatory overhaul since the
Great Depression.  
 “Companies are taking advantage of good earnings reports
and extremely attractive borrowing levels,” said  James Kochan ,
chief fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Fund Management in
Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, which manages $179 billion. “It’s
hard to see any factors that would push yields up
significantly.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own bank bonds instead
of Treasuries has fallen 25 basis points this month to 249 basis
points, or 2.49 percentage points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. That’s outpacing the 17 basis-point decline in
spreads in the overall U.S. corporate bond market.  
 ‘Extra Juice’  
 Bank bonds still remain “cheap” even as investors gain
confidence the U.S. legislation won’t cripple profits at
financial companies, said  Michael Johnson , chief market
strategist at M.S. Howells & Co., a broker dealer in Scottsdale,
Arizona.  
 “There’s been a hangover on the banks and financials for a
while, and it just seems as if investors at this point should be
looking to pick up some of that extra juice,” Johnson said.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of government debt fell 2
basis points to 185 basis points, the lowest since May 20,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. Yields fell to 3.815 percent from 3.854 percent
on July 20.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 3 basis points to a mid-price of 108.6 basis points as
of 12:40 p.m. in New York, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd. The index typically falls as investor
confidence improves.  
 The cost of insuring against losses on European corporate
bonds fell to the lowest in a month, according to traders of
credit-default swaps. Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover
Index of 50 mostly junk-rated companies dropped 8.6 basis points
to 512.9, the lowest since June 21, Markit prices show.  
 The index is a benchmark for the cost of protecting bonds
against default and a decline signals an improvement in investor
perceptions of credit quality. High-yield, or junk, debt is
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s.  
 Ford Motor Co. canceled a planned sale of asset-backed
debt, the Wall Street Journal reported on its website, citing
market participants it didn’t name. The carmaker scrapped the
offering after credit ratings firms banned the use of their debt
grades in bond sale documents on concern they will be exposed to
new liability under the financial regulation reform bill, the
Journal said.  
 Brenda Hines , a spokeswoman for lending arm Ford Motor
Credit, declined to comment.  
 Most-Traded  
 Morgan Stanley bonds were the most-traded U.S. corporate
debt by dealers yesterday, with 253 trades of $1 million or
more, followed by Goldman Sachs, with 170, Bloomberg data show.
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. had the most active junk bonds with 48
trades.  
 “A lot of people feel that the corporate market is the
only place there’s decent value,” said Wells Fargo’s Kochan.
“Spreads on bank paper are still pretty wide, so if you’re
looking for one area of the U.S. debt market that has value,
you’re forced into corporates, and particularly banks and
financials.”  
 The Goldman Sachs offering consisted of $2.25 billion of 5-
year, 3.7 percent notes that yield 205 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and $750 million of 10-year, 6
percent debt that priced at a 230 basis-point spread, Bloomberg
data show. The 2020 securities are a reopening of a May
offering.  
 ‘Fragile Growth’  
 Morgan Stanley issued $1.25 billion of 4 percent debt due
in 2015 at a spread of 245 basis points and $1.75 billion of 5.5
percent notes maturing in 2020 that pay 270 basis points more
than benchmarks, Bloomberg data show.  
 The New York-based company’s  shares  surged 6.3 percent, the
biggest gain since July 13, 2009, after it posted second-quarter
 net income  of $1.96 billion, or $1.09 a share. Earnings from
continuing operations were 80 cents a share, including a 20-cent
tax benefit, compared with the 47-cent average  estimate  of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “The economy still is in a fragile growth stage, so the
Federal Reserve is keeping a fairly steep rates curve, which is
enabling banks to make money the old fashioned way, to borrow
short and lend long,” said  Tom Farina , a director at Deutsche
Insurance Asset Management in New York, who helps manage $188
billion of assets.  
 Wynn Debt  
 The yield on two-year Treasuries fell to a record-low
0.5519 percent today after Bernanke said the Fed is ready to
“take further policy actions as needed.”  
 U.S. corporate bond issuance was the highest since March
23, when borrowers raised $14.4 billion, Bloomberg data show.  
 Wynn Resorts, billionaire  Stephen Wynn ’s casino operator,
issued $1.32 billion of first mortgage bonds in the company’s
biggest debt offering, Bloomberg data show. Geneva-based Noble,
the world’s second-largest offshore driller by fleet size, sold
$1.25 billion of debt in a three-part offering.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Chip Somodevilla/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         President Barack Obama signed into law the biggest financial regulatory overhaul since the Great Depression. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama signed into law the biggest financial regulatory overhaul since the Great Depression. Photographer: Chip Somodevilla/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Hintz Sees `Quicker Recovery' for Goldman Versus Morgan 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
