-- Goldman Sachs Profit Falls 82%, Misses Estimates on Trading-Revenue Drop
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-07-21T00:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/goldman-sachs-profit-falls-82-misses-estimates-on-trading-revenue-drop.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  said
second-quarter profit plunged 82 percent to the lowest level
since the end of 2008 as trading revenue declined more than
analysts estimated.  
 Net income  fell to $613 million, or 78 cents a share, from
$3.44 billion, or $4.93, a year earlier, New York-based Goldman
Sachs said in a statement today. The average  estimate  of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for earnings of $1.99 per
share, with  estimates  ranging from 77 cents to $4.34.  
 The earnings, released five days after the firm agreed to
pay $550 million to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission fraud lawsuit, followed similar drops at larger
competitors including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Concern about
economic growth and financial reform legislation reduced
clients’ willingness to take risk and do deals, crimping profits
at finance companies and weighing on stocks.  
 “They still had a good and profitable quarter, but it was
lackluster based on expectations,” said  Douglas Ciocca , a
managing director at Renaissance Financial Corp. in Leawood,
Kansas, which oversees about $2 billion. Still, “without
question, the SEC settlement was bigger news than the
earnings.”  
 Goldman Sachs rose $3.23, or 2.2 percent to $148.91 in New
York Stock Exchange  composite trading  at 4 p.m., reducing the
stock’s year-to-date decline to 12 percent. The S&P 500
 Financials Index , which tracks the performance of 80 financial
company shares, is down 0.8 percent this year.  
 Equities Trading  
 Goldman Sachs’s 36 percent drop in revenue exceeded
analysts’ estimates, with equities trading revenue plunging
because market volatility surged when the firm was positioned to
profit from a decline.  
 David Viniar , Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer, said
on a call with analysts that the firm’s equity derivatives
division didn’t hedge its short position on volatility fast
enough.  
 “This is a rare admission by GS that their traders are
mere mortals like the rest of us,”  Brad Hintz , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in an e-mail that referred to
Goldman Sachs by its stock market ticker symbol.  
 Overall  revenue  dropped to $8.84 billion, 31 percent below
the first quarter and down 36 percent from the second quarter of
last year. The biggest component, revenue from trading fixed-
income, currencies and commodities, fell to $4.4 billion from
$7.39 billion in the first quarter and $6.8 billion a year
earlier.  
 ‘More Difficult’  
 “The market environment became more difficult during the
second quarter and, as a result, client activity across our
businesses declined,”  Lloyd Blankfein , Goldman Sachs’s chairman
and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  
 Viniar said he couldn’t estimate when markets would revive,
although the company isn’t worried enough yet to scale back
hiring or expansion plans.  
 “I’m worried, as you know I worry about everything,” he
said. “We don’t know and it doesn’t feel great but not enough
that we think we should stop our plans for the future.”  
 Costs during the quarter included a $600 million charge for
a tax levied by the U.K. government on  bonuses  paid to bank
employees last year as well as a $550 million cost from the SEC
settlement. Excluding those two items, earnings per share would
have been $2.75 per share. That’s still the lowest since the
fourth quarter of 2008.  
 Total operating expenses dropped to $7.39 billion from
$8.73 billion in the same period a year earlier as the company
reduced compensation costs to $3.8 billion from $6.65 billion.  
 Employee Pay  
 Goldman Sachs set aside $9.3 billion to pay each of its
34,100  employees  in the first half of the year, or an average of
$272,580 per person. That compares with $11.4 billion in the
first half of 2009, which equated to $364,134 for each of the
firm’s 31,200 employees at the time.  
 The ratio of compensation to net revenue fell to 43 percent
in the first half from 49 percent in the first half of 2009.  
 Goldman Sachs’s shares rebounded last week after the firm
settled with the SEC over its 2007 sale of a collateralized debt
obligation. The cost was lower than the $1 billion some analysts
had estimated and the settlement didn’t require any  management
changes . Viniar said in an interview that he’s “not aware of
any discussions” about changing the CEO or chief operating
officer following the accord.  
 Analysts slashed earnings estimates in recent weeks on
concern market declines would hurt trading  revenue  as well as on
costs related to the settlement and the U.K.’s bonus tax.  
 Bank of America  
 Shares of some of Goldman Sachs’s biggest rivals fell last
week after they reported revenue that was lower than investors
predicted.  JPMorgan Chase ’s second-quarter net revenue dropped 9
percent from the first quarter as sales at the investment-bank
unit slid 24 percent.  Bank of America  Corp.’s revenue fell 9
percent as global banking and markets results tumbled 38
percent.  Citigroup Inc. ’s revenue also fell.  
 “When you heard from JPMorgan, Bank of America and Citi,
you had a pretty good idea of where some of the trading trends
were lining up, and Goldman followed suit,” Ciocca said.  
 Morgan Stanley , which was the second-biggest securities
firm after Goldman Sachs before both converted to banks in 2008,
is due to report earnings tomorrow.  
 Goldman Sachs’s second-quarter annualized return on common
equity, or ROE, a measure of how well the firm reinvests
earnings, declined to 7.9 percent in the quarter from 20.1
percent in the first quarter and 23 percent in the same quarter
a year earlier. Book value per share climbed to $123.73 from
$122.52 at the end of the first quarter.  
 Better Returns  
 “We certainly hope to have better returns than this in the
future,” Viniar told reporters on a conference call today. “We
expect our ROE over the cycle will be significantly higher than
this.”  
 Principal investments, which includes gains and losses from
Goldman Sachs’s stake in Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. as well as stakes in other companies and real estate,
provided a $943 million gain in the quarter. The figure included
a $905 million accounting gain on the company’s stake in ICBC,
even though ICBC stock fell during the quarter, because transfer
restrictions on the shares expired.  
 Investment-banking revenue dropped 23 percent to $917
million from the first quarter as advisory fees gained 2
percent, debt underwriting revenue declined 36 percent and
equity underwriting revenue decreased 40 percent. The company
said the so-called backlog of pending deals increased during the
quarter.  
 Proprietary Trading  
 Investors and analysts said before the earnings that
they’re keen for news on how the settlement, which imposes
changes to the way Goldman Sachs sells mortgage-related
securities, and the wider financial regulatory reform bill
passed by the U.S. Senate last week will affect  earnings .  
 In calls with reporters and analysts, Viniar provided
little insight into how the financial legislation might affect
the firm’s revenue or earnings. He said the two areas of the
firm’s business that are likely to be most affected are
derivatives and proprietary trading and investment, both of
which will be subject to new restrictions under the bill.  
 New rules won’t be adopted “for probably 15 months, then
the transition period, as you know, for many of the businesses
are quite long, in some cases up to five years beyond that,”
Viniar said. “To quantify that now, I would just be making up
numbers.”  
 Viniar said most of the changes in the legislation will
either increase the firm’s available capital or have no effect.  
 “I think most of the provisions are either capital-
enhancing in a way or capital-neutral,” he said.  
 Revenue from asset management rose 3 percent to $976
million from $946 million in the first quarter as assets under
management fell 5 percent to $802 billion from $840 billion in
the first quarter. Securities services, the division that
includes fees charged for providing services to hedge funds,
reported $397 million in revenue, up from $395 million in the
first quarter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Matthew McCormick, a portfolio manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman and Dominic Chu about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s second-quarter profit and the outlook for the U.S. banking industry.
     Goldman Sachs said profit dropped 82 percent, missing analysts’ estimates on a slide in trading revenue, five days after settling U.S. regulators’ fraud allegations. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
