-- Goldman's O'Neill Says Only Lunatics Claim They Can Call Euro: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-21T17:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/goldman-s-o-neill-says-only-lunatics-claim-they-can-call-euro-tom-keene.html

          
          
             Going on holiday might be the only
way for currency forecasters to deal with the whipsawing euro,
according to  Jim O’Neill , chief global economist at Goldman
Sachs International.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has reversed its outlook for the
euro twice in two months, calling in its most recent forecast
for the dollar to weaken against the euro by January as U.S.
growth slows. In June, after the euro hit a four-year low, the
bank forecast the greenback would surge to a seven-year high.  
 The euro rallied the most this year, gaining 6.9 percent
against the dollar, following Goldman’s June bearish call. After
the bank switched views July 14 to a bullish euro outlook, the
currency surged for a day before bouncing back down.  
 “Foreign exchange is the world’s biggest fruit and
vegetable store, with millions of people playing it 24 hours a
day,” O’Neill said today in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Surveillance. “Anybody who thinks they can get
foreign exchange right all the time should be in a lunatic
asylum.”  
 The swings in the currency have sent the Goldman research
team on holiday, O’Neill, 53, joked, leaving the “the
experienced, aging heads” in charge.  
 Goldman’s most recent forecast calls for Europe’s single
currency to fall to $1.22 in three months before rising to $1.35
in six months and $1.38 in a year, according to a research note
dated July 14. The bank’s six-month outlook takes it back to the
position it held before June 9, when it predicted the common
currency would drop to a seven-year low of $1.15 over three and
six months from a $1.35 forecast earlier.  
 Stress Tests  
 “It was pretty obvious to me back in June that the markets
were getting ridiculously too bearish about the euro,” London-
based O’Neill said. “I thought we’d rally all the way up ‘til
Friday’s stress tests, and then we’d see the reality of what it
was afterwards.”  
 The euro depreciated 0.6 percent to $1.2806 at 1 p.m. in
New York, down from the two-month high of $1.3029 yesterday, on
concern over the pace of the U.S. recovery and the financial
health of European banks.  
 “I am a little bit surprised the euro is back as much as
it’s done this morning,” O’Neill, a former board member of
England’s Manchester United soccer team, said.  
 Goldman analysts predicted the euro may weaken this quarter
as confidence in some European governments falters and markets
await the stress tests on 91 of the region’s banks due July 23.  
 Economic Outlook  
 Many investors forget that the health of the U.S. economy
will play a significant role in the euro’s value, said O’Neill,
who’s been with the New York-based firm since 1995, when he
started as chief currency economist at Goldman Sachs
International.  
 “The stress tests aren’t the only thing that matter for the
euro,” he said. “Probably just as important over the next few
weeks for the euro is what Bernanke has to say later today about
the implications of Fed policy.”  
 Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  delivers his
semiannual report on monetary policy to the Senate Banking
Committee today, and testifies to the House Financial Services
Committee tomorrow. U.S. policy makers trimmed growth forecasts
for this year and next at the Federal Open Market Committee’s
June meeting, according to minutes released July 14.  
 Initial jobless claims in the U.S. rose to 445,000 last
week from 429,000 in the prior period, according to a Bloomberg
survey before tomorrow’s Labor Department report. The same day,
the National Association of Realtors will say sales of existing
homes fell 9.9 percent in June, according to a separate survey.  
 ‘English Football’  
 “Given the disappointing evidence of the past few weeks,
Bernanke has to give some hope that he will find additional ways
of being so accommodative, possibly more, to make sure financial
conditions don’t tighten any further,” O’Neill said.  
 The real news may come during the second testimony
tomorrow, according to O’Neill, who said the key is whether
Bernanke decides to tie monetary accommodation more specifically
to a 2 percent target for inflation.  
 While Bernanke has produced “very credible ideas as to
how the Fed would fight deflation,” O’Neill said, as economic
challenges grow the chairman must demonstrate he knows how to
avoid the deflationary period Japan experienced in the 1990s.  
 “Fingers crossed,” O’Neill said. “Otherwise, we’ll all
have to watch English football.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jim O'Neill, chief global economist with Goldman Sachs. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
