-- Golf With Clinton, Watches Show Brighter Galas Scene
-- Patrick Cole
-- 2010-07-21T20:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/golf-with-clinton-watches-show-brighter-galas-scene-update1-.html

          
          
             Patrons at the  Parrish Art Museum ’s
summer gala this month moved to the dance floor with cocktails
in hand even before dinner was served.  
 The annual affair in Southampton, New York, was a sellout.
Donors danced to  Michael Jackson  and  Lady Gaga  and dined on
shrimp salad and lamb chops. Guests, including designers  Donna
Karan  and  Isaac Mizrahi , walked home with a fashionable gift bag
donated by a local  BMW  dealership. The event matched the
$700,000 raised a year ago, after a period of anticipated
declines in a bleak economy.  
 Parrish Museum Director Terrie Sultan noticed the improved
fundraising climate at the nonprofit’s  Spring Fling  event in
April, a cocktail party that also matched $84,000 raised last
year instead of taking a hit.  
 “I started to feel that there was a lot more philanthropic
energy around that event, and we met our goal,” Sultan said in
a phone interview. “I saw a lot of enthusiasm I hadn’t seen in
a while.”  
 About two years after the fall of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc ., some New York nonprofits are seeing a return of individual
donations. They still have to work harder for individual gifts
and corporate support.  
 3,400 Donors  
 The  Robin Hood Foundation  annual gala in May showed that
aggressive fundraising could trump the recession, as the
poverty-fighting nonprofit raised more than $88 million at a
dinner attended by 3,400 people at the Javits Center. The  Yale
Repertory Theater  said Monday that it got a $950,000 gift from
the Minneapolis-based  Robina Foundation . The money will be used
to support its Yale Center for New Theater.  
 Billionaire George Soros’s  Open Society Institute , which
gives $150 million annually to charities in the U.S., said today
it will award $11 million to 79 arts organizations to help them
offset the recession’s impact. The recipients of the gifts,
which range from $250,000 to $65,000, include  Dance Theater of
Harlem , Bronx Arts Ensemble and the  New York Youth Symphony .  
 “We have always seen the arts as a critical component of a
vibrant open society,” Ann Beeson, Open Society’s executive
director, U.S. programs, said in a phone interview. “Mr. Soros
sees the arts as a primary economic driver for the city.”  
 After a period of cutbacks, some Wall Street banks have
stepped forward to support major nonprofits. In May,  Credit
Suisse  renewed its three-year global sponsorship of the  New York
Philharmonic , which began in 2007.  
 Barclays Capital underwrote City Harvest’s spring gala,
which raised $1.3 million. The New York charity, which feeds
about 260,000 of the area’s hungry, called on Credit Suisse to
rescue and underwrite its spring 2009 gala when a finance
executive backed out as a lead sponsor.  
 Exceeded Goals  
 “We’ve had a pretty good nine months, and we’ve had events
that have exceeded our revenue goals,” Jilly Stephens, City
Harvest’s executive director, said in a phone interview.  
 That’s a considerable change from last year, one of the
worst in three decades for nonprofit fundraising. Charitable
giving in the U.S. fell 3.6 percent to $303.8 billion from $315
billion, according to a  study  published last month by the
Glenville, Illinois-based Giving USA Foundation.  
 Individual gifts to culture-related nonprofits fell 2.4
percent from 2008 to $12.3 billion. Many major corporations
pulled back their support of the arts. General Motors of Canada
ended its lead sponsorship of the Montreal International Jazz
Festival, the world’s largest event of its kind.  
 Cut Positions  
 The quest for donors and balanced budgets has been harder
for arts groups far removed from the wealth of Wall Street and
major corporate centers.  
 The  Seattle Art Museum  cut 15 positions in May and
announced that it would close its doors for two weeks in 2011 to
stay within budget. The city of Boca Raton, Florida, agreed to
take over the Count de Hoernle Amphitheater when a local arts
group couldn’t afford to maintain it.  
 A  study  released last month by the  Boston College Center on
Wealth and Philanthropy  and the Washington-based  Association of
Fundraising Professionals  estimates a 3 to 4.5 percent gain in
individual fundraising in 2010 over last year.  
 In December, the struggling  Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra 
received $85 million from 98-year-old Louise Nippert that
allowed it to continue performing full-time. Nippert’s husband,
Louis, who died in 1992, was the great-grandson of  Procter &
Gamble Co . founder James A. Gamble, and she remains a minority
owner of the  Cincinnati Reds  baseball team.  
 Recovery  
 “The phone has been ringing this year from financial
advisers about gifts their clients are considering,” Thomas
Tobin, president of  American Endowment Foundation , a Hudson,
Ohio-based donor-advised fund said in an interview. “Last year
was a bad year.”  
 This year’s galas have seen the return of filet of beef and
lobster on menus after those pricey items were virtually banned
by many nonprofits in 2009. Deep-pocket bidders also are
returning to silent and live auctions after a dearth of bids of
over $50,000 for celebrity experiences and luxury items. This
spring, 18 holes of golf with former President Bill Clinton,
auctioned by  Charitybuzz.com , fetched $80,000 at Christie’s
Green Auction. An auction at the  Broadway Cares/Equity Fights
AIDS  fundraiser of a rare  Audemars Piguet  watch signed by actor
 Meryl Streep  drew a $100,000 bid and a second, matching bid, in
the same amount.  
 “People feel better about the economic climate now, and
when they spend a lot of money on an experience, they know that
they’re getting something in return,” Charitybuzz.com co-
founder and chief executive officer Coppy Holzman said in a
phone interview.  
 To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Parrish Art Museum President Terrie Sultan, left, and Parrish Museum board member and event co-chair Deborah Bancroft at the organization's "Midsummer Party" in New York. In an economic recession, the sold-out $1,000 per person event raised $700,000 for the institution. Photographer: Patrick Cole/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Robin Hood Foundation gala at the Jacob K. Javits Center in New York. The poverty-fighting organization raised more than $88 million, a record, despite a local economy that has seen the loss of thousands of jobs on Wall Street. Photographer: Patrick Cole/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Patrons at the City Harvest "Summer in the City" party at the Metropolitan Pavilion in New York. City Harvest, which feeds 260,000 New Yorkers in need, has seen a surge in donations at its recent events, compared to last year. Photographer: Andrew H. Walker/Rubenstein PR via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
