-- Google Quizzed by Blumenthal on Street View Testing Before Data-Gathering
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-07-21T21:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/google-quizzed-by-blumenthal-on-street-view-testing-before-data-gathering.html

          
          
             Connecticut Attorney General  Richard Blumenthal  said he asked  Google Inc.  whether it tested its
Street View software before using it, which he said should have
revealed the unauthorized collection of personal data from
wireless computer networks.  
 Blumenthal said he sent a letter today to Google senior
counsel Stacey Wexler asking for a response by July 23.  
 The Connecticut official last month demanded information on
what Google called the inadvertent gathering of data from
wireless networks, including e-mail and passwords, as it took
pictures of streets and houses for its  Street View  service.  
 “If Google tested this software, it should have known all
along that Street View cars would snare and collect confidential
data from homes across America,” Blumenthal said in a
statement. “Now the question is how it may have used -- and
secured -- all this private information.”  
 Blumenthal, who’s leading a multistate investigation, said
that his coalition now comprises 37 states. They include New
York, Mississippi, Vermont, Nebraska, Michigan, North Carolina,
Oregon, Washington, Kansas, Montana and Rhode Island.  
 Christine Chen , a spokeswoman for Mountain View,
California-based Google, said in a statement that the company
erred but didn’t break the law.  
 “As we’ve said before, it was a mistake for us to include
code in our software that collected payload data, but we believe
we did nothing illegal,” Chen said in an e-mail. “We’re
continuing to work with the relevant authorities to answer their
questions and concerns.”  
 Investigation’s Scope  
 Blumenthal said last month that the investigation “will
consider whether laws may have been broken and whether changes
to state and federal statutes may be necessary.”  
 The states asked who was responsible for the code that
collected the unauthorized data and why Google was unaware of
what it was collecting, Blumenthal said. They also want to know
the places where unauthorized data-collection occurred.  
 California hasn’t joined the multistate investigation,
Christine Gasparac, a spokeswoman for California Attorney
General  Jerry Brown , said in a phone interview.  
 “We have been talking directly with Google about this
issue and as of now have not joined the multistate
investigation,” she said. Gasparac declined to comment further.  
 Google Street View  provides views of streets in almost a
dozen countries around the world and can be found within Google
Maps. Street View uses images captured by specially equipped
vehicles.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        