-- Government Says Economy Is Picking Up Steadily, Keeps Assessment Unchanged
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-07-21T05:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/government-says-economy-is-picking-up-steadily-keeps-assessment-unchanged.html

          
          
             The Japanese government said the
economy is “picking up steadily” amid signs that the nation’s
recovery is becoming sustainable, keeping its assessment
unchanged.  
 “The economy has been picking up steadily and the
foundation for a self-sustaining recovery is being laid,” the
Cabinet Office said in a monthly report in Tokyo today. Even so,
the economy remains in a “difficult situation” because of
factors including high unemployment, it said.  
 Japan’s recovery from recession has been driven by exports,
which could be vulnerable to any slowdown in the global economy.
Government reports in the past month showed machinery orders
fell the most since August 2008, wages declined and the
unemployment rate worsened, pointing to slower growth.  
 “Japan’s economy is still one step short of a self-
sustaining recovery,” said  Keisuke Tsumura , a parliamentary
secretary at the Cabinet Office. “There’s a possibility that
the economy may be entering a lull.”  
 The Cabinet Office maintained its overall economic
assessment this month after raising it in June. It cited the U.S.
economy as a downside risk to Japan’s outlook, after reports
showed that consumer confidence in the world’s largest economy
tumbled to the lowest level in a year in July and manufacturing
expanded less than economists forecast in June.  
 Concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may slow global
growth sent the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  16 percent lower since
April 1. The yen gained 13 percent per euro and 7 percent
against the dollar in the same period, threatening to erode the
value of exporters’ earnings.  
 The government maintained its view of corporate sentiment,
after the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey showed that confidence
among large manufacturers rose to a two-year high. The central
bank also kept its overall assessment unchanged in July.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        