-- Green Dot Raises $164 Million for Owners in IPO as Investors Pay a Premium
-- Kristen Scholer
-- 2010-07-22T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/green-dot-ipo-premium-may-provide-801-return-for-owners-wal-mart-sequoia.html

          
          
             Green Dot Corp. , the largest U.S.
provider of reloadable prepaid debit cards, raised $164 million
for its owners after convincing buyers to pay more than the
forecast price range in its initial public offering.  
 Green Dot’s management team and stakeholders sold 4.56
million shares at $36 each yesterday, Bloomberg data showed. The
Monrovia, California-based company had initially offered 3.85
million shares for $32 to $35 before increasing the size of the
offering, its filings showed. Based on the original terms, the
deal would have generated instant profits of 801 percent for its
owners, which paid an average $3.72 per share. Green Dot’s
shareholders include  Wal-Mart  Stores Inc. and  Sequoia  Capital.  
 Investors paid a premium to own Green Dot, which has
doubled its earnings every year since 2006, even as 38 companies
postponed or withdrew their IPOs in the U.S. this year. At the
original midpoint offer price, Green Dot was valued at 27 times
2010 profits, more than competitors from  Visa Inc.  to MoneyGram
International Inc. and Higher One Holdings Inc.  
 “It’s the unique deal where perhaps there isn’t a public
equity alternative or a high-profile deal investors are
comfortable with that will likely succeed,” said  Jack Ablin ,
chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private Bank,
which oversees $55 billion. “Given the level of uncertainty
right now and the choppiness, the average IPO is going to be met
with a fair degree of concern or skepticism.”  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley of New York led the
sale, while Green Dot turned to Fenwick & West LLP in Mountain
View, California, for legal advice.  
 Winners and Losers  
 Ameresco Inc. , the Framingham, Massachusetts-based
contractor that helps companies improve energy efficiency, also
sold shares yesterday, raising 38 percent less than it sought.  
 The company sold $87 million of shares at $10 each after
buyers rejected an offer of as much as $16 a share, according to
its regulatory filing and Bloomberg data.  Bank of America Corp. 
of Charlotte, North Carolina, led the sale.  
 Green Dot sought to tap investor demand in one of the
fastest growing segments of the U.S. payments market. The
industry, which collects fees from consumers when they buy and
use prepaid cards, has gained customers as banks tightened
lending standards.  
 Annual purchases with prepaid cards, which are used by
consumers that don’t qualify for credit cards or bank accounts,
are estimated to reach $200 billion by 2013, a 31 percent
increase from 2008, according to the  Nilson Report , an industry
newsletter based in Carpinteria, California.  
 Existing Owners  
 The owners sold all the shares in the IPO, according to the
company’s statement. Green Dot’s directors and executive
officers, including Chief Executive Officer  Steven Streit ,
intended to unload 1.59 million Class A shares.  
 Wal-Mart , which didn’t plan on selling in the IPO, acquired
its stake in May as part of a sales agreement that made Green
Dot the exclusive provider of reloadable prepaid debit cards
sold by the retailer, according the company’s filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the IPO.  
 The Bentonville, Arkansas-based  company’s  holdings in Green
Dot would be valued at about $80 million, based on the IPO
price, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  
 Sequoia Capital planned to retain its 12.1 million-share
stake through the company’s Class B stock, which entitles the
Menlo Park, California-based venture capital firm to 10 votes a
share, according to its filing prior to the deal. The IPO would
value the investment at about $436 million.  
 Valuation Premium  
 Wal-Mart spokesman  Greg Rossiter  declined to comment before
the pricing, as did  Mark Dempster , a spokesman for Sequoia.  
 The average price of $3.72 each that Green Dot’s existing
owners paid for their shares assumes the exercise of all stock
options and warrants, the company’s pre-IPO filing showed.  
 Green Dot more than doubled its income in its last fiscal
year, posted a 40 percent increase in revenue and has no long-
term debt, its filing showed.  
 At the original midpoint price of $33.50 a share, Green Dot
is valued at 27 times earnings, based on its first-quarter
profit over a full year, its SEC filing and Bloomberg data show.  
 That’s higher than the publicly traded companies Green Dot
cites as potential rivals. San Francisco-based Visa, the world’s
largest payments network, trades at about 18.6 times its
estimated 2010 earnings.  MoneyGram  in Minneapolis and Englewood,
Colorado-based Western Union Co., two cash-transfer companies,
are valued at less than 12 times.  
 Green Dot has an advantage among equity investors because
most of its direct competitors are privately held, according to
 Francis Gaskins , president of IPOdesktop.com.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristen Scholer  in New York at 
 kscholer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Green Dot gets 63 percent of its revenue from Wal-Mart. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Rod Bourgeois, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., talks about the likely impact of the U.S. financial-rules overhaul on Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc.
     He speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
