-- GridWise Alliance and Bloomberg New Energy Finance Forge
-- 
-- 2010-07-21T14:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/gridwise-alliance-and-bloomberg-new-energy-finance-forge.html

          
          
               GridWise Alliance and Bloomberg New Energy Finance Forge Collaboration

  Bloomberg New Energy Finance Will Serve as Research Partner for Inaugural
                            GridWise Global Forum

Business Wire

NEW YORK -- July 21, 2010

Bloomberg New Energy Finance and the GridWise® Alliance announced the signing
of a Memorandum of Understanding to work collaboratively on global smart grid
issues in various capacities including market policy discussions, conferences
and reports. Bloomberg New Energy Finance will serve as the Research Partner
for the inaugural GridWise® Global Forum set for September 21-23 in
Washington, DC.

Katherine Hamilton, President of the GridWise Alliance, said, “We are thrilled
to seal this partnership with a company known for high quality research and
analysis of energy markets. I have participated in their summits in the past;
Bloomberg New Energy Finance brings a credible, highly-respected approach that
will contribute greatly to our international Forum.”

Michael Liebreich, Bloomberg New Energy Finance chief executive, said,
“Bloomberg New Energy Finance is excited to team up with the GridWise
Alliance. We expect to release some thought-provoking research on the smart
grid at the GridWise Global Forum - leading to high level policy discussions
among global smart grid leaders. ”

ABOUT THE GRIDWISE ALLIANCE

The GridWise Alliance, founded in 2003, is a coalition of public and private
stakeholders that advocates for a smarter grid for the public good. The
Alliance facilitates the effective collaboration among stakeholders, to
promote, educate, and advocate for the adoption of innovative smart grid
solutions. These solutions will achieve economic and environmental benefits
for customers, communities, shareholders and society. GridWise Alliance
members include utilities, IT companies, equipment vendors, new technology
providers and academic institutions. For more information about the GridWise
Alliance, visit www.gridwise.org, and for more information about the GridWise
Global Forum and to register for the event, visit:
www.gridwiseglobalforum.org.

ABOUT BLOOMBERG NEW ENERGY FINANCE

Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) is the world’s leading independent
provider of news, data, research and analysis to decision-makers in renewable
energy, energy smart technologies, carbon markets, carbon capture and storage,
and nuclear power. Bloomberg New Energy Finance has staff of more than 130,
based in London, Washington D.C., New York, Beijing, New Delhi, Hyderabad,
Cape Town, São Paulo, Singapore, and Sydney.

Bloomberg New Energy Finance Insight Services provide deep market analysis to
investors in wind, solar, bioenergy, geothermal, carbon capture and storage,
energy efficiency, and nuclear power. The group offers Insight Services for
each of the major emerging carbon markets: European, Global Kyoto, Australia,
and the U.S., where it covers the planned regional markets as well as
potential federal initiatives and the voluntary carbon market. Bloomberg New
Energy Finance’s Industry Intelligence Service provides access to the world’s
most comprehensive database of investors and investments in clean energy and
carbon. The News and Briefing Service is the leading global news service
focusing on clean energy investment. The group also undertakes applied
research on behalf of clients and runs senior-level networking events.

New Energy Finance Limited was acquired by Bloomberg L.P. in December 2009,
and its services and products are now owned and distributed by Bloomberg
Finance L.P., except that Bloomberg L.P. and its subsidiaries (BLP) distribute
these products in Argentina, Bermuda, China, India, Japan, and Korea. For more
information on Bloomberg New Energy Finance: http://www.newenergyfinance.com.

ABOUT BLOOMBERG

Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for businesses and
professionals. Bloomberg combines innovative technology with unmatched
analytic, data, news, display and distribution capabilities, to deliver
critical information via the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL® service and Multimedia
platforms. Bloomberg's media services cover the world with more than 2,300
news and Multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. The
BLOOMBERG TELEVISION® 24-hour network reaches more than 240 million homes.
BLOOMBERG RADIO® services broadcast via Sirius XM Radio and 1worldspace™
satellite radio globally and on WBBR 1130AM in New York. BLOOMBERG MARKETS®
magazine, Bloomberg Businessweek magazine and the BLOOMBERG.COM® Web site
provide news and insight to business leaders and financial professionals. For
more information, please visit http://www.bloomberg.com.

The BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service and data products are owned and distributed
by Bloomberg Finance L.P. (BFLP) except that Bloomberg L.P. and its
subsidiaries (BLP) distribute these products in Argentina, Bermuda, China,
India, Japan and Korea. BLOOMBERG, BLOOMBERG NEWS, BLOOMBERG TELEVISION,
BLOOMBERG RADIO, BLOOMBERG MARKETS AND BLOOMBERG.COM are trademarks and
service marks of Bloomberg Finance L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, or
its subsidiaries. All rights reserved.

Contact:

Bloomberg LP
Sarah Feinberg, 202-654-4360
sfeinberg2@bloomberg.net
 
               
//<![CDATA[

                  $("div#story_content p:first").appendTo("div#press_release_subhead_holder");
              
//]]>
