-- Times Square's `Naked Cowboy' Sues `Naked Cowgirl' Over His U.S. Trademark
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-22T03:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/times-square-s-naked-cowboy-sues-naked-cowgirl-over-his-u-s-trademark.html

          
          
             The Times Square entertainer known
as the “Naked Cowboy,”  Robert John Burck , sued a female
performer who calls herself the “Naked Cowgirl,” alleging
she’s infringing on his trademarked undressed image.  
 Burck said he first started strolling around Times Square
in 1997 wearing a pair of white briefs, cowboy boots and hat and
singing with a guitar, according to a complaint filed today in
federal court in Manhattan. Burck said Sandra Brodsky, who is
also known as “Sandy Kane,” began appearing in the same venues
two years ago, claiming to be the “Naked Cowgirl” and wearing
a red, white and blue brassiere and matching bikini bottom with
cowboy hat and boots.  
 Burck, 40, who has registered his “Naked Cowboy” image
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, said he’s been
“friendly, cordial and beyond patient” in an attempt to get
Brodsky to halt her performances or sign a franchise agreement.
He said her performances have caused “confusion” with the
public and may put “a potentially permanent devaluation on a
real American Brand and Icon.”  
 “He dresses as a cowboy -- only a virtually Naked one,”
Burck said of himself. “She presented herself to the public in
virtually identical attire, with the exception being that she
wore a brassiere as well.”  
 ‘Cease and Desist’  
 Brodsky couldn’t be immediately reached for comment. Her
lawyer,  Nicholas Barnhorst  in La Jolla, California, cited a July
19 letter in which he told lawyers for Burck that his registered
trademark to “Naked Cowboy” expired in 2009.  
 Also, the trademark “does not confer upon Mr. Burck a
monopoly on scantily clad guitar-playing,” Barnhorst said in
the letter. He said Brodsky’s performances were protected by the
First Amendment.  
 Burck alleges that Brodsky has festooned her guitar with
his official “Naked Cowboy” bumper stickers without his
authorization. He also accuses her of frequenting the same
locations in Times Square as he does, greeting passersby as he
does and often mimicking many of his activities. She ignored a
“cease-and-desist” order he sent her in June, he said.  
 “She clearly has no intentions of ever operating
legitimately or lawfully,” Burck said in his complaint. He
added that Brodsky has given “persistent and repeated excuses”
to avoid legal participation with the “Naked Cowboy” brand.  
 Naked M&M Suit  
 Burck, who has appeared on television shows such as “The
Apprentice” and “Law and Order’,’ also licensed his own line
of oysters harvested in New York’s Long Island. He sued Mars
Inc. in federal court in Manhattan in February, 2008, alleging
that a blue M&M character, dressed in underpants and boots that
appeared in the candy’s advertisements, was also violating his
trademark.  
 Both sides resolved the suit in November of that year.
Neither party gave a reason for the dismissal with prejudice,
which prevented Burck from re-filing his lawsuit.  
 Closely held Mars, based in McLean, Virginia, began running
the ads on video billboards in Times Square in advertisements
that also featured an M&M dressed as the Statue of Liberty and
an M&M as King Kong climbing the Empire State Building.  
 In June, U.S. District Judge  Denny Chin , who presided over
the earlier lawsuit, ruled Mars had to face Burck’s false-
endorsement claim, citing the potential for consumers to believe
Burck supported the ads. At the time, Chin also narrowed Burck’s
case by dismissing his so-called right-of-publicity claim.  
 Burck, an ordained minister who is registered to perform
marriages in New York City, says Brodsky is a threat to his
wholesome image.  
 While Burck said he has “quality standards,” he says
Brodsky has sometimes made obscene gestures when tourists try to
snap her picture, causing injury to his business, brand and
reputation. Burck, who has his own  website , is seeking a court
order blocking her from using the “Naked Cowboy” trademark and
brand as well as unspecified damages.  
 The case is Naked Cowboy v. Sandra Brodsky, 10-CV-5539,
filed in the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The street performer Robert Burck, who is known as the Naked Cowboy, performs for pedestrians in Times Square. Photographer: Spencer Platt/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
