-- IMF Cancels $268 Million in Haitian Debt, Approves New $60 Million Loan
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-07-21T22:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/imf-cancels-268-million-in-haitian-debt-approves-new-60-million-loan.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund
agreed to cancel Haiti’s $268 million outstanding debt to the
institution and approved a loan to boost central bank reserves
as the country rebuilds its economy after a January earthquake.  
 The decisions came four months after donors pledged $5.26
billion to Haiti’s reconstruction. The $60 million, three-year
loan, which bears no interest until the end of 2011, will help
the central bank manage potential currency volatility as donor
funds flow in, the Washington-based IMF said in an e-mailed
release.  
 “Donors must start delivering on their promises to Haiti
quickly so reconstruction can be accelerated, living standards
quickly improved, and social tensions soothed,” IMF Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said in the statement.  
 The IMF said it will also provide technical assistance to
the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere to strengthen
government institutions, including the tax system and the
budget.  
 The authorities for instance agreed to give regular updates
on the finance ministry’s website on what the aid money is used
for under the IMF program, IMF mission chief Corinne Delechat
said on a conference call today.  
 The interest rate on the loan will be zero through 2011 and
as much as 0.5 percent after that, according to the IMF. Haiti’s
economic growth will be 9 percent in fiscal 2011-2012, mostly
due to the flow of international aid, the fund said.  
 The temblor killed about 300,000 people, according to a
United Nations report this month.  
 The debt relief was financed by a trust fund established by
the IMF last month to help very poor countries hit by
catastrophic disasters.  
 “While it is welcome that the fund is providing Haiti with
debt relief, it is deeply concerning that at the same time the
fund is risking a build-up of Haiti’s future debt problems with
a loan,” Oxfam International Policy Adviser Pamela Gomez said
in a statement. “This assistance should be a grant, not another
loan,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        