-- India Rupee, Stocks Face `Turbulence' on Current Account Deficit, UBS Says
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-21T02:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/indian-stocks-to-face-turbulence-on-slowing-growth-concerns-ubs-says.html

          
          
             India’s economy and markets may be
“tested” by slowing global growth as the South Asian nation’s
industrial momentum peaks, UBS AG said.  
 Economic growth in 2011 to 2012 may ease to 8 percent from
an estimated 9 percent this year, economist  Philip Wyatt  wrote
in a note. India’s currency and  equities  may face “severe
turbulence” in the second half given the need to bridge a
current account  deficit  that widened to a record $13 billion
last quarter amid slowing global growth, he said.  
 Industrial production rose a less-than-estimated 11.5
percent in May, a July 12 report showed. Still, the $1.2
trillion  economy  expanded 8.6 percent in the three months
through March, the fastest pace after China among Asia’s major
economies, and is expected to grow this year at the quickest
pace since 2008.  
 “For the past year domestic factors have dominated: the
vigorous rebound, the inflation concerns,” Wyatt wrote.
“Unfortunately the outside world faces slower and more
vulnerable growth alongside near-deflation conditions.”  
 Inflation is accelerating amid the economic rebound and as
the government last month allowed state-run refiners to raise
fuel prices. The benchmark wholesale-price  index  jumped 10.55
percent in June after climbing 11.23 percent in April, the most
in 19 months, a report showed last week.  
 Interest Rates  
 Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  has
increased the reverse repurchase and repurchase rates by three-
quarters of a percentage point since mid-March and is due to
announce the next monetary policy decision on July 27. Inflation
is likely to slow next year, resulting in fewer interest-rate
increases, Wyatt said.  
 The rupee has weakened 1.8 percent against the dollar this
year. The currency fell to a six-week low yesterday after U.S.
data showed weaker-than-expected homebuilder confidence and a
decline in consumer sentiment, fueling concern that a setback to
the world’s largest economy will further slow the global
recovery already buffeted by the European sovereign-debt crisis.  
 Stocks have fared better, with the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Sensitive Index , or Sensex, climbing 2.4 percent this year, the
most among the world’s 10 largest markets by capitalization.  
 An easing inflation outlook, along with a good monsoon,
government policies and earnings growth, may help the Sensex
rally further, UBS analyst  Suresh Mahadevan  said in a separate
report.  
 The analyst has a March 2011 target of 22,000 for the gauge,
representing a 12 percent gain from yesterday’s close. Laggards
on the BSE 100 Index including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.  and
 Steel Authority of India Ltd.  may offer “interesting”
investment ideas, Mahadevan said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Rahul Chadha, head of India equities at Mirae Asset Global Investment, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Indian stocks and the economy. 
     Chadha, speaking in Hong Kong, says Indian companies may increase earnings by as much as 25 percent this year, with first-quarter results suggesting that profit growth is "on track".  (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
