-- Cotton Area in India to Reach Record, Paring Costs for Gap Inc., Wal-Mart
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-07-21T09:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/india-s-cotton-area-to-climb-to-record-on-high-prices-biggest-buyer-says.html

          
          
             Farmers in  India , the second-biggest
grower and exporter of cotton, may boost planting by as much as
10 percent this year to benefit from rising prices, according to
the nation’s biggest buyer.  
 The crop area will increase from last year’s 10.2 million
hectares (25.2 million acres),  Subhash Grover , managing director
of the  Cotton Corp. of India , said in an interview. He declined
to forecast the output in the harvesting season beginning Oct. 1.  
 A bigger crop may weigh on global prices, paring costs for
 Gap Inc. ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and J.C. Penney Co., who secure
garments from Indian companies including  Arvind Ltd. , Gokaldas
Exports Ltd. and Alok Industries Ltd. India, which halted export
registration in April, will lift the curbs in the year starting
Oct. 1, Textile Commissioner A.B. Joshi said earlier this month.  
 “Farmers are very happy with the price they have got and
there’s an expectation that prices will remain steady,” Grover
said. “There’s a shift to cotton from crops such as oilseeds in
some parts and good weather will ensure we’ve a good crop.”  
 Cotton has climbed 19 percent in New York in the past 12
months after U.S. farmers pared planting in favor of wheat and
soybeans. December-delivery futures rose as much as 0.7 percent
to 73.55 cents a pound in after-hours trading on ICE Futures U.S.
Prices surged 54 percent in 2009, the most since 1975.  
 India’s output may reach a record 32.5 million bales, up
from 29.2 million bales this year,  D.K. Nair , secretary general
of the  Confederation of Indian Textile Industry , said June 30.  
 Arrivals  
 Raw cotton  arrivals  at various Indian markets totaled 29.4
million bales as of July 17, more than the 28.8 million bales a
year earlier, the Cotton Corp. said on its website today. China
accounted for 57 percent of the 7.38 million bales shipped from
Oct. 1 to June 15, according to the textiles ministry.  
 Farmers planted the crop across 8.28 million hectares as of
July 15, 20 percent more from a year earlier, according to the
farm ministry. An Indian bale weighs 170 kilograms.  
 The monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
India’s annual rain, may be widespread over most parts of the
country, the weather office said today. The central and western
states, the biggest growers of cotton and soybeans, may receive
good showers, the state forecaster said on its website.  
 The condition of monsoon-sown crops is good and there will
be “substantial improvement” in sowing during the rest of the
season, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        