-- Inflation to Limit Growth of Chinese Demand for Oil, Wood Mackenzie Says
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-07-21T03:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/inflation-to-limit-growth-of-chinese-demand-for-oil-wood-mackenzie-says.html

          
          
             China’s oil  demand growth  will slow
in the next decade because of accelerating inflation and an
ageing population, according to forecasts from Wood Mackenzie
Consultants Ltd.  
 Consumption will increase by 4.4 percent a year through
2020 after climbing 5.2 percent in 2009, and then slow to 1.9
percent through 2030, according to the company’s data. Economic
expansion in China will slow to 6 percent by 2018 from 10
percent this year amid an inflation rate of as much as 6 percent,
Julie Beatty, principal economist for  Wood Mackenzie Consultants
Ltd. , said in an interview in Singapore.  
 China overtook the U.S. as the world’s biggest energy user
in 2009, the International Energy Agency said July 19. Inflation
will increase as workers demand higher wages. At least nine
strikes this year at Japanese carmakers and their suppliers in
China have disrupted output. The number of elderly will increase
while working-age adults decline, causing further economic
slowdowns. By 2050, 25 percent of the country will be over 65,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported May 20.  
 “Energy demand growth rates will be less even though the
intensity for oil will be non-linear,” Beatty said. “The
availability of the labor pool, labor productivity and capital
efficiency all feeds in to a gradual lowering of the GDP.”  
 China’s population  will peak around 2040 at about 1.47
billion people before declining, Xinhua reported. The nation’s
family planning policies have reduced births in China by 400
million in the past three decades, according to the report.  
 Labor Squeeze  
 The country is facing a labor squeeze as the global economy
rebounded from the financial crisis, creating a shortage of
workers. The segment of China’s  working population  between 18
and 45 will actually decline by about 2015, said Beatty, citing
data from the U.S. Census Bureau.  
 “That’s your core labor force and not just in
factories,” said Beatty. “That will give rise to wage pressure
and income pressure and modest inflationary pressure which is
normal for an economy undergoing these pressures.”  
 China’s  consumer prices  climbed in May at its fastest pace
in 19 months versus a year ago, gaining 3.1 percent, the
National Bureau of Statistics said June 11. Inflation cooled to
2.9 percent in June.  
 Consumption will continue to climb as the country’s leaders
will have to address the issue of integrating migrant workers
into urban areas by building accommodation, Beatty said.  
 Homes, Offices  
 Growth in electricity  demand  will increase more from new
homes and shopping areas rather than industrial plants such as
aluminum smelters. Demand from the residential and commercial
sector will rise 26 percent by 2020, according to Wood Mackenzie.  
 “The total industry share of power generation will decline
but you’ll also see a shift to more light industry,” Beatty
said. “Residential and commercial will be by far the biggest
growth.”  
 The country’s power demand increases will lead to bigger
amounts of greenhouse gases. Carbon emissions will more than
double by 2020, and triple between 2005 and 2030, making China
the world’s largest emitter, she said.  
 China depends upon  coal-fired  power plants for about
fourth-fifths of its electricity, Beatty said. Industries
consume account for 70 percent of demand with the rest going to
residential and commercial users.  
 “We’re still expecting big growth in carbon emissions on
the back of this energy demand, principally because of the
dominant share of coal, even though we see significant growth
coming from other non-coal power,” she said.  
 Beatty joined Wood Mackenzie in March 2008 after working
for 10 years as a commodity analyst at BHP Billiton Ltd.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        