-- Lions Gate Issues New Shares to Combat Carl Icahn's Latest Hostile Offer
-- Ronald Grover
-- 2010-07-21T13:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/lions-gate-issues-new-shares-to-combat-carl-icahn-s-latest-hostile-offer.html

          
          
             Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. ,
locked in a takeover battle with  Carl Icahn , issued new shares
to  Mark Rachesky ’s MHR Fund Management LLC, putting 12 percent
of the stock in friendly hands.  
 The transaction, announced yesterday after U.S. trading
closed, dilutes Icahn’s holding in Vancouver-based Lions Gate to
about 33 percent from 38 percent. The billionaire investor
started a new tender offer for the film and television studio
after a 10-day truce expired on July 19.  
 The deal with Rachesky, who has a seat on the Lions Gate
 board , will make it harder for Icahn to gain a majority of the
stock or win a threatened proxy fight to replace the management
and directors. The swap boosts Rachesky’s stake to almost 29
percent, according to a filing, while cutting Icahn’s.  
 “This was management’s last chance,” said  Matthew Harrigan,  a Denver-based analyst with Wunderlich Securities who
recommends the shares. “They needed someone with a large
position to step up if they were going to stop him.”  
 Icahn, 74, offered $6.50 a share, or 7.1 percent less than
his previous bid, according to a statement yesterday. During the
10-day truce, the sides said they discussed potential
acquisitions and possible board seats for Icahn. The talks
didn’t yield results that would merit an extension, Icahn said.
Discussions on acquisitions may continue in the future, he said.  
 Rachesky, 51, is Icahn’s former chief investment officer.
He increased his stake through a transaction in which one of his
investment funds purchased $100 million of convertible notes
from Kornitzer Capital Management, then exchanged debt for
stock. Kornitzer, based in Shawnee Mission, Kansas, also owns
1.62 million Lions Gate shares,  Bloomberg data  show.  
 May Buy More  
 Rachesky, who is based in New York, said in a statement he
bought the shares because they “represented an attractive
investment opportunity” and said he may buy more. He paid
$105.7 million for the debt, according to the statement.  
 In July 2009, Rachesky entered into an agreement with Lions
Gate in which he agreed to vote his shares in support of
management and to join the board. At the time, Icahn was
negotiating for as many as three seats on the company’s board.
He said he broke off the talks when Lions Gate insisted he
adhere to a standstill agreement.  
 The debt swap increases Lions Gate shares outstanding by
16.2 million, the company said in a statement, or about 14
percent based on 118.1 million shares outstanding previously.  
 Lions Gate, distributor of the “Saw” horror films,  fell 
1 cent to $6.52 at 9:41 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, after climbing 8.3 percent yesterday. The
stock had risen 12 percent this year before today.  
 Critical of Spending  
 Icahn, who is Lions Gate’s largest shareholder, previously
made a $7-a-share bid that expired on June 30. He has criticized
the company’s spending on films and said in June that he planned
a proxy fight to replace management and the board, a goal he
reaffirmed yesterday.  
 Lions Gate’s board said in a statement it will review
Icahn’s latest offer. The company, the producer of TV’s “Mad
Men,” has also held talks to buy  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. , a
person with knowledge of the situation has said.  
 Under the debt exchange, Lions Gate swapped $36 million of
its 3.625 percent convertible senior subordinated notes due 2025
and $63.7 million of 2.9375 percent convertible senior
subordinated notes due 2024 in a private transaction.  
 The debt was exchanged for new notes that were converted
into shares at a price of $6.20 each, according to Lions Gate,
which is run from Santa Monica, California.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 Rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        