-- BOJ Deputy Yamaguchi Says Volatility Rising in Sign of Japan Recovery Risk
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-07-21T07:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/japanese-demand-for-business-loans-falls-undermining-central-bank-program.html

          
          
             A Bank of Japan deputy governor said
financial-market volatility is rising, and the central bank
reported that demand for business loans matched a five-year low,
posing risks to the nation’s  economic recovery .  
 “There are still many uncertainties, such as developments
in the U.S. and European economies and volatile developments in
international financial markets,” Deputy Governor  Hirohide Yamaguchi  said in a speech today. The quarterly loan-demand
 index  slid to minus 17 in July from minus 10, matching the
lowest level since July 2004 reached in January, the BOJ said.  
 Japanese stocks fell for a fourth day on concern that a
rising yen will hamper the export-led recovery. Yamaguchi said
it’s too early to judge how the currency’s gain might affect
corporate sentiment, while Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  said
its appreciation poses a significant risk to the economy.  
 “We can’t rule out the possibility of additional easing
from the BOJ should the yen resume massive appreciation,” said
 Masaaki Kanno , chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Tokyo, who worked at the central bank for 25 years. The bank
also has to contend with “the global economy slowing down,
governments unwinding fiscal stimulus and disinflationary
pressure rising,” he said.  
 The yen rose 0.4 percent to 87.16 against the dollar at
4:12 p.m. in Tokyo, and last week reached a seven-month high of
86.27. Demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge has boosted its
value by 6.9 percent over the past quarter, threatening to erode
exporters’ profits. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  slid 0.2
percent and has lost 16 percent over the past three months.  
 Eyes Glued  
 “We cannot avert our eyes from these developments” in
global markets, Yamaguchi said in Toyama, central Japan. At a
press conference following the speech, he said the bank will
assess the impact of the yen’s gains on the overall economy.  
 “We have never taken policy action based on the level of
exchange rates, and we won’t do that in the future,” he said.
“It takes a certain period of time for us to judge the effect
of the yen’s advance on corporate activities and sentiment.”  
 Central bank Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said last week that
the currency’s advance and slumping shares could hurt the
economy while adding that he expects moderate growth to continue.  
 Upside and downside risks for Japan have both risen since
April, the deputy governor said, echoing remarks made by
Shirakawa on July 15. Yamaguchi said some emerging economies are
showing signs of overheating, while Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis may affect markets and the global economy.  
 Abrupt Increase  
 “The BOJ may take additional easing if the yen abruptly
rises like last November,” said  Mari Iwashita , chief market
economist for Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. in Tokyo. She said
options include expanding the size or period of a lending
program the bank introduced after the currency touched a 14-year
high of 84.83 on Nov. 27. The 20 trillion yen ($230 billion)
facility offers three-month loans at 0.1 percent.  
 Yamaguchi distinguished the current situation from late
2009, telling reporters that business confidence has “improved
considerably” since then and the threat of a double-dip
recession has diminished.  
 The government today kept its view that the economy “has
been picking up steadily and the foundation for a self-
sustaining recovery is being laid.” Trade Minister Naoshima made
his remarks on the yen at a ministerial meeting to approve the
assessment, according to  Keisuke Tsumura , the Cabinet Office’s
parliamentary secretary.  
 Growth Prospects  
 Yamaguchi stressed in the speech that boosting economic
growth prospects is key to defeating deflation. That’s why the
bank unveiled a separate 3 trillion yen plan in June aimed at
spurring loans in growth areas, the central banker said.  
 Still, economists say companies may be unwilling to tap the
program because they are sitting on record stockpiles of cash
and are hesitant to invest as the global recovery slows.  
 “Chances are low for the BOJ’s new measures to help the
overall economy because they won’t be enough to wipe out
fundamental concerns about the outlook,” said  Takeshi Minami ,
chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute in Tokyo.
“Demand for loans will remain sluggish as Japan’s recovery is
happening only in export sectors.”  
 The bank loan index has been negative for five straight
quarters, indicating demand dropped over that period. Today’s
survey showed loan officers believed demand for borrowing fell
mainly because companies sought other sources of funding and
their fixed investment declined. Deflation is also discouraging
borrowing, said economist  Susumu Kato .  
 “Even if companies spend on plant and equipment and
increase production, it won’t necessarily lead to a boost in
corporate profits as the economy remains stagnant,” said Kato,
chief economist for Japan at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA in
Tokyo. Falling prices increase the real value of debt.  
 The latest lending program will help stabilize  consumer
prices , Bank of Japan board members agreed at their June 14-15
meeting,  minutes  showed today. They said the bank “should take
care to ensure that it would not become directly involved in the
allocation of funds to individual firms and industries.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Toyama at  motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk past the Bank of Japan headquarters in Tokyo. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
