-- JFK-Airport Bomb Plot Suspect Kadir at Terror Trial Denies Spying for Iran
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-21T22:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/jfk-airport-terror-suspect-kadir-testifies-he-wasn-t-iranian-spy-in-guyana.html

          
          
             A former member of Guyana’s
parliament accused of plotting to blow up New York’s  John F.
Kennedy International Airport , testifying at his terror trial,
denied being a spy for Iran beginning in the 1980s.  
 “Is it fair to say that you’re a spy for the Iranian
government?” Assistant U.S. Attorney Marshall Miller asked
 Abdul Kadir  today after showing him reports on Guyana that he
sent to Iran’s ambassador to Venezuela.  
 “No sir,” Kadir answered.  
 Kadir and  Russell Defreitas , a former Evergreen Airlines
cargo worker, are charged with participating in the plot hatched
in January 2006. They circulated their plan to an international
network of Muslim extremists, prosecutors allege. The plot was
foiled in the planning stages with the aid of an informant,
Steven Francis, who recorded the alleged plotters’ conversations
and who testified at their trial in federal court in Brooklyn,
New York. Kadir first took the stand yesterday.  
 Kadir was arrested in June 2007 on a plane in Trinidad on
his way to Iran. Prosecutors argue he was going there to get
operational and financial support for the plot to blow up fuel
lines and tanks at the airport. Kadir testified yesterday he was
going there to obtain funds for a mosque he wanted to build in
Guyana and to commemorate the anniversary of the death of
Ayatollah  Ruhollah Khomeini , Iran’s former supreme leader. Kadir
said he had gone to Iran twice before.  
 Both sides rested their cases today. Closing arguments are
scheduled for July 26.  
 Iranian Embassy  
 On cross-examination by Miller, Kadir first said he never
shared information on Guyana with the Iranian embassy in
Venezuela, the closest to his home country.  
 Miller showed several reports from the 1980s in Kadir’s
handwriting on Guyana’s economy, military and politics. In one
report, Kadir wrote about the “sinking” morale of the Guyanese
army.  
 “Yes, I was telling him about what was happening in
Guyana, sir,” Kadir testified.  
 The information was gleaned from newspapers and it wasn’t
illegal for him to share it, Kadir said.  
 Miller also showed the jury a handwritten “five-year
development plan” by Kadir that he testified was for promoting
Islam in Guyana. Miller asked him questions about points in the
document referring to infiltrating Guyana’s army, police force
and ministries.  
 Never Told Anyone  
 Kadir, responding to a question by his own lawyer, Kafahni
Nkrumah, said he learned about the airport bomb plot from
Defreitas and Francis in February 2007. Kadir said he never told
anyone about the plan, even though he told the two men he would
try to interest others in it.  
 “I never spoke to anyone after they told me about the
plot,” he said.  
 The jury previously listened to a March 2007 recording of
Kadir telling Francis that the people he contacted weren’t
interested in participating in the terror plot at that time.
They might be in the future, Kadir said on the recording.  
 “I said that to him just because I did not want him to
sever relationships with me completely,” Kadir testified today.
“I did tell them I wasn’t interested in their plan from the
very first time they introduced it to me.”  
 The attacks were designed to destroy “the whole of
Kennedy,” the largest airport in the New York area, Defreitas
said in a taped conversation, according to the Justice
Department.  
 Conducted Surveillance  
 The plotters conducted surveillance of the airport,
including videotaping its buildings, and sought expert advice,
financing and explosives, prosecutors said.  
 In her June 30 opening statement, Assistant U.S. Attorney
 Berit Berger  told jurors that Kadir was an engineer who advised
on the technical aspects of the plot.  
 Kadir and Defreitas face life in prison if convicted.  
 Defreitas, a U.S. citizen and native of Guyana, pleaded not
guilty in 2007.  
 Abdel Nur, a citizen of Guyana who was also charged in the
plot, pleaded guilty June 29 to one count of providing support
to terrorists.  Kareem Ibrahim , a citizen of Trinidad who has
pleaded not guilty in the case, was granted a separate trial at
a later date due to a medical condition.  
 The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former Guyanese member of parliment, Abdul Kadir, center in pale suit, leaves court in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, in 2007. Photographer: MJB Hinkson/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
