-- Julius Baer Advances Most in More Than Two Months on Higher Client Inflows
-- Warren Giles
-- 2010-07-21T15:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/julius-baer-advances-most-in-more-than-two-months-on-higher-client-inflows.html

          
          
             Julius Baer Group Ltd. , the 120-year-
old Swiss private bank, gained the most in 11 months after
inflows of new client money beat analyst expectations.  
 Julius Baer won 3.3 billion Swiss francs ($3.1 billion) of
net new money in the first half of the year, exceeding the 2.8
billion-franc median estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. That equated to an annualized 4.3 percent of total
assets, within the bank’s 4 percent to 6 percent target range.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  expects second-half
inflows to “at least” match the money attracted in the first
six months of the year. Julius Baer reported double-digit growth
in net new money in Asia, which the bank expects to account for
as much as a quarter of total assets within five years.  
 “The main concern had been net new money, so the fact it
accelerated is a positive,” said  Christian Stark , an analyst at
Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in Zurich who has a “strong buy”
recommendation on the stock. “Gross margins may be bottoming
out for the industry so there may be a decent recovery potential
when clients come back and start to trade more.”  
 Julius Baer added 2.03 francs, or 6.3 percent, to 34.04 in
Zurich trading, making it the second-best performer after IG
Group Holdings Plc on the 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index. The stock has declined 6.4 percent
this year, cutting the bank’s value to 7 billion francs.  
 Total managed assets dropped to 166 billion francs from 175
billion francs at the end of April as the euro declined 8
percent against Swiss currency in the two months through June. A
third of client assets are denominated in euros.  
 Baer reported earlier today that first-half profit declined
9 percent to 184.8 million francs on the cost of integrating ING
Groep NV’s Geneva-based wealth business.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        