-- Google Backers Invest $30 Million in Social-Network Startup Jive Software
-- Ari Levy
-- 2010-07-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/kleiner-perkins-sequoia-reunite-to-invest-30-million-in-jive-software.html

          
          
             Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers  and
Sequoia Capital, the venture firms that made billions of dollars
backing  Google Inc. , are investing $30 million in Jive Software
Inc., a maker of social-networking technology for businesses.  
 Kleiner Perkins partner  Ted Schlein  is also joining the
startup’s board, Palo Alto, California-based Jive said today in
a statement.  Jim Goetz , a partner at Sequoia, has been a
director since it first invested in Jive in 2007.  
 The firms are backing a nine-year-old company that Jive
Chief Executive Officer  Tony Zingale  says may file for an
initial public offering as early as next year. Its social-
networking software is used by more than 3,000 businesses,
including Intel Corp., Nike Inc. and  VMware Inc. , to help
employees communicate with one another and with customers.
Companies pay annual fees of about $100 per user for the
software, which includes the costs of hosting the service.  
 “We’re now at a tipping point where people are looking at
social as something that ought to be mainstream in the
enterprise,” Goetz said in an interview. Jive is “right in the
middle of a wonderful tailwind.”  
 Kleiner Perkins and  Sequoia , both founded in 1972 and
located about a mile apart in Menlo Park, California, are two of
the world’s largest venture firms. In 1999, they bought a
combined $25 million stake in  Google , five years before the
search engine sold shares to the public. The company is now
valued at more than $150 billion.  
 ‘Venture Titans’  
 “We have the two venture titans of Silicon Valley on our
board,” said Zingale, who took the CEO job this year. He
previously ran Mercury Interactive, a software maker bought by
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  for $4.5 billion in 2006. “They have a long
track record of significant investments.”  
 Including today’s deal, Jive has raised $57 million in
three rounds of funding. The previous $27 million all came from
Sequoia. Jive’s revenue jumped 85 percent last year, and in the
past 12 months, its workforce has more than doubled to 275
employees, Zingale said.  
 Venture capital rebounded in the second quarter after
tumbling 35 percent in 2009, according to data from the  National
Venture Capital Association . Firms invested $6.52 billion in the
U.S. in the period, a 53 percent increase from a year earlier
and the most since the third quarter of 2008, the NVCA said last
week.  
 In addition to investing in Mountain View, California-based
Google, Kleiner Perkins and Sequoia jointly backed video-game
maker  Electronic Arts Inc. , security-software company  Symantec
Corp.  and chipmaker Cypress Semiconductor Corp.  
 “We try and be very selective about it when we do get
together,” Schlein said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        