-- Nanya, Inotera Post Losses on New Technology Switch (Correct)
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-07-21T09:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/nanya-inotera-post-losses-as-switch-to-new-chip-technology-raises-costs.html

          
          
             (Corrects sales in seventh paragraph.)  
 Nanya Technology Co. and Inotera
Memories Inc. posted a second consecutive quarter of losses as a
switch to a new production technology cut output of memory chips
and raised costs.  
 Nanya, Taiwan’s second-largest memory-chip maker, had a
second-quarter loss of NT$1 billion ($31 million), and Inotera,
the third-largest, had a shortfall of NT$1.8 billion, the
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based companies said in statements today.  
 Both companies last year began shifting to more advanced
production processes developed by Boise, Idaho-based Micron
Technology Inc. after the U.S. company joined Nanya as a
shareholder in Inotera. The reduction in production capacity
meant the companies couldn’t match global leader Samsung
Electronics Co. in benefiting from a global rebound in demand
for the most common chip used in computers.  
 The average of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
for Nanya was a NT$1.2 billion loss, and the average of 12
estimates for Inotera was a NT$1 billion loss.  
 “They posted losses because they sacrificed capacity
during the quarter for process migration, with higher R&D
expenses to also support the move to the new technology,” Andy
Hsu, who rates both companies “buy” at Fubon Financial Holding
Co. in Taipei, said before the earnings were announced.  
 Sales Rise  
 Shares in Nanya rose 0.6 percent to close at NT$24.80
before the earnings announcement. The stock has lost 24 percent
this year, compared with a 6 percent decline for the benchmark
TAIEX index. Inotera slid 0.6 percent to close at NT$18.20 today,
extending its decline this year to 31 percent.  
 Nanya’s sales almost doubled to NT$15.7 billion. It had a
net loss of NT$6.5 billion in the same period last year.
Inotera’s revenue climbed 51 percent to NT$11.3 billion, and it
posted a net loss of NT$4.1 billion a year earlier.  
 Samsung posted record operating income last quarter of 5
trillion won ($4.2 billion), fueled by a recovery in demand for
computer-memory chips that drove up prices. Its chip business,
which includes DRAM and flash-memory used to store data,
probably accounted for more than half of its total operating
income in the quarter, according to a survey of seven analysts
by Bloomberg News.  
 ‘Profitable Soon’  
 Nanya expects to be profitable soon, spokesman Pai Pei-lin
said at a press conference today, declining to say in which
quarter the company will post net income.  
 “We’re sorry that we missed our expectations,” Inotera
President Charles Kau said. “There’ll be a turnaround in the
third quarter.”  
 Both companies are switching to Micron’s so-called
“stack” manufacturing technology from “trench,” which was
developed by Qimonda AG. Micron bought Munich-based Qimonda’s 35
percent stake in Inotera for $400 million in 2008.  
 Inotera cut its full-year shipment growth forecast,
measured in bits, to 50 percent higher than 2009 from an earlier
forecast of 70 percent to 80 percent higher because of delays in
the transition to the new technology, Kau said today. The lower
guidance reflects the company’s own problems and not the wider
chip market, he said.  
 The technical problems will be solved by the fourth quarter,
with shipments in bits to double during that period from the
third quarter, Kau said.  
 Demand for memory-chips used in consumer PCs has slowed
recently while the corporate market remains strong, he said,
adding that prices are likely to be little changed this quarter
from the second quarter.  
 Inotera’s lower output will cut Nanya’s shipment growth,
measured in bits, to 35 percent this year from a January
forecast of 45 percent because it gets 60 percent of its supply
from Inotera, Pai said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        