-- New York, Ohio Funds Seek Lead-Plaintiff Status in BP Class-Action Lawsuit
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-21T15:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/new-york-ohio-funds-seek-lead-plaintiff-status-in-bp-class-action-lawsuit.html

          
          
             The public pension funds of New York
and Ohio asked a Louisiana court to appoint them as lead
plaintiffs in a securities class-action lawsuit against  BP Plc .  
 The company and some officers and director are responsible
for the loss in share value since the April explosion and
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico,
according to a complaint in federal court in Lafayette,
Louisiana, filed on behalf of BP investors.  
 The two state pension funds lost $229.4 million in BP
investments, New York Comptroller  Thomas P. DiNapoli  and Ohio
Attorney General  Richard A. Cordray  said yesterday in court
papers. The funds asked that similar cases against BP be
consolidated with the Ohio and New York plaintiffs as leads.  
 The states’ funds are the best choice “by virtue of the
enormous loss they suffered from their investments in BP as a
result of the defendants misconduct,” they said in court
papers. “New York and Ohio have an extremely large financial
interest in this litigation.”  
 The company and its management “made false and misleading
statements regarding BP’s safety protocols, operations, and
safety record, as well as its ability to respond to a major oil
spill,” the funds said in yesterday’s filing. The suit is one
of multiple class actions filed by investors, either as direct
lawsuits or as derivative claims on behalf of the company,
claiming that mismanagement led to the spill.  
 Lost Value  
 The states asked to recover the loss in value in BP
American depositary shares as a result of the spill.  
 The U.S. shares fell 42 percent from April 20, the day of
the explosion, to yesterday’s close. The depositary receipts,
each equivalent to six ordinary shares, rose $1.20 to $36.40 at
11:16 a.m. today in New York Stock Exchange trading.  
 BP faces more than 300 lawsuits arising from the explosion
of the Deepwater Horizon, which set off the worst oil spill in
U.S. history. The lawsuits include scores of proposed class
actions filed by commercial fishing companies, beach-front
property owners, restaurant owners and environmentalists
claiming harm from the drifting oil.  
 The case is Ludlow v. BP Plc, 6:10-cv-00818, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Louisiana (Lafayette).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        