-- New York City Pension Funds Consider Making First Hedge-Fund Investments
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-21T16:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/new-york-city-pension-funds-consider-making-first-hedge-fund-investments.html

          
          
             New York City’s  pension funds  for
police officers, firefighters and civil employees are seeking
proposals from hedge fund consultants as they weigh whether to
invest in the loosely regulated investment pools.  
 The three funds, with combined assets of $64.5 billion as
of March 31, want advice from firms on formulating strategy,
identifying new investments and monitoring portfolios, according
to a  request for proposals  from the comptroller’s office.  
 The pension plans are considering investing in hedge funds
even as money flowing into the pools, which hold $1.65 trillion
in assets, slowed by 30 percent in the second quarter, according
to Hedge Fund Research Inc. One of five tax dollars collected by
New York City, about $7.6 billion, will go into the pension
funds this year. The city fired six money managers earlier this
year after “poor performance” of the funds.  
 “The pension funds have not historically invested in hedge
funds,” said  Mike Loughran , spokesman for Comptroller  John Liu, 
in an e-mail. He declined to comment further.  
 The three-year contract would also include investment
research. New York City has five public pension funds with
assets of $103.8 billion as of May 31. None of the pensions have
invested with hedge funds.  
 Investors added a net $9.5 billion to hedge funds in the
three months through June, down from $13.7 billion in the prior
period, the Chicago-based research firm HFR said yesterday, as
concerns about Europe’s debt crisis and the possible slowing of
economic growth pushed stock markets down.  
 Average Decline  
 Hedge funds posted an average decline of 2.5 percent in the
three months ended June 30 as the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  of
the largest U.S.-listed companies slumped 12 percent, the first
quarterly drop in a year.  
 The city funds are asking firms to describe how they
analyze hedge funds, including evaluating risk and conflicts of
interest. It also asks firms to provide a track record of all
investment recommendations they’ve offered.  
 Proposals to the city comptroller are due Aug. 9. A
contract may be awarded as early as October.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        