-- New Jersey Black Bears Grow Brazen, Prompting First Hunt in Five Years
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-07-21T21:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/new-jersey-black-bears-growing-bolder-prompting-first-hunt-in-five-years.html

          
          
             New Jersey , the most-densely
populated U.S. state, will hold its first black bear hunt since
2005 after more than 1,200 incidents were reported this year.  
 The number of bears in northwestern New Jersey has grown to
more than 3,400 from 500 in 1992, according to a Department of
Environmental Protection press release today. From Jan. 1 to
June 20, 13 “aggressive” bears were captured and put down,
compared with eight in the same period of 2009, the agency said.  
 “Although I respect that some New Jersey residents are
opposed to hunting bears, hunting is the only proven and most
cost-effective method of wildlife population control, and it is
utilized successfully by other states with viable bear
populations,” Bob Martin, the department’s commissioner, said
in the statement.  
 The new bear-management  policy , approved by Martin after a
unanimous recommendation from the State Fish and Game Council,
includes further  public education  and research on bear habitats
in addition to non-lethal bear-management techniques, according
to the press release. Previous policies that have included the
killing of bears rankled animal rights groups.  
 “Hundreds, if not thousands, of bears walk right by
houses,” said Patrick Carr, supervising biologist for the DEP’s
fish and wildlife department. “But certain bears will attempt
to break into a house, and those are the bears we kill.”  
 Venturing Into Cities  
 The DEP said there have been several incidents with
aggressive black bears in recent weeks. The animals, which can
weigh more than  600 pounds  (272 kilograms), have been
encountered in all 21 New Jersey counties, and more have been
sighted in suburban towns and urban areas, the department said.  
 This year’s six-day hunt is scheduled for December in a
1,000-square-mile area north of Route 80 that spans Morris,
Sussex, Warren and Passaic counties.  
 About 5,000 of 10,000 available hunting permits are
expected to be issued this year, Carr said, adding that an
estimated 250-350 bears will be culled. About  300 bears  were
killed in the 2005 hunt, and about 330 were killed in 2003, the
state said.  
 Jeff Tittel , New Jersey director of the  Sierra Club ,
America’s oldest environmental organization, said the hunt is
“more about political science than real science.” Governor
 Chris Christie , the first Republican elected New Jersey governor
since 1997, said he supported hunts during his campaign.  
 “This hunt won’t do anything with the nuisance bears,”
Tittel said today in a telephone interview. “While the hunters
are out in the woods going after the docile bears, the nuisance
bears hiding under porches and in neighborhoods will still be
causing problems.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Doom  in New York at   jdoom@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        