-- New Jersey's Newark May Move to Four-Day Work Week, Mayor Cory Booker Says
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-21T20:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/newark-new-jersey-may-move-to-a-four-day-work-week-amid-gap-booker-says.html

          
          
             Newark, New Jersey’s largest city,
may fire as many as 350 police and firefighters, institute a
four-day work week and reduce all non-essential spending to cope
with a $150 million budget gap, Mayor  Cory Booker  said.  
 The reduced work schedule, which Booker said may begin
Sept. 27, would cut the pay of affected city employees by 20
percent. The mayor, in a City Hall briefing today, told
reporters he also would seek to eliminate 600 other jobs and
scale back trash pickup and park maintenance.  
 Booker, a Democrat who won a second term in May, called on
the City Council to pass his proposal to convert  Newark ’s water
system into a municipal utility authority, a plan he said would
raise $70 million this year to help close the gap. Without it,
residents will face tax increases of almost 30 percent, he said.  
 “We’re going to stop buying everything from toilet paper
to printer paper,” said Booker, 41. “I as mayor cannot let the
long-term economic viability of our city be harmed by that tax
increase.”  
 Booker said the actions will save as much as $15 million.
He said he’ll close all five of the city’s public pools and its
Camp Watershed summer day camp in West Milford early next month.
The shortened work week will affect 1,451 of the city’s 3,952
non-uniformed employees, said spokeswoman Esmeralda Cameron.  
 Deferred Action  
 The nine-member council has twice voted to defer action on
whether to create the water authority. The proposal is scheduled
for several public hearings citywide later this month. Booker
said he would reduce the number of police and firefighter job
cuts and hold off on other actions if the council advances his
plan at a July 27 meeting.  
 “This is a tactic to scare people and he isn’t going to
scare anyone,” said Councilman Luis Quintana, who wants the
authority plan put to voters in a public referendum. “He’s
talking out of proportion. He’s known this has been coming for
four years.”  
 Newark, a city of 280,000 where a quarter of the residents
live in poverty, has 2,500 homeowners that are behind on
mortgage payments, Booker said. A sharp rise in property taxes
may cause many to fall further behind, he said. The council
hasn’t passed the mayor’s $600 million budget, proposed last
month, which calls for a 7 percent increase in taxes.  
 Moody’s Investors Service on June 2 lowered its credit
outlook on the city’s $500 million in outstanding debt to
negative, citing diminishing reserves and a drop in state aid.  
 Under Booker’s water-authority proposal, the new agency
would sell as much as $600 million in municipal bonds. Of that
amount, $100 million would be paid to the city over two years
and the remainder would fund improvements, the mayor said.  
 “I’m going to do everything in my power to avoid” the tax
increase, said Councilman Augusto Amador, who supports the
water-authority proposal. “It would be the beginning of chaos
in this city.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        