-- NHL Rejects Kovalchuk's 17-Year, $102 Million Deal With New Jersey Devils
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-21T21:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/nhl-rejects-kovalchuk-s-17-year-102-million-deal-with-new-jersey-devils.html

          
          
             The National Hockey League rejected
the 17-year, $102 million contract  Ilya Kovalchuk  signed with
the New Jersey Devils, saying it circumvents the league’s
salary-cap rules.  
 NHL Deputy Commissioner  Bill Daly  said in a statement on
the league’s website that Kovalchuk isn’t permitted to play for
the Devils under the contract.  
 Kovalchuk, 27, was set to receive $95 million during the
first 10 years of the deal and a total of $7 million over the
final seven seasons,  TSN reported  without saying where it got
the information. Kovalchuk would have been 44 when the contract
-- the longest in NHL history -- expired in 2027.  
 Daly didn’t elaborate on the NHL’s decision and said the
league will have no further comment on the matter “pending
further developments.”  
 Devils President  Lou Lamoriello  said the team is
“extremely disappointed” and that the contract complies with
the terms of the league’s collective bargaining agreement. He
said the Devils won’t have further comment until the process
outlined in the CBA is complete.  
 The NHL Players Association issued a statement that said
it’s analyzing the reasons for rejecting the contract and
evaluating future options under the league’s labor agreement.  
 Kovalchuk was sent to the Devils on Feb. 4 in a five-player
trade with the Atlanta Thrashers, who had offered him a 12-year
extension worth $101 million, TSN reported. During the final 27
games of the regular season, he scored 10 goals and had 17
assists for the Devils.  
 Kovalchuk, who spent his first seven NHL seasons with the
Thrashers, is a two-time 50-goal scorer and three-time All-Star.
He’s scored 40 or more goals in six consecutive seasons.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        