-- Nigeria Banks, Central Bank Plan $10 Billion Fund to Acquire Bad Debts
-- Paul Okolo
-- 2010-07-21T18:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/nigeria-banks-central-bank-plan-10-billion-fund-to-acquire-bad-debts.html

          
          
             Nigerian lenders and the central
bank will contribute 1.5 trillion naira ($10 billion) over the
next 10 years to fund the company set up to buy bad debts in the
country’s banking industry.  
 The Central Bank of Nigeria will provide 500 billion naira
to the fund in support of the state-owned Asset Management Corp.
of Nigeria while banks will contribute the rest, Aigboje Aig-
Imoukhuede, chief executive officer of Lagos-based  Access Bank
Plc , told reporters today in Abuja, the capital.  
 “This step reduces the likelihood that a Nigerian bank
will fail,” Aig-Imoukhuede said. “What Amcon does is give the
financial system a new lease of life.”  
 President Goodluck Jonathan on July 19 approved a bill
establishing the company following last year’s debt crisis that
threatened the industry with collapse. The bad loans were mainly
from investors who borrowed to buy shares at a time of high
prices and couldn’t repay the loans after share prices plunged.  
 The central bank sacked the chief executive officers of
eight of the country’s 24 lenders for their handling of the
crisis and provided 620 billion naira to bail out the industry.
Total non-performing loans of the eight troubled lenders are
estimated at 2.2 trillion naira, Aig-Imoukhuede said.  
 About 1.5 trillion naira may be recovered, leaving a gap to
be met by Amcon, he said.  
 Each lender is expected to contribute 0.3 percent of its
total assets to the fund, said Reginald Ihejiahi, chief
executive officer of  Fidelity Bank Plc .  
 ‘Industry Initiative’  
 “It’s completely an industry initiative,” said Ihejiahi.
The idea is to “accumulate money to enable Amcon meet any
shortfalls in its activities.”  
 The total assets of the country’s 24 banks are currently
between 14 trillion naira and 16 trillion naira, according to
Aig-Imoukhuede.  
 While the date set by the authorities for the start-up of
Amcon is January it may commence operations earlier, said Samuel
Oni, the central bank’s director of banking supervision.  
 Nigeria is Africa’s most populous country and the
continent’s top oil producer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        