-- Nordea Bank Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on Lower Loan Losses in Baltics
-- Maryam Nemazee
-- 2010-07-21T08:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/nordea-reports-net-income-in-second-quarter-decreased-13-to-692-million.html

          
          
             Nordea Bank AB , the Nordic region’s
largest lender, reported second-quarter profit that beat analyst
estimates after loan losses declined and said all Nordic banks
are likely to pass the European Union stress tests of lenders.  
 Net income declined to 537 million euros ($692 million)
from 616 million euros a year earlier, Stockholm-based Nordea
said in a statement today. That beat the average 522 million-
euro estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, after
impairments on loans dropped 42 percent to 245 million euros.  
 Nordic banks including  Swedbank AB , SEB AB, DnB NOR ASA and
Nordea suffered soaring loan losses in the Baltic countries last
year as the region experienced the steepest recession in the
European Union and all of them raised cash to strengthen their
capital. Nordic banks are “well-capitalized” and will “come
out well” in the stress tests, Nordea Chief Executive Officer
 Christian Clausen  said in an interview with Bloomberg TV today.  
 “We will pass the stress tests -- even in the stressed
scenario, according to our own calculations, there is a very
limited impact on our capital ratio, he said. “I think most
major banks will be in this position also.”  
 EU regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks to
determine if they can survive potential losses from both a
recession and a decline in the value of their government bond
holdings. They are using the tests to reassure investors about
the health of financial institutions from Germany’s WestLB AG to
Spanish savings banks as the debt crisis pummels the bonds of
Greece, Spain and Portugal. Danish banks including  Danske Bank
A/S  and Jyske Bank A/S, Finland’s Pohjola Bank Oyj and Sweden’s
four largest banks are included in the stress test.  
 Strong Balance Sheets  
 “Nordic banks are well capitalized and also have pretty
strong balance sheets” Clausen said. “So my expectation is
clearly that the Nordic banks will come out well,” he said in
the interview.  
 Nordea’s profit  in the second quarter was lower than in the
same period a year earlier after net interest income, the
difference between what the bank makes from lending and what it
pays for deposits, decreased 4.3 percent to 1.25 billion euros.
Costs rose 6.3 percent to 1.19 billion euros in the quarter.  
 The Swedish lender said it expects its so-called risk-
adjusted profit to be lower this year than in 2009 because of
lower income at its treasury and markets units, while net loan
losses are forecast to be lower than last year as credit quality
in the Nordic region and in the Baltic countries stabilizes.  
 Lower Loan Losses  
 “We see clearly that impaired loans are starting to
decrease and we also see that rating migration is really slowing
down, so the credit quality in general is going up and therefore
we now expect loan losses to be lower,” Clausen said. “We
already see that effect now in the second quarter, where we see
some drop in our own loan losses. We expect that to continue.”  
 DnB NOR ASA , Norway’s largest bank, said profit in the
second quarter almost tripled while Stockholm-based SEB returned
to profit, after provisions for bad loans in the Baltic nations
fell. Swedbank, the largest lender in the Baltic countries, will
report second-quarter earnings tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Niklas Magnusson  in
Stockholm at   nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        