-- Obama Says Financial Overhaul Bill `Strongest' Ever
-- Kate Andersen Brower
-- 2010-07-21T12:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/obama-calls-new-u-s-financial-regulation-measure-strongest-in-history.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  today signs
into law the biggest overhaul of the U.S. financial-regulatory
system since the Great Depression, calling it “the strongest
consumer financial protections in history.”  
 In excerpts of Obama’s remarks released by the White House
ahead of a signing ceremony, the president praised the law’s
creation of a consumer protection bureau that will write and
enforce rules for banks on credit card and mortgage lending.  
 “These protections will be enforced by a new consumer
watchdog with just one job: looking out for people -- not big
banks, not lenders, not investment houses,” he said according
to the prepared remarks. “That’s not just good for consumers;
that’s good for the economy.”  
 The president is scheduled to sign the legislation into law
this morning at the Ronald Reagan Building a few blocks from the
White House. The administration will then begin writing the
rules and set up the agencies to enforce the new law, Deputy
Treasury Secretary  Neal Wolin  said yesterday during a White
House briefing.  
 Discord  
 Tighter regulation of Wall Street has sparked discord
between the White House and some business leaders, and “I think
that’s unhealthy for each side,” said  Roger Altman  founder of
Evercore Partners and a former deputy Treasury secretary under
President  Bill Clinton .  
 “I think it can suppress just that level of business
confidence that’s necessary to create investment and jobs,”
Altman said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“Each side should bury the hatchet,” he said, adding that
business should take the first step.  
 The Senate voted 60-39 to rewrite the rules governing Wall
Street firms, ending a year of partisan debate over
strengthening protections for consumers and investors. The
legislation, designed to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial
crisis, was approved by the House last month.  
 The 2,300-page regulatory overhaul creates the consumer
protection bureau, sets up a new council of regulators to
monitor systemic risks in the banking system and gives the
government new powers to unwind failing financial firms whose
collapse would undermine the markets.  
 Protection Bureau  
 Among the biggest questions at the outset is who the
president will select to head the new Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, which will be housed at the Federal Reserve
and which Wolin said would be fully operational “within a year
of enactment.”  
 The White House has said that  Elizabeth Warren , chairman of
a congressional panel overseeing the  Troubled Asset Relief
Program , is one of the candidates.  
 Warren is one of about 400 people invited to today’s bill-
signing. The group includes lawmakers, business leaders and
others instrumental in shaping the legislation, according to
White House spokeswoman Amy Brundage.  Bob Diamond Jr ., the
president of Barclays Plc and former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , who succeeded in his push to limit investments by
commercial banks in private equity or hedge funds, are also
scheduled to attend, according to Brundage.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama praised the law's creation of a consumer protection bureau. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Austan Goolsbee, a senior White House economic adviser, discusses legislation to overhaul the U.S. financial-regulatory system.
     President Barack Obama will sign the bill into law later today at a ceremony at the White House. Goolsbee, speaking from Washington, talks with Julianna Goldman on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
