-- Ocado Heads for Worst U.K. IPO Debut Since 2007
-- Zijing Wu
-- 2010-07-21T16:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/ocado-raises-565-million-in-ipo-after-reducing-price-to-180-pence-a-share.html

          
          
             Ocado Group Plc,  the unprofitable
U.K. online grocer, dropped on its first day of conditional
trading in London after skepticism over the valuation led the
company to reduce the price for its initial public offering.  
 The shares declined 7 percent to close at 167 pence, from
the offer price of 180 pence. That was the worst first-day
performance among London IPOs since June 2008, when Brookwell
Ltd. fell 8 percent in its debut, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Ocado slumped as much as 14 percent today.  
 “I’m not disappointed” by the share performance, Ocado
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Steiner  said today in a conference
call. “We’ll see in two years’ time where it is then.”  
 Ocado cut the price to as much as 200 pence yesterday, from
an initial range of 200 pence to 275 pence. The grocery delivery
company, based in Hatfield, England, hasn’t made an operating
profit in its 10-year history and proceeded with the plan after
companies postponed or canceled at least 55 IPOs since April.  
 “Investors are looking for genuine growth stocks, but even
after the inevitable slashing of the IPO price, it is
astonishing how high a price is being paid for Ocado,” said
 Nick Bubb , an analyst at Arden Partners. At the IPO price, the
ratio of enterprise value to earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization is 41 times, he said in a note.  
 At the closing share price, Ocado had a market value of
about 870 million pounds ($1.32 billion).  
 Warehouse Purchase  
 The online retailer raised net proceeds of 200 million
pounds in the IPO, which it will use to pay off debt and buy a
second warehouse in the north of the U.K. The company reserved
up to 15 million pounds in fees for bankers, public relations
firms, lawyers and accountants, Steiner said.  
 The overall size of the offer was 369 million pounds,
including 154.8 million pounds raised by existing investors.  
 Ocado, founded by Steiner and two other former Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. bond traders in 2000, mainly delivers within
London and southeast England from the Waitrose grocery chain.
Waitrose owner John Lewis Partnership Plc invested within months
of the grocer’s inception and still holds a stake through its
pension fund. Ocado secured a 10-year extension on its supply
agreement with Waitrose at the end of May.  
 Ocado’s reliance on the agreement with Waitrose,
competition from its supplier’s own online delivery service
within London and the lack of profit all concerned analysts.  
 The online grocer had a first-half operating loss of 2.7
million pounds, it said in a statement. Ocado is Britain’s
fourth-largest online food and grocery retailer after store-
based companies Tesco Plc, J Sainsbury Plc and Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s Asda, according to research company Verdict.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS and Goldman Sachs managed the
IPO, along with Barclays Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc, Jefferies Group
Inc., Lloyds Banking Group and Numis Securities Ltd.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Celeste Perri  at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ocado CEO Tim Steiner. Source: Ocado via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A driver checks his load before leaving to deliver orders at the Ocado Ltd. distribution center in Hatfield. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Ocado Ltd. company logo stands at the Ocado distribution center in Hatfield. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
