-- Off-Road Vehicle Rules Remain U.S. Priority, Consumer Safety Chief Says
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/off-road-vehicle-rules-remain-u-s-priority-consumer-safety-chief-says.html

          
          
             A bid by makers of recreational off-
road vehicles to beef up safety won’t deter the U.S. Consumer
Product Safety Commission from pursuing a plan proposed nine
months ago to write rules, Chairman  Inez Tenenbaum  said.  
 “It concerned me then, and it concerns me now, that there
were no standards for ROVs,” Tenenbaum, a Democrat, said
yesterday at a meeting with representatives of  Yamaha Motor Co. ,
Polaris Industries Inc., Arctic Cat Inc. and Bombardier
Recreational Products Inc. “News accounts and investigations of
rollovers and incidents have not stopped.” The U.S. has
reported at least 268 deaths and injuries since 2003.  
 Manufacturers are requiring that helmets and three-point
seat belts be used as part of the industry’s effort to improve
safety, said Recreational Off-Highway Vehicle Association
Chairman Jan Rintamaki, who met Tenenbaum.  
 More stringent requirements will be adopted, such as a
rollover test and steps to keep passengers’ limbs confined. A
safety course was posted today on the Irvine, California-based
group’s  website , he said.  
 The CPSC said last year it had started drafting regulations
for the design of recreational vehicles such as the Yamaha
Rhino, a two-seat machine the size of a golf cart designed to
travel on wilderness trails.  
 The industry failed to come up with adequate designs, the
agency said in an Oct. 28 Federal Register  notice . Regulators
tallied at least 116 fatalities and 152 injuries in recreational
off-road vehicles from January 2003 through August 2009. Thirty-
seven children were among the deaths, CPSC spokesman  Scott Wolfson  said in an interview.  
 Crushed Limbs, Amputations  
 The agency said action was needed because of the severe
nature of the injuries, including crushed limbs, flesh torn from
bones and amputations.  
 The industry will continue to work on voluntary standards
stringent enough for the agency to endorse or adopt, said Paul
Vitrano, executive vice president of the industry group.  
 “We want to come up with a product that they can
support,” Vitrano said.  
 CPSC staff is working with the U.S. Army’s Aberdeen Proving
Ground to design a test to determine how prone vehicles are to
rollovers, Tenenbaum said today. Rintamaki said the industry has
been unable to identify a scientifically valid, repeatable test
that replicates off-road conditions and vowed to find one.  
 “We have to be convinced that everybody, including
ourselves, has pushed safety to the absolute maximum it can be
pushed to so we can all sleep at night,” said CPSC Commissioner
Robert Adler, a Democrat who took part in the meeting.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        