-- Oil Harder to Find on Surface of Gulf After BP Halts Flow
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-21T19:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/oil-harder-to-find-on-surface-of-gulf-of-mexico-after-bp-halts-well-s-flow.html

          
          
             Oil from the biggest spill in U.S.
history is getting harder to find on the surface of the Gulf of
Mexico, seven days after BP Plc halted the flow from its damaged
well, the U.S. government said.  
 “We’re really having to search for the oil in some
cases,” National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  told reporters
on a conference call today. “We’ve had skimmers out there on
the wellhead site for a number of days now, as many as 50 a
day.”  
 BP  shut valves atop the well on July 15, stopping the flow
for the first time in three months. After installing a new
containment cap, London-based BP was able to stop the estimated
35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day gushing into the Gulf as
it tests the well’s integrity.  
 The front line for cleanup will move from the waters around
the well to the shoreline after oil stops flowing, U.S. Coast
Guard Rear Admiral Peter Neffenger told the  presidential
commission  investigating the disaster on July 12.  
 The well leaked between 2.31 million and 4.1 million
barrels after the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded April 20 and
sank two days later. The total is based on government flow-rate
estimates of 20,000 to 40,000 barrels daily from April 22 to
June 3 and 35,000 to 60,000 barrels a day after a kinked pipe
atop the well was cut June 4.  
 The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration last
month  confirmed  plumes of oil from the well were found as many
as 3,300 feet (1,006 meters) beneath the surface of the Gulf.  
 Onshore Oil  
 Offshore skimmers will be less effective once fresh oil
stops hitting the surface and the older oil weathers into tar-
like clumps floating below the surface, Neffenger said.  
 “We’ll be seeing tar balls and tar mats for some time to
come,” Neffenger said. “You’ll see a lot of those large
offshore skimmers pulled out because we won’t need them. But
you’ll see a subsequent increase in the amount of shoreline
activity.”  
 Allen said the search for oil has allowed responders “some
time to get the vessels in and get them fixed, get our boom
fixed and redeploy if we’re going to have another event and also
continue to work on a shore cleanup in the marshes.”  
 “A lot of it has come to shore,” said Edward Overton,
professor emeritus at Louisiana State University in an interview
with  Lizzie O’Leary  today on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track.” But the spill is “in an area where they’re not strong
ocean currents taking it onshore or in any given direction so it
meanders around and every so often globs wash ashore.”  
 Gulf Storm  
 The possibility of a coming storm in the Gulf hasn’t yet
caused any reduction in the number of boats deployed to skim and
contain oil from the spill, Allen said.  
 Heavy rain over the Dominican Republic, Haiti and Puerto
Rico has a 50 percent chance of turning into a depression or
tropical storm within two days, the National Hurricane Center
said. A tropical system entering the Gulf may drive the oil from
the BP spill into the coast of Louisiana and Mississippi or
disperse it over a wider area of water, according to the center.  
 Oil had tarred 631 miles (1,015 kilometers) of coastline
yesterday, 2 percent more than a day earlier and the most
extensive shoreline pollution since the spill began, the
government reported. About 35 percent of the Gulf of Mexico is
closed to fishing.  
 Allen is deciding on a day-to-day basis whether to allow
the well valves to stay shut or if they need to be opened
because of the threat of uncontrolled leaks.  
 “I took a flight, you can’t see the same type of oil you
could before,” said  David Schuhlein , a spokesman with the Coast
Guard.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “We’re really having to search for the oil in some cases,” Thad Allen told reporters on a conference call today. Photographer: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
