-- Oil Trades Near a Three-Week High After Decline in U.S. Crude Stockpiles
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-07-21T12:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/oil-rises-to-a-one-week-high-as-equities-advance-u-s-stockpiles-decline.html

          
          
             Oil rose to its highest level in
three weeks in New York on climbing equity prices and signs that
crude inventories are contracting in the U.S., the world’s
largest oil user.  
 Crude traded near $78 a barrel as European stocks gained on
stronger-than-estimated earnings at Apple Inc., Fiat SpA and
Accor SA. The American Petroleum Institute showed that crude
supplies fell last week, and analysts predict the Energy
Department will report an inventory decline later today.  
 Crude oil for September delivery advanced as much as 88
cents, or 1.1 percent, to $78.46 a barrel in electronic trading
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, and traded for $78.41 at
1:46 p.m. in London. Brent crude oil for September settlement
was up 85 cents at $77.07 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  
 “Sentiment suddenly improved yesterday with U.S.
equities,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich in Vienna. “Overall product demand is
quite healthy, up 5 percent in the U.S. from last year’s levels,
but there is still a lot of uncertainty with what will happen in
the U.S. and in China in the second half.”  
 The August contract expired in New York yesterday, up 90
cents at $77.44 a barrel, the highest daily settlement since
June 28. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 1.9 percent to 250.9 at
1:24 p.m. in London.  
 “We’ve got the U.S. reporting season under way at the
moment, and it’s looking better than expected,”  Mark Pervan , a
senior commodity strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
Melbourne. “Oil’s been a bit choppy recently, tracking
sideways. A lot of it depends on the macro data in the U.S.”  
 Storm Alert  
 Prices also gained yesterday after the National Hurricane
Center said a weather system over Puerto Rico and the Dominican
Republic has a 60 percent chance of becoming the second named
tropical cyclone of the Atlantic hurricane season.  
 The Gulf of Mexico accounts for about 31 percent of U.S.
oil output and 10 percent of its natural-gas production and is
home to seven of the 10 busiest ports, according to the Energy
Department. States along the Gulf are home to 43 percent of
operable U.S. refining capacity.  
 U.S. crude stockpiles fell 241,000 barrels to 353.3 million
last week, according to the American Petroleum Institute. The
institute collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  
 The Energy Department may say  supplies declined  1.2 million
barrels, according to the median of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the release of its report at 10:30 a.m.
today in Washington.  
 Forward Curve  
 The forward curve for oil, which compares prices for long-
term deliveries to immediate supply, may flatten more as crude
inventories begin to decline, according to analysts at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has
started to limit supplies, supporting prices for more immediate
shipments of West Texas Intermediate and Brent crude,  Francisco Blanch , Merrill’s head of commodity research, said in a report.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        