-- Oil Spill Shutters Beaches in China's Dalian; Fuel Is Recovered in Cleanup
-- John Duce
-- 2010-07-21T08:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/oil-spill-shutters-beaches-in-china-s-dalian-fuel-is-recovered-in-cleanup.html

          
          
             The northern Chinese port city of
Dalian has closed beaches as workers continue to clean the
offshore oil spill that has shut the country’s biggest crude
terminal, China Daily said.  
 Several bathing beaches have been closed and the resort
island of Bangchui island east of Dalian is barred to tourists,
the state-run newspaper reported, without saying where it got
the information. About 300 metric tons of oil has been recovered
as of 2 p.m. yesterday, China National Petroleum Corp., the
parent of Hong Kong-listed  PetroChina Co. , said in a statement
on its website today.  
 “From local media reports, it appears that about half the
oil from the spill has been collected and the impact will be
fairly limited,”  Wang Aochao , head of China Energy Research at
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in Shanghai., said by telephone. “The effect
on PetroChina and its parent should also be limited. It doesn’t
appear to be a major incident.”  
 Most of the port restarted operations yesterday after a
pipeline explosion caused the oil spill that spread across more
than 183 square kilometers (70 square miles) of sea. Navigation
through the harbor resumed from 5 p.m. local time, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported.  
 The cleanup has been delayed by heavy rain and strong winds
that forced many of the 800 fishing boats that joined the effort
to withdraw, Xinhua reported. Authorities are aiming to finish
the work before July 24, it said.  
 “Dalian has been experiencing heavy rain which will put
additional pressure on restoring port operations,”  Jeffrey Landsberg , president of New York-based Commodore Research, said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “More dry bulk vessels are
still expected to become congested at the port.”  
 Shares Rise  
 Dalian Port (PDA) Co. rose for a second day in Hong Kong
following a 5.1 percent decline on July 19, the first trading
day after the pipeline explosion was reported. The stock gained
2 percent. PetroChina climbed 1.9 percent, beating the 1.1
percent increase in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  
 PetroChina’s Dalian refinery is unaffected by the oil spill
and is operating at normal rates of 95 percent of capacity, an
official at the plant who declined to be identified because of
company regulations said today.  
 Ground operations at Dalian Port’s crude terminal restarted
yesterday and the company said it will take “active measures”
to resume vessel loading and unloading operations in the “near
future,” according to a statement.  
 Cargoes Diverted  
 West Pacific Petrochemical Corp., a refinery run by
PetroChina and Sinochem Group, has diverted some crude cargoes
originally scheduled to unload in Dalian to other domestic ports,
said a Sinochem trader, who declined to be named because of
company rules.  
 The refiner known as Wepec receives about three crude
cargoes a month and has sufficient stockpiles to meet its
requirements for a week, the trader said.  
 Wepec has reduced oil processing by 20 percent to about
140,000 barrels a day compared with levels before the pipeline
explosion, C1 Energy, the Shanghai-based unit of CBI China Co.,
said on July 19.  
 China National United Oil Corp., the crude trading unit of
PetroChina, currently doesn’t have a plan to resell crude
cargoes originally scheduled to unload in Dalian, said a trader
with China National, who declined to be identified because of
company rules.  
 Fire Risk  
 The July 16 explosion was caused after a “catalyst” was
added to a crude-oil storage tank, according to the Ministry of
Transport. The error was made when an oil tanker was unloading
at Dalian on July 16, according to statement on the transport
ministry’s website, which didn’t say what the substance was or
who was responsible for the incident.  
 China National Petroleum’s facilities at the port received
a warning about fire and explosion hazards a year ago from
“relevant organizations,” the National Business Daily reported
today, without citing anyone.  
 A China National Petroleum spokesperson couldn’t be
immediately reached by telephone for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        