-- Rice, Sugar Production to Increase on Monsoon Rains in India, Nomura Says
-- Pratik Parija
-- 2010-07-21T12:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/monsoon-rain-to-be-widespread-across-most-of-india-weather-office-says.html

          
          
             Food grain production in India, the
second-biggest grower of rice, wheat and sugar, will increase as
the La Nina weather phenomenon brings more rain after a weak
start to the annual monsoon season, Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  
 Output may rise 6 percent to 230 million metric tons in the
year to March, from 218.2 million tons,  Sonal Varma  and  Ketaki Sharma , economists at Nomura’s Indian unit, said in a report.
Agriculture, which makes up 15 percent of the economy, may grow
5.4 percent, compared with 0.2 percent a year ago, they said.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is betting on a rebound in
farm output to cool inflation after a drought last year drove up
food costs and forced record imports of sugar, edible oils and
pulses. The health of the monsoon-sown crops is good and there
will be “substantial improvement” in planting during the rest
of the four-month rainy season, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  told
reporters yesterday.  
 “The crop-sowing patterns suggest good progress in coarse
cereals, cotton, sugar cane and pulses, despite lower rainfall
in July,” Nomura said. “High food prices from last year should
provide an incentive to increase food production this year.”  
 Rains have been 16 percent below normal  in first 20 days of
this month, posing a risk to crop output, the economists said.
July is the wettest month of the June-September monsoon season,
accounting for about a third of the total rainfall.  
 The monsoon is 15 percent below normal since June 1, the
India Meteorological Department yesterday. The slow start to the
season makes the state forecaster’s prediction of the country
getting normal rain this year a “tall order,” Nomura said.  
 ‘Catching Up’  
 Rainfall may be 102 percent of the 50-year average, helped
by La Nina, the forecaster said last month. Most parts of the
sugar cane, rice, cotton and oilseed areas of the country will
receive widespread showers over the next two days, the weather
office today on its website.  
 “With La Nina weather conditions developing, monsoon rains
may play catch up in August and September,” Nomura said.  
 The erratic nature of the monsoon means that the forecasts
can go wrong. The weather bureau failed to predict last year’s
drought and the “normal” forecast in 2002 preceded the
country’s worst drought since 1987.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        