-- Montreal Port Strike Talks May Start Today as Abitibi Considers Layoffs
-- Frederic Tomesco
-- 2010-07-21T13:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/montreal-port-talks-may-start-today-with-government-mediator.html

          
          
             Negotiations to end a work stoppage
at the Port of Montreal will start tomorrow as the dispute
threatens to spark layoffs at exporters such as  AbitibiBowater
Inc.  and delay a C$20 million ($19.2 million) investment project
by Cascades Inc.  
 AbitibiBowater, North America’s largest newsprint maker,
ships a “significant” portion of its paper and lumber through
the port, spokesman  Jean-Philippe Cote  said yesterday. The
company is storing products in warehouses and may need to make
temporary layoffs should the lockout drag on, he said.  
 “We really didn’t need this problem,” said  Cote . “We are
trying to find alternative routes wherever we can, but it’s not
possible for all our shipments and it comes with additional
costs.”  
 The Maritime Employers Association, which represents
shipping companies and negotiates with port workers in Montreal,
Toronto and other Canadian cities, on July 18 imposed a lockout
on 850 longshoremen in a dispute over wages.  
 Maritime employers  rejected a union request to begin
“round-the-clock” talks today at noon, saying they need more
time to prepare. Negotiators for both sides will instead meet
under the supervision of government-appointed mediators for two
days of talks starting tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. New York time.  
 “We have a lot of work ahead of us because the union asked
us to start from scratch on a new financial model,” Gilles
Corriveau, a spokesman for the employers’ association, said
today in a telephone interview.  
 He declined to provide specific figures. Workers have been
without a labor agreement since Dec. 31, 2008.  
 Bad for Longshoremen  
 Employers are prepared to lift the lockout if union
officials commit to abandoning pressure tactics such as extended
lunch breaks and the refusal to work overtime, Corriveau said.
Longshoremen were told to start refusing overtime starting July
9 at 11:59 p.m., according to a  note to workers  posted on the
union’s website.  
 “The suspension of pressure tactics is a fundamental
condition for us,” Corriveau said. “There’s a new openness
from the union to reach a negotiated settlement, and we welcome
it.”  
 The Port of Montreal is Canada’s second largest after
 Vancouver , handling 1.25 million 20-foot equivalent units, or
containers last year, according to its  website . The port also
handles liquid bulk such as gasoline and jet fuel, and dry bulk
such as iron ore and raw sugar. The lockout is costing member
companies of the association about C$800,000 weekly, Corriveau
said.  
 Full-Time Pay  
 “This lockout is bad for the longshoremen, bad for the
economy of Montreal and Quebec, and bad for the reputation of
the port of Montreal,” Michel Murray, a spokesman for the
Canadian Union of Public Employees, said at a televised news
conference in Montreal yesterday.  
 The conflict centers on the number of workers who are
guaranteed full-time pay even if they aren’t called into work,
Corriveau said July 19, adding that the cost of the program has
doubled in the past five years. Maritime employers want to
reduce the number by about 13 percent, he said.  
 AbitibiBowater has 31 plants in Quebec, including eight
newsprint and paper mills and another 23 that process lumber,
according to its  website . The Montreal-based company and several
units sought bankruptcy protection last year after U.S. lenders
refused to accept a proposed debt restructuring.  
 Investment Delay  
 Bombardier  Inc., the world’s second-largest trainmaker,
usually gets parts shipped via the Port of Montreal, said
spokeswoman  Isabelle Rondeau . Shippers working for the train and
aircraft maker may deliver the parts through alternative ports
such as Halifax, Nova Scotia, she said. Bombardier doesn’t have
any containers stuck in Montreal, she said.  
 Paper maker  Cascades  may delay a C$20 million investment at
one of its Quebec plants because some of the parts for machines
are stuck inside a container at the port, spokesman  Hubert Bolduc  said.  
 “We may have to re-evaluate the timing of our project,”
Bolduc said in a telephone interview. “We had planned to have
our contractors start work in August, but we’re not sure how
this is going to play out if the dispute drags on.”  
 About half of the goods destined for Canada’s eastern-most
province of Newfoundland come through the Port of Montreal,
according to a provincial government  statement . Due to the
lockout, St. John’s, Newfoundland-based  Oceanex Inc.  will
redirect its ships to Halifax, Chairman  Sid Hynes  said.  
 “We could see this was coming weeks ago, so we have been
preparing,” Hynes said in a telephone interview. “Halifax can
handle a lot of extra business. These are kinds of possibilities
we always think about.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        