-- Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo Gain as Earnings Beat Estimates
-- Michael J. Moore
-- 2010-07-21T20:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/morgan-stanley-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-higher-trading-revenue.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley  rose by the most in
more than a year in New York trading after reporting earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates and revenue from trading stocks
that surpassed all five of the company’s bigger competitors.  
 The  shares  surged 6.3 percent, the biggest gain since July
13, 2009, after the New York-based company posted second-quarter
 net income  of $1.96 billion, or $1.09 a share. Earnings from
continuing operations were 80 cents a share, including a 20-cent
tax benefit, compared with the 47-cent average  estimate  of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  has added employees to
Morgan Stanley’s sales and trading unit to close a gap with
larger competitors including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Stock-
trading revenue jumped 82 percent from a year earlier and the 12
percent decline in overall trading revenue from the first
quarter was smaller than the drop at bigger banks.  
 “Quite impressive compared to Goldman Sachs,” said  Gary Townsend , chief executive officer of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC
in Chevy Chase, Maryland, which owns Morgan Stanley shares.
“Morgan has just not had as pronounced a view as Goldman has
had, it has generally been taking less risk over the past
several quarters, and that helped it here.”  
 Goldman Sachs  yesterday reported earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates as trading revenue fell 36 percent from the
first quarter. Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,
the two biggest U.S. banks by assets, last week both reported at
least a 34 percent drop in trading revenue.  
 ‘Taking Market Share’  
 “We’re seeing the beginnings of taking market share,”
Morgan Stanley Chief Financial Officer  Ruth Porat  said in an
interview after earnings were released.  
 Morgan Stanley rose $1.58 to $26.80 in composite trading on
the New York Stock Exchange at 4:02 p.m. after jumping as much
as 11 percent. The stock, which gained 85 percent in 2009, is
down 9.5 percent this year.  
 Revenue  at Morgan Stanley rose to $8 billion from $5.2
billion a year earlier. Book value per share climbed to $29.65
from $27.65 at the end of March. The firm’s return on equity
from continuing operations, a measure of how well it reinvests
earnings, was 12.2 percent.  
 In equities trading, Morgan Stanley’s $1.42 billion of
second-quarter  revenue  included a $129 million gain as the
firm’s credit spreads widened. The unit’s revenue, which was
$776 million a year earlier, compares with $1.21 billion at
Goldman Sachs and $1.04 billion at JPMorgan.  
 Trading ‘Reality’  
 “Trading is still the predominant driver of Morgan
Stanley’s business,” said  Mark Lane , an analyst at William
Blair & Co., who has an “outperform” rating on Morgan Stanley.
The Smith Barney joint venture with Citigroup Inc. “sent a
signal that they are going in a different direction than the
rest of Wall Street, but the reality is that trading still is
the key driver of their business, at least in the near term.”  
 Revenue benefitted from $750 million of gains related to
the widening of the firm’s own credit spreads. The company
booked $5.1 billion of gains in fiscal 2008 as its bond spreads
widened, then reversed them in 2009 as markets improved and
spreads tightened.  
 In the second quarter, Morgan Stanley’s revenue from fixed-
income sales and trading, excluding gains or losses from its own
credit spreads, was $1.7 billion compared with $2.3 billion a
year earlier. That missed estimates for $1.85 billion from
 Howard Chen  at Credit Suisse Group AG and $1.89 billion from
 Roger Freeman  at Barclays Capital.  
 Investment Banking  
 Morgan Stanley generated $885 million in revenue from
investment banking.  
 Global wealth management posted pretax income of $207
million, compared with a loss of $71 million in the second
quarter of 2009, when Morgan Stanley completed its  purchase  of a
controlling stake in the joint venture with Citigroup’s Smith
Barney.  
 Morgan Stanley said it will miss profit-margin goals for
its brokerage as retail investors shy away from risk following
higher volatility in the second quarter and the May 6 market
crash. The firm may also reach a target for cost savings later
than planned.  
 “Hitting those targets, given it’s a fairly formulaic
business in many respects, will get pushed out because the
performance is market-dependent,” Porat said today in an
interview.  
 Wealth Management  
 Gorman, who led the wealth-management business before
becoming CEO in January, said in February the bank expected to
increase the unit’s pretax profit margin to 15 percent by the
end of this year and to more than 20 percent by the end of 2011.
The margin was 7 percent in the second quarter, down from 9
percent in the first.  
 Asset management reported a pretax loss of $86 million,
less than the $210 million pretax loss in the previous year’s
period. Net asset outflows were $1.2 billion.  
 Compensation and benefits increased 2.2 percent to $3.89
billion in the quarter, or 49 percent of the firm’s overall
revenue. The cost compared with $3.8 billion in the second
quarter of 2009, when the firm set aside 73 percent of revenue.  
 Morgan Stanley’s profit may be hurt by the financial-
overhaul bill that President  Barack Obama  signed into law today.
The bill, which the Senate passed last week after more than a
year of negotiations, increases oversight of derivatives trading
and limits proprietary trading and banks’ investments in private
equity and hedge funds.  
 Restoring Trust  
 “Regulatory reforms are a key step toward restoring trust
in the industry and the markets,” Gorman said in the statement.  
 Morgan Stanley could move certain derivatives, including
those tied to interest rates, foreign exchange and risk-
management swaps, into its bank in order to have access to
cheaper funding, Porat said on a conference call with analysts.  
 Porat also said that while the firm’s key concern is the
global economic outlook and a “fragile” recovery in the U.S.,
concern that the recession will return is “overstated.”  
 The firm had a gain from the  sale  of its retail investment-
management business, including its Van Kampen funds, to  Invesco
Ltd.  The $1.37 billion purchase, which was announced last year,
was completed on June 1. Results also included a $361 million
charge related to the U.K. bonus tax.  
 Sixteen analysts cut their per-share  earnings estimates  in
the past four weeks, with many citing volatile financial
markets. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 8.2 percent in
May and another 5.4 percent in June. The average earnings
estimate fell 19 cents in the past four weeks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     CEO James Gorman is trying to reduce the firm’s reliance on trading after Morgan Stanley suffered losses during the financial crisis. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Lane, a financial analyst with William Blair & Co., talks about Morgan Stanley's second-quarter profit released today.
     Morgan Stanley posted a net income of $1.96 billion, or $1.09 a share. Lane speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Gary Townsend, president and co-founder of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC, discusses Morgan Stanley's and Wells Fargo & Co.'s second-quarter earnings reported today.
     Morgan Stanley had net income of $1.96 billion, or $1.09 a share. Earnings from continuing operations were 80 cents a share, which included a 20-cent tax benefit, beating analysts' estimates. Wells Fargo said net income fell 3 percent to $3.06 billion, or 55 cents a diluted share. Townsend talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
