-- Mori May Add Another Helicopter for Tokyo-Narita Service on Airline Pacts
-- Kiyotaka Matsuda
-- 2010-07-21T05:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/mori-to-boost-tokyo-narita-helicopter-service-on-lufthansa-american-pacts.html

          
          
             Mori Building City Air Services Co. ,
the operator of a helicopter service between downtown Tokyo and
Narita airport, may add a third aircraft after tie-ups with
airlines boosted traffic.  
 The unit of  Mori Building Co. , Japan’s biggest closely held
developer, may add an eight-seat helicopter to its two existing
four-seaters,  Koichi Ueno , a managing director, said in an
interview in Tokyo today, without giving a timeframe. The
helicopter service pares travel times from downtown Tokyo to
Narita to about 30 minutes, he said.  
 Mori has doubled monthly passenger numbers since starting
flights in September after  American Airlines ,  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG ,  Alitalia SpA  and  Japan Airlines Corp.  joined  All Nippon
Airways Co.  in offering the service to business and first-class
passengers.  East Japan Railway Co. ’s Narita Express train takes
about an hour to make the almost 80-kilometer (50-mile) trip
from Tokyo station to Japan’s busiest international airport.  
 “The fact that airlines are willing to provide the service
to business passengers should boost its appeal,” said  Yasuhiro Matsumoto , an analyst at Shinsei Securities Co. in Tokyo. “It
may draw executives working for big companies.”  
 The helicopter service aims to make a profit in three
years, according to Ueno.  
 Bond Price Gains  
 Narita, which handled  32 million passengers  last year, is
improving connections as Tokyo’s other airport, Haneda, expands
capacity with the opening of a new runway in October.  
 Keisei Electric Railway Co. added a faster link to Narita
airport last week, reducing the trip to Nippori on the loop line
of Tokyo’s city-rail system to as little as 36 minutes. Trains
from Haneda reach the loop line in as little as 16 minutes.  
 Mori Building’s most-recent bonds have gained since they
were issued earlier this year, indicating increasing investor
appetite for the property developer’s debt.  
 The price of the 1.39 percent note maturing in April 2013
rose to 100.181 yen as of yesterday, compared with 99.804 yen on
April 30, pushing the yield down 14 basis points to 1.32
percent, according to the Japan Securities Dealers Association.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Mori Building City Air flies passengers to Sakura
airport, near Narita, from Ark Hills Heliport in downtown Tokyo.
After the 15-minute flight, passengers take a 15-minute
limousine ride to Narita, according to the company’s website.  
 Passengers Double  
 A one-way ticket costs 45,000 yen ($516). Some airlines
offer free rides to some business-class and first-class
customers. Passenger numbers have climbed to as many as 300 a
month from around 150 when the service started, Ueno said.  
 “We’re getting a lot of repeaters on our service,” Ueno
said. “Narita is a long way from central Tokyo and the trip
used to take a lot of time.”  
 Business travel has risen this year as the global economy
recovers from recession. Worldwide premium air traffic, which
includes first and business class, grew 19 percent in May from a
year earlier, according to the International Air Transport
Association.  
 Premium traffic increased 11 percent in the first five
months of this year, compared with a year earlier, IATA said
earlier this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Au undated handout photograph shows a helicopter arriving at the heliport on the Akasaka Ark Hills Building in Tokyo. Source: Mori Building City Air Services Co. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
