-- U.S. Mortgage Brokers Get Criminal Check, Tests Under New Rules
-- John Gittelsohn
-- 2010-07-21T13:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/mortgage-brokers-get-criminal-checks-with-new-u-s-rules-to-cut-loan-fraud.html

          
          
             California mortgage brokers face
closer scrutiny as the state adopts a  federal law  aimed at
curbing the fraud and abuse that helped decimate the housing
market.  
 Brokers in the nation’s most populous state will be
required by July 31 to have passed criminal-background and
credit checks, as well as licensing exams. California, along
with about a third of U.S. states, previously didn’t require
mortgage sellers to have individual licenses.  
 That’s about to change as all states by Jan. 1 must
implement the national rules, which Congress developed after
record  mortgage defaults  and  foreclosures  were triggered by
rampant lending to people who couldn’t afford to repay their
loans or never intended to. Brokers will be assigned
identification numbers to enable regulators and borrowers to
track their lending histories.  
 “When someone buys 100 shares of stock, they must go
through a licensed securities broker,” said Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and co-sponsor of the law, the
Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008.
“Until recently, some purchased their home -- a far more
valuable asset -- through an independent mortgage broker or
lender who may have had a criminal background or no license at
all. This lack of accountability enabled unscrupulous brokers to
commit fraud at the expense of unsuspecting homebuyers.”  
 61 Criminal Counts  
 The tougher regulations were designed to avoid cases like
that of Sean McConville, who ran mortgage broker ALG Capital
Inc. of Mission Hills, California, from 2006 to 2008.
McConville, a convicted armed robber who didn’t have a broker’s
license, was charged in June with 61 criminal counts of grand
theft, forgery and elder abuse for conspiring to lure borrowers
into refinancing their homes on false promises of low interest
rates and minimal fees.  
 ALG employees forged loan documents to earn almost $1
million in fees from $30 million in refinanced mortgages,
committing fraud against the lending units of  Citigroup Inc .,
IndyMac Bancorp Inc. and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , as well
as borrowers, according to a criminal complaint in California
Superior Court in Los Angeles. McConville has pleaded not
guilty.  
 The U.S. financial-overhaul bill passed by Congress last
week includes additional mortgage regulations. The legislation
seeks to protect consumers from unaffordable loans with low
introductory teaser rates by requiring that they be able to
repay the maximum cost of adjustable mortgages based on current
income. It also caps brokers’ fees at 3 percent for most loans
to eliminate incentives to issue costlier and riskier mortgages.  
 Banks Exempted  
 The 2008 law, dubbed the SAFE Act, doesn’t require testing
for mortgage brokers at federally regulated lenders. That may
help companies such as  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo &
Co.  gain market share because they face fewer training
requirements and costs, said  William Emerson , chief executive
officer of Quicken Loans Inc., a closely held nonbank lender in
Livonia, Michigan.  
 “For large, independent, nonbank lenders, this is
certainly an operational challenge,” Emerson, whose company
originated $25 billion in mortgages in 2009, said in a telephone
interview. “It certainly adds costs.”  
 Bank of America and Wells Fargo together accounted for 46
percent of the residential-lending market in the first quarter,
according to data compiled by  Inside Mortgage Finance
Publications  in Bethesda, Maryland. Of $320 billion in new
mortgages in the quarter, about $184 billion, or 57 percent, was
originated by lenders whose employees are exempt from the
licensing exams, according to Inside Mortgage Finance data.  
 Failure No Obstacle  
 “You see mortgage brokers take the test and fail it and
wind up working for banks,” Emerson said. “If you can’t pass a
test and work for an independent, why are you qualified to work
for a bank?”  
 About 71 percent of people who took the national broker
exams passed on the first try, according to Pete Marks, vice
president for mortgage-testing programs at the Conference of
State Bank Supervisors, which was assigned responsibility under
the SAFE Act to maintain the licensing system and national
registry. Mortgage originators must also pass separate tests in
each state they do business.  
 Brokers at banks are exempt because they are “already
regulated and overseen by a number of federal agencies,”
Feinstein said in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 Bank Precautions  
 Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina,
conducts background investigations and credit checks of all
hires and provides training in legal compliance and regulations,
 Terry Francisco , a spokesman, said in an e-mail. Wells Fargo
takes similar precautions, said  Jason Menke , a spokesman for the
San Francisco-based bank.  
 Borrowers were victimized last year by brokers engaged in
fraudulent loan-modification plans, home appraisals and
applications for the first-time homebuyer tax credits, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation said June 17 in its annual
 report  on mortgage fraud. The top states for fraud in 2009 were
California, Florida, Illinois, Michigan and Arizona, based on
law enforcement and industry data, according to the bureau.  
 In a law-enforcement crackdown on mortgage fraud announced
by the FBI on June 17, mortgage brokers accounted for 169 of the
1,215 defendants charged in the operation; 56 of the 485
arrests; and 46 of the 336 convictions to date.  
 “From homebuyers to lenders, mortgage fraud has had a
resounding impact on the nation’s economy,” FBI Director  Robert Mueller  said in a statement.  
 Cost of Fraud  
 Lenders will seize more than 1 million homes this year,
RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data company,
forecast July 15. Mortgage defaults soared to 10.1 percent and
foreclosures reached 4.63 percent in the first quarter, both
records, the Mortgage Bankers Association said May 19. Median
 existing-home prices  have fallen 22 percent to $179,600 since
the July 2006 peak, the National Association of Realtors said
June 22.  
 The number of U.S. mortgage brokers shrank to 246,900 in
May, less than half of the February 2006 high of 504,400,
according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . The decline
was driven by tighter compliance standards, said  David Olson ,
president of Access Mortgage Research & Consulting, a firm in
Columbia, Maryland, that works with residential lenders.  
 Falling Profits  
 Profits by independent mortgage bankers shrank to an
average of $606 per loan in the first quarter, down from $1,088
a year earlier, the Washington-based mortgage bankers group
 reported  yesterday.  
 An  index  of mortgage applications in the U.S. rose to the
highest level in nine months last week as record-low borrowing
costs boosted refinancing, the Mortgage Bankers Association said
today. Originations probably will decline to $1.48 trillion this
year from $2.1 trillion in 2009, according to a July 14  forecast 
by the group.  
 The personal identification number will help weed out
brokers with histories of writing loans that quickly go bad,
said Ann Fulmer, vice president of  Interthinx Inc. , an Agoura
Hills, California-based company that sells mortgage-fraud
detection software.  
 “One of the things we saw over and over during the boom
was that a bad actor would work at a shop for several months,
frequently ending up as the ‘top producer,’ and then leave for
presumably greener pastures,” Fulmer said in an e-mail. “In
actuality, they usually left because their bad loans were about
to start blowing up and, if they stayed, they’d be discovered.”  
 Loan Modifications  
 The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, which
oversees compliance with the SAFE Act, has proposed that
employees handling  loan modifications  for struggling homeowners
also meet the licensing requirements, a policy opposed by banks.
Mandating licenses for loan-modification specialists would slow
hiring and stall efforts to reduce foreclosures, said  John Courson , CEO of the Mortgage Bankers Association.  
 “We say this is not originating a new loan, it’s reducing
the terms of their loan to get them to affordability,” he said
in a telephone interview.  
 The housing department hasn’t set a deadline for a
decision, said Lemar Wooley, a spokesman.  
 It costs $3,000 to $6,000 to train and pay the fees for
each new employee to comply with the mortgage-licensing system,
said  Anthony Hsieh , CEO of LoanDepot.com, an online mortgage
originator based in Irvine, California.  
 Opposite Effect  
 “The law is supposed to make sure we kick the bad ones
out,” said Hsieh. “It could be the opposite -- keep the good
ones out.”  
 States with the highest fraud and  foreclosure rates  are
among the last to put the national mortgage-licensing system in
place. Nevada, which had the highest foreclosure rate in the
first half of this year, goes live Oct. 1. Behind the delay was
the state’s multilevel approval process, said Elisabeth Daniels,
a spokeswoman for Nevada’s Department of Business and Finance.  
 Florida, where a 2008 Miami Herald  investigation  found
state regulators allowed 10,529 people with criminal backgrounds
to work in the mortgage industry, also is scheduled to begin
issuing licenses Oct. 1.  
 States including Georgia, Illinois, New Jersey, Ohio and
Virginia have already adopted the SAFE Act.  
 McConville was able to run ALG under his girlfriend’s
license. That  license  was pulled in 2008 after ALG failed to
provide documents demanded by state examiners in response to “a
rash” of consumer complaints, according to the California
Department of Corporations.  
 McConville, one of six people charged in the conspiracy, is
being held in Los Angeles County jail, unable to raise $3
million in bail, said Shirley Hayton, his attorney at Gartenberg
Gelfand Wasson & Selden LLP in Los Angeles.  
 At ALG, McConville handled relations with lenders and
didn’t personally write mortgages, so he didn’t commit any of
the alleged crimes against borrowers, Hayton said.  
 “I think there’s plenty of blame to go around,” Hayton
said. “Essentially, my dog could’ve gotten a loan if he could
sign a piece of paper.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sean McConville  
                       
                         
                           Austin Police Department via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Sean McConville is shown in this undated photo released to the media on Friday, July 9. 2010 by the Austin Police Department. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Sean McConville is shown in this undated photo released to the media on Friday, July 9. 2010 by the Austin Police Department. Source: Austin Police Department via Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         Attachment:  McConville Complaint 
     
    
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
