-- House Votes to Scrap Some Chemical, Yarn Duties to Aid U.S. Manufacturers
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-07-21T18:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/house-votes-to-scrap-some-chemical-yarn-duties-to-aid-u-s-manufacturers.html

          
          
             The U.S. House of Representatives
voted to suspend import duties on a variety of chemicals, yarns
and products that aren’t made in the U.S.  
 The  measure , passed by a 378-43 vote, will  save  companies
$298 million over the next three years in tariff payments to the
Treasury, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Some
Republicans complained that the measure violated a pledge they
adopted to avoid earmarks, or funding for specific companies or
industries.  
 “This bill is a shot in the arm for U.S. manufacturers and
workers, who need these goods to make their goods,”  Sander Levin , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said in
the House before the vote.  
 The measure is known as the miscellaneous tariff bill, and
was renamed by Democrats as the U.S. Manufacturing Enhancements
Act. Products included on the list this year include synthetic
fibers, reusable grocery bags, chemicals, herbicides, microwaves
and cashmere yarn.  
 Under a process set up by both parties, lawmakers are able
to submit products for which they want duties eliminated, and
those are allowed on goods that are not made in the U.S. Levin
argued the provisions in the legislation shouldn’t be considered
earmarks.  
 Chamber Backs Democrats  
 The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and National Association of
Manufacturers  urged  lawmakers to support the bill, siding with
Democrats. The Chamber said last week that Democrats and the
Obama administration had “vilified” businesses and adopted
onerous new regulations inhibiting the economic recovery.  
 The tariff bill “is one of the most important short-term
actions Congress can take to preserve and expand good American
jobs, cut the costs of doing business in the United States and
boost American manufacturing exports,”  Jay Timmons , executive
vice president of the National Association of Manufacturers,
 said  in a letter to lawmakers on July 20.  
 A companion bill hasn’t passed in the Senate. The measure
is H.R. 4380.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        