-- Housing Finance of Kenya Says First-Half Profit Surges as Loans Advance
-- Eric Ombok
-- 2010-07-21T13:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/housing-finance-of-kenya-plans-to-set-up-a-property-fund-director-says.html

          
          
             Housing Finance Ltd. , Kenya’s only
publicly traded mortgage company, said first-half net income
surged 54 percent and that is expected to increase lending to
meet growing demand.  
 The company said net income for the six months through June
climbed to 141.8 million shillings ($1.7 million) compared with
92.3 million shillings the year earlier, according to a
statement to the  Nairobi Stock Exchange  today. Net interest
income, or money the company made from issuing mortgages, rose
to 663.4 million shillings from 547.2 million shillings a year
earlier, it said.  
 The company expects “further growth during the year driven
by robust demand for mortgages, strategic partnerships,
favorable interest rates and government incentives to the
sector,” Managing Director  Frank Ireri  told reporters in
Nairobi today.  
 Kenya’s central bank kept its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 6.75 percent after commercial banks reduced their
lending rates and growth in East Africa’s largest economy
picked up.  
 Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  proposed to amend the
Banking Act to allow mortgage finance companies to operate
current accounts so as to attract lower-cost customer deposits
that would allow them to increase mortgage lending capacity and
expand their operations, he said in his annual budget speech on
June 10.  
 Kenyan urban areas require 150,000 housing units a year
compared with 35,000 produced, resulting in overcrowding and
informal settlements, Housing Finance said on June 14.  
 Housing Finance plans to set up a property fund, and is
exploring ways of raising “long-term funding to meet the huge
demand for mortgages,” Ireri said.  
 The company declared an interim dividend of 0.35 shillings
per share, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        