-- Toyota Investigation Findings Should Be Disclosed by U.S., Lawmaker Says
-- Angela Greiling Keane
-- 2010-07-21T20:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/toyota-investigation-findings-should-be-disclosed-by-u-s-lawmaker-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. auto-safety regulator
should explain whether it has data showing some  Toyota Motor
Corp.  accidents involving unintended acceleration were caused by
drivers pressing the wrong pedal, the top Republican on the
House Energy and Commerce Committee said.  
 Representative  Joe Barton  of Texas sent a letter to the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration today asking for
information on its investigation of Toyota accidents linked to
unintended acceleration. The company said last week that the
vehicles’ event-data recorders showed that “virtually all” of
the accidents in which motorists said they pressed the brake had
pushed the accelerator instead.  
 “Given these murky facts, it is important for us to know
whether NHTSA has EDR data showing that some incidents of
reported unintended acceleration were the result of pedal
misapplication,” Barton wrote in the letter to NHTSA
Administrator  David Strickland .  
 “The committee recently passed, and the House of
Representatives may soon consider, a sweeping $800 million
reauthorization of NHTSA that includes provisions aimed at
unintended acceleration,” Barton said in the letter.  
 Mike Michels , a spokesman for Toyota’s U.S. sales unit,
said the company has no comment on the matter. Spokeswomen for
NHTSA didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  
 Toyota, the world’s  largest automaker , and U.S. auto-safety
regulators are looking into causes of unintended acceleration in
the company’s cars and trucks. The Toyota City, Japan-based
automaker has recalled more than 8 million vehicles worldwide in
the past year for defects such as pedals that stuck or snagged
on floor mats.  
 Supporters of the auto-safety bill, including family
members of two people who died while driving Toyotas that were
said to accelerate suddenly, today called on the House to
approve the measure, which would pay for increased regulation
with a $9 fee on new cars.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        