-- Pacific Ocean Likely in Early Stages of La Nina, Australian Bureau Says
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-07-21T15:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/pacific-ocean-likely-in-early-stages-of-la-nina-australian-bureau-says.html

          
          
             The Pacific Ocean is likely in the
early stages of a La Nina cycle that may mean more Atlantic
hurricanes and drier, warmer winters across the southern U.S.  
 Some parts of the Pacific near the equator are now 1 degree
Celsius (1.8 degrees Fahrenheit) below average, the Australia’s
Bureau of Meteorology said  on its website  today.  
 “As computer models predict the central Pacific will
continue to cool over the coming months, it is now highly likely
that the Pacific is in the early stages of a La Nina event, and
that 2010 will be considered a La Nina year,” the bureau said.  
 La Nina is a cooling of the equatorial Pacific Ocean
occurring on average every three to five years and lasting nine
to 12 months, according to the U.S.  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration . Some events have lasted as long as
two years.  
 La Ninas enhance the conditions necessary for hurricanes to
develop in the Atlantic by damping high-altitude winds that can
tear the storms apart as they are forming, according to the U.S.
National Hurricane Center in Miami.  
 An increase in the number of hurricanes boosts the chances
that a storm will enter the Gulf of Mexico, home to about 30
percent of U.S. oil and 12 percent of U.S. natural gas
production, Energy Department data show.  
 Replaces Warming  
 The cooling replaces a warming event, or El Nino, that took
place last year and is credited in part with making the 2009
Atlantic hurricane season one of the least-active since 1997.  
 The switch has caused forecasters to predict an above-
average number of storms in the Atlantic this year.  
 Yesterday, WSI Corp., an Andover, Massachusetts-based
weather software maker, called for 19 named storms to form in
the Atlantic this year. While the company had earlier forecast
20 storms, a pocket of dry air over the Atlantic has retarded
storm growth, said  Todd Crawford , WSI’s chief meteorologist.  
 “We still expect an extremely active August-October
period,” Crawford said in a statement.  
 A storm gets a name when its sustained winds reach 39 miles
per hour, according to the hurricane center.  
 La Nina’s cooling patterns often bring drier, warmer
weather to the southern half of the U.S., increasing wildfire
threats in Florida and California. Florida is the second-largest
producer of oranges, behind Brazil.  
 Market Impact  
 The phenomenon may also affect oil and natural gas markets
during the U.S. winter, said  Travis Hartman , a meteorologist at
MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville,
Maryland.  
 “Historically, strong La Ninas have produced mild winters
in the East while relatively weak La Ninas have favored colder
temperatures in the Midwest and East,” Hartman said.  
 Increased rainfall in southern Africa, northeastern South
America and the U.S. Pacific Northwest are also common during La
Ninas, according to NOAA.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        