-- Paterson Says New York Lawmakers Make `Spurious' Claims to Avoid Meeting
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-07-21T17:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/paterson-says-new-york-lawmakers-make-spurious-claims-to-avoid-meeting.html

          
          
             New York  Governor  David Paterson ,
involved in a constitutional dispute with the Legislature over
his power to summon them to Albany for a budget session,
threatened to overrule their legal objections and do it anyway.  
 Paterson today revoked proclamations for special sessions
he had declared Jan. 17 and June 26. The governor said Assembly
and Senate leaders are making “spurious claims” that those
earlier meetings were still under way.  
 By saying they were still meeting, ostensibly to discuss
education aid, legislators are avoiding a special session on the
state’s $9.2 billion budget deficit, Paterson said. In fact, the
governor said today in a statement, empty chambers in the
Statehouse showed “almost no legislators were present” and no
business was being conducted.  
 “It is clear to me that this Legislature would rather play
parliamentary games than finish a budget that is 15 weeks
late,” the governor said. “I will exercise my constitutional
authority to bring them all back to Albany, even if it is an
election year.”  
 With its Senate adjourned, the nation’s third-biggest state
by population lacks a completed budget. The Legislature and
governor have enacted a spending plan without enough revenue to
fill a $9.2 billion gap.  
 The Senate didn’t act on a $1 billion revenue bill passed
by the Assembly, and neither chamber planned for the chance that
about $1 billion of federal Medicaid assistance wouldn’t arrive.
The U.S. Senate hasn’t approved that program.  
 Cash Squeeze  
 Without a revenue bill, a projected cash squeeze in
September would become worse, the governor has said. “The state
will run out of money in about a month-and-a-half,” he said
July 8 in an interview on New York City radio station  WOR .  
 “This contortion of the governor’s long-recognized
constitutional authority lacks a basis in law,” said  Peter Kiernan , counsel to the governor, speaking about the lawmakers’
actions. “The constitution does not permit the Legislature to
usurp gubernatorial authority in this manner.”  
 In the state Senate,  Austin Shafran , a spokesman for the
Democratic majority, dismissed the governor’s statement, saying
the Senate and Assembly “are working to resolve the outstanding
issues related to the budget and hope to see engagement by the
chief executive come from something other than another press
release.”  
 In the Assembly, Sisa Moyo, a spokeswoman for Democratic
Speaker  Sheldon Silver , said he has no argument with the
governor on the issue.  
 “We have repeatedly stated that if the governor requested
the Legislature to come back, the Assembly would come back,” she
said.  
 In New Jersey, Republican Governor  Chris Christie  called a
special session of the Legislature over the July 4th holiday
weekend to discuss his plan for a property-tax cap. Democratic
legislators initially vowed not to attend, though Christie on
July 3 reached agreement on a plan with Senate Democrats.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        