-- PetroChina Dalian Refinery Running at 95% After Oil Spill at City's Port
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-21T03:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/petrochina-dalian-refinery-running-at-95-after-oil-spill-at-city-s-port.html

          
          
             PetroChina Co. ’s Dalian oil refinery,
the company’s biggest, is operating at a normal rate even as an
oil spill closed nearby berths, because the plant relies on its
own docks to ensure steady crude supplies and fuel shipments.  
 The plant is operating at 95 percent of capacity, said a
PetroChina official at Dalian who declined to be named because
he isn’t authorized to speak to the media. The refinery can
process 20.5 million metric tons a year of crude, or 410,000
barrels a day.  
 An explosion on July 16 in the Xingang zone at Dalian Port,
which operates the nation’s largest crude terminal, damaged oil
pipelines and caused a slick that blanketed more than 183 square
kilometers (70 square miles) of sea. While some crude supplies
come from Xingang, PetroChina’s Dalian refinery relies on its
own docks to receive cargoes, the official said.  
 The refinery’s docks at Dalian can berth vessels of as much
as 100,000 tons, he said. Larger ships can be diverted to ports
in the eastern province of Shandong where supplies can be
transferred to smaller tankers, if needed, the official said.  
 The Dalian plant also gets crude supplies by rail and road,
and has enough crude stockpiles to meet seven days of processing,
the official said.  
 Cargo Diversions  
 China National United Oil Corp., the oil trading unit of
 PetroChina , doesn’t yet have plans to resell crude cargoes
originally scheduled to unload in Dalian, said one of its
traders, who declined to be named because of company rules.  
 The other refinery in Dalian, the 200,000 barrel-a-day
plant run by West Pacific Petrochemical Corp., has diverted some
crude cargoes to other domestic ports because of the oil spill,
said a trader at Sinochem Group who declined to be named because
of company rules. Wepec, as the company is known, is jointly
owned by PetroChina, Sinochem and France’s  Total SA .  
 Wepec gets about three crude cargoes a month through Dalian
port, the trader said. The refinery has enough crude stockpiles
for one week of use, he said.  
 The refinery cut oil-processing rates by 20 percent to
about 140,000 barrels a day compared with pre-blast levels,
according to research company C1 Energy, the Shanghai-based unit
of CBI China Co., on July 19.  
 -- Chua Baizhen  in Beijing and  Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai. Editors:
 Ryan Woo ,  John Chacko .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        