-- Philippine Budget Deficit Exceeds Six-Month Forecast as Spending Increases
-- Max Estayo
-- 2010-07-21T07:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/philippine-budget-deficit-exceeds-six-month-forecast-as-spending-increases.html

          
          
             The Philippines’  budget deficit  in
the first half of 2010 exceeded an earlier forecast as spending
rose and tax revenue missed targets.  
 The shortfall was 34.6 billion pesos ($744 million) in
June, President  Benigno Aquino ’s three-week-old government said
in a statement in Manila today.  Spending  increased 5.8 percent
from a year earlier, and revenue rose 2.8 percent. The six-month
deficit widened to 196.7 billion pesos compared with the
previous administration’s June forecast of 178.5 billion pesos.  
 Aquino’s economic team this month widened the 2010 budget
deficit target to a record 325 billion pesos as he pledged
higher spending on agriculture and infrastructure to sustain the
economy’s recovery from last year’s global slump. Philippine
bonds and the peso fell before the report today, on concern debt
sales will be stepped up to fund a widening shortfall.  
 “What the market is hinging on is that the new
administration will be able to address the worsening budget
deficit through prudent spending and intensive tax collection
efforts,” said  Roland Avante , treasurer of Sterling Bank of
Asia in Manila. “It all boils down to credibility.”  
 Aquino, who took office on June 30, is going after tax
evaders and corrupt officials to boost state revenue without
raising taxes in his efforts to contain the budget gap.  
 Growth Target  
 The president plans to accelerate growth to as much as 6
percent this year to cut poverty in a nation where the World
Bank estimates one out of four people live on less than $1.25 a
day. The $167 billion economy expanded 7.3 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace in almost three years.  
 The government filed a criminal complaint against a
pawnshop owner for tax evasion last week. Officials will file
tax and smuggling complaints every week as part of a campaign to
convince citizens to pay their levies, Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  said this month.  
 The Bureau of Internal Revenue, responsible for more than
60 percent of government  income , collected 59.4 billion pesos in
June, 1.8 percent lower than a year earlier, according to
today’s statement. Collection at the Bureau of Customs rose 14.6
percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        