-- British Pound Falls Against Dollar as Bank of England Considered Stimulus
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-07-21T16:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/pound-climbs-before-of-bank-of-england-releases-its-minutes-gilts-decline.html

          
          
             The pound fell against the dollar
after minutes of the Bank of England’s last meeting showed
policy makers considered expanding stimulus measures to
safeguard the U.K.’s economic recovery.  
 Britain’s currency declined for the third day in the past
four against the dollar. The Monetary Policy Committee
“considered arguments in favour of a modest easing in the
stance of monetary policy,” minutes of the July 8 meeting
released in London today showed. Policy makers led by Governor
 Mervyn King  also voted 7-1 to keep the main interest rate at 0.5
percent, the minutes showed. Gilts were little changed.  
 “The minutes came out more dovish because of the growth
outlook that they think has deteriorated,” said  Kenneth Broux ,
a senior market economist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London.
“Sterling can ease back in the next few days.”  
 The pound depreciated by 0.5 percent to $1.5186 as of 4:46
p.m. in London, paring gains that pushed it last week to as high
as $1.5472, the strongest level since April. It was little
changed at 84.40 pence against the euro, after strengthening as
much as 0.8 percent.  
 Policy makers voted unanimously to maintain their debt-
buying program at 200 billion pounds ($304 billion), according
to the minutes. The rate decision overruled  Andrew Sentance , who
voted for an increase for the second consecutive time.  
 Gilts ‘Underpinned’  
 The yield on the two-year  gilt  was at 0.79 percent, after
earlier declining to 0.77 percent. The 10-year yield was at 3.35
percent, after falling to 3.33 percent. The 10-year gilt yielded
3.35 percent, also little changed.  
 “The big surprise was that some members even considered
expanding the monetary stimulus,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
fixed-income strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd., a broker for banks and investors. “A rate hike looks
unlikely before year-end. Gilts look underpinned here.”  
 The bank considered loosening policy as the “softening in
the medium-term outlook for GDP growth over recent months would
put further downwards pressure on inflation, once the impact of
temporary factors had waned,” the minutes showed.  
 The U.K.’s 10-year breakeven rate decreased to 264 basis
points today, the lowest since Oct. 15. The rate, which measures
the yield difference between regular and index-linked bonds and
anticipates consumer-price growth during the next decade, was as
high as 325 basis points on April 21. Consumers’ inflation
expectations for the coming 12 months fell to 2.7 percent in
July from 3 percent the previous month, Citigroup Inc. said in
an e-mailed statement today, citing a YouGov Plc poll.  
 Inflation Rate  
 “We are not anticipating the Bank of England to move on
rates anytime soon,” said  Lauren Rosborough , a senior currency
analyst at Westpac Banking Corp. in London. Still, policy makers
are seeking “a better sense of what’s going on with
inflation,” she said.  
 The U.K.’s inflation rate rose to a 17-month high in April
and was at 3.2 percent in June, above the government’s 3 percent
upper limit. Britain’s currency has gained 5 percent against the
euro this year on speculation that the U.K. economy will recover
more quickly than the euro region, which has been hurt by the
sovereign debt crisis.  
 “The picture for sterling remains positive,” said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan.
“The BOE is in a more difficult position, in the sense that it
has to face a dilemma because inflation remains high.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        