-- Putin Lures $1 Billion Less Than Planned as Investors Seek Higher Yields
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-22T11:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/putin-lures-1-billion-less-than-planned-as-investors-seek-higher-yields.html

          
          
             Russia raised 34 billion rubles
($1.1 billion) less than offered at two bond  auctions  yesterday
as investors demanded higher yields than the government was
willing to pay.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s administration failed to
sell 30 billion rubles of 6.88 percent bonds due in July 2015,
said  Alexander Shcherbakov , deputy head of the Finance
Ministry’s debt department. The government issued 11 billion
rubles of notes due January 2013, less than the 15 billion
rubles planned, at a yield of 6.28 percent, four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, higher than rates on existing debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Investors submitted 25.2 billion rubles of bids for the
five-year bonds, demanding yields between 7 and 7.51 percent,
according to a statement today on the Finance Ministry’s
website. That prompted the government to cancel the auction as
the interest sought “did not meet expectations,” it said.
Russia has sold about 21 percent of the 1.2 trillion rubles of
bonds planned for this year to plug the budget deficit.  
 “It is clear that the ministry of finance was not
satisfied with the yields that investors demanded,” said
 Alexander Ovchinnikov , a vice-president of global markets in
Moscow at Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest investment bank. The
government is willing to wait to pay lower yields because
borrowing needs have fallen, according to VTB Capital.  
 The canceled sale of 2015 bonds yesterday follows an
auction of 45 billion rubles last week at yields as much as 11
basis points higher than rates on existing bonds, the first time
in 10 months the government paid more than yields on the
secondary market, data compiled by the  Bank of Moscow  show.  
 ‘At Any Cost’  
 Russia doesn’t need money “at any cost,” said  Mikhail Galkin , the Moscow-based head of fixed-income research at VTB
Capital, the investment banking unit of state-controlled lender
 VTB Group . The government’s ruble bonds “will still be
attractive for Russian banks and foreign investors that want
exposure to the ruble,” he said.  
 The yield on the government’s federal notes, or OFZ bonds,
due December 2014 fell 2 basis points to 6.76 percent yesterday,
the lowest since July 9. The 7.15 percent notes maturing in
January 2013 yielded 6.25 percent at the close of trading
yesterday, up 1 basis point from the previous day.  
 The ruble weakened 0.1 percent to 30.4899 per dollar by
1:50 p.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements as they
allow foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate
at a specific level in the future, show the ruble weakening to
30.7035 per dollar in three months.  
 Yield Gap  
 The extra yield investors demand to own the Russian
government’s foreign-currency debt rather than U.S. Treasuries
fell eight basis points to 248 today, more than the spread of
172 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 224 for Brazil, which
is rated one step lower at BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, according
to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Indexes. The yield gap for Russian bonds is
53 basis points below the average for emerging markets,
according to JPMorgan.  
 The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps dropped about 3 basis
points to 174 on July 20, according to CMA DataVision prices.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The yield on ruble bonds sold by gas producer OAO Gazprom
is 213 basis points above the same-maturity Gazprom debt in
dollars, down from a yield difference of about 600 a year ago,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread narrowed to as
little as 115 on June 14.  
 Budget Shortfall  
 Russia faces its second budget shortfall since 1999 this
year after the government stepped up welfare spending and
deployed stimulus measures to revive the economy from 2009’s
contraction. The deficit was 5.9 percent of  gross domestic
product  last year as the economy shrank 7.9 percent, the most
since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.  
 Putin , 57, said last week the budget gap may narrow to 5
percent of GDP this year. The reduction won’t prompt the
government to cut its debt sale target, Deputy Finance Minister
 Dmitry Pankin  said in an interview on July 9.  
 The Finance Ministry  plans  weekly bond auctions through the
end of this quarter, seeking to raise a total of 375 billion
rubles in August and September.  
 The sale of January 2013 bonds yesterday, completed after
the failed auction of July 2015 debt, shows the government
succeeded in “cooling off” investor demands for higher yields,
said Ovchinnikov of Troika Dialog. “The ministry has
significant funds on its accounts and was willing to show the
market that they would not accept such premiums, at least for
now.”  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Putin lures $1 billion less than planned  
                       
                         
                           Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin's administration failed to sell 30 billion rubles of bonds due in July 2015. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin's administration failed to sell 30 billion rubles of bonds due in July 2015. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
