-- LR Global Partners Starts Sri Lankan Unit on Growth Prospects After War
-- Asantha Sirimanne
-- 2010-07-21T05:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/lr-global-partners-starts-sri-lankan-unit-on-growth-prospects-after-war.html

          
          
             LR Global Partners, the New York-
based money manager that specializes in developing markets, has
set up an asset management unit in Sri Lanka to benefit from
expanding economic growth after the end of the South Asian
island’s 26-year civil war.  
 LR Global plans to put $20 million in an initial round of
investments, Managing Partner  Don Laguardia  said in an interview
in the capital Colombo.  
 “We are looking at Sri Lanka as a market that has a huge
potential,” Laguardia said.  
 The benchmark Colombo  All-Share Index  has climbed 43
percent this year and is the best performer after Mongolia in
the Asia-Pacific region. The island’s $41 billion economy is
forecast by the central bank to  grow  7 percent in 2010, the
fastest pace in four years, amid increased public spending on
roads, ports and power plants.  
 The New York-based company has opened Lanka Asset
Management Co. in Colombo to channel overseas investments into
private placements and private equity, local unit Managing
Director Channa De Silva said.  
 “We are also keenly interested to promote a fair amount of
initial public offerings in the medium to short term through
investing in unlisted companies and eventually bringing them
onto the stock market,” De Silva said today in a telephone
interview.  
 Lanka Asset plans to sell shares on the Colombo Stock
Exchange next year, Laguardia said.  
 Leopard Capital LP, which manages a Cambodia private-equity
fund, said in January it’s seeking to raise $130 million for two
funds that will invest on the island.  
 The government defeated the separatist Liberation Tigers of
Tamil Eelam in May 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        