-- Ramada Indian Franchisee to Revive Plan to Build Its First Overseas Hotel
-- Jay Shankar
-- 2010-07-21T08:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/ramada-indian-franchisee-to-revive-plan-to-build-its-first-overseas-hotel.html

          
          
             Royal Orchid Hotels Ltd.,  an Indian
franchisee of the Ramada brand, is reviving a plan to build its
first overseas hotel and acquire a property at home as economic
growth boosts travel and tourism.  
 Royal Orchid based in Bangalore plans to build the hotel
in Dar Es Salaam, the largest city in the East African nation
of Tanzania, in the next two years, Managing Director  Chender Baljee  said. The company also plans to spend 100 million rupees
($2.1 million) to acquire a hotel in India in the year ending
March 31, he said. Shares gained as much as 2.7 percent in
Mumbai trading.  
 “Tanzania is a politically stable nation compared with
other African countries,” Baljee said in an interview today.
“Things are improving and we expect a better performance for
the company.”  
 Royal Orchid is trying to tap rising business travelers to
Africa as Indian and Chinese companies invest in a continent
that sits on the world’s biggest deposits of platinum and
diamonds. Companies including Bharti Airtel Ltd. are expanding
in Africa as economic growth boosts demand for products from
motorcycles to mobile-phone services.  
 “This is the right time for expansion because right now
real estate is in doldrums around the world,”  Abhishek Jain ,
an analyst at  Shah Investor’s Home Ltd. , who rates the stock a
“buy” said from Mumbai. “Their capital expenditure will be
lower now than in a boom cycle. I believe it is a good strategy
for the company.”  
 Seven Indian Cities  
 Tanzania’s economic growth will probably accelerate to 6.2
percent this year, according to the International Monetary Fund.
 Bharti Airtel , India’s biggest mobile-phone company, last month
spend $9 billion to acquire the African assets of Kuwait’s
Mobile Telecommunications Co. to enter the continent’s market
including Tanzania.  
 Royal Orchid had put its plan to build the hotel in
Tanzania on hold since 2008, Baljee said. Royal Orchid, which
has  declined  2.9 percent this year, rose 0.7 percent at 79.05
rupees at 1:36 p.m. in Mumbai.  
 Royal Orchid, with 13 hotels in seven Indian cities, will
open two more in the southern Indian cities of Hospet, Shimoga
and northern town of Mussoorie by December, Baljee said. The
company is also building a 135-room hotel in Jaipur and another
230-room hotel in Hyderabad to be ready before March 31, he
said. Royal Orchid is also planning a hotel in Mumbai.  
 The company runs the  Ramada hotel , which is franchised by
Wyndham Worldwide Corp., in Bangalore.  
 Tourist Arrivals  
 Baljee’s company raised two billion rupees by selling
shares in 2006 and took three billion rupees through bank loans
last year. The company’s consolidated revenue fell 14 percent
to 1.2 billion rupees in the year ended March 31 and net income
plunged 77 percent to 49 million rupees.  
 Tourist arrivals in India last year  declined  3.3 percent
to 5.11 million because of the worst recession since World War
II, terror attacks on Mumbai and H1N1 virus, according to the
Ministry of Tourism. The fall was the first in seven years.  
 India earned foreign exchange valued at $11.39 billion
from tourism last year, three percent less than the previous
year. Arrivals increased 10.8 percent for the four months to
June of the current year compared with the same period last
year, according to the tourism ministry.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        