-- Texas Rangers Are Ahead of Budget by $5 Million, Nolan Ryan Tells Court
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-21T20:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/rangers-ryan-says-playoff-appearance-may-bring-as-much-as-14-million.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers, the bankrupt
Major League Baseball team, are $5 million under budget and a
playoff appearance could bring as much as $14 million more, club
President  Nolan Ryan  said.  
 To spend the extra money to compete in its first post-
season series in a decade, the team needs permission from Major
League Baseball to spend the necessary money, Ryan told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  D. Michael Lynn  today in Fort Worth, Texas.  
 The Rangers are in first place in the American League’s
Western Division with less than half the regular season left to
play. Lynn said he would authorize whatever the club needed if
Major League Baseball, which is funding the team’s bankruptcy,
refuses to let Ryan spend the money. The judge said he wouldn’t
let the club’s bankruptcy affect its operations.  
 “This team is going to get through this season and,
hopefully, win a pennant and a World Series,” Lynn said during
a hearing to decide whether to delay an Aug. 4 auction of the
team.  
 A group led by Ryan, who is a Hall of Fame pitcher, and
Pittsburgh sports attorney  Chuck Greenberg  would act as lead
bidders at the sale. Lenders owed more than $400 million say the
auction is rigged in favor of the Ryan-Greenberg group and have
argued that the team won’t suffer financially from a delay.  
 Under questioning from lender attorney  Andrew Leblanc , Ryan
agreed that a playoff appearance may bring $11 million to $14
million. He testified that the team will continue to suffer as
long as it’s in bankruptcy and that a quick sale to his group is
the best chance the club has to succeed.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,  
          
          


  


        