-- Treasury Needs to Improve Monitoring of TARP Bailout Talks, Watchdog Says
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/treasury-needs-to-improve-monitoring-of-tarp-bailout-talks-watchdog-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. Treasury Department needs
to improve how it documents negotiations with companies that
received taxpayer bailouts and ensure that the firms are
complying with conditions for getting aid, a watchdog said.  
 The Treasury, which manages the $700 billion Troubled Asset
Relief Program, “does not have established guidelines or
internal controls” for negotiations over warrants sold back to
bailed-out companies, according to a report today by  Neil Barofsky , special inspector general for TARP. “Without taking
steps to address these issues, Treasury may open itself to
criticism that, through TARP, it favors some institutions over
others.”  
 Barofsky’s quarterly report to Congress reiterated his
earlier recommendations that the Treasury ensure rescued
companies are complying with the conditions of TARP and
complaints that the government’s Home Affordable Modification
Program, or HAMP, isn’t helping enough homeowners.  
 “We have some obvious differences of opinion,”  Herbert Allison , the Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial
stability, said in a conference call with reporters yesterday.
The Treasury sometimes finds that a Barofsky recommendation,
“which may sound terrific, actually is not as effective as
another method.”  
 HAMP, a $50 billion program authorized by Congress, pays
mortgage servicers a $1,000 fee to rewrite loan terms to reduce
monthly payments and $1,000 a year for as many as three years as
long as the borrower stays in the program. The program was
targeted to reach more than 3 million homeowners.  
 The number of approved HAMP applicants increased about 7
percent in June compared with a month earlier, the Treasury
Department said in a report yesterday.  
 Congress authorized TARP in October 2008 to prevent a
collapse of the U.S. financial system. Companies including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. that took
funds have since repaid the government. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said last month the Obama administration
doesn’t plan to extend TARP past its Oct. 3 expiration.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        