-- Recessions in U.S. May Be More Frequent and Severe, Soss Says
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-07-21T17:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/recessions-in-u-s-may-be-more-frequent-severe-credit-suisse-s-soss-says.html

          
          
             The fallout from the worst recession
since the 1930s means U.S. contractions will be more frequent
and severe, according to  Neal Soss , chief economist at Credit
Suisse in New York.  
 “The era of rare, brief and mild recessions from the early
’80s to the mid-2000s is over,” Soss said today on a conference
call.  
 Increased regulation and a drive to hold less risky assets
such as cash following the financial meltdown will eliminate
some of the instruments that helped smooth out economic growth
over the past two decades, particularly in the U.S., Soss said.
The current slowdown, while unlikely to result in a renewed
downturn, will seem worse because the rebound has been weak.  
 “The starting point of high unemployment, high vacancies
and low  capacity utilization  means any slowing in growth is
going to feel dangerously close to a renewed recession,” Soss
said. “It’s not the same thing, but it’s going to feel like
it.”  
 President  Barack Obama  today signed the most sweeping set
of financial rules since the Great Depression, capping a
yearlong legislative struggle to draft and pass the measure
spurred by the 2008 financial crisis that triggered the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and dragged down Wall Street
and the U.S. economy.  
 The moderation in economic cycles over the past two decades
was associated with financial deregulation and innovation, Soss
said. “Voluntary financial prudence and restrictive government
regulation render that mechanism unavailable,” he said.  
 Less Growth  
 The U.S. and China are among countries now in a period of
“decelerating growth,” Soss said. He “emphatically” does not
believe the world’s largest economy will “double-dip” because
gains in business investment on equipment and software will be
enough to avoid a renewed recession.  
 Credit Suisse’s model says there is zero chance of another
contraction in the next six months.  
 While companies appear to be willing to stop liquidating
inventories and to stop firing employees, they also want to hold
on to cash, which means they won’t accelerate hiring and start
rebuilding stockpiles, Soss said.  
 The government is scheduled to release its first estimate
for second-quarter U.S. growth next week. Recent reports show
 manufacturing , a key driver of the recovery, slowed in June and
employers hired fewer workers than projected by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The growth slowdown indicates the U.S. has entered a
“problematic stage for equities,” Credit Suisse Chief Global
Equity Strategist  Andrew Garthwaite  said on the call. Even so,
the firm is maintaining its forecast shares will increase by 10
percent to 15 percent over the next six to 12 months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama speaks as Vice President Joseph Biden, looks on during a signing ceremony for the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act . Photographer: Win McNamee/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
