-- Reckitt Benckiser Agrees to Buy SSL for $3.9 Billion
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-07-21T15:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/reckitt-benckiser-agrees-to-buy-ssl-for-3-9-billion.html

          
          
             Reckitt Benckiser Plc  agreed to buy
Durex condom maker SSL International Plc for 2.54 billion pounds
($3.9 billion), bolstering its health and personal-care business
in the biggest acquisition since the company was formed in 1999.  
 Reckitt’s offer is worth 1,171 pence a share, 33 percent
more than SSL’s closing  price  yesterday. SSL rose 33 percent in
London trading, the most ever. Reckitt, the maker of Cillit Bang
cleaners and Nurofen painkillers, gained 3.5 percent.  
 Buying SSL meets Chief Executive Officer  Bart Becht ’s aim
of expanding in health and personal care as growth slows in
Reckitt’s larger household cleaners unit. The takeover will help
compensate for a slump of as much as 80 percent in U.S. sales of
the Suboxone heroin-dependency drug, Reckitt’s  fastest-growing 
product, when generic versions of the product enter the market.  
 “It’s a very good fit and they will be able to do a lot
with the brands,” said  Julian Hardwick , an analyst at RBS.
“When you take all that into account, the multiples they are
paying are reasonable,” he said. Hardwick has a “buy”  rating.   
 Reckitt is paying about 18 times SSL’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
Bloomberg data. The maker of Veet hair remover paid almost 30
times Ebitda for the $2.3 billion purchase of Adams Respiratory
Therapeutics Inc. in 2008, its last major acquisition.  
 Multiples  
 RBS’s Hardwick said the industry typically pays multiples
around “the mid-teens.” The price for SSL is supported by the
increased scale resulting from the deal, potential cost savings
and the acquisition record of the bidder’s management, he said.  
 Reckitt said it expects savings of about 100 million pounds
a year in the combined group by the end of 2012.  
 “The price seems more reasonable considering proposed
synergies of 12.5 percent of SSL sales, which are at the high
end of comparable acquisitions, and given its excellent track
record,” Bernstein Research’s  Andrew Wood  said in a report.  
 The transaction brings the volume of deals in Europe this
year to $368 billion, up 6.8 percent on the same period of 2009.  
 SSL  rose  295 pence to 1,177 pence in London trading.
 Reckitt  gained 110 pence to 3,300 pence.  
 The takeover will increase Reckitt’s health and personal-
care  sales  by more than 36 percent, to one third of the
company’s total net revenue, Becht, 53, said in the statement.  
 Growth Target  
 Reckitt’s health and personal care unit generated about
2.08 billion pounds in sales last year, or about 27 percent of
the total. The company sells household cleaners such as Vanish
stain remover and Finish dishwashing detergent. About 7.6
percent comes from pharmaceuticals.  
 Reckitt has targeted revenue growth, excluding its
pharmaceutical division, of 5 percent in 2010. SSL reported
comparable sales growth of 4 percent last year, which Reckitt
expects to accelerate through innovation and by increasing
distribution of condoms and footcare.  
 “It brings Reckitt into two categories new to the company
and does little to strengthen the troubled core areas of fabric
care, dishwashing, and over-the-counter drugs,”  Pablo Zuanic ,
an analyst at Liberum Capital said. “It’s an expensive deal,
with questionable strategic fit.”  
 Reckitt said the purchase will immediately add to earnings
per share, excluding restructuring charges, and “materially
enhance” the company’s scale and critical mass in China and
Japan. Buying SSL will also add two so-called Powerbrands to the
company, bringing Reckitt’s total to 19.  
 ‘Worthy of Consideration’  
 SSL shareholders will receive 1,163 pence a share and be
entitled to a  dividend  of 8 pence a share.  
 “It’s worthy of consideration by our shareholders,” said
SSL Chairman  Gerald Corbett . “Five years ago, our market
capitalization was around 400 million and we’re now on 2.5
billion” pounds, he said. “Reckitt have a bigger distribution
than us and I suspect will get more revenue synergies.”  
 The executive wouldn’t comment on any potential changes in
management or sale of any brands. Corbett said he will stay
until the deal is “unconditional.”  
 The condom maker was created through a series of mergers,
including Seton Healthcare Plc and Scholl Plc in 1998 and London
International Group Plc in 1999, according to its  website.  The
company traces its roots back to the foundation of Scholl Plc in
1904 when Dr. William Scholl sold footcare products and footwear
under the eponymous brand. London International started selling
imported condoms and barber shop supplies in 1915 as the London
Rubber Company, according to SSL’s website.  
 Advisers  
 SSL now gets about 42 percent of  sales  from branded
condoms and about 36 percent from foot-related brands, Bloomberg
data show. SSL reported sales of 802.5 million pounds in the
year ended March 31, and operating profit of 126 million pounds.  
 SSL directors were advised by JPMorgan Cazenove and Lazard.
Credit Suisse also acted as joint corporate broker to SSL with
JPMorgan Cazenove. Deutsche Bank AG advised Reckitt.  
 The deal is being funded by a new 1.25 billion-pound loan
facility with HSBC Bank Plc, along with existing facilities and
Reckitt’s own resources, the statement shows.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The takeover will increase Reckitt’s health and personal-care sales by more than 36 percent, to one third of the company’s total net revenue, CEO Bart Becht said. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  M&A Snapshot
         
     
 


                 
           
                            
                     
                     Bottles of Cillit Bang cleaner sit displayed on a shelf at the Reckitt Benckiser Plc headquarters in Slough. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
