-- Tiger Names Townsend Operating Chief as Robertson Considers Expansion
-- Christopher Condon
-- 2010-07-21T21:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/robertson-of-tiger-management-names-john-townsend-chief-operating-officer.html

          
          
             Julian Robertson , founder of hedge-
fund firm Tiger Management LLC, named  John Townsend  as chief
operating officer, a move that may lead the firm to expand its
decade-old business of seeding hedge fund managers.  
 Townsend, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . executive,
replaces  Aaron Stern , who remains at Tiger as a senior adviser,
the New York-based firm said today in a statement. Tiger also
named Townsend and  Alex Robertson , the youngest of Julian
Robertson’s three sons, as managing directors.  
 Townsend, 54, says future plans for Tiger could involve
marketing a fund of funds using some or all of the 40 hedge
funds that Robertson has seeded since 2000. It also might
involve raising capital from one or more outside investors so
the firm could seed even more hedge funds.  
 “Everything is up for discussion and exploration,”
Townsend said in telephone interview. “I think Julian very much
decided it is worthwhile to think about various alternatives to
build out the Tiger brand.”  
 Julian Robertson, 78, started Tiger in 1980, and built it
into one of the world’s largest hedge-fund firms. By mid-1998,
assets had soared to about $22 billion on the back of
Robertson’s average annual returns of 32 percent.  
 Seeding Managers  
 Over the following 18 months, losses and investor
withdrawals reduced assets to about $6 billion and in March
2000, Robertson, then 67, announced he would close Tiger to
outside investors.  
 Robertson kept his office space and began using his own
fortune to seed hedge fund managers, taking a share of their
profits in exchange for his investment. He now has a stable of
40 independent hedge funds that collectively manage about $23
billion. The largest, Tiger Asia Management LLC, managed by  Bill Hwang , and Tiger Global Management LLC, headed by  Chase Coleman ,
now run $3 billion to $4 billion, Townsend said.  
 Townsend, a native of Lumberton, North Carolina, graduated
from the University of North Carolina. He was a general partner
and managing director at Goldman Sachs. He served as co-head of
leveraged finance before leaving the firm in 2002 and currently
serves as an adviser to Stone Point Capital LLC in Greenwich,
Connecticut.  
 Alex, who turns 31 this weekend, joined Tiger in 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        