-- Tronox Holds `Constructive' Talks With U.S. on Environmental-Damage Claims
-- Don Jeffrey
-- 2010-07-21T17:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/tronox-holds-constructive-talks-with-u-s-on-environmental-damage-claims.html

          
          
             Tronox Inc.  said it held
“constructive” talks with the U.S. aimed at resolving
environmental-damage claims and allowing the bankrupt chemical
maker to move ahead with its reorganization.  
 “We’ve had constructive negotiations with the
government,”  Jonathan Henes , a lawyer for Tronox, said today in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. “The bid and the ask are
not that far apart. It’s still incredibly delicate.”  
 Tronox  also rejected an agreement with Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. and Kerr-McGee Corp. over costs to clean up chemical
sites, Tronox lawyers said. They said Tronox is still pursuing a
lawsuit claiming the two companies saddled it with $550 million
in debt and as much as $900 million in pollution liabilities in
a 2006 spinoff.  
 “I think we’re all in it for the long haul,” Jeff Zeiger,
a lawyer for Tronox at Kirkland & Ellis LLP, told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper .  
 Gropper suggested the companies try mediation to resolve
the dispute.  Melanie Gray , a lawyer for The Woodlands, Texas-
based Anadarko, said the oil producer has been “open” to
mediation.  
 Tronox makes chemicals for products including plastics,
paints, paper and batteries. The Oklahoma City-based company
filed for Chapter 11 protection in January 2009. Its
reorganization plan would allocate all newly issued stock to
noteholders and other unsecured creditors owed $470.6 million.  
 The hearing on approval of the disclosure statement, which
explains the reorganization plan and allows it to be sent to
creditors for a vote, is scheduled for Aug. 10.  
 The case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        