-- Rubin, Robertson, Disney Urge Congress to Resurrect Estate Tax
-- Ryan J. Donmoyer
-- 2010-07-21T19:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/rubin-robertson-disney-urge-congress-to-resurrect-estate-tax-that-lapsed.html

          
          
             Former Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin , Tiger Management LLC Founder  Julian Robertson  and an heir
of  Walt Disney  urged Congress to reinstate a tax on
multimillion-dollar estates, possibly retroactively.  
 The three were joined by AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka 
today to support efforts by a Boston-based advocacy group,
 United for a Fair Economy , pressing lawmakers to act before
Congress adjourns for a month-long recess in August.  
 The deaths of New York Yankees owner  George Steinbrenner 
and at least three other billionaires this year has focused
attention on the absence of the levy, which lapsed Jan. 1. Had
they died in 2009, they would have paid as much as 45 percent on
much of their estate, depending on how their wills were
structured.  
 “We should restore the estate tax in its entirety, and
restore it now,” Rubin, who was Treasury secretary under
President  Bill Clinton , said on a conference call with
reporters. He said making the tax retroactive to cover all of
2010 “should be very seriously considered.”  
 In 2001, Congress passed legislation phasing out the estate
tax over the following decade and eliminating it for 2010.
Unless Congress acts, the levy is scheduled to return in 2011,
with a top 55 percent rate that would apply to amounts of
taxable estates that exceed $1 million.  
 Previous Law  
 The prospect of a higher tax next year prompted the House
in December to pass legislation that would extend the law as it
existed to 2010 and beyond. In 2009, the first $3.5 million of
an individual’s estate was tax-free, with a top rate of 45
percent applying to the excess.  
 That effort has stalled in the Senate, where Arizona
Republican  Jon Kyl  and Arkansas Democrat  Blanche Lincoln  are
lobbying for an alternative that would eventually result in a 35
percent rate that applies to estates of more than $5 million per
individual. Many business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce that once lobbied for repeal of the levy now back the
Kyl-Lincoln proposal.  
 “It is estimated that more than a half million American
families will pay the estate tax over the next decade, and the
lack of congressional action creates a tremendous amount of
uncertainty for these families,” Kyl said in a statement last
week.  
 Neither the House bill nor the Kyl-Lincoln alternative has
found the 60 votes needed to overcome procedural hurdles and
pass in the Senate.  
 Rubin, a former chairman of New York-based Citigroup Inc.’s
Executive Committee, and the other advocates, including
philanthropist Abigail Disney, grandniece of Walt Disney, said
restoring the federal estate tax would generate revenues that
could be used for public-works projects and reduce budget
deficits. They also said the levy would spur charitable giving,
as gifts to non-profits are exempt from tax.  
 The call was organized by United for a Fair Economy project
called “Responsible Wealth,” a network of wealthy and high-
income earners who advocate for higher taxes.  
 Editor: Max Berley, Mark Silva  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Rubin, Robertson, Urge Congress to Resurrect Estate Tax  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “We should restore the estate tax in its entirety, and restore it now,” Robert Rubin, who was Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, said on a conference call with
reporters. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “We should restore the estate tax in its entirety, and restore it now,” Robert Rubin, who was Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton, said on a conference call with
reporters. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
