-- Rupee Rebounds From Six-Week Low as Investment in Bonds, Stocks Increase
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-21T11:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/rupee-rebounds-from-six-week-low-as-investment-in-bonds-stocks-increase.html

          
          
             India’s rupee rose the most in more
than a week, rebounding from a six-week low, after foreign
funds raised holdings of local stocks and bonds to record
levels to benefit from the nation’s  economic growth .  
 The currency snapped a three-day slide as data from the
 Securities and Exchange Board of India  showed foreign
investment in equity and fixed-income securities touched all-
time highs of  $81.5 billion  and  $15.4 billion , respectively, in
the past week. The rupee also advanced as the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  climbed 0.6 percent, the best gain
since July 12.  
 “The rupee is showing some recovery because capital
inflows have remained consistently positive, helped by India’s
better economic fundamentals,” said  Roy Paul , deputy general
manager at Federal Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.  
 The currency strengthened 0.4 percent to 47.175 per dollar
as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, paring this week’s loss to
0.9 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 47.385 yesterday, the weakest level since June 7.  
 Offshore forward contracts indicated the rupee will trade
at 47.84 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations for a rate of 47.99 yesterday. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  
 India’s economy may expand 9.4 percent in the year ending
March 31, the fastest pace since 2007, the International
Monetary Fund said this month. That will help domestic
companies boost earnings by as much as 25 percent this year,
according to Mirae Asset Global Investment.  
 The rupee will strengthen in the next 18 months as the
global economy stabilizes and the Asian nation’s growth
continues, according to Wells Fargo & Co.  
 “Once global investor sentiment becomes more stable,
India’s robust growth profile and rising interest rates should
attract foreign capital flows, putting upward pressure on the
currency,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at Wells
Fargo in New York, wrote in a research note yesterday.  
 The rupee will strengthen to 43 per dollar in 18 months,
Serebriakov wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        