-- Russia Says U.S. Agents Broke International Law in Liberia Pilot Arrest
-- Patrick Henry
-- 2010-07-21T18:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/russia-says-u-s-agents-broke-international-law-in-liberia-pilot-arrest.html

          
          
             American agents broke international
law when they detained a Russian pilot in Liberia on May 28 on
suspicion of conspiring to ship more than $100 million of
cocaine into the U.S., Russia’s Foreign Ministry said.  
 “We are, in fact, dealing with the abduction of a Russian
citizen on the territory of a third country,” the ministry said
today on its  website , adding that the U.S. didn’t inform Russia
about the arrest of the pilot, Konstantin Yaroshenko. The
“forced, secret transfer” of Yaroshenko to a New York prison
was a “clear outrage,” the ministry said.  
 Russia on June 28 demanded an explanation from the U.S.
State Department, the ministry said. State Department spokesman
Philip Crowley said yesterday that the pilot was given access to
Russian consular officials upon his arrival in the U.S.  
 Yaroshenko, 41, and seven others have been charged with
conspiring to smuggle cocaine into the U.S., according to two
indictments and a criminal complaint unsealed June 1. Yaroshenko
“transported thousand-kilogram quantities of cocaine throughout
South America, Africa, and Europe,” U.S. prosecutors said in a
statement. The defendants allegedly planned shipments totaling
6,000 kilograms (13,230 pounds), according to the statement.  
 “Yaroshenko was apprehended by Liberian authorities on May
28, 2010,” Dawn Dearden, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration, said today in an e-mail. “Custody
was transferred to DEA on May 30, 2010, pursuant to a warrant
for his arrest that had previously been entered by the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York,”  
 She declined to make further comment.  
 Russia’s Foreign Ministry said DEA agents detained
Yaroshenko “jointly with local police.”  
 Charges ‘Absurd’  
 Yaroshenko’s Russian lawyer, Alexander Bozhenko, said on
July 19 that the U.S. charges against his client are “absurd,”
the Russian news wire RIA Novosti reported. Bozhenko said
Yaroshenko’s trip to Liberia in May was his first, the state-run
news service reported.  
 Yaroshenko graduated from flight school in 1991, and had
worked since 1998 as a contract pilot in Africa, Rossiiskaya
Gazeta  reported  today, citing his wife, Viktoria Yaroshenko.  
 The pilot arrived in Liberia on May 18 on a new contract,
his first trip to the country, the government’s newspaper of
record reported, citing his wife.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in London at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        