-- Sallie Mae Tumbles as Student Loan Originations Drop
-- Sarah Mulholland
-- 2010-07-21T17:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/sallie-mae-tumbles-most-since-january-as-student-loan-originations-decline.html

          
          
             SLM Corp. , the largest U.S. student
lender, fell the most in almost six months after the company
said loan originations declined and uncollectible debts
increased for the second quarter.  
 SLM, known as  Sallie Mae , fell $1.14, or 9.8 percent, to
$10.52 at 1:47 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, the largest one-day decline since Jan. 22. The
company’s $1.5 billion of 8 percent notes due in 2020 fell 2.5
cents to 87 cents on the dollar as of 1:23 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting service of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 The company extended $219 million in private loans in the
second quarter, compared with $387 million during the year-ago
period, Reston, Virginia-based Sallie Mae said yesterday.
Private education loan charge-offs rose to $336 million from
$284 million during the prior three months.  
 “Loan originations were weaker than we thought,” said
 Michael Taiano , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.
“It’s important to see that business isn’t going to continue to
shrink.”  
 Sallie Mae stock dropped 7.8 percent this year through June
30 when legislation took effect that put a halt to lending
through the Federal Family Education loan program. That
eliminated part of SLM’s origination business and increased its
reliance on private loans, or those that don’t carry a
government guarantee. Students will now obtain federally backed
loans directly from the government. The stock has declined 8.25
percent this year.  
 Charge-Offs  
 Charge-offs, or accounts deemed uncollectible, had been
falling and the increase may have surprised investors, Taiano
said. Investors are also reacting to a lack of visibility over
how Sallie Mae intends to restructure itself in the wake of
losing government-guaranteed lending, he said.  
 The loan-loss provision for private-student loan debt was
$349 million, compared with $325 million in the first quarter,
the company said yesterday.  
 Some of the credit trends on private loans were
“disappointing,” Taiano said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        