-- SEC Proposes More Disclosure, New Rules for Mutual Fund Fees
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-07-21T18:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/sec-proposes-more-disclosure-new-rules-on-mutual-fund-fees-for-investors.html

          
          
             U.S. regulators, saying mutual funds
don’t fully inform customers about the billions of dollars they
charge every year to pay for marketing, took a step toward
imposing new rules on the practice.  
 Securities and Exchange Commission members voted 5-0 today
to seek comment on a proposal that would increase disclosure and
cap the cumulative fees investors pay over time. Under the
measure, a company couldn’t charge more in so-called 12b-1 fees
for a class of fund shares that continue to solicit new
investors than they charge for classes that don’t.  
 “Despite paying billions of dollars, many investors do not
understand what 12b-1 fees are,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
said at a meeting in Washington. “It’s likely that some don’t
even know that these fees are being deducted from their funds or
who they are ultimately compensating.”  
 The SEC in 1980 allowed mutual funds to charge clients
distribution fees to pay for advertising as the industry
struggled to attract new investors. Those payments amounted to
$9.5 billion in 2009, and money managers are increasingly using
proceeds to pay brokers who sell funds. That has prompted
regulators to re-examine the purpose and need for 12b-1 fees.  
 The proposal would allow mutual funds to continue using
0.25 percent of their assets every year to pay for advertising
and sales compensation.  
 Disclosures  
 The agency proposed that investment firms reveal ongoing
sales charges and marketing fees in a fund’s prospectus and
reports to shareholders. Disclosures would have to include the
total percentage of sales charges investors have to pay.  
 Investment companies would also be required to let brokers
set their own sales charges. Brokers now have to market shares
under terms established by the mutual fund. The SEC expressed
concern that the requirement hurts competition by preventing
brokers from charging less than their rivals.  
 The agency will seek comment from investors and mutual
funds on its rule considerations for 90 days before the staff
makes any changes. The rules would require a second vote by SEC
commissioners to become binding.  
 The Investment Company Institute, a Washington-based group
that represents mutual funds, said it will review the SEC
proposal and provide feedback.  
 Mutual fund 12b-1 fees “have proven over time to be a
highly efficient and tax-effective way for covering the costs of
a range of services that are valuable and important for mutual-
fund investors,” ICI spokeswoman Ianthe Zabel said in a
statement. The ICI will work to ensure that any changes
“benefit fund investors while maintaining the ability to
appropriately compensate service providers,” she said.  
 Form ADV  
 Commissioners today separately beefed up requirements for
what money managers must disclose in a document known as form
ADV, which includes background information on the manager’s
qualifications and investment strategies.  
 The new form will be a brochure that must include a
narrative on the money manager’s business, how the adviser is
compensated, any past sanctions imposed on the manager by
regulators and conflicts of interest. Investment advisers will
have to provide the document to new and prospective clients and
it will be posted on the SEC’s website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mary Schapiro, chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
