-- SEC's Demand That Goldman Admit `Mistake' Could Spur Lawsuits
-- Joshua Gallu
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/sec-s-demand-that-goldman-admit-mistake-could-spur-wall-street-lawsuits.html

          
          
             By forcing  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
to admit a “mistake,” U.S. regulators may be signaling a more
confrontational approach to future settlements that could expose
Wall Street to more investor lawsuits.  
 In its $550 million accord with Goldman Sachs, the
Securities and Exchange Commission deviated from its usual
practice of imposing a fine while letting a firm remain silent
on whether it engaged in misconduct. Firms that are required to
admit oversights may find it difficult to argue in private
litigation that they conceded no wrongdoing and settled purely
to end regulatory scrutiny, said  Salvatore Graziano , a lawyer
who specializes in class-action suits on securities fraud.  
 “This makes it even harder to assert that they settled out
of convenience,” said Graziano, of Bernstein Litowitz Berger &
Grossmann LLP in New York. “Once it’s out there, it’s out
there.”  
 Last week’s accord between New York-based Goldman Sachs and
the SEC removed a cloud over Wall Street’s most  profitable  firm.
The SEC accused Goldman Sachs three months ago of selling a
mortgage security without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson &
Co. helped design the asset and was betting it would fail.  
 While Goldman Sachs still used the boilerplate language of
not acknowledging or refuting improper conduct, the company also
said it was a “mistake” that its marketing materials for the
security called Abacus 2007-AC1 included “incomplete
information.” The documents didn’t include Paulson’s role,
according to the SEC settlement. The mistake admission was
limited to the Abacus deal.  
 ‘Major Departure’  
 The demand that Goldman Sachs admit an error is a “major
departure” for the SEC, said  Harvey Pitt , a former chairman of
the agency.  
 “I don’t believe this will reflect a broadside decision to
require concessions, because if that occurred, the SEC might not
be able to settle a large percentage of the cases it brings,”
he said. “Given the limits of the SEC’s budget, it is clearly
not able to litigate every case it might otherwise bring.”  
 The SEC has about 1,400 employees in its enforcement
division, which investigates and prosecutes wrongdoing. The
entire agency operates on a budget of about $1 billion a year.
Goldman Sachs has more than 34,000 employees and earned  $4
billion  in the first six months of 2010.  
 Companies and individuals that forge settlements with the
SEC benefit from not having to admit wrongdoing, because it can
limit their legal exposure, said  Michael Piazza , a former SEC
lawyer. The lack of any concession gives criminal prosecutors
and private litigants nothing to build cases on, Piazza said. It
also reduces the likelihood that insurance companies will deny
paying lawyer fees on the basis that an SEC target is admitting
guilt, he said.  
 ‘World Will Change’  
 “An acknowledgment of some wrongdoing or specific acts of
facts alleged could have a very different effect,” said Piazza,
who now represents targets of SEC investigations at  Greenberg
Traurig LLP  in Irvine, California. If the Goldman Sachs case
“portends a trend for more fulsome acknowledgements, the world
of SEC settlements will change.”  
 Goldman Sachs on April 16 said the SEC’s lawsuit was
“completely unfounded in law and fact” and that the agency
didn’t warn the company before announcing the case. The
Financial Times reported in April that Chief Executive Officer
 Lloyd Blankfein  told investors the suit may have been
politically motivated to help President Barack Obama’s
administration convince Congress to approve legislation
overhauling financial regulation.  
 Those actions may have prompted the SEC to demand in the
settlement that Goldman Sachs admit the mistake, Pitt said.  
 ‘Vindicated’  
 “If you want to dispute the government’s allegations,
that’s fine,” he said. “But if you want to malign or impugn
the government’s motivations, that’s not fine. By extracting
that agreement, the SEC has vindicated the fact that its lawsuit
was filed for appropriate reasons.”  
 Goldman Sachs spokesman  Michael DuVally  declined to comment
on why the firm admitted to a mistake. On a call with Wall
Street analysts yesterday,  David Viniar , the chief financial
officer, was asked what impact the SEC settlement will have on
any lawsuits against the company.  
 “We don’t think it’s going to have any material impact,”
Viniar said. “We think there’s nothing new in the settlement.”  
 The SEC is examining other firms and a range of structured
products that fueled losses during the financial crisis,
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said when announcing the
settlement. SEC spokesman  John Heine  declined to comment on
whether any future settlements would include demands that
companies admit mistakes.  
 Two Investors  
 Goldman Sachs’s risk of being sued in private litigation
may be limited, because the SEC complaint only listed two
investors who lost money on the Abacus transaction.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which purchased a company
that lost about $841 million on the mortgage security, hasn’t
ruled out filing a lawsuit, a person with knowledge of the
matter said July 16. The bank will receive $100 million as part
of the SEC settlement.  
 IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG, which lost about $150
million on the Abacus deal, will recoup that amount from Goldman
Sachs. KfW Group, Germany’s development bank that bailed out
IKB, has said it is reviewing the SEC accord.  
 The regulatory settlement also requires Goldman Sachs to
reform its business practices. Those changes, along with new
regulations being considered by the SEC, may make it harder for
all Wall Street firms to sell opaque financial products to
banks, pension funds and governments.  
 Bolstered Compliance  
 When Goldman Sachs puts together a security tied to
mortgages, the product must be reviewed and approved by a bigger
group of corporate managers. The executives will be responsible
for ensuring that marketing materials don’t include omissions or
misstatements. Goldman Sachs also has to bolster compliance
training for employees who sell the securities.  
 Khuzami said he hopes other firms adopt the “best
practices.” If they do, it will create obstacles to getting
some securitizations done quickly, said  Cliff Rossi , a managing
director at the University of Maryland’s  Center for Financial
Policy  in College Park.  
 “The more pairs of eyes you have that have to review and
sign off ahead of a deal, the more it slows things down,” said
Rossi, a former senior risk officer at Countrywide Financial
Corp., Washington Mutual Inc. and  Citigroup Inc .  
 It’s a moot point for now, because there hasn’t been much
demand for mortgage securities since the U.S. housing market
collapsed in 2007.  
 Repackaging  
 Firms sold about $24 billion of these assets in the first
half of 2010, and almost all were repackagings of existing
bonds, according to newsletter Asset-Backed Alert. That’s down
from a record of about $1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006.  
 The instrument involved in the Abacus deal was a
collateralized debt obligation. CDOs are pools of assets such as
mortgage bonds packed into new securities. Wall Street firms
sell most CDOs through so-called private placements, offerings
that aren’t subject to SEC disclosure requirements because only
clients with more than $100 million of invested assets can buy
the securities.  
 The SEC in April said it’s considering requiring issuers of
private offerings to provide disclosures equal to those
available in public sales, if investors request the information.  
 SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said the proposal reflects a
reconsideration of the regulator’s long-standing assumption that
sophisticated investors like pension funds and endowments don’t
need the same protections as individuals.  
 The private market would be “virtually shut down” if the
SEC approves the proposal, because of increased compliance costs
said  Edward Gainor , a law partner at  Bingham McCutchen LLP  in
Washington.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The demand that Goldman Sachs admit an error is a “major departure” for the SEC, said Harvey Pitt, a former chairman of the agency. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
