-- Senate Set to Approve Extension of U.S. Unemployment Benefits
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/senate-set-to-approve-extension-of-u-s-unemployment-benefits-for-millions.html

          
          
             The Senate is preparing to approve
an extension of  unemployment  aid to millions of Americans after
the seating of the late Senator  Robert Byrd ’s successor gave
Democrats the last vote needed to advance the measure.  
 The Senate  voted  60-40 yesterday to end a filibuster by
Republicans who objected that the bill would add to the federal
 deficit . The chamber will take a final vote as soon as today.
The measure also requires approval by the House.  
 The $34 billion bill has been held up for weeks by
Republicans demanding that Democrats find savings elsewhere in
the budget to keep it from adding to the shortfall. Democrats,
one vote short of the 60 needed to advance the bill, decided to
wait for  Carte Goodwin  of West Virginia to take office.  
 “It’s such an honor to come to the United States Senate
and fill the seat occupied by Senator Byrd,” Goodwin, 36, a
former aide to West Virginia Governor  Joe Manchin , said
yesterday after casting the decisive vote. “But to come on my
first day, in my first vote and help out millions of Americans -
- it’s really quite an honor.”  
 Republicans said the measure could have been approved weeks
ago if Democrats had agreed to find other funds to pay for it.  
 “There’s no debate in the Senate about whether we should
pass a bill -- everyone agrees that we should,” said Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican. “This
debate is about whether in extending these benefits we should
add to the  debt  or not.”  
 Snowe and Collins  
 Maine Senators  Olympia Snowe  and  Susan Collins  were the
only Republicans to support the bill;  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska was
the only Democrat to oppose it. His state has a 4.9 percent
unemployment rate, the nation’s third lowest.  
 Although the House previously approved the measure, it must
be passed there again because of minor changes made by Senate
Democrats. House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland
Democrat, said his chamber would take it up as early as today.  
 The legislation would extend through November a program
offering the long-term unemployed up to 99 weeks of assistance
and provide aid retroactively to more than 2.5 million Americans
whose checks were cut off by the impasse. Aid would average $310
per week.  
 It would push total unemployment benefit spending this year
to more than $130 billion, a 50 percent increase from last year,
according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.  
 Abandoned Provisions  
 Democrats dropped other  unemployment  assistance provisions
because of complaints over the cost, including a 65 percent
subsidy created last year to help the jobless buy health
insurance through their former employers. It benefited 2 million
households last year, according to the Treasury Department.  
 The measure wouldn’t renew an additional $25 weekly jobless
benefit that was part of last year’s economic stimulus. Nor
would it extend a tax exemption for the first $2,400 in
unemployment aid.  
 Also, Democrats don’t plan to extend aid to the growing
number of Americans who have already received the maximum 99
weeks of allowable aid. A number of other jobs-related
provisions, including plans to send additional aid to state
governments, that once comprised Democrats’ election-year agenda
were jettisoned amid complaints they would add too much to the
deficit.  
 “We have stripped this measure down to the bare
essentials,” said Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus ,
a Montana Democrat.  
 Contributed to Unemployment  
 An April report by a pair of economists at the Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco said that the aid extensions,
which are the longest ever, have contributed to the unemployment
rate though the effect was “relatively modest.” It estimated
the jobless rate at the end of last year would have been 9.6
percent, rather than 10 percent, without the extensions.  
 A study by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  last month said the
earliest Congress allowed extended unemployment benefits to
lapse during an economic recovery was in 1978 and 1985, when the
jobless rate in each case was 7.4 percent -- a figure the nation
won’t see again before 2012, according to CBO.  
 White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said earlier this week
the extension probably won’t be the last. “I think it is fair
and safe to assume that we are not going to wake up at the end
of November and find ourselves at a rate of unemployment that no
one would consider not to be still in an emergency,” Gibbs told
reporters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “This debate is about whether in extending these benefits we should add to the debt or not,”  said Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh, an Indiana Democrat, talks about the importance of unemployment benefits in the current economic climate and the need for additional measures to create jobs.
     The Senate today ended a Republican filibuster and moved toward a final vote on legislation extending unemployment benefits to 2.5 million Americans who lost aid during a dispute over how to pay for it. Bayh talks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
