-- NLB of Slovenia Needs $771 Million Additional Capital as Stress Test Looms
-- Boris Cerni
-- 2010-07-21T14:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/slovenia-s-nlb-needs-to-raise-771-million-as-european-stress-test-looms.html

          
          
             Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
Slovenia’s largest bank, needs to raise 600 million euros ($771
million) in fresh capital as it struggles to pass a stress test
of 91 European banks by the European Union this week.  
 EU regulators, examining the strength of banks to reassure
investors about the industry’s resilience to losses following a
sovereign-debt crisis, will release results on July 23. Banks
would need a Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, of at least 6 percent. NLB’s Tier 1 is at 7.2 percent,
though its financial strength may be weaker than other banks
operating in the Balkan region, it said in an email.  
 “After comparisons with some banks that are operating in
southeast Europe, it shows NLB will end up at the bottom of the
list,” said the Ljubljana-based bank. “Since the bank needs to
repay up to 700 million euros in the next three years, it would
need fresh capital of up to 600 million euros.”  
 NLB, which accounts for about a third of Slovenia’s total
banking industry, operates in 18 countries with a focus on the
Balkans. It needs to raise funds after its two largest
shareholders, the Slovenian government and Belgium’s  KBC Groep
NV , failed to agree on a 250 million-euro capital boost in
December.  
 NLB, the only Slovenian lender under scrutiny, reported its
first loss in more than 15 years in 2009 after a surge in bad
loan provisions. It had a 10.5 percent capital adequacy ratio
for the whole group at the end of the first quarter, it said in
the email.  
 Capital Increase Proposal  
 The  Slovenian bank  is proposing a 400 million-euro capital
increase to better compete with rivals in the Balkans. The
proposal needs shareholder approval set for September, the bank
said today in an email statement.  
 It continued to lose money in the first half as it made
further loan-loss provisions. NLB today reported a 34.6 million-
euro loss for the period and set aside about 360 million euros
of reserves from last year’s operations and from the first three
months of the year. The amount of loan-loss provisions for the
first six months wasn’t provided.  
 Slovenian banks, including NLB and the publicly listed  Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.,  are still reeling from the impact
of the global financial crisis and their profitability will
continue to suffer this year, Fitch Ratings said in a report
last month.  
 The biggest drag on Slovenian banks’ loan portfolios is the
overleveraged construction industry, according to central bank
Governor  Marko Kranjec . NLB had 1.4 billion euros of exposure to
construction companies, which compares with 19.6 billion euros
in total assets at the end last year, NLB Chief Executive  Bozo Jasovic  said in a March interview.  
 Jasovic said he expects NLB to return to profit this year
as economies in Europe improve and the bank lowers its bad-loan
reserves.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        