-- SNB Sees First-Half Loss of $3.8 Billion After Buying Euros to Curb Francs
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-07-21T09:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/snb-sees-first-half-loss-of-3-8-billion-after-buying-euros-to-curb-francs.html

          
          
             The Swiss National Bank lost more
than 14 billion Swiss francs ($13.3 billion) on foreign-currency
holdings in the first half after a plunging euro eroded the
value of the bank’s reserves.  
 The SNB had a second-quarter loss of 5.5 billion francs
after a profit of 1.5 billion francs in the first quarter,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on the SNB’s estimate
of a 4-billion franc first-half loss. SNB spokesman  Nicolas Haymoz  in Zurich declined to confirm the second-quarter figure.
The bank will release final results on Aug. 13.  
 The Swiss central bank, led by  Philipp Hildebrand , was
forced to buy billions of euros to counter an appreciation of
the franc, fight  deflation  risks and protect the country’s
export-led recovery. While the SNB last month ended its
intervention policy, currency holdings of 226.8 billion francs
are making the bank vulnerable to foreign-exchange moves.  
 “We don’t expect the SNB to intervene in currency markets
unless the franc appreciates toward 1.25 against the euro,”
said  Giovanni Staunovo , a currency analyst at UBS AG in Zurich.
“It would also depend on the pace of appreciation.”  
 The currency has strengthened 9.4 percent this year and
reached a record 1.3074 per euro on July 1. It was at 1.3521 per
euro as of 10:58 a.m. in Zurich.  
 Euro Holdings  
 While a stronger franc makes imports cheaper, pushing down
 consumer prices , it’s also hurting exporters such  Swatch Group
AG , the country’s largest watchmaker, by making its products
less competitive abroad. Switzerland sells about two-thirds of
its exports to the  euro area , making the region its most
important trading partner.  
 The SNB’s foreign-currency holdings soared 132 billion
francs in the first half, with the “bulk” due to “euro-
denominated investments,” it said  today  without elaborating.
 Currency holdings  were at a record 238.8 billion francs at the
end of May, up from 94.7 billion francs at the end of 2009.  
 “The sharp appreciation of the Swiss franc, in particular
against the euro, resulted in exchange-rate losses,” the SNB
said. “The income from foreign currency and Swiss franc
positions and the steep rise in the price of gold limited the
extent of the SNB’s half-yearly loss.”  
 ‘Sufficient’ Capital  
 Hildebrand said on June 17 that surging foreign-exchange
reserves will “inevitably increase currency risk” and reflect
the “burden” of having to protect the economy from the threat
of deflation. The central bank has “sufficient equity capital
to withstand even large losses,” he said.  
 The Swiss currency has been pushed higher on concern that
the Greek fiscal crisis will spread across the euro-region
economy and spark a sovereign default. The franc has gained
about 2.6 percent against the euro since June 17, when the SNB
ended a policy introduced in March 2009 to counter what it
called “excessive appreciation” of the currency.  
 SNB Vice Chairman  Thomas Jordan  said on June 21 that the
bank would only act against an “overshooting” of the franc and
if the risk of deflation returned.  
 With the economy  gathering strength , the bank has room to
keep purchases on hold.  M3 money-supply growth , which serves as
a gauge for future inflation, accelerated to an annual 7.7
percent in June from 7.5 percent in May, the SNB said today.
 Leading economic indicators  rose to the highest in almost four
years and  manufacturing growth  remained close to a record.  
 “The franc is still used as a save-heaven currency,” said
 Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit in Munich. “As a
consequence, the SNB is likely to only raise borrowing costs in
March. There’s no inflation pressure over the coming years.”  
 SNB policy makers Hildebrand, Jordan and  Jean-Pierre Danthine  will hold their next assessment in September.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Swiss central bank, led by Philipp Hildebrand, was forced to sell billions of francs to counter an appreciation of the Swiss currency, fight deflation risks and protect the country’s export-led recovery. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
