-- Hungary Can't Convincingly Defend Forint, Higher Rates Needed, SocGen Says
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-07-21T10:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/socgen-says-hungary-s-central-bank-can-t-convincingly-defend-currency.html

          
          
             Hungary’s central bank can’t
“convincingly” defend the forint in foreign-exchange markets,
meaning an  interest-rate  increase may be the only way to stem
further depreciation, Societe Generale SA said today.  
 The forint this week tumbled to the weakest level in
almost 15 months after the government failed to gain the
International Monetary Fund and European Union’s approval for
its budget plan. Monetary policy makers may need to raise rates
and will strive to stem forint volatility, the central bank said
on July 19 after keeping borrowing costs unchanged for a third
month. The bank may continue to convert European Union funds
into the forint on the market, it said.  
 “Relative to the size of the forint market, the EU
transfers appear too small to have a prolonged impact” on the
currency,   Benoit Anne , the head of global emerging-market
strategy at SocGen in London, wrote in an e-mailed note.  
 The daily turnover on the forint market is about 1.5
billion euros ($1.9 billion) and reached as much as 3 billion
euros recently, according to Anne. The country’s foreign-
currency reserves, which stood at 29.97 billion euros at the end
of June, are “still short of the comfort zone,” he wrote.  
 The forint strengthened 0.2 percent to 286.10 per euro as
of 12:42 p.m. in Budapest.  
 ‘Excessive Deficit’  
 The IMF suspended its review of Hungary’s 20 billion-euro
emergency bailout on July 17. The Hungarian government must take
steps particularly on spending to correct “the excessive
deficit” by next year, the EU said.  
 “Against this backdrop, the interest-rate defense of the
currency may represent the only viable option if the selling
pressures on the forint build up further,” according to Anne.
“We think that the critical level for the central bank response
stands at 295” per euro.  
 Traders of Hungary’s interest-rate derivatives are betting
on a rate increase.  Forward rate agreements  used to speculate on
borrowing costs three months from now are now trading 48 basis
points above the three-month Budapest interbank offered rate.
That compares with expectations for a drop of as much as 64
basis points as of April 26.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kirkham  in London at 
 ckirkham@bloomberg.net 
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        