-- Soft Stress Tests May Reignite Systemic Risk Concerns, CreditSights Says
-- John Glover
-- 2010-07-21T11:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/soft-stress-tests-may-reignite-systemic-risk-concerns-creditsights-says.html

          
          
             Investor concerns about the
stability of the financial system may reignite if European bank
stress tests are too lax, according to CreditSights Inc.  
 The  Committee of European Banking Supervisors  is examining
the strength of 91 banks to establish whether they can survive
potential losses from a recession and a decline in the value of
their government bond holdings. Some of the results of the tests
are due to be published on July 23.  
 The aim is to reassure investors about the health of
institutions such as Germany’s Landesbanks and Spain’s savings
banks and to encourage interbank lending. Regulators haven’t
revealed details of their methodology and officials in countries
including Greece and Spain signaled their banks will pass the
tests, sparking skepticism they will be sufficiently severe.  
 “If banks that are expected to fail either pass the tests
or require much smaller than expected capital, then the market
is likely to conclude that the tests may not be robust or tough
enough,”  Atish Kakodkar , a New York-based strategist at the
research firm, wrote in a note to clients today. “This would be
a blow to the credibility of the whole exercise and could
reignite a new wave of systemic risk fears.”  
 Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, the commercial-property lender
rescued by the German government following the financial crisis,
failed the stress test, two people familiar with the results
said yesterday. Hypo Real Estate, based in Munich, is probably
the only one of 14 German banks being tested to fail, one person
said.  
 A “credible” round of stress tests should ease concern
about the financial system, helping markets return to normal,
according to the note. That would mean long-term interest rates
rising relative to short-term borrowing costs as the so-called
credit curve steepens, Kakodkar wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        