-- Somali Violence Is Discouraging Donors of Aid Rebels Would Permit, UN Says
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-07-21T15:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/somali-violence-is-discouraging-donors-of-aid-rebels-would-permit-un-says.html

          
          
             Persistent violence in  Somalia  is
discouraging Western governments from funding aid to 3.2 million
people in need even as the Islamic rebels who control much of
the country are allowing relief work to continue, a senior
 United Nations  official said.  
 Australia, Britain and Canada have either suspended or
slowed their aid to Somalia, Mark Bowden, the UN’s coordinator
of humanitarian aid for Somalia, said. The UN has only $334
million of $596 million it needs.  
 “There is a lot more caution in decision-making and
commitments,” Bowden said in an interview. “A lot of donors
are looking for reassurance that we have mechanisms” to deliver
the aid. “We also suffer from a secondary effect that, when
humanitarian budgets go down, it is easy to dump Somalia off the
agenda. It is a difficult sell to the electorate.”  
 Bowden said  Al-Shabaab  and Hisbul-ul-Islam, the groups that
control most of southern and central Somalia, haven’t blocked
much of the work by the UN and other aid agencies to end one of
the world’s worst humanitarian crises. About 43 percent of the
Horn of Africa nation’s population requires food and other
assistance.  
 Health services are being delivered to 2.6 million children
under the age of 5 and women of child-bearing age, Bowden said.
Food is getting to Somalis identified as malnourished and to
pregnant and lactating women even after the UN’s World Food
Program suspended work because al-Shabaab said the agency
couldn’t employ women and had to pay for security.  
 At the same time, Bowden said the UN is “working under
considerable constraints” and that much more must be done in
Somalia. Fees and taxes are being demanded at roadblocks, and
military operations hamper access to certain areas, he said.  
 Al-Shabaab has been fighting Somalia’s Western-backed
government for the past two years along with other groups
including Hisbul-ul-Islam. Somalia hasn’t had a functioning
central administration since 1991 when former dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  was ousted.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        