-- South Korea Seeks Accord With U.S. by 2012 to Reprocess Spent Nuclear Fuel
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-07-21T10:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/south-korea-seeks-accord-with-u-s-by-2012-to-reprocess-spent-nuclear-fuel.html

          
          
             South Korea aims to reach an accord
with the U.S. by 2012 that could allow the Asian nation to
recycle spent nuclear fuel for “peaceful” use to produce
electricity, Minister of Knowledge Economy  Choi Kyung Hwan  said.  
 The two countries are discussing revising an agreement
expiring in 2014 that bans South Korea from recycling uranium,
which can also be used to make atomic weapons. South Korea,
which plans to build more reactors to increase the share of
nuclear power generation from about 40 percent, is running out
of space to store the spent fuel.  
 “I hope that we can get recycling spent fuel as part of
the agreement,” Choi, whose ministry oversees energy and
industrial policies, said yesterday in an interview in
Washington where he is attending a meeting of energy officials.  
 The current agreement was signed in 1956 and revised in
1974, the Munhwa Ilbo newspaper reported April 14. Washington is
concerned that allowing South Korea to process the fuel for re-
use may discourage North Korea from giving up its weapons
program, the New York Times reported July 14.  
 “South Korea will pursue only peaceful and commercial use
of nuclear power and we are against any military use,” Foreign
Minister Yu Myung Hwan told reporters in Seoul today.  
 Asia’s fourth-largest crude oil importer seeks to buy
overseas fields to reduce dependence on imports and also plans
to increase exports of nuclear reactors, Choi said.  
 “We are trying to develop alternatives to oil and will
continue to pursue acquisitions of promising oil and gas
companies,” the economy minister said.  
 BP Assets  
 Choi declined to say whether South Korea is interested in
buying assets from  BP Plc . The London-based company, seeking to
sell about $10 billion in assets to pay for the cleanup of an
oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and related fines, agreed to
sell assets in North America and Egypt to Apache Corp. yesterday
for $7 billion.  
 South Korea, which imports almost all of its energy and
minerals needs, is competing with China and India in the search
for raw materials after crude oil fell from an all-time high in
2008, making assets cheaper. State-run Chinese companies spent a
record $32 billion last year acquiring energy and resources
assets overseas.  
 The country wants to boost sales of its atomic power
reactors after winning an $18.6 billion order from the United
Arab Emirates in December, Choi said.  
 The nation emerged as a rival in the global nuclear-power
plant industry after state-run  Korea Electric Power Corp.  beat
General Electric Co. and  Areva SA  last year to an order to build
four reactors in the U.A.E. South Korea said in June it may
reach an agreement by the end of the year to build atomic
generators in Turkey.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        