-- South Africa's Public Servants Association Planing to Strike From July 29
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-21T15:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/south-africa-s-public-servants-association-plans-to-strike-from-july-29.html

          
          
             South Africa’s Public Servants
Association, which represents more than 200,000 government
workers, called a strike to start on July 29 after wage talks
deadlocked.  
 Fourteen unions, representing 1.3 million workers including
teachers and nurses, are demanding 8.6 percent pay increases and
monthly housing allowances of 1,000 rand ($133). The government
is offering 6.5 percent and 620 rand allowances.  
 “The employer has, after numerous meetings aimed at
breaking the deadlock, not moved from its insignificant offer,”
the Public Servants Association said. “The PSA has already
approached its members for a mandate on whether or not they are
prepared to embark on indefinite strike action and the majority
voted in favor.”  
 Other unions are balloting their members on whether to join
the labor action, with several likely to announce the outcome
next week, said Chris Klopper, chairman of the Independent Labor
Caucus that groups 10 unions representing about 460,000 workers.  
 “We will hold informal talks later this week, maybe
tomorrow, and if the news is positive, the parties could be
called together” to resume formal negotiations, Klopper said in
a telephone interview from Pretoria. “At this stage we are
extremely cynical.”  
 Wage Bill  
 The government, which has seen its wage bill double over
the past five fiscal years to 259 billion rand, says it must
rein in increases if it is to improve health, education and
other services.  
 Public Service and Administration Minister  Richard Baloyi 
said the union’s decision to call a strike was “regrettable“
and “premature.”  
 At a meeting held on July 14, the unions agreed to give the
government time to “develop a response in the light of the
current deadlock,” Baloyi said in an e-mailed statement. The
government will formulate “a response by the end of this week
to take the solution-finding process forward.”  
 South Africa’s state-owned power utility, Eskom Holdings
Ltd., agreed this month to increase its workers’ pay by 9
percent to avert a strike that threatened to disrupt the soccer
World Cup and halt mines. South Africa’s  inflation  rate was 4.6
percent in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Johannesburg at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        