-- Drilling-Ban Suit Shows Judge Too Invested in Case: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-07-21T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/stocks-bonds-get-in-way-of-clean-court-rulings-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             Someone sues you and wins a big
ruling. Surprised at your loss, you then learn the judge owns
shares in a company that will benefit from his decision. That’s
supposed to be impartial?  
 There has got to be a rule against that, right? There is.
And it should have prevented U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman 
of New Orleans from deciding whether to lift the Obama
administration’s six-month moratorium on deepwater oil drilling.  
 He set aside the moratorium in June, staying on the case
even though he has disclosed ownership in at least one company
the moratorium was hurting,  Allis-Chalmers  Energy Inc.  
 Feldman’s handling of the matter shows, again, how tricky
it is to find out judges’ investments and how hard it can be to
persuade them to give up cases that can benefit them
financially.  
 It’s one of two recent cases out of New Orleans that make
you want to require judges to put all their investments into
blind trusts. The problem in the other one was too many
recusals, not too few.  
 In that one, eight members of the 16-judge federal appeals
court in New Orleans stepped off a global warming case,
presumably because of stock ownership in some of the energy
companies being sued. Because there were so many, the recusals
themselves had the effect of deciding the case in the companies’
favor. Without a proper quorum, the judges said the case had to
be dismissed.  
 Stepping Aside  
 Judges never have to say why they step aside or explain why
they don’t. Financial disclosure reports help, but they are slow
in coming. For the most part, the reports now available cover
2008, a year that ended 18 months ago.  
 At least Feldman, 76, made his 2009 report public sooner,
once questions arose about his investments in businesses
affected by the moratorium. As of Dec. 31, 2009, he owned a
small piece of Allis-Chalmers, which services deepwater drilling
operations in the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere.  
 “We do expect that our business in the offshore is going
to suffer” because of the moratorium, Chief Financial Officer
 Victor Perez  told Dow Jones Newswires last month.  
 Because of Allis-Chalmers and other energy companies that
Feldman’s report lists, environmental groups asked him to
disqualify himself from the moratorium case. It still matters
who presides because his ruling was temporary, as was the
decision by the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which refused
to reinstate the moratorium for now. And now the courts must
decide on a revised ban.  
 Citing Precedent  
 Feldman this week rebuffed the recusal request without much
explanation. He merely cited precedent that said judges don’t
have to recuse when the alleged financial interest is “remote,
contingent, and speculative.”  
 It is true that none of the companies the judge reported as
investments were plaintiffs or defendants in the case. And yet,
it’s clear at least one of them, Allis-Chalmers, was losing
revenue because of the moratorium.  
 Feldman’s stock ownership clearly means his “impartiality
might reasonably be questioned,” which requires recusal under
the  Code  of Judicial Conduct.  
 The judge seemed to understand that a company not directly
involved could have a clear interest in the suit. Feldman
voluntarily disclosed that once he realized he had shares of
Exxon-Mobil, which has a well the moratorium shut down, he sold
the stock.  
 Even then he didn’t go by the book. The rules say he was
supposed to give up the case, not his shares.  
 Stocks and Bonds  
 He presumably still held stocks and bonds in other
companies with Gulf of Mexico operations. In addition to Allis-
Chalmers, Feldman disclosed he had bonds with  El Paso Corp.  and
 SandRidge Energy Inc.  They all “engaged in oil and gas drilling
or related work in the Gulf of Mexico,” environmental groups
said when urging him to step off the case on July 2.  
 Presumably held because all we know is what he had as of
Dec. 31, 2009. Annual disclosure reports aren’t due until May
15, and then crawl through a process to let judges redact
information. That’s to keep angry prisoners or losing litigants
from learning information, such as a spouse’s work address, that
could be used for retaliation.  
 The redaction takes anywhere from 10 to 30 days after you
file a request. And even then, you can’t get the reports
electronically, or even by fax. You have to go to the
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts in Washington and pay
20 cents a page.  
 Judges Reports  
 If you don’t mind waiting for someone else to do it, a
conservative interest group, Judicial Watch, buys reports for
all federal judges, from district to Supreme courts, at a cost
of thousands of dollars. The group scans them and posts them
 online . That takes time, too.  
 The delays only underscore the need for judges to explain
why they recuse themselves and, when their continued handling of
a case comes under attack, why they don’t.  
 Either that or hire someone else to decide what investments
to buy, which ones to sell and when to do it. Then, with the
judge in the dark, there would be no way and no need to disclose
investments, no need and no way to use them to question his
neutrality.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        