-- Summers Says Extending Tax Cuts on High-Income Families Is `Inefficacious'
-- Julianna Goldman
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/summers-says-tax-cuts-on-high-incomes-inefficacious-in-boosting-economy.html

          
          
             White House economic adviser  Larry Summers  said a double-dip recession isn’t likely and rejected
Republican arguments for extending the Bush administration’s tax
cuts for high-income families.  
 “Tax cuts for high-income families are a relatively
inefficacious measure for pushing the economy forward,”
Summers, director of the White House National Economic Council,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  
 He said Congress should extend the Bush tax cuts for
middle-income families. All of the Bush-era tax cuts are
scheduled to expire at the end of the year.  
 “The president has made clear he does not think right now,
where this economy is, is the time to be raising taxes in a
substantial way on middle-income families,” Summers said.  
 He left open the possibility that Obama, who ran for
election on a promise not to raise taxes on families earning
less than $250,000, may eventually agree to a tax increase on
middle-income families if it is recommended by the deficit
commission Obama appointed.  
 “You are going to have to look at a range of issues,”
Summers said, adding that included tax increases. “We’ll have
to see where that commission goes in making judgments about the
more distant future.”  
 In February, Obama said he was “agnostic” about how to
handle any recommendations from the deficit commission that
would raise taxes on households making less than $250,000 per
year. The commission is scheduled to make its report after the
November congressional elections.  
 Asked about the possibility of a double-dip recession,
Summers said that among “major forecasters” he isn’t aware of
any economist who expects “anything close to a decline” in the
economy.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        