-- Swiss Stocks Rise; Transocean, Julius Baer Increase, Roche Shares Tumble
-- Adam Ewing
-- 2010-07-21T10:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/swiss-stocks-rise-transocean-julius-baer-increase-roche-tumbles.html

          
          
             Stocks in Switzerland rose as gains
in  Transocean Ltd . and  Julius Baer Group Ltd . overshadowed falls
in Roche Holding AG. Investors also speculated that the Federal
Reserve will take steps to spur lending.  
 Transocean, the offshore drilling company that owned the
sunken Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico, gained
1.8 percent, while Julius Baer rose 4.6 percent after the
private bank took in 3.3 billion Swiss francs ($3.1 billion) of
net new funds during the first six months.  
 Roche , the world’s biggest maker of tumor drugs, said in a
statement today it was “disappointed” with the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration’s recommendation denying Avastin approval as
a treatment for breast cancer. The shares slid 4 percent.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  rose 32.79, or 0.5
percent, to 6,156.21 at 11:47 a.m. in Zurich, after four days of
losses. The SMI has retreated 12 percent from this year’s high
on April 15 amid speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may
derail the economic recovery and concern that the Chinese
authorities are cooling their nation’s rate of growth. The
broader  Swiss Performance Index  rose 0.6 percent.  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  today delivers his semi-annual
report on monetary policy to the Senate Banking Committee and
will testify at the House Financial Services Committee tomorrow.  
 U.S. stocks rallied for a second day yesterday, erasing
last Friday’s losses as speculation the Federal Reserve will
take steps to spur lending and an increase in building permits
sent homebuilders and commodity producers higher.  
 Strong Numbers From Apple  
  “In general we’re seeing good second-quarter numbers, and
although some companies are cautious on the remainder of the
year, the message is still pretty upbeat,”  Espen Furnes , a fund
manager at  Storebrand ASA  in Oslo, which oversees about $54
billion in investments, said today. “The strong numbers from
Apple yesterday and some investors thinking that the Fed will
take measures to help spending in the US, should give investor
sentiment a boost.”  
 Apple Inc.  climbed 3.5 percent to $260.59 in German trading
after the maker of the iPhone forecast fourth-quarter sales that
topped analysts’ estimates and posted third-quarter revenue and
profit that also exceeded predictions.  
 Transocean shares rose 1.8 percent to 52.25 francs, paring
two days of losses. BP Plc’s  Kent Wells  said the relief well is
“exactly where we want it.” Wells spoke on a conference call
today with reporters about the operation to plug the damaged
Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Baer increased 4.6 percent to 33.48 francs, paring five
days of losses. The bank gained 3.3 billion francs of net new
assets over the period, beating analysts’ estimates, and helping
to offset the effect of a weaker euro on assets under
management.  
 “The main concern had been net new money, so the fact that
it accelerated is a positive,” said  Christian Stark  , an
analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA in Zurich who has a
“strong buy” recommendation on the stock.  
 Roche shares tumbled 4 percent to 137.3 francs, its lowest
price in 15 months. It is “disappointed” with a U.S. Food and
Drug Administration panel’s recommendation not to approve
Avastin for use as a breast cancer treatment, the company said
today in a statement. Roche will continue to discuss data with
the FDA. Separately, Credit Suisse Group AG reduced Roche’s
price estimate to 160 francs from 200 francs.  
 Credit Suisse Group AG  and  UBS AG  rose 1.7 percent to 43.95
francs and 1.9 percent to 15.26 francs, respectively.
International banking activity rose by 2 percent, or $700
billion, in the first quarter of this year, the first increase
since September 2008, the Bank for International Settlements
said.  
 Swiss National Bank , Switzerland’s central bank, fell 2.5
percent to 980.5 francs, set to fall the most since April 29. It
lost more than 14 billion Swiss francs ($13.3 billion) on
foreign-currency holdings in the first half after the franc’s
gain eroded the value of reserves built up during more than a
year of euro purchases.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        