-- U.K. Shariah Banks Hampered by Recession, Lack of Support: Islamic Finance
-- Soraya Permatasari
-- 2010-07-21T02:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/u-k-shariah-banks-hampered-by-recession-lack-of-support-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Growth in Islamic financing in the
U.K. has been hampered by an economic slump and what Moody’s
Investors Service describes as a lack of government support.  
 HSBC Amanah, a unit of Europe’s biggest bank, says Malaysia
and the Middle East have better growth prospects. Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest mortgage lender, 
stopped offering home financing that complies with Shariah 
law because the overseas underwriter withdrew,  Emile Abu- Shakra , a spokesman at the bank in London, said in an interview
yesterday. The Birmingham-based  Islamic Bank of Britain  said
income from Islamic transactions dropped to 3 million pounds
($4.6 million) last year, from 8 million pounds in 2008.  
 Growth in the industry in the U.K., Europe’s largest market 
for products complying with the religion’s ban on interest,
has been hurt by a lack of regulations, according to Moody’s.
The U.K. Treasury yesterday reiterated the previous government’s
2008 position a sovereign sukuk sale, which would provide a
benchmark for issuance, didn’t offer “value for money.”  
 “Most of the Islamic offerings are simply not competitive
compared to their conventional counterparts,”  Ahmad Alanani , an
associate director for the Middle East and North Africa at
Exotix Ltd. in London, an investment bank specializing in
illiquid securities, said in an interview on July 7. “They have
failed to achieve the mass appeal it was hoped they would.”  
 ‘Challenging’ Environment  
 HSBC,  Lloyds  and IBB are among 22 lenders competing for a
share of the U.K.’s $19 billion of Islamic assets, according to
 International Financial Services London , which promotes the
nation’s financial industry overseas. That compares with $93
billion in Malaysia, almost 20 percent of the country’s total.  
 The U.K. Islamic mortgage market amounts to 500 million
pounds, 0.3 percent of total home loans, International Financial
Services said in a  January  report. To comply with the religion’s
ban on interest, Shariah-qualified banks buy property on behalf
of the borrower and resell it back at a profit, with repayments
typically made in installments.  
 IBB’s losses increased 61 percent in 2009, “impacted by
the challenging economic environment,” Chairman  Mohsen Moustafa 
wrote in the company’s annual report. HSBC Amanah’s Chief
Executive Officer  Mukhtar Hussain  cited a “very difficult”
period for the U.K. Islamic market, in a June 29 interview in
Kuala Lumpur.  
 Sukuk Returns  
 Global sales of Islamic bonds have fallen 29 percent to
$6.62 billion from the same period last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sukuk issuance rose to a record in 2007.  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic notes due
June 2015 fell two basis points to 3.145 percent as of 8:30 a.m.
in Singapore, the lowest level since the bonds were sold on May
27, according to prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
The difference over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries has
narrowed to 152 basis points from 180 since then.  
 Islamic bonds returned 7 percent so far this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while
regular debt in developing markets gained 8 percent, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  
 Emerging-market sukuk  yielded  an average 430 basis points
more than the London interbank offered rate yesterday, having
narrowed by 37 basis points, or 0.37 percentage point, so far
this year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ  data.  
 ‘Difficult Time’  
 Shariah-compliant loans in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa dropped 35 percent so far in 2010 to $2.32 billion, the
lowest level in five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Islamic bank loans in Malaysia, the world’s biggest
market for sukuk, more than doubled to a two-year high of $4.1
billion in the first half of this year.  
 “The U.K. is going through a very difficult time right now
and the environment is much more challenging, hence, our focus
is on the Middle East and Malaysia because we think that those
markets have better growth prospects,” HSBC Amanah’s Hussain
said. “We haven’t scaled down” our U.K. operations, he said.  
 HSBC Amanah  was set up a decade ago and offers housing
finance. The lender has 28,000 bank account customers and
extended 800 million pounds of loans for Islamic mortgages since
2003, according to a statement from spokesman  James Thorpe .  
 Lloyds started Islamic banking operations in 2006 and is
committed to its customers, the bank’s spokesman Emile said,
adding that the lender had seen 70 percent growth in Shariah
accounts allowing instant access over the last two years.  
 ‘Botched Attempt’  
 “HSBC and Lloyds had made a botched attempt at this
segment by initially offering a variety of Shariah compliant
products, which they have since failed to market successfully,”
Alanani at Exotix said on July 7.  
 The Islamic Bank of Britain has provided mortgages, loans
and retail services through its eight branches since 2004 to
cater to the U.K.’s 1.8 million Muslims. While clients rose 6
percent to 50,000 and deposits climbed 18 percent to 186.6
million pounds last year, its business slumped during the
recession, according to its latest annual report.  
 IBB’s loss last year widened to 9.49 million pounds, from
5.9 million pounds. The bank’s  shares  last traded at 3.75 pounds
on July 19, down 48 percent from the year’s peak of 7.25 pounds
on Jan. 7. The lender declined a request for an interview.  
 More regulatory and legislative development needs to be
done to encourage the establishment and marketing of Shariah-
compliant investments,  Faisal Hijazi , the business development
manager of rating services and Islamic finance at Moody’s in 
Dubai, said in a July 1 interview in Kuala Lumpur.  
 “I can understand the frustration” of the industry
players in the U.K.,  Hijazi  said. “The product availability is
still limited, and the scale of the product is still limited.”  
 The U.K. government introduced tax concessions for Islamic
bonds in its annual budget in 2007 and authorities extended tax
breaks to Islamic mortgages in 2003.  
 “A lot of people would have said five years ago the U.K.
was going to be the next big market,” said Hussain of HSBC
Amanah. “I don’t think that’s the case.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        