-- U.K. Takeover Panel Concerned About `Inappropriate' EU Merger Oversight
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-21T12:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/u-k-takeover-panel-concerned-about-inappropriate-eu-merger-oversight.html

          
          
             The U.K. merger regulator said it
opposed proposals to give a new European Union agency the power
to monitor British takeovers.  
 The EU plans to create three pan-European regulators for
banks, securities and insurance. The European Securities and
Markets Authority, or ESMA, may be given the power to set EU
standards for buyout bids or intervene in individual deals, the
London-based  Takeover Panel  said in its  annual report  today.  
 Such a move “would be inappropriate, not least because
takeover regulation must reflect company law, which still varies
considerably between member states,”  Gordon Langley , chairman
of the panel that reviews mergers and acquisitions in the U.K.,
said in the report.  
 The panel “has devoted considerable efforts to making
representations to this effect in Brussels, and with its
counterparts in other member states,” Langley said. “It is
hoped that, when it is finally established, ESMA will not
compromise the existing framework of takeover regulation applied
by the panel.”  
 The number of takeover bids fell to 90 from 104 in the year
ended on March 31, according to the panel, which said it had a
“busy” year enforcing its rules.  
 Rules Reviews  
 The regulator is reviewing its rules on shareholder voting,
fees and disclosures after criticism of  Kraft Foods Inc .’s
takeover of Cadbury Plc. from politicians including former U.K.
Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson . The  consultation  will close
next week.  
 Current Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said yesterday he
would respond “very soon” to the review and that “there is a
strong case for looking at the takeover regime.” Lawmakers have
expressed concern that the purchase was ultimately decided by
investors who were motivated by short-term profit.  
 The panel is considering whether the minimum acceptance for
approval of a takeover offer should be raised, and whether
acquiring companies should have to provide more information on
the financing of takeover bids.  
 The regulator last week issued a so-called cold shoulder,
its first in 18 years, to three investors who skirted takeover
rules when they acquired 6.7 million shares of  Principle Capital
Investment Trust Plc . The men are banned from takeover activity
in the U.K. for three years.  
 The regulator in May issued its first public reprimand in
three years, criticizing Kraft for misstating its plans to keep
a plant open as part of its takeover of Cadbury. An investment
banker for Lazard & Co., which advised Kraft, dropped plans to
head the agency after the censure was issued.  
 The panel also issued nine letters of private criticism
during the year, up from eight the previous year, according to
the report.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        