-- U.S. Refinery Profits May Fall as Economic Growth Sputters: Energy Markets
-- Barbara Powell
-- 2010-07-22T14:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/u-s-refinery-profits-may-fall-as-economic-growth-sputters-energy-markets.html

          
          
             The profit from making gasoline may
slide to the lowest level in 10 months as faltering U.S.
consumer growth hurts refiners that have boosted production in
anticipation of an economic rebound.  
 Margins on gasoline, the difference between what producers
pay for crude and how much they get for the refined fuel, are
poised to drop as much as 75 percent in coming months, according
to  James Cordier , president of futures brokerage Liberty Trading
Group in Tampa, Florida. Margins, or crack spreads, were $10.41
at 9:29 a.m., down 45 percent from the 15-month high of $18.77
on May 13, based on futures prices on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. They reached $2.23 in September 2009.  
 Refiners have accelerated  output  by 11 percent since the
end of March on forecasts of rising demand, driving stockpiles
to a two-month high as of the week ended July 16, according to
the Energy Department. Now the profit is being eroded by
declining factory production and consumer confidence at the
lowest level in a year.  
 “Over-optimism has created an excess of output relative to
demand and the economy is struggling under the weight of a
continued stream of bad, disappointing news,” said  Walter J. Zimmerman Jr ., vice president of market analysis at United-ICAP
in Jersey City, New Jersey. “It’s hard to be optimistic about
the outlook for margins.”  
 Profit margins and gasoline futures rose to a 2010 high in
May while demand climbed to this year’s high in June,
encouraging companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and Valero
Energy Corp. to increase output. Refinery use, after dipping to
a 16-month low of 77.7 percent on Jan. 29, reached 91.5 percent
last week, the highest level since August 2007, Energy
Department data show.  
 Slowing Pace  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , which commodities have
tracked as it fluctuated on expectations about the pace of
recovery, fell 1.2 percent last week. It lost 1.3 percent
yesterday after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told
the Senate Banking Committee that the U.S. “economic outlook
remains unusually uncertain.”  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  declined to 66.5, the lowest level
since August 2009, from 76 in June. The 9.5-point decline in the
index was the biggest since October 2008.  
 “If, as it appears, the pace of economic recovery is
slowing significantly and demand continues to show weakness, the
cracks are subject to significant declines,” said  Tom Knight ,
vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in
Texarkana, Texas.  
 Peak Demand  
 Consumption  peaked for the year on June 25 at 9.46 million
barrels a day, according to Energy Department data. Demand,
measured as the amount refiners and blenders supply to
wholesalers, rose 3.9 percent in the week ended July 16.  
 “Any bump up in demand was purely vacation driven,” said
Cordier. “The strength of the economy is going to be a dictator
of gasoline demand and the economy is lousy. The crack spreads
are going to suffer greatly and the magnitude will be similar to
last year.”  
 Supplies of gasoline  increased  1.1 million barrels in the
week ended July 16 to 222.2 million, an 11-week high, according
to the Energy Department.  
 “Refiners have to go back to low runs or else face
collapsing margins,” said  Sander Cohan , an analyst with Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts.  
 2009 Trough  
 Refiners raised run rates to 87.9 percent on July 10 last
year. Demand climbed to its highest level two months earlier, on
May 22. The crack spread peaked on May 13. Margins fell as much
as 88 percent to a low of $2.23 on Sept. 29, a month before the
U.S.  jobless rate  reached a 26-year-high of 10.9 percent.  
 “If you get a precipitous downturn, inventories will surge
very quickly if demand this summer doesn’t pick up pretty quick
and we get no hurricane,” said  Dominick Chirichella , senior
partner at the Energy Management Institute in New York. “If
unemployment and inventories stay high, crack spreads could go
to very, very low levels again.”  
 Refiners show no sign they won’t bring more production back
on line. Valero, the  largest  in the U.S., is repairing its
275,000 barrel-a-day refinery in  Aruba , shut for almost two
years because of poor margins and a tax dispute. Valero, which
has tried to find a buyer for the plant, said it will restart
Aruba in September.  
 “We can’t control the economy and the margin environment,
but those things are improving and we expect that by the time
the refinery is physically ready to be restarted, there will be
a positive margin environment,”  Bill Day , a spokesman for San
Antonio-based Valero, said in an interview. Aruba makes
intermediate feedstocks for U.S. refineries.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Barbara Powell  in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The oil tanker Seaqueen is docked at the Valero Energy Corp. refinery at the Port of Corpus Christi. Photographer: Eddie Seal/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
