-- U.S. Judge to Rule on Religious Group's Challenge to Health-Care Reform
-- Steven Raphael
-- 2010-07-21T20:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/u-s-judge-to-rule-on-religious-group-s-challenge-to-health-care-reform.html

          
          
             Lawyers for a self-described
Christian law center urged a federal judge to block the health-
care overhaul President  Barack Obama  signed in March, arguing
the law is an unconstitutional tax on individuals.  
 The  Thomas More Law Center , the plaintiff in the case
along with four uninsured individuals, argued before U.S.
District Judge  George Steeh  in Detroit that the health-care
statute creates a tax in the form of compulsory insurance that
Congress lacks the power to enact. The center also claims the
law would violate religious freedoms by using its members’ tax
dollars to pay for abortions.  
 “To quote  Joe Biden , ‘this is a big deal,’” Robert Muise,
an attorney for the group, said. It’s “the first time in the
nation’s history that Congress has assumed the power to tax”
individuals under the Commerce Clause.  
 Lawsuits have been filed by 21 states, including Michigan,
seeking to overturn the health-care statute, claiming its
requirement that Americans buy health insurance exceeds the
authority given Congress by the Constitution. The U.S. contends
Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce gives it the
power to impose mandatory insurance premiums because $43 billion
in unpaid medical bills are absorbed each year into a national
market.  
 ‘Policy Dispute’  
 The government argued that the center, dedicated to the
“defense and promotion of the religious freedom of
Christians,” according to its website, has no standing to sue
because no one has suffered an injury. Likewise, the government
said the court has no justification for hearing the case as the
insurance requirement won’t take effect until 2014.  
 “This is a policy dispute,” Ian Gershengorn, an attorney
for the U.S. Justice Department told the judge. “Plaintiffs
don’t have insurance and don’t want to pay for it.”  
 Congress has the authority to regulate economic activity,
including health care, Gershengorn said. Congress is trying to
fix a market that absorbs $43 billion annually in unpaid medical
bills, he said.  
 Steeh didn’t say when he would make a decision.  
 A federal judge in Richmond, Virginia, said he would make a
decision by the end of the month on whether to throw out
Virginia’s lawsuit challenging the health-care law. Another
suit, brought in Florida on behalf of 20 states, won’t have its
first oral arguments until September. Michigan is part of the
Florida lawsuit.  
 The case is Thomas More Law Center v. President of the
United States, 10cv11156, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Michigan (Detroit).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Raphael  in Detroit at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        