-- U.S. Saudi Sale Is Said to Approach $30 Billion Including 84 F-15 Fighters
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-07-21T20:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/u-s-saudi-sale-is-said-to-approach-30-billion-including-84-f-15-fighters.html

          
          
             A proposed U.S. arms sale to Saudi
Arabia will include 84 new  Boeing Co.  F-15 fighter jets and may
be valued at as much as $30 billion, according to a government
official familiar with the plan.  
 The deal also calls for selling 72 UH-60 Black Hawk
helicopters built by  United Technologies Corp. ’s Sikorsky unit
and refurbishing 70 Saudi F-15s, said the official, who asked
not to be identified because terms are still under discussion.  
 Navy Vice Admiral  Jeffrey Wieringa , director of the Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, which oversees foreign sales, said
separately today that Congress may be formally notified “within
two months” about the transaction, which he said includes F-
15s, helicopters, ships and missile-defense systems. He said he
couldn’t give specifics.  
 “There are three major efforts for Saudi Arabia --
aviation, Army missile defense-related and Navy,” Wieringa said
in an interview at the Farnborough Air Show near London. “We
have been working all those for about four years or so. Saudi is
a key country for us and we continue to work hard.”  
 Negotiations were already under way in August 2007, when
Wieringa’s predecessor, then-Air Force Lieutenant General
 Jeffrey Kohler , said in an interview that a sale to the kingdom
might be valued at as much as $20 billion and include F-15s,
Littoral Combat Ships and satellite-guided bomb kits.  
 Bolstering Allies  
 Completing the deal would be a step toward President  Barack Obama ’s goal of buttressing the defense capabilities of Middle
East allies to counter Iran’s growing offensive missile might
and suspected nuclear weapons program. It would be part of the
Gulf Security Initiative started by the Bush administration.  
 The $30 billion total includes hardware as well as spare
parts, training and support, according to the government
official who asked not to be identified.  
 Saudi Arabia’s last significant U.S. weapons purchase was
72 F-15s in 1992, a transaction valued at as much as $9 billion.
The last planes in that contract were delivered in November
1999.  
 The kingdom spent $36.7 billion worldwide on arms and
support activities from 2001 to 2008, according to the
nonpartisan Congressional Research Service.  
 “I can’t go into specifics,” Wieringa said of
negotiations surrounding the arms package. “When the two
countries agree on a deal and Congress agrees, then I can talk
about it.”  
 Notifying Congress  
 Notification of Congress usually occurs in three stages in
such deals. First are preliminary discussions with members and
staff of the Senate and House foreign affairs committees,
followed by a 20-day “informal” notice. Those steps would be
followed by a 30-day review period after which the Pentagon
submits a formal notification. Congress could then reject all or
parts of the package.  
 The U.S. has previously sold Saudi Arabia Boeing-built
AWACS surveillance aircraft, Sikorsky’s UH-60 Black Hawks,
 Raytheon Co. -built Patriot and Hawk missile defense systems, and
 General Dynamics Corp. ’s M1A2 tanks.  
 Boeing , based in Chicago, fell 70 cents, or 1.1 percent, to
$63.18 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Hartford,
Connecticut-based  United Technologies  dropped 51 cents to $67.03
as broad market indexes declined.  
 Iraq, Afghanistan  
 Wieringa said talks also are under way with Iraq on
equipment to rebuild the country’s military forces.  
 “It parallels the broad discussions with the Saudis,” he
said. “We have got efforts for their aviation, land forces and
their navy.”  
 Army General  Raymond Odierno , the outgoing commander of
U.S. forces in Iraq, told reporters in Washington today the
Iraqi government has formally requested 18 General Dynamics F-16
fighter jets for delivery in 2013, a year when increased oil
revenue should allow for the purchase and maintenance expenses.  
 The Pentagon agency will finish the year ending Sept. 30
with $37.8 billion in orders, Wieringa said. “Next year we
could easily go to $50 billion or more,” he said.  
 If Congress approves, sales in the next fiscal year may
include as much as $10 billion in arms to equip Afghanistan’s
National Army and its police forces, Wieringa said. “It’s an
extensive list of equipment,” he said without elaborating.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Farnborough, England, via 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        