-- U.S. Treasury's Allison Calls Financial Bill a `Major Watershed' for TARP
-- Rebecca Christie
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/u-s-treasury-s-allison-calls-financial-bill-a-major-watershed-for-tarp.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama ’s signing
today of the biggest U.S. financial-rules overhaul since the
Great Depression will be a “major watershed” for the
government’s bailout programs, a Treasury Department official
said.  
 The legislation gives regulators tools to avoid the need
for future rescues such as the $700 billion Troubled Asset
Relief Program, said  Herbert Allison , the Treasury’s assistant
secretary in charge of the program, in a telephone interview
yesterday. The new law will also forbid the Treasury from
starting new programs and limits the funding available to
existing efforts.  
 “TARP was unpopular but it was necessary,” Allison said
in the interview. “Now the government is going to have much
better tools.”  
 The bank rescue, enacted in October 2008, had allocated
$535.5 billion of its available funding, Allison said. When the
new law takes effect, that amount will be limited to $475
billion, based on cuts in the amount of funding available to
housing, the auto industry and small-business lending programs.  
 Douglas Elliott , a research fellow at the Brookings
Institution who specializes in banking, said shrinking TARP is a
victory for the Obama administration.  
 “I don’t think this is budget games,” Elliott said.
“It’s as if the budget had expected to buy 1,000 tanks and they
end up deciding to buy 900 tanks -- that is a savings.”  
 Ongoing Investments  
 At the same time, the Treasury’s Office of Financial
Stability is planning how to manage the Treasury’s ongoing
investments in housing and the banking system, Allison said.  
 “We have to be making sure we’re protecting the taxpayers
throughout this entire program,” said Allison, the former chief
executive officer of Fannie Mae and TIAA-CREF. “We’re going to
have, for a long time to come, staffing within the office of
financial stability.”  
 The Treasury’s estimates of TARP’s long-term costs are
unchanged at $105 billion, primarily in housing aid and losses
from assistance to automakers and American International Group
Inc.  
 Allison, 66, said there are still more than 600 banks
participating in the capital injection program, even though the
Treasury has regained about 75 percent of the $205 billion it
invested through that program. The Treasury also is continuing
to invest money to community development banks through an $800
million program launched this year.  
 Smaller Programs  
 To adjust to the new legal limits, the Treasury has shrunk
the amount of money available for some TARP initiatives. The
total auto industry aid program has shrunk by $3 billion to
$81.8 billion, and the Public-Private Investment Program is set
at $22.4 billion, $8 billion less than initially planned.  
 The Home Affordable Modification Program has a total
possible amount of $45.6 billion, down $3.2 billion from earlier
plans.  
 “HAMP is the first large national program that’s been
designed to provide substantial relief in terms of affordability
of homeownership,” Allison said. “It will be seen in
retrospect as having set new standards for the industry.”  
 By limiting the TARP program’s flexibility, Congress is
taking on some risk that the government won’t be able to respond
quickly if the economic recovery hits a snag, said  Joseph Mason ,
a finance professor at Louisiana State University in Baton
Rouge. Even though TARP was not perfect, it did allow regulators
to recapitalize the banking system quickly, he said.  
 “It’s not clear that we’re out of this crisis,” Mason
said. “We could very well need more.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        