-- U.S. Stocks Decline on Bernanke's Uncertain Growth Outlook
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-21T20:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/u-s-stocks-retreat-as-yahoo-energy-shares-lead-drop-treasuries-advance.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, ending a two-day
rally, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
economic outlook remains “unusually uncertain” without
offering additional measures to stimulate growth.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. lost more
than 2.9 percent to help lead the Dow Jones Industrial Average
lower. All 10 industries in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped. Yahoo! Inc. tumbled 8.5 percent after sales missed
analyst estimates on a drop in search ad revenue.  SLM Corp. , the
largest U.S. student lender, sank 11 percent after loan
originations missed forecasts.  
 The  S&P 500 , which staged a late-session rally yesterday on
speculation Bernanke would announce plans to stimulate the
economy, fell 1.3 percent to 1,069.59 as of 4 p.m. today in New
York. The Dow dropped 109.43 points, or 1.1 percent, to
10,120.53. About four stocks retreated for each that rose on
U.S. exchanges.  
 “Investors were hoping that Bernanke would give the
economy a shot in the arm,” said  Burt White , who helps oversee
$284 billion as chief investment officer at LPL Financial Corp.
in Boston. “But he only said what we already know about the
economy and monetary policy and we didn’t get that jump start to
growth that many had been looking for.”  
 S&P 500’s Path  
 The S&P 500 had fluctuated for most of the day as  Yahoo  led
technology shares lower, while Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo & Co.
and  Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc.  rallied following
better-than-estimated second-quarter results. Equity indexes
slumped to their lows of the session as Bernanke told the Senate
Banking Committee that the Fed remains prepared to act as needed
to aid growth even as it gets ready to eventually lift interest
rates from almost zero and shrink a record balance sheet.  
 While Fed officials plan for the exit, “we also recognize
that the economic outlook remains unusually uncertain,”
Bernanke said today in testimony to the committee. “We will
continue to carefully assess ongoing financial and economic
developments, and we remain prepared to take further policy
actions as needed to foster a return to full utilization of our
nation’s productive potential in a context of price stability.”  
 Bernanke didn’t elaborate on steps the Fed might take as he
affirmed the Fed’s policy of keeping rates low for an “extended
period.”  
 JPMorgan Chase  declined 3.1 percent to $38.42 and Bank of
America retreated 3 percent to $13.36 to lead the Dow lower.
 Financial  companies in the S&P 500 slipped 1.8 percent, erasing
earlier gains after Bernanke’s remarks came out.  
 Earnings Optimism  
 The S&P 500 has advanced 4.6 percent since July 2 on
optimism about corporate earnings. Of the 76 companies in the
gauge that reported since July 12, all but 13 beat analysts’
average per-share  earnings  forecasts, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows. The gauge tumbled 16 percent from this year’s high in
April through July 2 amid concern economic growth in the U.S.
and China is slowing, pushing the price-to-earnings ratio down
to 14.3, the lowest since April 2009.  
 Starbucks Corp.  sank 2.3 percent to $25.17 during regular
trading before reporting earnings following the close of
markets. The world’s largest coffee-shop operator extended loss
in after-market trading as it reported third-quarter adjusted
profit of 29 cents a share. EBay Inc. rose 1.5 percent in late
trading after second-quarter earnings excluding some items beat
estimates.  
 Caterpillar, Xerox  
 Caterpillar Inc.  and Xerox Corp. are among companies
scheduled to report quarterly results tomorrow.  
 Yahoo , the owner of the second-most popular U.S. Internet
search engine, lost 8.5 percent to $13.91 after reporting
second-quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates as
marketers devoted online advertising spending to rival sites.  
 Media companies  in the S&P 500 lost 2.4 percent, the
second-biggest decline among 24 industries. Gannett Co., the
owner of USA Today and television stations, slumped 4.7 percent
to $13.46. News Corp. Class A shares retreated 4.3 percent to
$12.60. New York Times Co. dropped 3.1 percent to $9.05.  
 Textron Inc.  rose 8.7 percent to $19.65. The maker of
Cessna jets and Bell helicopters reported second-quarter profit
from continuing operations of 29 cents a share, more than three
times the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey, on
revenue that also exceeded the average estimate. Textron
increased its forecast for full-year profit.  
 Sallie Mae Slumps  
 Sallie Mae fell 11 percent to $10.34 after failing to meet
expectations for loan originations. The company said it extended
$219 million in private loans, or those that don’t carry
government guarantees, in the second quarter, compared with $387
million during the year-ago period.  
 Morgan Stanley , which owns the world’s biggest brokerage,
said revenue from trading stocks surpassed all five of its
bigger competitors. Its shares  surged  6.3 percent to $26.80, the
biggest gain in more than a year.  
 Freeport-McMoRan, the world’s largest publicly traded
copper producer, reported second-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates because of higher-than-forecast sales of the
metal. Earnings excluding some one-time items were $1.49 a
share, compared with analysts’ projected profit of $1.26, the
average of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The shares
rallied 2.7 percent to $66.06.  
 Energy stocks in the S&P 500 declined 1.4 percent
collectively as crude oil fell after the government reported an
unexpected increase in U.S. supplies and the highest rate of
refinery operation in almost three years.  Exxon Mobil  lost 1.3
percent to $58.17.  Schlumberger Ltd. , the world’s largest
oilfield services provider, lost 2.4 percent to $59.59.  
 Apple Inc. rose 0.9 percent to $254.24 after reporting
better-than-estimated results for the first quarter to include
sales of the iPad tablet computer and the latest iPhone. Apple
said yesterday that revenue in the three months that end in
September will be about $18 billion. Analysts had predicted
sales of $17 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks fell, ending a two-day rally, after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the economic outlook remains "unusually uncertain" without offering additional measures to stimulate growth. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Keith Springer, president of Capital Financial Advisory Services, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Springer also discusses the outlook for the U.S. stock market and his investment strategy. Springer talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
