-- U.S. Regulatory Bill May `Flash Freeze' Asset-Backed Market, Industry Says
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/u-s-regulatory-bill-may-flash-freeze-asset-backed-market-industry-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. financial-regulation bill
may halt the already diminished market for asset-backed
securities by increasing liability risk for credit raters, a
securitization-industry group and bank analysts said.  
 The legislation, set for signature by President Barack
Obama, eliminates credit-rating companies’ shield from lawsuits
when underwriters include their assessments in documents used to
sell debt. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have
already told Wall Street that because of an increased risk of
being sued, they will no longer let underwriters use ratings in
bond-registration statements.  
 The change, if combined with an existing Securities and
Exchange Commission rule that restricts sales of asset-backed
debt without ratings in offering documents, will put a “flash
freeze” on the market, said  Tom Deutsch , executive director of
the  American Securitization Forum . His concerns are shared by
analysts at RBS Securities Inc.  
 “A number of transactions that had been planned for the
upcoming weeks have been shelved indefinitely given this
proposal,” Deutsch said in an interview yesterday. “The
transactions legally cannot go forward.”  
 Public pension funds have accused Moody’s, Fitch and
Standard & Poor’s of helping to fuel the financial crisis by
giving top rankings to mortgage bonds that plunged in value when
the U.S. housing market collapsed in 2007. Congress scrutinized
the firms at hearings and tried to hold them more accountable by
making it easier for investors to sue for inaccurate ratings.  
 ‘Unintended Consequence’  
 The bill overhauling financial regulation subjects ratings
companies to so-called expert liability, which means the firms
will face the same legal risks as accountants and other parties
that participate in bond sales. The potential harm on the asset-
backed-debt market is an “unintended consequence” of the
legislation, Deutsch said.  
 “While we will continue to publish credit ratings, given
the potential legal consequences, we cannot consent to the
inclusion of ratings in prospectuses and registration
statements,” New York-based Moody’s said in a July 15 note to
clients.  
 Fitch, also based in New York, said in a statement July 19
that it too would no longer let Wall Street include ratings in
offering documents. S&P, a unit of New York-based  McGraw Hill
Cos. , told clients it will “explore mechanisms outside of the
registration statement to allow ratings to continue to be
disseminated.”  
 The decision by the ratings firms will make it “difficult
or impossible” for Wall Street to sell asset-backed securities
tied to residential and commercial mortgages, RBS analysts  Paul Jablansky  and  Brian Lancaster  wrote in a report yesterday.  
 Corporate Bonds Excluded  
 The SEC could fix the problem by revising rules that force
underwriters of asset-backed debt to include ratings in
disclosure documents, the analysts wrote. Issuers of corporate
bonds don’t have to include ratings.  
 Wall Street sold $24 billion of mortgage securities in the
first half of 2010, and almost all were repackagings of existing
bonds, according to newsletter  Asset-Backed Alert . That’s down
from a record of about $1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006.  
 While issuers of mortgage securities could get around the
new legislation and SEC rules by selling unrated bonds,
investors wouldn’t buy the debt, Deutsch said.  
 “Investors that are investing, pension funds and money
funds, have strict investor guidelines that say if it doesn’t
have a rating you cannot buy it,” he said. “It is certainly a
theoretical option to issue a transaction without a rating, but
it’s not a practical.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        