-- U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Benchmark Climbs on Bernanke Remarks on Economy
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-07-21T22:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-benchmark-climbs-on-bernanke-remarks-on-economy.html

          
          
             A benchmark indicator of corporate
credit risk in the U.S. climbed for the first time this week,
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economic
outlook remains “unusually uncertain” without offering
additional measures to stimulate growth.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1.5 basis point to 111.6
basis points as of 6:20 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd. The index typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates. Credit-default swaps on
Johnson Controls Inc. and Mattel Inc. gained.  
 Central bankers “remain prepared” to act as needed to aid
growth even as they get ready to eventually raise interest rates
from almost zero and shrink a record balance sheet,  Bernanke 
said today in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.3 percent and U.S. Treasury
 10-year note yields  traded at the lowest since April 2009.  
 “There was a bit of disappointment that Bernanke didn’t
announce stimulatory measures,” said  Michael Bush , Melbourne-
based head of credit research at National Australia Bank Ltd.
“That’s hit both markets, corporate credits and equities.”  
 Bernanke, responding to questions, outlined options for
further steps to aid the economy, and he said officials haven’t
decided which tools they might use. Economic data over the past
month that were weaker than analysts projected have prompted
investor speculation that the Fed may increase monetary stimulus
in a bid to keep the economy growing.  
 Mattel Advances  
 Swaps on Johnson Controls added 4.5 basis points to 115.1
and those on Mattel Inc. advanced 3.8 basis points to 155.9,
according to data provider CMA. Contracts on Target Corp.
climbed 1.4 basis point to 62.5, CMA data show.  
 Protection on bank bonds eased after  Morgan Stanley  and
Wells Fargo & Co., the top U.S. home lender, reported second-
quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 Credit-default swaps protecting bonds of  Morgan Stanley ,
the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets, declined 5.8 basis points
to 221.5, and contracts on Goldman Sachs Group Inc. fell 1.3
basis point to 164, according to CMA. Those on JPMorgan Chase &
Co. lost 0.4 basis point to 100.4 and swaps on Citigroup Inc.
decreased 0.8 basis point to 175.9.  
 Even with the decline, swaps on Morgan Stanley show it
lagging behind rivals in regaining debt investors’ confidence
after the 2008 financial crisis. The contracts trade 57 basis
points higher than those of Goldman Sachs, the other Wall Street
firm that converted into a bank after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy almost two years ago, according to CMA.  
 iTraxx Europe Falls  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings slid 4.4 basis points to 115.3, and the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 13.4
basis points to 520, Markit prices show.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying security if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point, 0.01
percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        