-- U.S. Anti-Drug Aid to Mexico Lags $1.6 Billion Promise as Violence Rages
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/u-s-anti-drug-aid-to-mexico-lags-1-6-billion-promise-as-violence-rages.html

          
          
             The U.S. government has delivered
only about 9 percent of the $1.6 billion in drug-war aid
promised to Mexico and Central America as Mexican executives say
increasing violence is the greatest threat to the economy.  
 U.S. agencies were forced to delay delivering training and
equipment included in the 2008 Merida Initiative because they
lacked staff and funding, the U.S. Government Accountability
Office said in a report, a draft of which was provided by the
office of Congressman  Eliot Engel , Chairman of the House Foreign
Affairs Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere. The GAO will
present the report in testimony before Congress today.  
 The shortfall in U.S. assistance hurts Mexican President
 Felipe Calderon ’s fight against organized crime, said  Adam Isacson , senior associate at the Washington Office on Latin
America, a human rights and policy research group. Armed groups
in northern Mexico murdered political candidates in this year’s
regional elections and have expanded their tactics, including
detonating a car bomb in Ciudad Juarez last week.  
 “When you consider the urgency with which politicians talk
about violence in Mexico and the threat it poses to us, to have
only delivered 9 percent after two years is pretty remarkable,”
Isacson said in a telephone interview from Washington.  
 Mexico has reported almost 25,000 deaths related to
organized crime since Calderon took office in December 2006.
The government estimates violence shaves 1 percentage point from
gross domestic product each year.  
 Mexico’s peso has gained 2.5 percent this year against the
U.S. dollar, the second-best performer among the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after Japan’s yen.  
 Delivered Aid  
 The Merida Initiative, supported by President  George W. Bush , pledged aircraft, boats, drug-sniffing dogs and youth
education programs with about $1.3 billion of the funding
promised to Mexico, the GOA report said. The $141.2 million in
assistance delivered thus far includes 5 Textron Inc. Bell
helicopters and 13 armored General Motors Co. Chevrolet Suburban
sport-utility vehicles, the report showed.  
 Aid the U.S. committed to the region that hasn’t been
delivered as of March 31 includes at least nine Black Hawk
helicopters for Mexico and drug interdiction boats for Costa
Rica, Belize and El Salvador. Six of the helicopters are set to
arrive in Mexico before the end of the year, while the other
equipment has no estimated delivery date, according to the GAO,
which cited U.S. State Department data.  
 The impact of violence is the biggest threat to the Mexican
economy, according to 57 percent of Mexican executives, up from
49 percent in March and 22 percent in December 2009, a  survey 
published yesterday by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu showed.  
 Deaths This Year  
 The second-most cited concern was a U.S. economic slowdown,
according to the June 7-29 poll of 381 Mexican business leaders.  
 “The U.S. economic situation and political discord in our
country have lost importance in the view of executives as the
main threat for the economic development of Mexico,” Deloitte
Touche Tohmatsu said.  
 Mexico’s drug-related killings in 2010 rose to 7,048
through mid-July, according to Attorney General  Arturo Chavez Chavez .  
 Engel, a Democrat from New York, said the government of
President Barack Obama is seeking to quicken the pace of the
aid. Engel added that the U.S. must do more to define the goals
of the anti-drug spending, which he said “lacks fundamental
measurements of success.”  
 “We must continue to expedite Merida assistance to
Mexico,” he said in an e-mail yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        