-- Hungarian Bond, Currency Purchases May Be Premature, Barclays Capital Says
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-07-21T14:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/hungarian-bond-currency-purchases-may-be-premature-barclays-capital-says.html

          
          
             Investors snapping up Hungarian
assets after declines in the country’s currency and stock
markets earlier this week may be moving too soon as further
losses loom, Barclays Capital said.  
 “It may be premature to consider the current price
adjustment as a natural buying opportunity,” Barclays analysts
 Koon Chow  and  Christian Keller  wrote in a note to clients today.  
 The  International Monetary Fund  and European Union on July
17 suspended talks with Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government
after failing to agree on fiscal targets needed to comply with
the terms of Hungary’s loan. An IMF statement that “a range of
issues remains open,” suggests “the differences are
substantial and far from being concluded,” Chow and Keller said.  
 “An agreement would likely require a significant shift in
the government’s attitude. It may actually require further
market weakness to achieve an agreement,” the analysts said.  
 The forint  on July 19 tumbled to the weakest level against
the euro in almost 15 months after the government failed to gain
IMF and EU approval for its budget plan. The currency has
recouped 1.8 percent since then as investors took advantage of
low prices.  
 Since Orban’s Cabinet took office on May 29, the currency
has slipped 5 percent versus the euro and 11 percent against the
Swiss franc. Consumer loans in franc account for about 20
percent of Hungary’s gross domestic product.  
 The cost of credit-default swaps protecting against a
default on Hungary’s debt has risen 108 basis points since May
29 to 350 basis points yesterday, according to CMA data. The
yield on Hungary’s benchmark 5-year bond has risen 76 basis
points during that period to 7.30 percent.  
 ‘Serial Deficit Offender’  
 Hungary’s government won’t impose further austerity
measures even after falling out with its creditors, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said, adding he expects a new loan
agreement will “eventually” be reached.  
 The IMF estimated during its last review that measures
equivalent to 0.3 percent of GDP are needed to reach this year’s
3.8 percent budget deficit goal. The EU requires its members to
cap deficits at 3 percent of GDP, failing which countries are
placed under excessive deficit procedures.  
 ‘Allowing a serial excessive deficit offender like Hungary
to re-negotiate fiscal targets agreed to under the excessive
deficit procedure would send the wrong signal at a critical
juncture,” just as Brussels is trying to push austerity across
the region, the Barclays analysts said. “The IMF cannot
overrule the EU in this matter.”  
 Avoid CDS  
 The Washington-based fund in March estimated a further 1.3
percent of cuts will be required to bring the deficit to below 3
percent next year, Barclays said. The government’s plans to give
tax breaks to small businesses and introduce a 16 percent flat
tax for Hungarians will cost the budget 1 percent to 1.5 percent
of GDP, Barclays estimated.  
 Barclays expects currency and bond prices, especially
short-term debt, to decline further. Investors should avoid
using credit default swaps to cash in on expected losses because
the contracts have underperformed other emerging markets,
according to Barclays. Short-dated bonds are set to decline as
investors brace themselves for possible interest-rate increases
by the central bank to defend the currency, they said.  
 The central bank said on July 19, after keeping borrowing
costs unchanged for a third month, that it may need to raise
rates and will move to stem forint volatility. The bank also
said it may continue to convert EU funds into the forint on the
market.  
 “Even those investors who may see the current weakness in
Hungarian assets as a buying opportunity are doing so because
they believe the government will ultimately agree with the IMF-
EU and not because Hungary is in a position to actually ‘go it
alone’ without the IMF-EU supervision,” the analysts said.
“Hungary requires continued close supervision by the EU and IMF
for investors to feel confident.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        