-- Unilever, Sears, Danisco, Time Warner, True North: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/unilever-sears-danisco-time-warner-true-north-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Unilever NV , the world’s second-
biggest consumer goods maker, and  Syngenta AG  are challenging
the validity of European patents on breeding processes for
tomatoes and broccoli at a hearing that attracted about 150
demonstrators.  
 The hearing, which began yesterday at the  European Patent
Office , will establish the validity of patents on breeding
vegetables. A unit of Basel, Switzerland-based Syngenta and
Unilever, based in London and Rotterdam, challenged the patents
as invalid because they cover a biological rather than technical
process.  
 Farmers and representatives from Greenpeace were among
those protesting against the patents outside the Munich office
yesterday. Patents that cover vegetables should never have been
granted and must be stopped, Greenpeace said in a statement.  
 Failure to do so would lead to “rising prices for farmers
and consumers” because fewer companies would control food
production, Christoph Then, a patent consultant for Greenpeace,
said in the statement.  
 The cases “will decide to what extent the patents can be
maintained,” Rainer Osterwalder, a spokesman for the patent
office, said by telephone. “The patents will remain valid until
there’s a final decision, which we expect by the end of this
year.”  
 In 2003, Syngenta filed its challenge against the patent
U.K.-based Plant Bioscience Ltd. got a year earlier on a
breeding process for broccoli plants. Unilever in 2004 opposed a
patent granted to the Israeli Ministry of Agriculture for a
method for breeding tomatoes, according to the patent office.  
 While Syngenta backs patent protection for new breeding
methods that respect the law, the company doesn’t support
patents on methods that already exist.  
 “We originally filed an opposition to the ‘broccoli
patent’ because we did not believe the requirements of
patentability were met,” Syngenta said in an e-mailed
statement. “Our opposition was in relation to this very
specific patent application.”  
 Unilever spokesman Flip Doetsch said in an e-mail he had no
comment at this stage.  
 A European patent is the easiest way for companies at the
moment to get patent protection across several countries at
once. The European Patent Office isn’t part of the European
Union.  
 The European Commission, the executive agency for the 27-
nation region, earlier this month presented plans to create
patents to cover the whole EU. Similar plans for EU-wide patents
have failed in the past over language issues.  
 Sears Among Retailers Sued for Infringing Lighted Cap Patent  
 Sears Holding Corp. ’s Orchard Supply Hardware Unit,  Eddie
Bauer Holdings Inc. ’s Eddie Bauer stores, Totes Isotoner Corp.
and two other retailers were sued for patent infringement by an
Illinois patent-holder.  
 Waters Industries Inc., of West Dundee, Illinois, claims
its newly issued patent 7,753,547 is infringed by a variety of
caps with LED lights sold by the defendants. The patent, issued
July 13, is for a technology for hands-free lighting with a
guard to prevent accidental activation of the light.  
 The Illinois company asked the court to order the
defendants to quit infringing the patent, and for awards of
money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  
 Waters Industries is represented by  Timothy P. Maloney ,
 Steven C. Schroer ,  Mark A. Borsos  and  Calista J. Mitchell  from
 Fitch, Even, Tabin & Flannery , and  Vince L. Liebman  and  Glenn A.
Rice  from  Funkhouser, Verosen, Liebman & Dunn Ltd. , all of
Chicago.  
 The case is Waters Industries Inc., v. Totes Isotoner
Corp., 1:10-cv-04487, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  
 Danisco Sues Novozymes in London Court Over Enzyme Patent  
 Danisco A/S  filed a U.K. patent-infringement lawsuit
against  Novozymes A/S  over an enzyme in the latest legal battle
between the companies.  
 The case was filed at the U.K. High Court on July 19,
according to court records. Michael von Buelow, a spokesman for
Danisco, wouldn’t say which enzymes were covered by the patent
in the lawsuit.  
 “This is becoming the new normal for our relationship with
Novozymes,” Buelow said. “We sit on 70 percent of the global
enzyme market between us, so there’s bound to be some
confrontation.”  
 Novozymes, based in Bagsvaerd, Denmark, in May filed a
complaint in the U.S. that said Danisco infringed its patent on
a so-called alpha amylase enzyme used in biofuels. In 2007,
Danisco paid Novozymes $15.3 million to settle a patent dispute
over another enzyme, also used in ethanol production.  
 The legal department at Novozymes hasn’t received any
information on the suit, Annegrethe Jakobsen, a spokeswoman,
said by phone.  
 Both companies produce enzymes that break down organic
material, such as grain and corn, to form bioethanol, which is
used as an alternative to fossil fuels.  
 Danisco and Novozymes are also developing so-called second-
generation bioethanol, which uses organic waste such as corn-
cobs, rather than grain and other food stuffs. Danisco estimates
the global market for such second-generation biofuel will grow
to $75 billion by 2020.  
 The case is Danisco A/S v. Novozymes A/S, HC10C02358, High
Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Time Warner Unit’s ‘Marshall’ Doesn’t Infringe, Court Rules  
 Time Warner Inc. ’s Warner Brothers Pictures unit persuaded
a federal appeals court to reject a copyright infringement claim
brought by producers of a documentary film.  
 The producers of “Ashes to Glory” sued Warner for
copyright infringement in federal court in Los Angeles in June
2007. They claimed Warner’s “We are Marshall” infringed the
copyright to “Ashes to Glory.”  
 Both films are about the Marshall University football team.
In 1970, the entire team from the Huntington, West Virginia,
school was killed in the crash of a Southern Airways flight from
Kinston, North Carolina.  
 After the crash, the team was rebuilt, with some of the new
team members recruited from members of the student body who had
never played football before.  
 The documentary “Ashes to Glory” came out in 2000.
Warner’s fictionalized version, “We are Marshall,” starring
Matthew McConaughey, was released in 2006.  
 In its July 15 ruling, the San Francisco-based appeals
court said the trial court correctly determined there was no
infringement. The historical facts, on which both films are
based weren’t entitled to copyright protection and remain in the
public domain.  
 The appeals court also said that the documentary’s
producers failed to raise an issue of substantial similarity
that would be essential for infringement claims.  
 The case is Deborah Novak v. Warner Brothers Pictures LLC,
08-56957, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco).  
 The lower court case is Deborah Novak v. Warner Brothers
Pictures LLC, 2:07-cv-04000-GAF-PLA, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Pet Drug Seller Says He Doesn’t Infringe Novartis Trademarks  
 A California man who sells veterinary products over the
Internet asked a federal court in Phoenix to declare he isn’t
infringing trademarks held by  Novartis AG .  
 The Swiss pharmaceutical company objected to the domain
name “SentinelforDogs.com” used by I Singh of San Jose
California. According to the July 16 complaint, Novartis is
seeking transfer of Singh’s domain name, claiming it infringes
“Sentinel” trademarks for its milbemycin oxime and lufenuron
product used to prevent flea infestation and a variety of
parasites in pets.  
 Sing said he registered and used the domain name “for the
purpose of promoting genuine Novartis products.” He asked the
court to declare his registration of the domain name is lawful,
not to transfer it to Novartis, and to determine that a previous
domain-name arbitration proceeding incorrectly found him at
fault.  
 Toyota Motor Corp.  lost a trademark-infringement case
against a California auto broker in a July 8 federal appeals
court ruling. Toyota sought to bar the auto broker’s use of
Toyota’s “Lexus” mark in its domain names.  
 In that case, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals turned
back Toyota’s challenge, saying that trademarks “are part of
our common language and we all have some right to use them to
communicate in a truthful, non-misleading way.”  
 Singh is represented by Jeffrey Sonnabend of  SonnabendLaw 
of Brooklyn, New York.  
 The case is I Singh v. Novartis AG, 2:10-cv-01510-’ROS,
U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  
 True North Radio Sues True North News and Commentary’s Browns  
 True North Radio Inc. , the producers of a conservative
radio program aired on  WDEV  in Waterbury, Vermont, sued a
website operator based in Salt Lake City for trademark
infringement.  
 Lowell and Sonja Brown are accused of operating a website
that infringes the radio station’s marks. Recent postings on
their website, http:// www.truenorthnewsandcommentary.com , such
as “Rush Limbaugh Says it ALL with Perfection” and “Do You
Have the Stomach for ObamaCare?” supported the conservative
viewpoint and their use of the phrase “True North News And
Commentary” confuses the public, according to court papers.  
 According to their website,  Lowell Brown  is a  partner  at
Washington’s  Arent Fox LLP  and  Sonja Brown ,  a former television
news reporter in Salt Lake City and TV producer in Los Angeles,
is the  spokeswoman  for the Proposition 8 campaign in California
against same-sex marriage.  
 “We believe the name ‘True North’ is sufficiently generic
as to raise serious questions about the lawsuit’s merit,”
Lowell Brown said in an e-mailed response to a request for
comment. Brown said he hadn’t yet seen the complaint.  
 In the complaint filed July 20 in federal court in
Brattleboro, Vermont, True North Radio asked the court to bar
the defendants’ use of the trademark, and for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  
 True North Radio is represented by Andrew D. Manitsky of
Gravel & Shea of Burlington, Vermont.  
 The case is True North Radio Inc., v. Brown, 1:10-cv-00175-
jgm, U.S. District Court, District of Vermont (Brattleboro).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        