-- Vilsack Apologizes to Ousted USDA Official Over Firing, Offers Post Back
-- Alan Bjerga
-- 2010-07-21T21:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/usda-employee-ousted-over-24-year-old-video-deserves-apology-gibbs-says.html

          
          
             Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack 
said he personally apologized to  Shirley Sherrod , the black USDA
employee forced to resign after a furor over an edited videotape
of remarks she made, and offered to rehire her.  
 Vilsack said he extended “my personal and profound
apologies” and that he took full responsibility for turmoil
caused when he demanded her resignation without fully
investigating the facts of the case.  
 “This is a good woman; She’s been put through hell,”
Vilsack said at a news conference in Washington. “I could have
done and should have done a better job.”  
 President  Barack Obama ’s chief spokesman,  Robert Gibbs ,
earlier issued an apology on behalf of the administration and
said “a disservice” was done to Sherrod. Vilsack said the
White House didn’t pressure him to seek Sherrod’s resignation on
July 19.  
 “This was my decision and I made it in haste,” Vilsack
said. “I asked for Shirley’s forgiveness, and she was gracious
enough to extend it to me.”  
 The controversy stemmed from a portion of a speech she gave
at an NAACP banquet in March in Georgia. In it, she said was
telling an anecdote about having an initial meeting with a white
farmer who had acted “superior,” prompting her to think she
might not use the “full force” of what she could do to help
him.  
 That clip was highlighted recently by the website
biggovernment.com and was posted on YouTube.com. The  NAACP , the
nation’s oldest civil rights organization, initially condemned
her remarks and Vilsack asked for her resignation.  
 Full Version  
 The incident she was speaking about occurred in 1986 when
she was working for a nonprofit agency, not the USDA. In the
full version, she talks about how that experience caused her to
realize that the issue was about the “haves and have nots” and
not white versus black. She said she worked hard “calling
everybody I could think of” to help the man save his farm, a
statement corroborated by the farmer.  
 After viewing the full video and speaking to Sherrod and
the white farmers she mentioned in her remarks, NAACP President
and Chief Executive Officer  Benjamin Todd Jealous  said in a
 statement  yesterday that he believes the organization was
“snookered” by those who circulated the edited clip.  
 Eloise Spooner, the wife of the farmer, said in an
interview with the  Atlanta Journal-Constitution  that Sherrod
worked diligently to help the couple keep their land when they
faced bankruptcy in 1986 and that they consider her a “friend
for life.”  
 Rehiring  
 Vilsack said he offered to rehire Sherrod at the USDA in a
position that would use her “extraordinary history” to assist
the agency as it tries improve its record on race relations.  
 “She asked for the opportunity to think about it,” he
said.  
 Gibbs said Obama was briefed on the case yesterday. He said
he wouldn’t rule out the president making remarks about the
controversy in the near future.  
 “Everybody involved made determinations without knowing
all the facts and all the events,” Gibbs said.  
 In an interview with CNN before Vilsack spoke, Sherrod said
she wasn’t sure whether she would accept a job offer.  
 “It took too long but it makes me feel better that the
apology is finally coming,” she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        