-- Vienna's Leopold Pays $19 Million to Keep Schiele's 'Wally'
-- Zoe Schneeweiss
-- 2010-07-21T12:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/vienna-s-leopold-pays-19-million-to-keep-schiele-s-wally-.html

          
          
             Austria’s  Leopold Museum  paid $19
million to the heirs of the Jewish art dealer Lea Bondi Jaray to
settle a decades-long dispute over  Egon Schiele’s  portrait of
his lover Wally, stolen by the Nazis in the 1930s.  
 A U.S. district attorney seized “Wally” in 1998 on
suspicion that it was stolen after the painting had been on
exhibition at New York’s  Museum of Modern Art . For the past 12
years, the dispute has been enmeshed in the U.S. court system
and was about to go to trial in Manhattan on July 26.  
 “Justice has been served,” representatives of Bondi’s
estate, who were not identified by name, said in an e-mailed
statement sent by their lawyers,  Herrick, Feinstein LLP . “After
more than 70 years, the wrongs suffered by Lea Bondi Jaray are
at last being acknowledged, and to some degree, corrected.”  
 The “Wally” case pitted the U.S. government against the
Vienna museum founded by the Austrian optician and art collector
Rudolf Leopold in 1994. The portrait’s tortuous journey through
the U.S. courts came to symbolize the legal complexities of
Nazi-era restitution claims. The year it was seized, 44
countries came together to draft international guidelines for
the return of looted art known as the  Washington Principles .  
 Death of Leopold  
 Leopold died on June 29 at the age of 85, leaving behind
several unresolved claims for artworks in his foundation’s
collection. The museum has 44 Schiele paintings and 180 works on
paper, the biggest collection of the artist worldwide.  
 “The Leopold Museum is very pleased that this long-lasting
case in New York has ended with a settlement with which all
parties are satisfied,” the museum said by e-mail. “We look
forward to the happy return of “Wally” to Vienna.”  
 Yet waiting this long to settle the claim may have cost the
museum: The painting was valued at more than $2 million in 2002.
Since then, new records have been set for Schiele works: The
highest price paid at auction was $22.4 million for “Houses
With Mountains” at Christie’s in New York in 2006, according to
the Artnet price database.  
 The museum’s legal costs alone have mounted to as much as
3.5 million euros ($4.5 million), Peter Weinhaeupl, the managing
director of the museum, told a press conference today in Vienna.  
 The Leopold Foundation will finance the purchase by selling
paintings, Weinhaeupl said. Before his death, Leopold selected a
group of works that may be sold to buy “Wally,” Weinhaeupl
said. The list is under review and the art will be sold
gradually, he said.  
 “Believe me, it is a difficult process to give something
away, but to save ‘Wally,’ we decided on this,” he said.  
 Muse and Model  
 Schiele painted the portrait in 1912, a year after he met
the 17-year-old Wally Neuzil, who became his muse, model and
lover. He painted his “Self-Portrait With Chinese Lantern
Plant,” which hangs in the Leopold Museum, at the same time.
The museum hung the two portraits alongside each other until
“Wally” was seized.  
 Schiele portrayed her with wide blue eyes, auburn hair and
a pale complexion. When he married Edith Harms in 1915, Schiele
wanted to maintain his relationship with Wally. Yet Wally left
him at once. Klaus Pokorny, a spokesman for the museum, said in
a telephone interview that she later enlisted as a nurse in
World War I and died of fever in Croatia in 1917.  
 Lea Bondi was the owner of an art gallery in Vienna and
acquired the painting some time before 1925, according to U.S.
court documents. Although she sometimes exhibited it, the work
hung mostly in her own apartment. She began negotiating the sale
of her art gallery in 1937 to a Nazi called Friedrich Welz. They
failed to reach an agreement.  
 When German troops occupied Austria in 1938, Bondi’s
gallery was earmarked as “non-Aryan” and therefore subject to
confiscation. Bondi sold it to Welz and then emigrated to
Britain with her husband in 1939.  
 Bureaucratic Accident  
 Welz also took “Wally.” The U.S. government said in court
that he seized it from her under duress with no compensation,
while the Leopold Museum contended that it was included in the
gallery sale and that Welz paid 200 reichsmarks for it. Chief
Judge  Loretta Preska  ruled last year in the federal court in
Manhattan that the painting was stolen from Bondi.  
 After World War II, U.S. occupying forces arrested and
detained Welz for two years and seized his property, including
art. The U.S. returned several works to the Austrian government
for restitution to the rightful owners. Among those was
“Wally.” Yet in a bureaucratic slip-up, it was restituted to
the heirs of another Schiele collector who had been expropriated
by Welz. They sold the collection to Vienna’s  Belvedere  museum.  
 In 1949, Bondi regained possession of her gallery, though
not of “Wally.” She met Leopold and sold several works to him
in London. She also asked him to help her recover “Wally.” Yet
Leopold acquired it himself in 1954 though a swap for another
Schiele painting with the Belvedere.  
 Seizure of ‘Wally’  
 Bondi died in 1969 without retrieving “Wally.” The
portrait was shipped to the U.S. for an exhibition at New York’s
Museum of Modern Art in 1997. Three days after the exhibition
ended, Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau issued a
subpoena for the painting. The State Court of Appeals ruled in
1999 that the seizure of an artwork loaned for exhibition was
prohibited under New York State law.  
 The U.S. government then began a civil forfeiture action in
New York and the painting was seized again, this time by the
Customs Service. Bondi’s heirs asserted a claim to the painting
and it was agreed that if the case was won, the government would
hand it to the heirs.  
 Show in New York  
 Under the terms of the agreement reached late yesterday,
the U.S. government dismisses its action against the Leopold
Museum, the heirs drop their claim to the painting, and the
portrait will be displayed in the museum with a sign detailing
its full provenance, including Bondi’s former ownership, the
statement said. Before “Wally” returns to Vienna, it will be
exhibited at the Museum of Jewish Heritage in New York,
according to the heirs’ lawyers.  
 It may not be the only artwork the Leopold Museum has to
relinquish. Earlier this month, Austrian Culture Minister
 Claudia Schmied  handed the museum a report from a government
panel of independent researchers that found four further
paintings, including one by Schiele, should be restituted to the
heirs of prewar owners.  
 ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at  
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "Portrait of Wally" (1912) by Egon Schiele. The Leopold Museum in Vienna paid $19 million in a  settlement, ending a decades-long dispute between the museum and the heirs of Jewish art dealer, Lea Bondi Jaray. Source: Leopold Museum via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
