-- Vodafone May Report Decline in Service Revenue Amid Woes in Spain, Italy
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-22T15:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/vodafone-may-report-decline-in-service-revenue-amid-woes-in-spain-italy.html

          
          
             Vodafone Group Plc , which forecast a
return to sales growth this year, may tomorrow say first-quarter
service revenue declined amid sluggish economies in Spain and
Italy.  
 Fiscal first-quarter service revenue, excluding currency
swings and acquisitions, dropped 0.4 percent after falling 0.2
percent in the fiscal fourth quarter, according to 10 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey. Service revenue includes voice, data,
messaging and broadband. It excludes handsets and accessories.  
 Faced with unemployment at almost 20 percent and the
deepest budget cuts in three decades, Vodafone’s Spanish unit
has struggled to attract customers to higher-priced smartphones.
In Italy, the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator is battling
increased price competition from  Telecom Italia SpA . Italy and
Spain are its second- and third-biggest markets after Germany.  
 “Vodafone is an expensive, high-quality brand, which makes
it really difficult in markets like Spain or Italy where
consumers cut spending and increasingly opt for low-cost
operators,” said  Ulf Moritzen , who helps manage 1 billion euros
($1.28 billion) at Hamburg-based  Aramea Asset Management 
including Vodafone shares. “I wouldn’t be surprised if that’s
going to have an impact on sales and margins.”  
 Vodafone Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  said in May
that Europe was one of the company’s three “priority areas”
alongside sub-Saharan Africa and India. Colao, who has been in
his position at Newbury, England-based Vodafone for two years,
said he was only “somewhat satisfied” with the Spanish unit as
it sought to combat a sales drop and drive fixed-broadband use.  
 Growth Target  
 “We are creating a stronger Vodafone, which is positioned
to return to revenue growth during the 2011 financial year,”
Colao said in May. Germany and the U.K. helped mitigate declines
in southern Europe in the first quarter, analysts said.  
 Vodafone shares  rose 1.7 percent to close at 149.05 pence
at 4:30 p.m. in London trading.  
 The stock has climbed 3.7 percent this year, while the 34-
member Bloomberg Europe Telecommunications Index declined 8.6
percent. Of  38 analysts covering  Vodafone in the past six
months, 27 recommend buying the stock, three advise selling and
eight rate it “hold,” according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 First-quarter Spanish service revenue may have fallen 6.1
percent, after dropping 7 percent in the year ended March,
according to analysts. Spain’s full-year sales decline was
double that for the Europe region as a whole, Vodafone said in
May. European service revenue accounted for about two-thirds of
total sales last year.  
 “Spain’s the weakest division for sure,” said  Antonio Fernandez , an analyst at  Banco Sabadell  in Madrid. “The
momentum is with the low-cost operators in the country. Orange
is doing better, as both Vodafone and Telefonica are perceived
to be premium players.”  
 IPhone Start  
 Not even  Apple Inc .’s iPhone 4, which Vodafone will offer
for the first time next week in Spain, will boost the unit’s
prospects significantly, Fernandez said.  
 “The iPhone has had more of an impact in other countries
than Spain,” he said. “People are more sensitive to prices
than to devices. We can’t expect heated demand until the economy
recovers.”  
 Vodafone’s total  sales , including currency swings and
acquisitions, may have increased 3 percent in the first quarter
to 11.05 billion pounds from 10.7 billion pounds a year earlier,
according to the average of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The mobile-phone company has expanded into emerging markets
in the last four years to bolster growth with acquisitions in
countries including Turkey, India, South Africa and Ghana.  
 Italian Price War  
 In Italy, full-year service revenue increased 1.9 percent
and may have declined in the first quarter as rival Telecom
Italia SpA slashed tariffs and offered promotions through
bundled fixed-line services, analysts said.  
 “The European risk is unavoidable, and when the market’s
looking for growth, Vodafone for me just doesn’t deliver,” said
 Derek Mitchell , a fund manager at Royal London Asset Management,
who said he sold all his Vodafone shares in May.  
 Subscription revenue in Italy will determine whether
Vodafone reports group sales growth this quarter or the
following one, according to  Guy Peddy , an analyst at Macquarie
Securities in London.  
 “The overall market contraction in Italy is starting to
impact Vodafone,” Peddy said. “Telecom Italia has had
significant tariff cuts and is aggressively pushing a business
model that’s less handset-focused. Italy will determine the
timing.”  
 Indian Challenge  
 India, where Vodafone has been expanding to make up for
sluggish sales in some European markets, has so far failed to
become the emerging-market powerhouse the company had hoped for
as the growth in the world’s second-largest wireless market
attracted a flurry of global companies, eroding prices and
pushing up license fees.  
 When Vodafone agreed to buy a 67 percent stake in Hutchison
Essar Ltd. for $10.7 billion in 2007, it predicted “major
contributions.” Instead, Vodafone on May 18 booked a 2.3-
billion-pounds charge for the unit, citing “intense price
competition.”  
 Vodafone’s Indian partner Essar Group is also considering
an initial public offering for a stake in the companies’ local
venture, four people familiar with the matter said on July 16.  
 Essar has invited banks to advise on options including
selling part of its 33 percent stake in Vodafone Essar Ltd., the
people said, declining to be identified because the discussions
are confidential. A sale of a 10 percent stake may take place
early next year, two of the people said.  
 Vodafone is scheduled to release earnings tomorrow at 7
a.m. local time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao said in May that Europe was one of the company’s three “priority areas” alongside sub-Saharan Africa and India. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
