-- WaMu, Innkeepers, Lehman, Point Bank, Cozumel, Extended Stay: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-21T12:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/wamu-innkeepers-lehman-point-bank-cozumel-extended-stay-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Bank holding company  Washington
Mutual Inc.  failed at a hearing yesterday to move ahead with a
Chapter 11 plan to implement a controversial settlement with the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   
 The bankruptcy judge declined to approve the disclosure
statement explaining the plan, and granted a motion by
shareholders to appoint an examiner to investigate the merits of
the settlement.  
 The examiner, to be named by the U.S. Trustee, must file a
preliminary work plan by Aug. 6 followed by a preliminary report
by Sept. 7. Shareholders wanted 120 days for the investigation.  
 The judge pushed back the disclosure statement hearing to
Sept. 7. For Bloomberg coverage on yesterday’s hearing, click
here.  
 The plan and the settlement together would enable WaMu to
distribute more than $7 billion to creditors. To read about the
settlement, click here for the May 24 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report. Click here to read the May 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report for a summary of WaMu’s plan.  
 Shareholders and bank bondholders are opposed to the
settlement. They see WaMu and the FDIC as giving up too cheaply.
They would prefer having lawsuits continue with JPMorgan and the
FDIC.  
 The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank was the sixth-largest depository and credit-card
issuer in the U.S. and the largest bank failure in the country’s
history.  
 The holding company filed formal lists of assets and debt
showing property with a total value of $4.485 billion against
liabilities of $7.832 billion.  
 The holding company Chapter 11 case is Washington Mutual
Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Updates  
 Innkeepers USA Trust Given Cash Use Over Lenders’ Objection  
 Innkeepers USA Trust , a real estate investment trust owned
by  Apollo Investment Corp. , was given interim authority to use
cash yesterday, one day after a Chapter 11 filing in New York.  
 Innkeepers, which Apollo acquired in July 2007 in a $1.35
billion transaction, has a plan in which a subsidiary of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. , one of the secured lenders, would
receive the new stock in exchange for $238 million in mortgage
debt. The plan is opposed by lenders with $825 million in
mortgage debt that would be cut to $550 million.  
 The lenders owed $825 million failed in their effort to
block use of cash from their properties on other lenders’
collateral. The lenders were given the right to bid their
secured claims rather than cash if the properties are sold.  
 For Bloomberg coverage of yesterday’s hearing, click here.  
 Innkeepers has 72 extended-stay and limited-service hotels
with 10,000 rooms in 20 states. Its petition listed assets of
$1.5 billion and debt of $1.52 billion. Secured debt includes
$238 million in floating-rate debt with mortgages on 20
properties owing to Lehman subsidiary Lehman ALI Inc. Other
lenders have $825 million in fixed-rate debt secured by
mortgages on 45 properties.  
 It also has a $118 million floating-rate mezzanine loan
owed to Lehman. There is another $206 million in mortgage debt
on seven properties that would be reduced by the plan to $150
million.  
 According to court records, Lehman may sell some of its
forthcoming stock holding to Apollo. Lehman won’t receive
anything under the plan for its $118 million in mezzanine debt.  
 General unsecured creditors are slated to get $500,000 in
cash.  
 Midland Loan Services Inc. is the servicer for the $825
million in mortgage debt. The debt was sold in two issues of
commercial mortgage-backed securities known as LB-UBS 2007-C6
and LB-UBS 2007-C7. Palm Beach, Florida-based Innkeepers didn’t
make payments due on the fixed-rate debt in April.  
 The reorganization plan should be filed within 45 days,
according to a court filing. Lehman, also in Chapter 11, will
apply to the bankruptcy judge for approval of its end of the
transactions. The Lehman and Innkeepers cases are pending before
different bankruptcy judges in Manhattan.  
 For other Bloomberg coverage of the filing, click here.  
 The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Class Plaintiffs Seek $100 Million in Lehman Insurance  
 Plaintiffs in a class-action lawsuit against  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  want the bankruptcy judge to modify the
so-called automatic stay so they can continue a suit aimed at
collecting damages from a $100 million insurance policy that
Lehman had for the years 1999 to 2002.  
 The suit, Fogarazzo v. Lehman Brothers, alleges that Lehman
and other investment banks shaded research reports to garner
investment banking business. The defendants in an enforcement
action by the Securities and Exchange Commission agreed to pay
$1.4 billion. Lehman’s share was $80 million, the plaintiffs
said.  
 Later, the suit against Lehman was certified as a class
action.  
 The hearing on the motion for permission to sue the
insurance company is scheduled for Aug. 18.  
 Lehman filed a revised Chapter 11 plan in April. For
details on the Lehman plan and disclosure statement, click here
and here for the April 15 and April 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy
reports.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and its North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan). The liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District New York (Manhattan).  
 Cenveo Pledges to Pay More for National Envelope  
 Cenveo Corp. said it is prepared to bid at auction for
National Envelope Corp. and pay more than the $134.5 million
offered by Gores Group LLC, without the breakup fee Gores
demands.  
 In papers filed yesterday in advance of tomorrow’s hearing
for approval of bidding procedures, Englewood, Colorado-based
Cenveo contends that the sale process so far has been “designed
to exclude Cenveo and bidders like it.”  
 Opposing approval of a breakup fee for Gores, Cenveo
characterizes the Gores offer as having escape hatches allowing
termination of the contract. Cenveo plans to deliver by
tomorrow’s hearing an asset-purchase agreement that will be
“subject only to confirmatory due diligence which will take
very little time once Cenveo gets the information it needs.”  
 Cenveo told the bankruptcy court in Delaware that financial
information it was given contained redactions that made the
information incomplete. Cenveo is a competitor of National
Envelope.  
 National Envelope, calling itself the largest closely held
envelope manufacturing company in the U.S., filed under Chapter
11 on June 10. It is proposing that bids be due initially on
Aug. 16, followed by an auction on Aug. 20 and an Aug. 23
hearing for approval of the sale.  
 The loan agreement, with  General Electric Capital Corp . as
agent, required having a sale agreement by July 2 and approval
of sale procedures by July 16.  
 NEC, based in Uniondale, New York, has 14 manufacturing
plants in 11 states, plus three warehouses. Sales last year were
$676 million, resulting in a $44.2 million net loss. The
petition says assets and debt are both less than $500 million.
Liabilities include $74.3 million on a secured term loan, $70.6
million on a secured revolving credit, and $89 million owing on
unsecured debts to trade suppliers.  
 The case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Point Blank Committee Is ‘Reckless,’ Body Armor Company Says  
 Point Blank Solutions Inc. , a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, said that a motion
by the creditors’ committee for the appointment of a Chapter 11
trustee or examiner is based on “reckless accusations with no
factual basis whatsoever.”  
 The company also sees the committee as being motivated by
“personal animosity against” the chief executive and a
“desire to control these Chapter 11 cases at any cost.” Point
Blank contends that the motion for a trustee is based partly on
misdeeds by executives who left the company four years ago.  
 A hearing on the request to appoint a trustee is scheduled
for Aug. 3. Today, a bankruptcy judge is scheduled to consider a
separate motion by the committee to conduct examinations under
oath and require production of documents by lenders, insiders
and customers.  
 A lender is opposing another motion by the committee to
extend the deadline for filing a complaint challenging the
validity of the pre-bankruptcy loan.  
 The committee argued in its court filing that the
reorganization case is being run for the benefit of Steele
Partners LLC, a New York-based private equity fund. Steele,
according to the committee, controls the board and is also the
secured lender in the Chapter 11 case.  
 Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,
Florida, and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 was more than $153 million.  
 The petition listed assets of $64 million and debt of $68.5
million. The debt included a $10.5 million secured loan to be
paid off by financing for the Chapter 11 case. Point Blank said
it also owes $28.2 million to trade suppliers. Three former
officers were indicted on charges of securities fraud.  
 The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  
 New Filings  
 Two U.K. Insurers File Chapter 15 to Help Arrangement  
 Minster Insurance Co. and affiliate Malvern Insurance Co.
filed Chapter 15 petitions on July 19 in Manhattan so the U.S.
court can assist in carrying out the scheme of arrangement
approved by a U.K. court in March.  
 Both companies ceased writing new business in 2000 and
since then have been paying off claims on remaining policies and
collecting from reinsurers. The coverage periods for all
policies have lapsed.  
 In July 2009 the companies filed for arrangements in the
High Court of Justice under the Companies Act of 2006.  
 Court papers say that the filings in the U.S. are intended
to help implement the U.K. schemes.  
 Domestic insurance companies are prohibited from filing
under any form of bankruptcy in the U.S. Foreign insurance
companies may file. The Chapter 15 case isn’t a full-blown
bankruptcy. It mainly helps implement and enforce the U.K.
frameworks.  
 The case is In re Minster Insurance Co. Ltd., 10-13899,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Cozumel Caribe Files Chapter 15 Petition in New York  
 Cozumel Caribe SA filed a Chapter 15 petition yesterday in
New York to complement a reorganization called a concurso
mercantile that began in a Mexican court in May.  
 According to court papers, the company “renders tourism
and hostelry services” through the beachfront Hotel Park Royal
Cozumel in Mexico.  
 The company blames its financial problems on the recession,
news coverage of the “crime wave” resulting from Mexico’s
attempt to clamp down on the drug trade, and the swine flu
epidemic.  
 The company has assets of 658 million Mexican pesos ($51.6
million) and liabilities of 367 million pesos, according to
court papers. In addition, there is $109 million owed on secured
debt where the special servicer is CT Investment Management Co.  
 Court papers suggest that the U.S. court will be used to
help secure access to revenue tied up by lenders.  
 Should the U.S. bankruptcy judge decide that Mexico is home
to the primary bankruptcy proceeding, and if Mexican laws and
proceedings pass muster, the U.S. court will halt creditor
actions in the U.S. and help collect assets. The Mexican court
would be chiefly in charge of the reorganization.  
 The case is In re Cozumel Caribe SA de CV, 10-13913, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Los Gatos, California, Development Files Chapter 11  
 Highlands of Los Gatos LLC, the owner of a 66-acre
development near Los Gatos, California, filed a Chapter 11
petition on July 16 in San Jose.  
 The petition says the property is worth $32 million. The
secured debt, $23 million, is owed to East-West Bank.  
 According to the company’s  website , the project is to be
developed into 19 residential lots.  
 The case is In re Highlands of Los Gatos LLC, 10-57370,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District California (San Jose).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Innkeepers Trust, Texas Rangers, Jennifer: Audio  
 Opposition to the plan by newly filed  Innkeepers USA Trust ,
the idea of consolidating the  Texas Rangers  with the two
partnerships that own the team, and the proposal for a Chinese
furniture manufacturer to buy  Jennifer Convertibles Inc.  are
topics in the latest bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg
terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Texas Rangers Hearing Continues on New Auction Date  
 The hearing to reconsider the date to auction the  Texas
Rangers  baseball team ran all day yesterday and continues this
afternoon in bankruptcy court in Fort Worth, Texas. The
reconsideration motion was filed by William K. Snyder, the chief
restructuring officer for the two partnerships that own the
team. Snyder says that an auction on Aug. 4 wouldn’t give other
bidders enough time. Testimony in court yesterday revealed there
are four potential bidders. For coverage of yesterday’s hearing,
click here. Lenders owed $525 million also want new auction
procedures.  
 The Rangers filed under Chapter 11 on May 24 with a
contract to sell the team to a group including current team
President  Nolan Ryan  and sports lawyer  Chuck Greenberg . The
price was raised to $306.7 million cash. The lenders would
recover $256 million, according to the team’s disclosure
statement based on the original contract for $2.7 million less.
The Rangers moved to Texas from Washington in 1972 and defaulted
on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009. Michael
Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter Bill Rochelle, is a
lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The partnership that owns
the team is Texas Rangers Baseball Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Extended Stay Plan Confirmed, Centerbridge Group Buying Hotels  
 Extended Stay Inc. , the operator of more than 680 long-term
lodging properties in 44 states, won approval to emerge from
reorganization when the bankruptcy judge agreed at a
confirmation hearing yesterday to approve the Chapter 11 plan.  
 Centerbridge Partners LP, Paulson & Co. and  Blackstone
Group LP  will buy the business for $3.925 billion cash. Almost
all objections were resolved, according to a court filing. For
details about the company’s plan and the auction won by the
Centerbridge group, click here to read the June 10 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Extended Stay’s Chapter 11 petition in June 2009 listed
assets of $7.1 billion and debt of $7.6 billion, including $4.1
billion in mortgage loans and $3.3 billion in 10 different
mezzanine loans. Based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Extended
Stay says it’s the largest operator of mid-priced extended stay
hotels in the U.S.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Equipment Acquisition Resources Confirms Chapter 11 Plan  
 Equipment Acquisition Resources Inc. , under management by
 William Brandt  as chief restructuring office, confirmed a
Chapter 11 plan last week. Creditors weren’t told how much to
expect. Brandt was hired in October when the officers and
directors resigned. For Bloomberg coverage, click here. Based in
Palatine, Illinois, the company was a market maker in
semiconductor manufacturing equipment sales and servicing. Two
secured bank lenders were owed almost $16 million.  
 The case is In re Equipment Acquisition Resources Inc., 09-
39937, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Illinois
(Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        