-- Wells Fargo's Net Income Tops Estimates
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-07-21T17:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/wells-fargo-s-net-income-exceeds-analysts-estimates-as-credit-losses-ease.html

          
          
             Wells Fargo & Co.  rose as much as
6.5 percent in New York trading after the lender posted second-
quarter profit that beat most estimates and said credit quality
is improving faster than expected.  
 Less money was earmarked to cover loan losses at Wells
Fargo, the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, according to a
statement today. The San Francisco-based bank posted a 3 percent
decline in net income to $3.06 billion, with per-share earnings
of 55 cents, or 66 cents adjusted for some one-time items. That
exceeded the 49-cent average estimate from analysts.  
 “Credit quality has indeed turned the corner,” Chief
Financial Officer  Howard Atkins  said in the statement. “This
positive trend will continue over the coming year.”  Mike Loughlin , the chief risk officer, said the improvement was
“earlier and to a greater extent than we had previously
expected.”  
 Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 56, must counter
sluggish demand for business and consumer loans and the costs of
the financial overhaul passed by Congress. Some parts of the new
law may have unintended consequences, Stumpf said in the
statement, adding during a conference call that Wells Fargo will
feel the financial impact less than its peers. It’s too early to
say how much the new rules will cost, Stumpf said.  
 Wells Fargo rose 3 percent, to $26.70 at 1:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading after earlier advancing to
a high of $27.60.  
 Revenue and Reserves  
 Revenue of $21.4 billion matched the first quarter and most
analysts’ estimates, and fell 5 percent from last year’s second
quarter. Stumpf has said that if the bank were judged on a
single metric, it should be revenue.  
 Revenue was helped by a $506 million gain that came from
the release of reserves tied to commercial loans held in the
credit-impaired portfolio. That was partially offset by
litigation expenses.  
 Wells Fargo’s net interest margin, the difference between
what the bank charges for loans and pays for deposits, grew to
4.38 percent from 4.27 percent in the first quarter. The margin
was helped by the large percentage of checking and savings
deposits held by the lender, Atkins said in an interview.  
 “As we continue to get growth in checking and savings,
that’s a factor that helps the margin,” Atkins said. “It’s all
about good deposits.”  
 ‘Troubling Signs’  
 Provisions for credit losses declined to $4 billion from
$5.3 billion in the first quarter, the bank said, with loan-loss
reserves declining 2.2 percent. That’s less than its three
largest peers, which may bolster perceptions about the
sustainability of Wells Fargo’s profit. JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO
 Jamie Dimon  said any gain from reclaiming reserves doesn’t
represent “normal ongoing earnings.”  
 The decline in reserves also means Wells Fargo has less set
aside than its peers even as the lender’s non-performing loans
increase, said  Mike Williams , research director at Gradient
Analytics, a Scottsdale, Arizona-based research firm. Assets no
longer collecting interest climbed 2 percent from the first
quarter to $32.9 billion. Reserves set aside to cover credit and
loan losses fell to $25.1 billion.  
 “There are still some troubling signs,” Williams said in
an interview. “Their non-accruing loan numbers continue to go
up, while everyone else’s are coming down.”  
 Four Largest Banks  
 Wells Fargo plans more reductions in reserves if the
economy doesn’t deteriorate significantly, the statement said.  
 Net charge-offs declined 16 percent to $4.5 billion from
the first three months of the year, the statement said.  
 Wells Fargo is the last of the four largest banks to report
second-quarter earnings. Bank of America Corp., based in
Charlotte, North Carolina, and Citigroup Inc. posted lower net
income. JPMorgan, whose profit rose, and Citigroup are based in
New York.  
 Analysts and investors are looking at the largest U.S.
banks for confirmation that credit losses are shrinking. Bank of
America, the biggest U.S. lender, told investors last week that
credit quality is improving, and June credit-card  write-offs 
fell at five of the six largest card issuers.  
 New Rules  
 Wells Fargo’s largest stakeholder is Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., the insurance and industrial company controlled by
billionaire  Warren Buffett .  
 President Barack Obama today signed the biggest rewrite of
Wall Street rules since the Great Depression. Analysts said the
regulations will raise costs and cut revenue at banks. Wells
Fargo may lose as much as $2.6 billion in profit from the new
rules, Barclays analyst  Jason Goldberg  estimated in June.  
 Almost $440 million in lost profit will come from the so-
called Volcker rule, Goldberg estimated, which limits
investments in hedge funds and private-equity to 3 percent of
Tier 1 capital. Atkins said he’s “not anticipating any
changes” in a portfolio that includes stakes in private-equity
and venture capital firms.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf plans to earn more from fees and reduce expenses to counter sluggish consumer and business lending. Photographer: Davis Turner/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Gary Townsend, president and co-founder of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC, discusses Morgan Stanley's and Wells Fargo & Co.'s second-quarter earnings reported today.
     Morgan Stanley had net income of $1.96 billion, or $1.09 a share. Earnings from continuing operations were 80 cents a share, which included a 20-cent tax benefit, beating analysts' estimates. Wells Fargo said net income fell 3 percent to $3.06 billion, or 55 cents a diluted share. Townsend talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Howard Atkins, chief financial officer of Wells Fargo & Co., talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the bank's second-quarter earnings released today.
     The San Francisco-based bank said net income declined 3 percent to $3.06 billion, with per-share earnings of 55 cents, as loan losses eased. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
