-- Wheat Rises on Bets Global Demand Will Gain Amid Lower Grain Inventories
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-21T19:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/wheat-rises-on-bets-global-demand-will-gain-amid-lower-grain-inventories.html

          
          
             Wheat rose, halting a three-session
slide, on renewed concern that importers will boost purchases as
global inventories decline because of smaller crops.  
 A lack of rain in  Russia , Kazakhstan and the European Union
and floods in Canada have hurt crops, boosting wheat futures in
Chicago by 37 percent since June 9. The Russian government
announced plans today to sell 3 million metric tons of grain to
domestic livestock producers and millers to boost supplies in
drought-stricken regions.  
 “Rising global supplies the past several years encouraged
many buyers to delay booking ahead,” said  Brian Grete , the
senior market analyst for the Professional Farmers of America
newsletter in Cedar Falls, Iowa. “Supply is not going to be as
big as people expected, and that means there are some people
caught short.”  
 Wheat futures for delivery rose 11.25 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $5.8825 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade,
after dropping 3.2 percent in the previous three sessions. On
July 15, prices touched $5.985, the highest level since Nov. 23.  
 On the Kansas City Board of Trade, wheat futures for
September delivery rose 12 cents, or 2 percent, to $6.015 a
bushel. The price has rallied 32 percent since touching a three-
year low of $4.5525 on June 11.  
 The U.S. is the world’s biggest exporter of wheat, followed
by Canada, Australia and Russia.  
 Weather Pattern  
 The Pacific Ocean is in the early stages of a La Nina
weather system, Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said  on its
website  today. If a La Nina develops, the southern U.S. will get
warmer, drier weather this winter, which could curb winter-wheat
yields in Texas and Oklahoma, the biggest growers of the grain
behind Kansas.  
 Some parts of the Pacific near the equator are now 1 degree
Celsius (1.8 degrees Fahrenheit) below average, the Australian
agency said.  
 Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net  or
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        