-- `Terror' Blast at RusHydro Hydropower Plant Kills 2
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-07-21T07:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/two-killed-in-suspected-terrorist-attack-at-rushydro-baksanskaya-in-russia.html

          
          
             OAO RusHydro , Russia’s largest
hydropower company, said an explosion damaged its Baksanskaya
hydropower plant in the North Caucasus and two people were
killed in what may be an act of terror.  
 The 25-megawatt plant was closed and power for the area is
being supplied from other locations without any disruption,
RusHydro spokeswoman Yelena Vishnyakova said by telephone.  
 Two turbines out of three were damaged by the blast at the
74-year-old plant in the Kabardino-Balkaria Republic, said Oleg
Grekov, a spokesman for the Emergency Ministry in Rostov-on-Don.
A fire on the premises has been extinguished, he said.  
 The blast, at 5:25 a.m. Moscow time, was likely an act of
terror, the company said in an e-mailed statement. Attackers
killed two guards and wounded two more, RIA Novosti reported,
citing an unidentified police official.  
 Russia’s North Caucasus, which includes Chechnya and
Dagestan, is plagued by an Islamist insurgency, the country’s
highest unemployment rates and rampant corruption.  
 Federal forces fought two wars against separatists in
Chechnya and an attack by Chechen militants on a school in North
Ossetia in September 2004 left 350 people dead, half of them
children. Suicide bombers attacked two Moscow subway stations
March 29 and Russia’s Federal Security Service averted a planned
double bombing on the subway by Chechen militants, Kommersant
reported on July 17.  
 Deputy Prime Minister Igor Sechin plans to hold a meeting
today to discuss the situation at the plant and will oversee
rebuilding Baksanskaya, Interfax reported, citing government
spokesman Dmitry Peskov.  
 At least 75 people were killed in an accident at RusHydro’s
Sayano-Shushenskaya plant in Siberia last August, which will
cost more than a $1 billion to rebuild.  
 Two Russian Islamist groups claimed responsibility for the
disaster. Russian prosecutors denied the claims, saying it was
caused by a combination of technical and human factors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        