-- Wynn Resorts May Sell $1.32 Billion of Debt in Company's Largest Offering
-- Katie Evans
-- 2010-07-21T17:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/wynn-resorts-may-sell-1-32-billion-of-debt-in-company-s-largest-offering.html

          
          
             Wynn Resorts Ltd. , billionaire
 Stephen Wynn ’s casino operator, plans to sell $1.32 billion of
notes in the company’s biggest debt offering as the cost of
borrowing for junk-rated debt reached a two-month low.  
 The company’s Wynn Las Vegas LLC unit will issue the 10-
year first-mortgage securities, Wynn Resorts said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire. The debt may be sold as soon as
today and may yield about 7.875 percent, according to a person
familiar with the offering, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  
 Proceeds will be used to help fund a tender offer for
Wynn’s 6.625 percent first-mortgage notes due 2014 and to redeem
any notes not tendered, according to the statement.  
 Yields on speculative corporate debt have fallen to 8.78
percent as of July 20, the lowest since May 17, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II. Junk
bonds are high yield and high risk and rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB by S&P.  
 “The announcement indicates the company’s belief that the
cost of debt is likely moving higher in the fairly immediate
term, given that the notes being tendered do not mature for four
years and should be replaced with more expensive notes,”  David Katz , an equity research analyst at Jefferies & Co., wrote in an
e-mail to customers. Katz couldn’t immediately be reached for
further comment.  
 Identical Collateral  
 The debt will have the same collateral that secures other
notes and credit facilities under Wynn Las Vegas, according to
the statement, which includes the mortgages of the Wynn and
Encore casinos in Las Vegas.  
 “Even though these are mortgage bonds for the Las Vegas
entity, they are benefiting from the strength of the Macau
operations,” said  Kimberly Noland , high-yield credit analyst at
Gimme Credit LLC, an independent corporate bond research firm.
Revenue from Macau made up two-thirds of Wynn’s overall sales in
the first quarter and grew more than three times as fast as that
of Las Vegas, when compared with the year-earlier period.  
 Wynn Resorts announced preliminary expectations of
financial results for Wynn Las Vegas today, posting a wider
second-quarter operating loss from its Vegas properties. Noland,
who is based in New York, said the results were “pretty much in
line with our expectations.”  
 The largest previous debt offering by Wynn Las Vegas was in
2004, when it sold $1.3 billion of first-mortgage notes due in
2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In April, the
company exchanged $382 million of the outstanding notes due 2014
for 7.875 percent first-mortgage notes due 2020, according to a
regulatory filing.  
 Wynn Resorts had $3.28 billion in long-term debt
outstanding as of March 31, according to its quarterly filing.
 Samantha Stewart , a company spokeswoman, couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 kevans28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        