-- Yahoo Shares Decline After Second-Quarter Sales Miss Analysts' Estimates
-- Brian Womack
-- 2010-07-21T23:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/yahoo-shares-decline-after-second-quarter-sales-miss-analysts-estimates.html

          
          
             Yahoo! Inc.  slid the most in almost
a year in Nasdaq trading after reporting second-quarter sales
that missed analysts’ estimates, dragged down by a decline in
online-search ad revenue.  
 Sales of $1.13 billion, excluding revenue passed on to
partner sites, fell short of the $1.16 billion average of
 projections  compiled by Bloomberg. Search-based advertising
declined 8 percent, while display advertising, including banner
ads, rose 19 percent, Yahoo said yesterday in a statement.  
 Yahoo, in the second year of a turnaround effort by Chief
Executive Officer  Carol Bartz , has lost ground in the Internet
 search market . That’s made it harder to tap one of the most
profitable and fast-growing sources of online advertising. U.S.
spending on search-based ads should climb 16 percent this year,
while the online market overall will grow 11 percent, according
to research firm EMarketer Inc. in New York.  
 “They continue to struggle,” said  Clay Moran , an analyst
at Benchmark Co. in Boca Raton, Florida, who rates the shares
“ hold ” and doesn’t own any himself. “They really haven’t been
able to get a handle on this search business and trying to turn
it back to positive growth.”  
 Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale, California, fell $1.29, or 8.5
percent, to $13.91 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The  stock  has declined 17 percent this year.  
 ‘Plenty of Work’  
 Search-ad sales didn’t meet expectations, Chief Financial
Officer  Tim Morse  said in an interview. The company also
experienced a “pullback” with large customers for display
sales in June, though that has reversed this month, he said.  
 “Revenue fell a little bit short for us, so plenty of work
still to do,” Morse said. Currency fluctuations also hurt
sales, he said.  
 The company joins  International Business Machines Corp.  and
Texas Instruments Inc. in missing sales estimates last quarter.  
 Yahoo  forecast  revenue of $1.57 billion to $1.65 billion
for this quarter, compared with the $1.64 billion estimate of
 Aaron Kessler , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in San Francisco.  
 Last week, Google Inc., the leader in the Internet-search
market, reported a 24 percent increase in second-quarter profit,
which is derived mostly from online ads.  
 Yahoo is bringing new content to its site to attract
visitors and keep pace with rivals. The company’s U.S. user base
rose 10 percent in June from a year earlier, a smaller increase
than Google’s 14 percent and Facebook’s 84 percent, according to
ComScore Inc. in Reston, Virginia.  
 ‘Just Not Happening’  
 Visitors are also spending less time on the site. They
logged on for 2 hours and 11 minutes in June, down from 2 hours
and 56 minutes in December, according to Nielsen Co. in New
York.  
 “What they need are people staying up late, spending time
on Yahoo,” said  Heath Terry , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets
Corp. in New York, who rates Yahoo shares “ underperform .”
“From all the numbers that we see, that’s just not happening.”  
 Second-quarter  net income  attributable to Yahoo rose to
$213.3 million, or 15 cents a share, from $141.4 million, or 10
cents, a year earlier.  
 The company has struck deals with social-networking sites
and invested in its own properties, using savings from budget-
cutting efforts. Yahoo is offloading the costs of running a
search engine by forming a 10-year agreement with  Microsoft
Corp.  Yahoo will use Microsoft’s Bing search product on its
sites and sell ads next to the results.  
 The search transition is progressing well, and the
companies still aim to have it completed before the holiday
shopping season, Bartz said on a conference call. Yahoo has
begun testing the new search services, both for consumers and
advertisers, she said.  
 Investors need to be patient for Yahoo’s strategies to pay
off, said  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in San
Francisco, who recommends buying the shares and doesn’t own
them.  
 “This is going to take time,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        