-- Myanmar Nuclear Weapon Program Claims Supported by Photos, Jane's Reports
-- Peter S. Green
-- 2010-07-21T22:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/myanmar-nuclear-weapon-program-claims-supported-by-photos-jane-s-reports.html

          
          
             Allegations by a Myanmar defector
that the military-run country is pursuing a nuclear program are
corroborated by newly available commercial satellite images,
Jane’s Intelligence Review said in an article released
yesterday.  
 The photos of buildings and security fences near the
country’s capital, Naypyidaw, confirm reports by Major Sai Thein
Win of machine tool factories and other facilities alleged to be
part of a nascent program to build nuclear weapons, the magazine
reported from London.  
 “They will not make a bomb with the technology they
currently possess or the intellectual capability,” Jane’s
analyst Allison Puccioni said in an interview. “The two factors
do make it possible to have a route to one.”  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  expressed concern
about reports that North Korea and Myanmar are expanding
military ties and sharing nuclear technology at a meeting of
Southeast Asian foreign ministers in Thailand last year.  
 Clinton said the U.S. would remain “vigilant” against any
military cooperation between the two countries. Yesterday,
Clinton announced further sanctions against North Korea in an
effort to halt the country’s nuclear-weapons program.  
 Sai said he worked at two factories involved in the nuclear
program. His  report  to a Burmese opposition news website,
Democratic Voice of Burma, based in Norway, included documents
and color photographs of the interior of the installations.  
 The satellite imagery reviewed by Jane’s showed only the
exterior of the buildings, Puccioni said.  
 ‘Overly Ambitious’  
 Jane’s said Myanmar’s nuclear program is “overly ambitious
with limited expertise,” in a statement yesterday. While
Myanmar is a signatory to international agreements to control
nuclear weapons use, it hasn’t agreed to more recent changes in
the treaties and therefore isn’t subject to international
inspections, the magazine said.  
 “With Myanmar’s current freedom from sanctions and
relative economic prosperity, the junta may be able to outsource
the technical know-how and tools to reach its goals far sooner
than expected,” Christian Le Mière, editor of Jane’s
Intelligence Review, said in a statement.  
 “Someone had to be assisting them, that’s the frightening
thing,” said David Kay, a former United Nations weapons
inspector and now a fellow at the Potomac Institute for Policy
Studies in Arlington, Virginia, in an interview. “Myanmar is
uniquely incapable of carrying this through.”  
 North Korea could be the country providing aid, said
Michael J. Green, an adviser at the  Center for Strategic and
International Studies  and former senior director for Asia on the
National Security Council under President  George W. Bush .  
 North Korea  
 During the Bush administration, North Korea discussed
delivering short-range missiles and nuclear capability to
Myanmar, Green said.  
 “We worry about the transfer of nuclear technology” and
indications of clandestine military cooperation between two of
Asia’s most secretive regimes, Clinton said last year. “I’m not
saying it is happening, but we want to be prepared to stand
against it.”  
 State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said on July
12 that the U.S. continues “to have concerns about Burma’s
relationship with North Korea. It’s something that we watch
very, very carefully and consistently.”  
 Last year, the U.S. Navy followed the Kang Nam I, a North
Korean freighter headed in the direction of Myanmar with unknown
cargo. The ship turned around and returned home.  
 The evidence points to a method of uranium enrichment,
laser enrichment, that the North Koreans have never used, Kay
said. “If it is laser enrichment the finger points more toward
Chinese assistance or some place in the former Soviet Union,”
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        