-- Dollar Declines Versus Yen as Bernanke Says Economic Outlook is Uncertain
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-21T20:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/yen-rises-as-european-stress-tests-slowdown-concerns-boost-safety-demand.html

          
          
             The dollar fell for the first time
in three days against the yen after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. economic outlook remains “unusually
uncertain” and central bankers are prepared to act as needed to
aid growth.  
 The Japanese currency strengthened against all 16 of its
most-traded counterparts as investors sought a refuge from
slower growth. The euro weakened against the other main
currencies on concern about the financial health of Europe’s
banking system.  
 “The Fed chairman is really highlighting the downside
risks that continue to face the economy,” said  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst in Washington at Travelex Global Business
Payments, a currency-exchange network. “That makes investors
more risk averse, so that tends to highlight the yen’s safety.”  
 The yen appreciated 1.5 percent to 111.07 per euro at 4:39
p.m. in New York, from 112.70 yesterday. The Japanese currency
rose 0.6 percent to 87.03 per dollar, from 87.51, after
advancing to 86.27 on July 16, the strongest level since Dec. 1.
The dollar rose 0.9 percent to $1.2762 per euro, from $1.2880.
The euro reached $1.3029 yesterday, its strongest since May 10.  
 Bernanke delivered his semiannual report on monetary policy
to the Senate Banking Committee, and testifies to the House
Financial Services Committee tomorrow. U.S. policy makers
trimmed growth forecasts for this year and next at the Federal
Open Market Committee’s June meeting, according to minutes
released July 14.  
 Economic Outlook  
 While Fed officials plan for the exit, “we also recognize
that the economic outlook remains unusually uncertain,”
Bernanke said today. “We will continue to carefully assess
ongoing financial and economic developments, and we remain
prepared to take further policy actions as needed to foster a
return to full utilization of our nation’s productive potential
in a context of price stability.”  
 Bernanke didn’t elaborate on steps the Fed might take as he
affirmed the Fed’s policy of keeping rates low for an “extended
period.”  
 “It suggests that the Fed might be a little bit closer to
acting to provide further stimulus for the economy and
consequently that is inherently dollar negative,” Manimbo said.  
 Futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange show a 51
percent chance the Fed will keep its benchmark rate between zero
and 0.25 percent through its March 2011 meeting, up from 43
percent odds a month earlier.  
 The euro extended losses against the dollar after the
testimony, touching a near-one week low of $1.2733. The Canadian
dollar reversed earlier gains, dropping 0.4 percent to C$1.0480.  
 ‘Really Problematic’  
 “Bernanke confirmed the fact that the situation on the
ground in the U.S. is really problematic,” said  Boris Schlossberg,  director of research at online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York. “It infused all the risk assets with risk
aversion, and that drove the euro lower.”  
 Yields on Treasury two-year notes fell to the fourth record
low in five days, dropping as low as 0.5520 percent. The yield
previously reached record lows July 15, 16 and yesterday.  
 The extra yield offered by U.S. swap rates over their
Japanese counterparts has shrunk to near a two-decade low,
fueling the yen’s rally toward the strongest against the dollar
since 1995.  
 The premium U.S. rates offer to same-maturity instruments
in Japan dropped to as little as 38 basis points last week amid
fading expectations that the Fed will raise interest rates, said
 Tohru Sasaki , chief strategist in Tokyo at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Swap rates are fixed payments made to receive floating rates.  
 Dollar Index  
 The dollar-yen rate “has been closely tracking” the two-
year swaps gap, said Sasaki, a former chief currency trader at
the Bank of Japan. The exchange rate “in the near future” may
reach the 84.83 yen level touched on Nov. 27, the strongest for
the Japanese currency since July 1995, he said.  
 The  Dollar Index , which rose 0.6 percent to 83.272 today,
may fall about 4 percent over the next two to three months if it
breaches a “critical support” zone, according technical
analysis by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 The index, a benchmark for the greenback’s performance
against the currencies of six trading partners, may depreciate
to around 80 if it weakens through the zone between 82 and
81.44, an area bounded by levels that represent a “sustained
breakout” in April and the 50 percent retracement of the rally
that began in November 2009, JPMorgan analyst  Niall O’Connor 
said in a telephone interview from New York.  
 Stress Tests  
 European regulators plan to detail three scenarios when
they publish their stress-test results for 91 of the region’s
lenders on July 23, according to a document by the Committee of
European Banking Supervisors.  
 The euro extended its decline after Portugal’s borrowing
costs rose at an auction of 1.253 billion euros ($1.61 billion)
of 12-month bills after yields surged in April and May amid
Europe’s debt crisis. The securities due July 21, 2011, were
issued at an average yield of 2.452 percent. That compares with
an average yield of 1.036 percent at a March 17 auction of 12-
month bills.  
 “Portugal’s auction didn’t go too well, that’s helping to
put the euro/dollar under pressure,” said  Sebastien Galy , a
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “There’s a
slightly more bearish view on the stress tests.”  
 Banks will publish their estimated Tier 1 capital ratios
under a benchmark for 2011, an adverse scenario and a third test
that includes “sovereign shock,” according to a template
prepared by  CEBS  for the banks and obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 The euro has declined 8.2 percent this year, the biggest
loss among its developed-world counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has gained
4.4 percent, and the yen has advanced 12.4 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        