-- Yen Rises on Concern Over U.S. Slowdown, Europe's Banks
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-07-22T08:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/yen-trades-near-seven-month-high-versus-dollar-on-uncertain-u-s-outlook.html

          
          
             The yen rose for a second day
against the dollar and the euro on concern the U.S. recovery is
faltering and European banks’ stress tests will reveal loan
losses, boosting demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  
 The dollar fell for the first time in three days against
the euro before U.S. reports today forecast to show initial
jobless claims rose and existing home sales declined. Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday the economic
outlook remains “unusually uncertain.” The euro pared losses
against the yen after a report showed Germany’s manufacturing
and services industry unexpectedly accelerated in July.  
 “Risk is coming off the table,” said  Adam Cole , head of
global currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London.
“Bernanke highlighted uncertainty in his speech and he sounded
cautious. But I think there’s element of over-reaction in the
market and it might pull back a bit.”  
 The yen appreciated to 86.60 per dollar at 8:50 a.m. in
London from 87.05 in New York yesterday, after climbing to 86.27
on July 16, the strongest since Dec. 1. Japan’s currency gained
0.2 percent to 110.84 per euro from 111.02, and touched 110.36,
the highest since July 7. The dollar slid to $1.27802 per euro
from $1.2754.  
 An index based on a survey of purchasing managers in the
German services industry rose to 57.3 this month from 54.8 in
June, London-based Markit Economics said today in an initial
estimate.  
 Jobless Claims, Homes  
 U.S. initial jobless claims rose to 445,000 last week from
429,000 the prior period, according to a Bloomberg survey before
the Labor Department report. Existing home sales dropped 9.9
percent in June, the most this year, a separate survey showed
ahead of data from the National Association of Realtors.  
 “U.S. economic reports haven’t been good, making it
difficult to think the Fed will move toward an exit,” said
 Kazuyuki Kato , treasury department manager in Tokyo at Mizuho
Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest publicly
traded lender by assets. “Dollar-yen may try to dip below 85
like it did last year.”  
 The yen typically rises during times of financial turmoil
as the nation’s trade surplus means it doesn’t have to rely on
overseas capital. Japan’s large manufacturers expect the yen to
average 90.16 versus the greenback in the six months to March
2011, according to Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey
released July 1.  
 The  Dollar Index  ended three days of gains as the U.S.
economic outlook remains “unusually uncertain” and policy
makers are prepared to act as needed to aid growth, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday to the Senate
Banking Committee. He will testify to the House Financial
Services Committee today.  
 Outlook ‘Darkened’  
 The index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those of
six trading partners including the euro, the yen, the pound,
fell 0.3 percent to 83.12.  
 “The outlook for the U.S.-led global economy has darkened
following Bernanke’s remarks,” said  Satoshi Okagawa , head of
foreign exchange and money trading group at Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. in Singapore. “Risk aversion is prevailing, with
the yen being bought.”  
 Futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange show a 50
percent chance the Fed will keep its benchmark rate between zero
and 0.25 percent through its March 2011 meeting, up from 43
percent odds a month earlier.  
 Europe’s common currency traded near a one-week low against
the Swiss franc before results from European bank stress tests
are released tomorrow.  
 It fell 8.2 percent against its global peers including the
dollar, the yen and the pound so far this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices.  
 ‘Lose-Lose Situation’  
 “It’s a lose-lose situation because if there are enough
‘failures,’ all that is going to do is justify to the pessimists
why they are so bearish,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at
ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “If they don’t have enough banks
which fail, they’re not going to be viewed as being credible. In
the near term, I am bearish on the euro.”  
 The euro fetched 1.3409 francs from 1.3410 yesterday, after
falling to 1.3373, the lowest since July 13. Europe’s single
currency has declined 8.2 percent this year, the biggest loss
among its developed-world counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has gained 4.2 percent,
and the yen has advanced 12.9 percent.  
 Stress Tests  
 European Union regulators are examining the strength of 91
banks to determine if they can survive potential losses from
both a recession and a decline in the value of government debt.
The lenders must disclose their gross and net exposure to
central and local governments in 30 countries in the region,
including Greece, Spain, Ireland, Italy and Portugal, according
to a confidential draft template obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 The test results “could potentially be very bad for the
euro,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s largest lender.
“If it’s bad for the euro, it’ll be bad for the Aussie and kiwi
as well.”  
 Australia’s currency fell 0.3 percent to 76.19 yen, and
declined 0.2 percent to 88.02 U.S. cents. New Zealand’s dollar
slid 0.4 percent to 61.80 yen, and was at 71.41 U.S. cents from
71.24 cents.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .
 Anchalee Worrachate  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Japan’s currency strengthened to 86.66 per dollar as of 41 a.m. in Tokyo from 87.05 in New York yesterday. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
