-- Hyundai Motor, Workers Union Reach Tentative Agreement on Wage Increases
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-22T07:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-21/hyundai-motor-workers-union-reach-tentative-agreement-on-wage-increases.html

          
          
             Hyundai Motor Co. , South Korea’s
largest automaker, and its workers union reached a tentative
agreement on a wage increase for this year, averting a strike.  
 Workers’ monthly base salary will be increased by 4.9
percent, or 79,000 won ($66), Hyundai and the  union  said in
separate statements late yesterday. They also agreed on a bonus
equal to three months’ pay plus 5 million won in cash and a
distribution of 30  shares  for each worker. The pay deal needs
union members’ approval in a vote, which is planned for tomorrow.  
 If the agreement is approved, Seoul-based Hyundai would
avoid a strike for the second straight year, the first time that
has happened since the union’s foundation in 1987. Union leader
 Lee Kyung Hoon , elected last year, is considered more moderate
than his predecessors.  
 “Avoiding a strike for two straight years may pave the way
for a stable management-labor relationship,” said Ahn Sang Jun,
an analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in Seoul.  
 Hyundai  fell 2.6 percent to close at 133,500 won in Seoul
trading, while the benchmark Kospi index declined 0.8 percent.  
 Hyundai’s union, the country’s largest by membership with
about 45,000 employees, staged a strike every year except two
until last year, costing the automaker a combined 11.6 trillion
won from 1987 to 2008 because of lost production, according to a
company estimate.  
 The agreement with South Korean workers follows declining
sales and share in Hyundai’s domestic market. The carmaker’s
sales in the nation fell 35 percent in June, reducing its market
share to 40 percent from 52 percent a year earlier.  
 “The company and union could reach a win-win agreement
through concessions amid an adverse business environment such as
falling local market share and southern Europe’s debt crisis,”
Hyundai said in its statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        