-- Magyar Telekom Says Tax Measures, Forint Cut Profit
-- Balazs Penz
-- 2007-03-12T16:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-12/magyar-telekom-says-tax-measures-forint-cut-profit-update1-.html

          
          
             Magyar Telekom Nyrt.,  Hungary 's
former phone monopoly, said government austerity measures, a
strengthening forint and accounting changes for an investment
will keep profit from growing this year.  
 The government action alone, which includes a higher
corporate income tax and measures that cut disposable income,
will lower revenue by ``several billion forint,'' Chief
Executive officer Christopher Mattheisen told reporters in
Budapest today. (1 billion forint = $5.3 million)  
 Magyar Telekom, the Budapest-based unit of  Germany 's
Deutsche Telekom AG, is battling lower revenue from its fixed-
line business and eroding profitability on mobile phones due to
competition from operators like Vodafone Group Plc. The company
may expand to keep its profit growing, Mattheisen said.  
 ``A big challenge for the company is to expand in other
directions,'' he said. ``Anything organically or non-organically
we can do to accelerate that kind of growth is in our interest.
Data, broadband, content media, systems integration, IT -- a lot
of those areas fulfill those conditions.''  
 Magyar Telekom shares rose 0.5 percent to 935 forint today,
valuing the company at 975 billion forint.  
 The forint's gains against the euros are cutting the value
of profit from Magyar Telekom's units in Montenegro and
Macedonia when converted to the Hungarian currency. At the same
time, accounting changes to its Tetra emergency radio network
means lower revenue from that project this year than in 2006,
Mattheisen said.  
 Past Expansion  
 Profit last year was boosted by earnings from Hungarian
software developer KFKI Zrt., which Magyar Telekom bought in
June, and by local information technology services company
Dataplex Kft., purchased in late 2005. Magyar Telekom also
bought IWIW, a Budapest-based social networking Web site.  
 Outside Hungary, Magyar Telekom started offering fixed-line
services in Romania and  Bulgaria  last year and has plans to
expand in  Ukraine . It already has majority stakes in phone
companies in Macedonia and Montenegro.  
 Deutsche Telekom CEO Rene Obermann on March 1 said he will
look to spur growth with mobile-phone takeovers, reversing the
policies of his predecessor Kai-Uwe Ricke. Mattheisen, who took
Magyar Telekom over in December, said there will be similarities
in the two companies' strategies.  
 ``Our focus, although it's not identical to DT, is very
similar,'' he said. ``We are also looking for growth, we are
also looking for synergies. The general new strategic focus that
they have announced doesn't mean a whole lot of change for us.''  
 `Flying Time'  
 Magyar Telekom will continue to look for acquisition
targets in Hungary and southeast  Europe , he said, without saying
which companies or countries the company will target.  
 ``There's a certain physical reach that we can address,''
Mattheisen said. ``Anything within two or three hours of flying
time can be included in theory. From then on you have to start
eliminating things based on regulatory environment, growth
prospects.''  
 Mattheisen declined to say if the company will change its
dividend policy after paying 70 forint per share the past three
years. Acquisitions can probably be financed from Magyar
Telekom's cash flow, he said.  
 ``We do have a pretty healthy balance sheet, healthy enough
to finance even the ideal acquisition that we can make,''
Mattheisen said. ``Our balance sheet can help us either with a
pure cash acquisition or if any debt needs to be taken out to do
that, the balance sheet we have can handle that as well.''  
 The company's also working on a cost-cutting program, which
will start yielding results next year, Mattheisen said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Balazs Penz in Budapest 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at   ckirkham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        