-- Man Up, Obama, or Make Way for President Palin: David Reilly
-- David Reilly
-- 2010-02-12T02:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-11/man-up-obama-or-make-way-for-president-palin-david-reilly.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  is starting
to look like the second coming of  Jimmy Carter . If he’s going to
avoid that fate, the president had better take radical action --
and fast.  
 That means doing more than offering belated talk about
 jobs , or waging ineffectual on-again, off-again bank warfare.
What, after all, is the point of bashing Wall Street only to
then blow bonus kisses to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  chief  Jamie Dimon 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  head  Lloyd Blankfein ?  
 Obama needs to ditch his professorial, community-organizer
mien and start cracking some heads. Unless, that is, he is
intent on paving the way for a  Palin  presidency in 2013.  
 Supporters are crying out for Obama to pull out of his
tailspin. In an article in Politico,  Douglas Wilder , the
nation’s first African-American governor and an early Obama
supporter,  urged  the president to get his act together.  
 “The need is becoming more obvious by the day,” Wilder
wrote. “Getting elected and getting things done for the people
are two different jobs.”  
 Obama’s lack of resolve even makes comparisons to Carter
seem charitable. Financial blogger Eric Salzman argued that we
haven’t seen such a lack of leadership “in the White House
since our 15th president,  James Buchanan , stood by and let the
country dissolve into Civil War while trying to appease
everyone.”  
 What’s to be done? Here are three ways for Obama to man up,
chart a new course and avert the kind of debacle that tarnished
his party in the eyes of a generation of voters.  
 Learn From Clinton  
 -- Bring congressional Democrats to heel with a Sister
Souljah moment.  
 Such an action is named for former President  Bill Clinton’s 
putdown of hate speech by a rapper -- and, by extension, the
far-left wing of the Democratic Party. Clinton’s move was
designed to appeal to centrist voters.  
 For his Sister Souljah moment, Obama needs to pick a
particularly egregious action by his erstwhile allies on Capitol
Hill and then use a veto, or the threat of one, to show
congressional Democrats he is in charge, not them.  
 Sadly, Obama has already passed on two perfect
opportunities. The first came with last year’s pork-stuffed
economic stimulus bill. Obama should have threatened a veto
unless Congress focused the legislation on unemployment, not pet
congressional projects.  
 Don’t Be Afraid  
 The second opportunity involved the health-care bill
initially approved by Senate Democrats. Obama should have made
it clear to Majority Leader  Harry Reid  that he wasn’t about to
countenance $100 million bribes to get the likes of Democratic
Nebraska Senator  Ben Nelson  on board.  
 -- Don’t be afraid of the big, bad banks.  
 Obama can get financial reform if he wants it. He just has
to realize that he’s, well, the president. And presidents don’t
haggle with banks that are alive only thanks to $8.2 trillion in
government lending, spending and support. Nor do they let armies
of bank lobbyists tie them down on Capitol Hill.  
 And they certainly don’t countenance bank chiefs who fail
to show for White House meetings. Trying that with Nixon would
have meant quick inclusion on the “enemies list”;  George W. Bush’s  folks would have issued an immediate invitation to go
hunting with Vice President  Dick Cheney .  
 Obama, on the other hand, talks tough, then worries about
upsetting Wall Street. That’s insane.  
 Wall Street respects only one thing -- strength. If it
smells weakness, the Street will try to leave the other guy with
nothing but his socks and a smile.  
 Offer a Reminder  
 So don’t ask, tell. Remind the banks, none too subtly, that
Obama can make their lives miserable.  
 The government, after all, controls bank regulation. Maybe,
for instance, capital requirements at too-big-to-fail
institutions like  Goldman  or  JPMorgan  should shoot up to 25
percent. Perhaps the amount of borrowed money financial
behemoths can use needs to be capped at five times equity.  
 And since banks are so opposed to a Consumer Financial
Protection Agency, Obama will have to find a new job for
 Elizabeth Warren , the driving force behind that proposal.
Heading up the  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency , which
regulates all the big, national banks, might be a perfect fit
for her.  
 Or the banks can quickly agree to take some lumps and get
on board with financial reform.  
 That’s the kind of deal-making Wall Street responds to.  
 Use the Broom  
 -- Clean house.  
 Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has to go. So too does
White House economic adviser  Lawrence Summers . And while he’s at
it, the president should jettison Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel .  
 All are too stuck in the pre-crisis, let’s-not-risk-
curbing-financial-innovation mentality that helped get us into
this mess. They also tie Obama directly to the crisis, negating
claims that it was someone else’s doing.  
 Geithner was head of the  New York Fed  and a lead singer in
the bailout choir. Summers, back during the Clinton
administration, helped knock down the separation of commercial
and investment banking while making sure derivatives markets
wouldn’t be regulated. And Emanuel was a director of mortgage
giant  Freddie Mac , now a ward of the state.  
 Not to mention that Geithner, with plenty on Capitol Hill
calling for his scalp, no longer is a credible salesman for the
administration’s policies. Emanuel, meanwhile, is so driven by
the goal of striking a deal, any deal, that he ends up letting
Congress call the shots.  
 In their place, Obama needs people who understand but
aren’t beholden to Wall Street. And he needs folks who are
willing to stand up to Congress.  
 Obama needs to get tough. If he doesn’t, voters will.  
 ( David Reilly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 David Reilly  at   dreilly14@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        