-- Billionaires Versus Millionaires Ends in Canada: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-02-12T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-11/billionaires-versus-millionaires-ends-in-canada-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             DeMaurice Smith, the executive
director of the National Football League Players Association,
knows how to work a room.  
 He made eye contact. He laughed and he smiled.  
 Smith hit all the important talking points during Super
Bowl week, when he met the media in an effort to sway public
opinion. All except one: You. The fan, once again, was
forgotten.  
 No matter how much you've heard recently about fan-friendly
initiatives from professional sports teams you, the ticket
buyer, remain an afterthought. Way after.  
 The NFL isn't the only U.S. sports league locked in
contract talks with players. Commissioner David Stern of the
National Basketball Association is back at the collective
bargaining table, too. And he's pushing for more. His union
adversary, Billy Hunter, always pushes back. You know who gets
squeezed.  
 Here we go again. It's the latest installment of
billionaires versus millionaires. The arguments are always the
same.  
 At least Roger Goodell, the NFL commissioner, mentioned the
ticket-buying public during his annual Super Bowl address, a
majority of which was dedicated to making an argument for why
owners, not players, deserve an increased share of revenue.  
 "People want solutions," Goodell said. "Most
importantly, our fans."  
 Voices Unheard  
 If the fans are really important then why aren't their
interests represented at the negotiating table?  
 Fans should have a voice when decisions are made about
which side gets how much because, well, we all know where the
money comes from.  
 Any fan representative worth his foam finger would have
jumped from his seat and howled with laughter when Smith
referred to his union members as blue-collar workers. You know,
just like bus drivers or firefighters. Just the folks he expects
to buy tickets.  
 The NFL did $8 billion in revenue last season.  
 Smith, for maximum effect, repeated the dollar figure
during his speech. "I said B," he said, making sure that
everyone digested billion, not million.  
 Goodell says football owners conceded too much the last
time, and that the economics of pro football have changed. Take,
he says, the new stadiums in Dallas and New York, where the Jets
and Giants will share a $1.6 billion facility.  
 Seat Licenses  
 The Cowboys, Jets and Giants are relying on wretched
personal seat licenses, or PSLs, which require a fan to pay for
the right to then pay for season tickets.  
 The fan representative ought to pound his fist on the
table. No owner, it must be pointed out, has ever suggested that
their most loyal customers be reimbursed the price of the PSL
when the stadium debt is paid.  
 Billionaires and millionaires will haggle over a percentage
point here or there, leaving fans guessing as to when, or if,
games will be played.  
 You have to wonder when the Super Bowl champion New Orleans
Saints, who purport to love their fans, will announce an
increase in ticket prices for next season.  
 Take Dat!  
 The NBA, meantime, opens its All-Star weekend tonight in
Dallas, where you can bet that Stern and Hunter will trade
bargaining barbs. The economic system isn't working, is what
we'll hear from Stern. Business is booming will be the counter
from Hunter, who'll cherry pick contracts and revenue figures to
back his point.  
 Respite for Fans  
 Thankfully, there's a respite for sports fans. It's the
Olympics, which begin tonight in Vancouver, where, for the most
part, even the winners won't get rich.  
 For most athletes the Games are about competition, not
cashing in. Sure there are endorsement darlings like Apolo Anton
Ohno, Shaun White, aka the Flying Tomato, and Lindsey Vonn,
whose face -- and the rest of her -- has been seen plenty
recently.  
 The Olympics are the perfect solution for fans with
financial fatigue.  
 Before the NFL union's Smith talks about blue collar and
hardship he ought to familiarize himself with Olympians like
Jilleanne Rookard, a speedskater who told the New York Times
there have been times when her bank account topped out at $30
and that she survived by eating leftover pizza from birthday
parties at the roller rink where she worked part time as a
deejay.  
 Loose Change  
 I asked two-time Olympic speedskater Dave Tamburrino if he
could fathom millionaires and billionaires bickering over
pennies on the dollar.  
 "Oh, God," he said. "Can't even imagine."  
 That's the athlete talking. But there's another side to
Tamburrino, who, as corporate marketing director for baseball's
Milwaukee Brewers, has a keen understanding of the business of
baseball.  
 Tamburrino is just happy that speedskating doesn't have a
players association. Me, too, which is why, beginning tonight,
I'm instituting a two-week collective bargaining boycott.  
 Give me Vancouver's snow, or lack thereof, over a snow job
from millionaires and billionaires any day.  
 (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        