-- Why Bad Things (Like Recalls) Happen to Good Companies (Like Toyota)
-- Susan Cramm
-- 2010-02-11T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-11/why-bad-things-like-recalls-happen-to-good-companies-like-toyota-.html

          
          
             Things fall apart. Expect It. Plan for it. 

 A bunch of smart people are trying to figure out what "happened" at Toyota. The following story is starting to emerge: 

 Once upon a time there was a car manufacturer known for its reliable and innovative products. After years of being held as an exemplar of cultural alignment and production efficiency, the perfect storm of  rapid growth ,  communication breakdowns , and  inadequate oversight  resulted in a series of product defects that has caused deaths and put many consumers at risk.  

 Is this the complete story?  

 Not even close. The complete story is too complex to be summarized in simplistic sound bites. 

 But stories make us feel better. If we can explain it, we can fix it. The reality is often too complex to be "fixed." Simplistic analysis of complex matters serves up a false sense of security that makes us believe we can create perfect systems. 

 Success in business, and in life, isn't about eliminating risks, it's about managing them. In spite of your best efforts,  Murphy's Law  will rule and stuff is going to hit the fan. The leader's job, in a world that is never simple or predictable, is to build safety nets so that when problems occur, they can be quickly reported and dealt with. Anticipating problems is the only prudent course in a world where every company has  data issues ,   buggy software , and  security incidents . 

 One of the fundamental  risk management principles in IT  — and other engineering disciplines — is the controls review. This process identifies potential exposures (for example, Toyota's acceleration problems) and what can be done to rapidly identify, report, and resolve them. In coping with daily pressures, controls reviews often go by the wayside. As a result, many potential unintended consequences remain unanticipated and uncontrolled.  

 Leaders understand that their companies are living a precarious existence. Almost two-thirds of C-level executives are convinced that  their organizations are at risk from information- and technology-based disruption.   As these leaders witness the Toyota story unfold, they are experiencing a strange set of emotions: relief — naturally — combined with anxiety knowing that their company may be next in line.  

 In the real world, bad things happen to good companies. Be sure, in every change you make, after you have designed what should happen, to take the same amount of time to plan for the unintended disruptions that, you hope, will never come to fruition.  
          
          


  


        