-- Australia's Santos eyes sale of U.S. oil interests
-- By  Fayen Wong
-- Mon Dec 11, 2006 1:40am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/11/businesspro-santos-us-dc-idUSSYD12870120061211

 

 SYDNEY  (Reuters) - Australian oil and gas producer Santos 
Ltd. ( STO.AX ) said on Monday it planned to sell its exploration 
and production activities in the United States to focus on its 
home market, Asia and the Middle East. 

  "Continued high demand for energy in the U.S. has resulted 
in a strong market for assets in Santos' U.S. business areas, 
making it a good time to bring this portfolio to the market," 
Santos said in a statement, without specifying whether it was 
in active talks with any potential buyers.  Its U.S. operations produced 2.1 million barrels of oil 
equivalent (boe) during 2005, out of total annual production of 
56 million boe.  Analysts said although gains from the divestment likely 
would be relatively small, Santos' decision to consolidate its 
assets was a good move.  "It is a good strategy. Their U.S. business is small 
relative to the rest of their business. They have been there a 
long time, it's a tough place to operate and there are other 
places where they have much greater advantage," said Stuart 
Baker, an analyst at Morgan Stanley.  "They need to clean up their asset base. They have had some 
success in Vietnam and Indonesia so they should consolidate and 
focus more on these areas."  Santos' spokeswoman Kathryn Mitchell said the sale of the 
U.S. assets would not affect its earlier production target of 
60 to 61 million boe for fiscal 2006.  Santos' shares finished flat on Monday at A$9.82, in a 
broader market which rose 0.8 percent.  Santos' operations in the U.S. include ongoing exploration 
and development activities onshore and offshore the gulf coast 
of Texas, as well as in western Colorado. The company also 
holds leases to approximately 60,000 acres of land.
  RE-DEPLOY CAPITAL  "The company believes that it will be better placed to meet 
its strategic objectives by re-deploying capital into its other 
business activities in Australia, Asia and the Middle East," 
Santos said in a statement.  Adelaide-based Santos has been seeking to reduce its 
reliance on production from the aging Cooper Basin in outback 
Australia, focusing more closely on Indonesia and the region to 
grow its uncertain production profile beyond 2007.  While Santos has had several successes in Vietnam and has 
recently expanded its acreage in the country, its operations in 
Indonesia have suffered several setbacks.  Last month it slashed its reserves forecast for the Jeruk 
discovery in Indonesia, a field seen key to long-term output 
growth, by over 70 percent.  Activities at Indonesia's Banjar Panji-1 exploration well 
were also halted after hot mud began gushing at a rate of 
50,000 cubic meters (1.75 million cubic feet) a day, forcing 
thousands of villagers to flee their homes.  In Australia, Santos' A$606 million bid ($477 million) for 
coal seam gas firm Queensland Gas Co. Ltd. QGC.AX looks set 
to be blocked after Australian energy retailer AGL Energy 
( AGK.AX ) said it would take a 27.5 percent stake in QGC.  The company has appointed Scotia Waterous to advise on the 
U.S. sales process.  (Additional reporting by  Jonathan Standing  and Ben Wilson)