-- IMF avoids specific proposal as quota talks start
-- By  Lesley Wroughton
-- Mon Dec 11, 2006 1:38am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/11/businesspro-imf-quotas-dc-idUSN1047710920061211

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Talks on rebalancing voting power in 
the International Monetary Fund start on Monday with some major 
emerging economies already complaining that an opening proposal 
fails to clearly spell out changes needed to give them more say 
in the institution. 

  The proposal is the beginning of what is likely to be a 
protracted negotiation over a new voting formula that would 
reflect the rise of emerging economies powers in Asia, Latin 
America and elsewhere.  An IMF staff paper circulated ahead of Monday's meeting and 
obtained by Reuters avoided the thorny issue of a specific 
proposal for a new formula. Instead, the paper described itself 
as the "starting point" for discussions.  "It is hoped ... the issues under discussion can begin to 
be narrowed down, leading in coming months to a convergence of 
views around a specific proposal or narrow range of proposals," 
the paper said.  However, officials from developing countries said they were 
disappointed by the paper, which some said lacked the needed 
leadership by IMF staff to force the politically-tough debate 
forward.  Without leadership, they said, the talks could simply 
re-hash previous discussions without reflecting that emerging 
economies like China and India have become important drivers of 
global growth, making a rebalance of IMF voting power critical.  The current "quota" formula is based on the world's 
economic order when the Fund was formed after World War Two 
with the United States and Europe as the dominant economic 
powers.  The Group of Seven nations - the United States, Japan, 
Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada - currently wield 
around 45 percent of the Fund's quotas, or membership 
subscriptions, which largely determine voting power.  Under the current formula large emerging markets have fewer 
votes than small European countries.
  SECOND PHASE  The IMF's 184 member countries in September endorsed a plan 
that increased the voting power of China, Mexico, Turkey and 
South Korea, and agreed to a second round of adjustments, to be 
completed by 2008, based on a new formula.  Some big emerging economies like India, Brazil, Argentina, 
Egypt and Iran voted against the plan saying it did not go far 
enough. The objecting nations doubt whether European countries 
are willing to relinquish voting power to emerging economies.  Emerging countries have warned that the IMF's standing 
could be eroded in the developing world, where critics already 
resent what they see as the Fund's high-handed policy advice.  The IMF staff paper acknowledged that discussions would 
require compromise and warned that the outcome was broadly 
accepted by the membership, the IMF's credibility and 
effectiveness could be compromised.  The paper asked the membership to weigh various aspects of 
a new formula, which has long been based on gross domestic 
product, a country's openness to such things as trade, its 
vulnerability to balance of payments shocks, and the size of 
its reserves.  While members agree that GDP should continue to be a 
dominant factor in a new formula, countries are divided over 
whether it should be converted for the purpose of IMF quotas at 
market exchange rates, which is traditionally the case, or on 
purchasing power parity rates.  Emerging economies like India are pushing for more emphasis 
on pushing power parity, while others, like Russia, say the 
best would be a combination of both.