-- Tepco, Marubeni to buy Mirant plants for $3.4 bln
-- By Yuko Inoue and Osamu Tsukimori
-- Mon Dec 11, 2006 12:33pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/11/businesspro-mirant-philippines-marubeni-idUST34180020061211

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Tokyo Electric Power Co. ( 9501.T ) and 
Marubeni Corp. ( 8002.T ) said on Monday they would buy Mirant 
Corp.'s MIR.N power assets in the Philippines for $3.4 
billion in what would be that country's biggest-ever takeover. 

  Shares of U.S. electricity producer Mirant, the biggest 
independent power generator in the Philippines, rose more than 
3 percent.  The two companies outbid rival suitors that included 
Malaysia's Tanjong Plc TJPL.KL and OneEnergy Ltd., a 
partnership between Hong Kong's CLP Holdings ( 0002.HK ) and 
Japan trader Mitsubishi Corp. ( 8058.T ). The auction had 
generated substantial buying interest due to the prospects of 
stable returns under the long-term power purchase agreements.  Tokyo Electric, or Tepco, which is Asia's biggest utility, 
said the deal was its largest investment abroad.  "We'll learn a lot about cost cutting," said Koji 
Nishimura, general manager at Tepco's international affairs 
department. "We'll bring back the know-how we acquired from 
overseas projects to Japan.  The announcement came after sources told Reuters on Monday 
that Mirant picked up Marubeni and Tepco as a winning bidder.  Mirant was selling 2,203 megawatts of generating assets in 
the Philippines in the latest of a series of auctions in the 
region by U.S. power companies.  Credit Suisse is the financial advisor for Mirant on the 
sale.  Mirant, which dropped an unsolicited bid to buy rival NRG 
Energy Inc. ( NRG.N ) earlier this year, said it expected $3.15 
billion in net proceeds from the sale.  The company, which emerged from bankruptcy in January, is 
also looking to sell assets in the Caribbean as well as six 
U.S. gas-fired power plants.  Mirant plans to continue returning cash to its shareholders 
after the deals are completed. The company announced plans to 
buy back up to $1.25 billion of its shares in July.  Marubeni, Japan's fifth-biggest trading company, said it 
and Tepco aimed to use a nonrecourse loan from banks to raise 
about 75 percent of the required funds for the debt-plus-equity 
package deal. The loan limits the lender's rights to the 
particular asset being financed.  The two companies may also issue subdebts to third parties 
and reduce their equities after talks with banks are finalized.
  AGGRESSIVE  UBS analyst Toshinori Ito said that he did not know whether 
the purchase price was high because key information, such as 
the cash flow or the profit figures, were not revealed.  "There is no way of knowing how much return is going to be 
earned through the investments," he said.  The market had initially expected the assets to be worth 
about $2.5 billion.  Japanese investors were particularly aggressive bidders 
because they have identified the power sector as key to their 
growth and because they are backed by Japan Bank for 
International Cooperation JBIC.UL, which provides them with 
cheap long-term funding.  Top trading companies are particularly keen to win overseas 
power contracts as the sector generates a steady cash flow, 
offsetting the highly cyclical resources industry in which they 
have substantial investments.  Marubeni said the deal would boost its net overseas power 
generation capacity to about 4,000 megawatts by adding Mirant's 
1,000 megawatts of capacity in the Philippines.  The company plans to more than double its overseas power 
generation capacity to up to 5,000 megawatts by 2008 through 
acquisitions and investment in new projects. It has said it 
would invest $200 million to $300 million a year in the run-up 
to 2008.  Tepco has already invested in seven thermal power projects 
in five countries.  Mirant shares were up 98 cents, or 3.1 percent, at $32.20 
in morning New York Stock Exchange trade.  Before the announcement, shares of Marubeni ended up 0.7 
percent at 601 yen in Tokyo, while Tepco rose 0.8 percent to 
3,690 yen.  (Additional reporting by Charlie Zhu,  Eriko Amaha  and 
 Michael Erman )