-- Explosive ‘Scottsboro Boys’ Show Will Close at $5 Million Loss
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-11-30T18:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/-chicago-team-s-explosive-scottsboro-boys-will-close-at-5-million-loss.html
“The Scottsboro Boys,” a serious
musical that drew protests and has struggled to find an audience
since opening on Broadway on Oct. 31, will close on Sunday, Dec.
12, the producer said today.  “We couldn’t pay our bills,”  Barry Weissler  said in a
telephone interview. Weissler, who is the lead producer with his
wife, Fran, said the show consistently failed to sell enough
tickets to cover its weekly running costs at the Lyceum Theatre.  The musical, the final effort by the composer-lyricist team
of  John Kander  and the late  Fred Ebb  (who also co-wrote
“Chicago” and “Cabaret,” among other celebrated shows), will
close at a total loss of $5 million, Weissler said.  That figure includes money Weissler and his partners
invested in the original production last spring at the nonprofit
Vineyard Theater off-Broadway and a subsequent run at the
Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis last summer. It also includes
about $400,000 in loans the producers took out for the Broadway
transfer, Weissler said.  “The Scottsboro Boys” concerns the fate of nine young
black men accused of raping two white women in the South during
the Great Depression. It is staged by  Susan Stroman , best known
as the choreographer and director of such hit shows as
“Contact” and “The Producers.”  The show failed to capture the imagination of theatergoers,
as indicated by poor and declining ticket sales. Last week, the
show earned just $273,250, or 35 percent of its potential sales
of $767,492, according to figures released by the Broadway
League, a trade group that compiles theater statistics. It was
one of the few shows to post a decline during the lucrative
Thanksgiving holiday period.  Minstrel Show  The format of the musical, which presents the story as a
minstrel show, has drawn fire from some in the black community
since the Broadway opening on Oct. 31. Much of the protest,
including pickets in front of the theater, has come from people
who said they had not seen the show.  “If there was any group that ought to have supported ‘The
Scottsboro Boys,’ it was the very people protesting it,”
Weissler said. “But they were people who never saw it.”  Weissler spent this morning informing the company of the
closing. The decision, he said, broke his heart.  “This has been one of the finest things Fran and I have
ever produced,” he said. “This is a very humbling business.”  To contact the writer of this story:
 Jeremy Gerard  in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 