-- Swiss Stocks Fall for Third Day in Zurich as Nestle Shares Drop
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-11-30T12:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/abb-apen-basilea-pharmaceutica-nestle-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks fell for a third day as
Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded  Nestle SA  and the bailout of
Ireland failed to reassure investors that the region will
contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  Nestle dropped as Credit Suisse cut its rating on the
world’s largest food company to “neutral” from “outperform.”
UBS AG and Credit Suisse declined 1.3 percent and 0.7 percent,
respectively, following banking shares lower in Europe.
 Transocean Ltd.  rose before the Swiss-listed shares of the
offshore drilling contractor are added to the MSCI Switzerland
Index after the closing of the market today.  The  Swiss Market Index  fell 0.7 percent to 6,352.64 at 1:27
p.m. in Zurich, heading for the first monthly loss in three
months. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  retreated 0.5
percent today.  “The market could drop further,”  Enrico Racioppi , a
London-based banking analyst at Hammer Partners, wrote in a note
today. Losses on bonds from Portugal, Ireland and Greece and
further deterioration of Spain and Italy “are not priced” in,
he wrote.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Italian
debt instead of benchmark German bunds widened to more than 200
basis points for the first time since the euro’s debut in 1999.
Meanwhile, the difference in the cost of insuring subordinated
and senior European financial-company bonds rose to the most
since May 2009.  Consumer Demand  A Swiss gauge of consumer demand rose in October as
declining unemployment prompted households to step up spending.  UBS’s consumption indicator increased to 1.72 in October
from 1.70 in the previous month, the Zurich-based bank said in
an e-mailed statement today. The gain “can be attributed
primarily to an improvement in business activity in the retail
sector as well as growing new car registrations,” it said.  “Even if it remains below its third-quarter levels, it
does not confirm the sharp drop in confidence measured by the
Ministry of Economic Affairs earlier this month,”  Julien Manceaux , an economist at ING Group in Brussels, wrote in an e-
mailed comment. “Even if growth prospects are softer for 2011,
the current rhythm of recovery may still trigger an SNB rate
hike in the first half of next year.”  ‘Draw Breath’       Nestle  declined 1.2 percent to 55.1 francs. Credit Suisse
cut its rating to “neutral” from “outperform.” The brokerage
highlighted in a note that the company has been “a very strong
performer for six years now. On a 15 percent premium to its
immediate U.S. and European peers and little short term EPS
growth, it may be time to draw breath.”  UBS and Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s biggest banks,
declined 1.3 percent to 15.13 francs and 0.7 percent to 37.76
francs. A gauge for European banking shares retreated for a
third day.  Zurich Financial Services AG , Switzerland’s largest
insurer, declined 1.4 percent to 225.3 francs.  Basilea Pharmaceutica AG  declined 2.4 percent to 67.1
francs even after the company won a $130 million arbitration
award from Johnson & Johnson in a dispute over the antibiotic
ceftobiprole.  Transocean was the best performer on the Swiss Market
Index, increasing 2.1 percent to 69.15 francs.  Transocean’s shares will be included in the MSCI
Switzerland from today’s close, while the company’s New York-
listed stock will be deleted from the MSCI USA Index, according
to a statement from the index provider on Nov. 10.  “Today we have the semi-annual MSCI rebalance which sees
turnover of around $5.8 billion in Europe, of which over $3
billion is in 11 adds and 9 deletes,” Nomura Holdings Inc. said
in a note. Nomura mentioned among the largest changes by value
“the repatriation of  Transocean  from the U.S. to Switzerland.”  Tecan Group AG increased 2.6 percent to 71.3 francs.
Berenberg Bank reiterated a “buy” rating on the maker of
liquid sample processors used in the drug industry after the
company said it signed a “major” manufacturing agreement.  “We believe the market continues to under-appreciate the
growth potential of Tecan’s OEM business,” the brokerage said
in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 