-- ABB Agrees to Buy Baldor for $3.1 Billion After Losing Chloride to Emerson
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2010-11-30T15:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/abb-to-buy-baldor-electric-for-4-2-billion-including-debt.html
ABB Ltd ., the Swiss maker of factory
robots and power transmission gear, agreed to buy  Baldor
Electric Co.  for about $3.1 billion in cash to expand in the
North American market for industrial motors and drives.  Shareholders of Fort Smith, Arkansas-based Baldor will
receive $63.5 a share, ABB said in a statement today. That’s 41
percent higher than Baldor’s  closing  price yesterday. ABB is
paying about 14 times Baldor’s projected operating profit next
year, compared with an industry average in the last five years
of about 16 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan  has increased the pace of
acquisitions as he puts Zurich-based ABB’s $5.3 billion in net
 cash  to use. He purchased software maker Ventyx Inc. for more
than $1 billion this year, and made an offer for Chloride Group
Plc, only to be outbid by Emerson Electric Co. Hogan said today
he still has excess cash and will continue to seek deals.  “We see significant potential for ABB to use Baldor
distribution to expand its drives business in the U.S., as well
as a more general build out of its discrete automation
business,” said Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by  Tim Rothery  in a note to clients today.  Cost Cuts  ABB  rose  as much as 0.17 Swiss francs, or 0.8 percent, to
19.69 francs, and traded at 19.61 francs as of 4:35 p.m. in
Zurich. The stock has lost 1.9 percent in value this year.
Baldor rose as much as $18.15, or 40 percent, to $63.26.  The deal, in which ABB will also assume an additional $1.1
billion in debt, is expected to close in the first quarter.  Hogan is close to completing a $3 billion cost-cutting
program, and ABB said today that integrating Baldor will
generate more than $100 million in initial annual savings. The
former General Electric Co. executive took over at ABB in 2008
with a track record of deal-making, including the  purchase  of
U.K.-based Amersham Plc for about $10 billion in 2004.  Hogan told journalists on a call that he had had Baldor in
his sight “for a while,” and that the two companies came in
close contact over the last six months. There are no signs of a
counter-bid for the company, and ABB feels confident it is
bidding an attractive premium, Hogan said.  “We’ve been looking at opportunities for over a year
now,” the executive said on the call.  Earnings Boost  The average premium paid for electrical-components
companies over the past five years was about 14 percent, with
$70.4 billion of total transactions during the period, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest deal in the period
was Schneider Electric SA’s $6.1 billion purchase of American
Power Conversion Corp. in 2006, the data show.  “The strategic fit looks good, but comes at a price,”
said equity analysts  James Stettler  and  Alasdair Leslie  of
UniCredit in a note to clients today.  The purchase will add to earnings in the first year, and
existing management will be kept in place, ABB said. Fort Smith
will become the headquarters for the combined motor and
generator business for North America. Baldor’s forecast  earnings 
before interest and tax for 2011 is $294 million, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Baldor CEO John McFarland, who will step down at the end of
the year and be succeeded by Chief Operating Officer  Ronald E. Tucker , said his company backs the bid as being “in the best
interest of our shareholders, our employees and our customers,”
according to the statement.  Industrial Drives  The U.S. company has about 7,000 employees and specializes
in large industrial motors, a market ABB predicts will grow 10
percent to 15 percent in 2011 as new energy regulation comes in
place. The company also makes power transmission products such
as mounted bearings, enclosed gearing and couplings used in
process industries, as well as drives and generators.  By 2015, ABB aims to reap more than $200 million in annual
savings, and two-thirds of these reductions will be realized by
2013, the company said. Hogan said some costs will be reduced by
bundling material purchases and removing Baldor’s listing.  The offer for Baldor will start in December and is
conditional upon at least two-thirds of Baldor shareholders
tendering their shares, ABB said. Citigroup Inc. advised the
Swiss company on the transaction, with legal advice from
Kirkland & Ellis LLP, while UBS AG and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher
LLP advised Baldor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benedikt Kammel  in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  