-- Abu Dhabi's Masdar Studying 300-Mile-Long Pipe Network for Carbon Capture
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-11-30T12:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/abu-dhabi-s-masdar-studying-500-kilometer-pipe-network-for-carbon-capture.html
Masdar, the Abu Dhabi government-
backed renewable energy company, plans to award a contract in
2011 to build a 500 kilometer pipeline network for carbon
capture, its deputy manager for commercial development said.  “The pipeline engineering design was completed in the
middle of this year,”  Keristofer Seryani  said in Dubai today.
“Now we’re trying to reach an agreement with Adnoc, which will
be the off-taker for the CO2.” State-owned Abu Dhabi National
Oil Co. is also known as Adnoc.  Masdar expects 50 kilometers of the pipeline to be ready by
2014 for the country’s first operational large-scale carbon
capture and storage project, siphoning 800,000 metric tons a
year of carbon dioxide from government-owned steel plant
Emirates Steel Industries PJSC. The CO2 will be injected into
oilfields, replacing natural-gas used to boost pressure inside
reservoirs for enhanced oil recovery, Seryani said.  Abu Dhabi, holder of almost all the oil reserves in the
United Arab Emirates, is keen to become a hub for renewable
energy. Masdar is building solar plants, research institutes and
its flagship Masdar City, which aims to be fully powered by
renewable energy.  Masdar had expected to award a construction contract this
year for the carbon capture and storage project, director of its
carbon management unit  Sam Nader  said in January.  The pipeline network will connect existing and future power
and industrial plants to onshore oilfields and the carbon
capture program will last 25 years from 2014, Seryani said.
 Mustang Engineering , a unit of U.K. oilfield-services provider
 John Wood Group Plc , is carrying out the front-end engineering
and design for the pipeline, which will be large enough to carry
as much as 30 million tons of CO2 a year by 2030.  Adnoc is currently testing a 2-year project at the onshore
Rumaitha field, capturing 60 tons a day of CO2 from a purpose-
built plant, Seryani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  