-- Ackermann Says `Mistrust` of Spain Unjustified, Banks' Problems Manageable
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-12-01T10:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ackermann-says-mistrust-of-spain-unjustified-bank-problems-manageable-.html
Investors’ mistrust of Spain is
unjustified and problems in the banking industry are
“manageable,”  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said, as Europe’s debt crisis intensified.  The fundamental economic data “in no way justifies the
apparent mistrust that exists in the case of Spain, though not
only there,” Ackermann, who also heads the Institute of
International Finance, a global industry group with more than
400 members, said yesterday in response to a request by
Bloomberg News. “Spain can deal with its problems by itself.”  Ireland’s agreement to an 85 billion-euro ($111 billion)
bailout by the European Union and International Monetary Fund
hasn’t allayed concern the bloc’s sovereign-debt crisis will
spread to Portugal and Spain. The EU and IMF established a 750
billion-euro fund in May after Greece’s near-default threatened
the survival of the euro.  “The trouble is the markets can create their own problems,
whether there is any justification or not,” said  Peter Thorne ,
a London-based analyst at Helvea Ltd. “The role of a banker is
to be calm and cool and downplay problems.”  Spanish and Italian government bonds fell yesterday,
driving the extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of German bunds to euro-era records. The cost of
insuring debt for Spain, Italy, Portugal and Ireland surged to
records yesterday, stocks and the euro slid.  ‘Dynamic Economy’  Spain “has a diversified, dynamic economy and the
government deficit is relatively moderate,” Ackermann said.
“The decisive economic reforms and a restructuring of public-
sector financial institutions can soon return the country to a
growth course.”  Ackermann, 62, has run Germany’s largest bank for eight
years and led the Frankfurt-based company through the financial
crisis without a government bailout. In the depths of the credit
crunch in 2008, he counseled German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on
the rescue of property lender Hypo Real Estate Holding AG.  Deutsche Bank had net exposure of about 1 billion euros to
Spanish central and local government debt as of March 31, the
company said in a July 27 presentation. That compares to 3.6
billion euros in Spanish sovereign exposure at  Commerzbank AG ,
Germany’s second-biggest bank, at the end of May and 2.7 billion
euros at Hypo Real Estate in June.  Spain Risks  Deutsche Bank had about 300 retail branches and 2,400
employees in Iberia in 2009, and had gross exposure to Spain of
20.6 billion euros and net exposure of 7.5 billion euros,
including net sovereign exposure after collateral and hedging,
at the end of March of this year, according to a  June 
presentation. These figures include the corporate and investment
bank, consumer business and asset and wealth management.  German banks’ total claims on Spain totaled about $182
billion at the end of June, the most among European banks,
according to  figures  from the Bank for International Settlements
in Basel, Switzerland.  Anxiety over Spain’s ability to bring down the euro-
region’s third-highest budget deficit has driven up financing
costs for the country’s lenders already battered by rising bad
loans and falling revenue. The country’s central bank is forcing
local savings banks into cost-saving mergers after rising losses
amid the property crash.  In Spain, “the problems in the banking sector are
manageable,” Ackermann said yesterday.  The Swiss native told reporters at a conference in Berlin
last week that Europe must stand up for the euro and prove wrong
those betting against the currency’s survival.  “It’s about sending a message to investors around the
world that Europe will fight for the euro and Europe will fight
for the future of Europe,” Ackermann said on Nov. 25.
“Everyone who thinks they need to build up a position that
contradicts that will need to pay the price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  