-- Madoff Trustee Seeking Aston Martin, Yacht, More London Assets
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-30T17:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/madoff-trustee-seeks-con-man-s-london-assets-including-aston-martin-yacht.html
A U.S. court-appointed trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s operations is seeking to recoup
assets of the con man’s U.K. unit, including an Aston Martin and
a yacht.  New York attorney  Irving Picard , who is overseeing the
liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC,
agreed with Grant Thornton LLP, the liquidators of Madoff’s
London unit, to coordinate on lawsuits in the U.K., according to
court papers filed yesterday in New York. Journalists weren’t
allowed into a hearing today at a London court in the
liquidation of the U.K. unit.  Picard and the U.K. liquidators “have jointly identified
certain entities and individuals against whom the trustee and
liquidators hold claims they believe should be pursued for the
benefit” of creditors, Picard’s firm said in the U.S. filing.  Picard has filed dozens of lawsuits against people in the
U.S. who allegedly invested with Madoff and withdrew more money
than they contributed. Last week, Picard sued Madoff family
members and former employees, or their relatives, in the latest
round of so-called clawback lawsuits.  Under the agreement with Grant Thornton, Picard will try to
recover an Aston Martin in Florida owned by  Peter Madoff ,
Bernard’s brother, that was paid for by the London unit, Madoff
Securities International Ltd. Grant Thornton is trying to
recover the yacht “Bull,” owned by the convict’s wife,  Ruth Madoff .  Madoff Securities International  Picard agreed for his claims against Madoff Securities
International to come last after the unit’s U.K. creditors.
Creditors of Madoff’s London unit are seeking more than 5.1
million pounds ($7.9 million), according to the filing.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty in March 2009 to using money
from new investors to pay off old ones in a Ponzi scheme,
sparking investigations and dozens of lawsuits. He is serving
150 years in prison for the fraud that destroyed his New York-
based firm, which collapsed in December 2008.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s financial statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to Picard. Investors lost about $20
billion in principal.  Law Firm Changes  The trustee also appointed Taylor Wessing LLP, a London-
based firm, to file lawsuits in the U.K. and British
Commonwealth countries recovering assets for Madoff creditors.
Picard said he had stopped using his previous two law firms in
London, Hogan Lovells LLP and Mishcon de Reya, because they had
conflicts of interest.  In May, Picard won a request in a London court to force
investment firm FIM Advisers LLP to hand over additional
documents regarding how much money the London-based fund
profited from the scheme. FIM managed the Kingate Global and
Kingate Euro hedge funds now in liquidation in Bermuda. Kingate
was once the largest feeder funds to Madoff, funneling more than
$1.7 billion to his business.  U.K. prosecutors dropped a criminal investigation into
Madoff’s London unit in February after they found “insufficient
evidence” to charge anyone.  The U.S. bankruptcy case is SIPC v. Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, 08-1789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The U.K. case is In
the Matter of Madoff Securities International Ltd., case no.
11527/2008, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division (London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 