-- AIG Plans First Bond Offering Since 2008 U.S. Rescue
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-11-30T20:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/aig-plans-bond-offering-as-soon-as-today-in-first-sale-since-2008-rescue.html
American International Group Inc .
plans to sell $2 billion bonds as soon as today in the insurer’s
first offering since its government bailout two years ago.  AIG may issue $500 million of notes due January 2014 that
yield 295 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
and $1.5 billion of debt due December 2020 at a spread of 362.5
basis points, according to a person familiar with the offering.  “The markets have increased confidence in AIG’s ability to
service debt on an ongoing basis, and, by extension, in its
feasibility as a sustainable enterprise,” said  Clark Troy , a
senior analyst based in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, for Aite
Group, a research firm.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is tapping the
corporate bond market as issuance tumbles amid concern that
Ireland’s debt woes will spread across Europe and slow the
global economy. While the cost to protect AIG bonds from default
has declined this year, it’s risen this month.  “There’s a lot of angst right now in the marketplace, so I
think anyone would’ve been better served to come a couple weeks
ago,” said  Lon Erickson , a money manager who helps oversee $9
billion of fixed-income assets for Thornburg Investment
Management Inc. in Santa Fe, New Mexico. “There’s just a lot of
things to make today not a real super inviting environment for
new issues.”  AIG spokesman  Mark Herr  declined to comment.  ‘Trade Wide’  The insurer, ranked A- by Standard & Poor’s, is marketing
debt at spreads wider than companies with similar credit
ratings. Investors holding debt graded A demand an average
spread of 120 basis points on debt due in one to three years and
174 basis points for notes due in seven to 10 years, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “It’s to be expected that AIG bonds trade wide of A rated
benchmarks given the company’s challenges,” said  Guy LeBas ,
chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “The concession over currently
outstanding debt on this new issue makes it appear relatively
cheap.”  Proceeds from today’s offering will be used for general
corporate purposes, the New York-based company said today in a
regulatory filing that didn’t specify the timing or maturities
of the transaction. The senior unsecured notes may be rated A3
by Moody’s Investors Service and A- by S&P, said the person
familiar with the sale, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  ‘Extra Pressure’  AIG’s three-year notes may have a coupon of about 3.7
percent, and the 10-year debt may have a 6.4 percent rate, based
on today’s Treasury prices.  Because the offering is AIG’s first since the insurer’s
bailout, “there’s extra pressure to ensure the bond sale goes
smoothly,” said LeBas. “The consequences of a failed bond sale
would be severe, so AIG and the underwriters are likely being
conservative on this one.”  The company’s $750 million of 5.6 percent, 10-year notes
due October 2016 fell to 100.5 cents on the dollar at 1:49 p.m.
in New York to yield 5.5 percent, or a spread of 405.2 basis
points, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The debt traded as
high as 104.99 cents on Nov. 18, and peaked for the year at 105
cents on Oct. 25, Trace data show.  Benmosche Plan  Benmosche announced on Sept. 30 a plan to pay back
taxpayers and regain the firm’s independence. AIG expects to
repay a Federal Reserve  credit line  with proceeds from asset
sales and convert the Treasury Department’s $49.1 billion stake
into common stock by the end of March for sales on the open
market.  The insurer must earn standalone investment-grade  ratings 
to execute its plan, which hinges on selling bonds and stock to
private investors as the government withdraws support. AIG will
get a $2 billion Treasury backstop for emergency funding until
March 2012 or the insurer sells at least $2 billion in equity.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to AIG climbed 15.7
basis points to 260.9 basis points today, the highest in almost
nine weeks, according to data provider CMA. While the contracts,
which typically fall as investor confidence improves, have
declined from 581 on Dec. 31, they’ve risen from 211 at the end
of last month, CMA data show.  ‘Huge Progress’  In August 2008, AIG raised $3.25 billion in its last sale
of corporate bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
insurer sold 8.25 percent, 10-year senior unsecured notes in a
private placement that priced at par to yield 432.8 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  AIG will focus on global property-casualty coverage and
U.S. life insurance after selling its two largest overseas life
insurance divisions, AIA Group Ltd. and American Life Insurance
Co. AIG divested in October a 67 percent stake in AIA for $20.5
billion in Hong Kong’s largest  public offering . MetLife Inc.
paid $16.2 billion for Alico on Nov. 1.  AIG’s third-quarter profit from continuing insurance
operations climbed 6.4 percent to $2.05 billion. The insurer has
made “huge progress” in its restructuring and will emerge from
government ownership ranked among the world’s largest insurers,
Benmosche said Nov. 5. AIG’s shares  surged  39 percent this year.
The company’s shares were unchanged at $41.53 as of 3:25 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  First Rescued  The insurer, once the world’s largest, was first rescued in
September 2008 by the Fed. The firm’s lifeline includes a $60
billion Fed  credit  facility, a Treasury investment of as much as
$69.8 billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked
assets owned or backed by AIG.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays Capital, Citigroup
Inc. and Morgan Stanley are managing the offering for AIG,
according to the prospectus.  “ It’s a good thing to test the capital markets and see
what kind of answer they get,” said Erickson, who probably
won’t buy the bonds because he’s “skeptical” of AIG debt.
“It’ll be a good clue to see if they’re ready to stand on their
own.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  