-- AIG Raises $2 Billion in First Bond Sale Since '08 U.S. Government Bailout
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-12-01T15:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/aig-sells-2-billion-of-debt-in-insurer-s-first-offering-since-u-s-rescue.html
American International Group Inc .,
the insurer rescued by the U.S. government, sold $2 billion of
bonds in its first offering since the bailout in 2008.  AIG issued $500 million of 3.65 percent notes due January
2014 that yield 295 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, and $1.5 billion of 6.4 percent debt due December
2020 at a spread of 362.5 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds rose in trading today.  “AIG’s ability to access private financing is an important
step for that company toward future independence,”  Mark Paustenbach , a spokesman for the Treasury Department, said in an
e-mailed statement. “It demonstrates growing market confidence
in the progress AIG has made both in stabilizing its operations
and in putting itself in a position to repay all of its
obligations to U.S. taxpayers.”  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  tapped the
corporate bond market after announcing on Sept. 30 a plan to pay
back taxpayers and regain the firm’s independence. AIG, based in
New York, expects to repay a Federal Reserve  credit line  with
proceeds from asset sales and convert the Treasury Department’s
$49.1 billion stake into common stock by the end of March. The
government may then sell the shares on the open market.  Orders for the bonds “showed the pent-up demand for the
AIG name,” said  Anne Daley , managing director at Barclays
Capital in New York, which helped underwrite the sale. “We’re
getting close to the end of the year, and we felt there was a
compelling opportunity to get the size in and out of the market
in one day, so we decided to move forward.”  ‘Relatively Cheap’  The price of AIG’s newly issued debt rose in secondary
trading, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The 3.65 percent
notes gained 0.83 cent to 100.8 cents on the dollar to yield 179
basis points more than Treasuries as of 8:39 a.m. in New York,
Trace data show. The 6.4 percent debt added 0.33 cent to 100.07
cents on the dollar, a spread of 349 basis points, according to
Trace.  “It was a good deal because it was relatively cheap,” said
 Michael Donelan , who oversees $3.5 billion of bonds as director
of trading and head portfolio manager at Ryan Labs Inc., a New
York-based money management firm that purchased some of the debt
AIG sold yesterday. “They priced it at concession, but not as
much as what we would have hoped.”  While the cost to protect AIG bonds from default has
declined this year, it rose in November. Corporate bond issuance
has tumbled amid concern that Ireland’s debt woes will spread
across Europe and slow the global economy.  ‘Lot of Angst’  “There’s a lot of angst right now in the marketplace, so I
think anyone would’ve been better served to come a couple weeks
ago,” said  Lon Erickson , a money manager who helps oversee $9
billion of fixed-income assets for Thornburg Investment
Management Inc. in Santa Fe, New Mexico.  The insurer sold the debt at spreads wider compared with
similar-maturity Treasuries than companies with similar credit
ratings. Investors holding debt graded A demand an average
spread of 121 basis points on notes due in one to three years
and 175 basis points for bonds due in seven to 10 years,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Proceeds from the offering will be used for general
corporate purposes, AIG said yesterday in a regulatory filing.
The senior unsecured notes were rated A3 by Moody’s Investors
Service. They may be rated A- by Standard & Poor’s, Bloomberg
data show.  “We’re pleased with the market’s reception to our
offering,”  Mark Herr , a spokesman for AIG, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Investment-Grade  The insurer must earn standalone investment-grade  ratings 
to execute its repayment plan, which hinges on selling bonds and
stock to private investors as the government withdraws support.
AIG will get a $2 billion Treasury backstop for emergency
funding until March 2012 or until the insurer sells at least $2
billion in equity.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to AIG climbed 13.8
basis points to 259 basis points yesterday, the highest in nine
weeks, according to data provider CMA. While the contracts,
which typically fall as investor confidence improves, have
declined from 581 on Dec. 31, they’ve risen from 211 at the end
of October, CMA data show.  AIG will focus on global property-casualty coverage and
U.S. life insurance after selling its two largest overseas life
insurance divisions, AIA Group Ltd. and American Life Insurance
Co. In October, the company divested a 67 percent stake in AIA
for $20.5 billion in Hong Kong’s largest  public offering .
MetLife Inc. paid $16.2 billion for Alico on Nov. 1. Fortress
Investment Group LLC said yesterday it had acquired 80 percent
of AIG’s consumer-credit unit, American General Finance Inc.  Third-Quarter Profit  AIG’s third-quarter profit from continuing insurance
operations climbed 6.4 percent to $2.05 billion. The company has
made “huge progress” in its restructuring and will emerge from
government ownership ranked among the world’s largest insurers,
Benmosche said Nov. 5. AIG’s stock  surged  38 percent this year.
The company’s shares fell 24 cents to $41.29 yesterday in
regular New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The insurer, once the world’s largest, was rescued in
September 2008 by the Fed. The firm’s lifeline includes a $60
billion Fed  credit  facility, a Treasury investment of as much as
$69.8 billion and up to $52.5 billion to buy mortgage-linked
assets owned or backed by AIG.  In August 2008, AIG raised $3.25 billion in its previous
sale of corporate bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The insurer sold 8.25 percent, 10-year senior
unsecured notes in a private placement that priced at par to
yield 432.8 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Increased Confidence’  “The markets have increased confidence in AIG’s ability to
service debt on an ongoing basis, and, by extension, in its
feasibility as a sustainable enterprise,” said  Clark Troy , a
senior analyst based in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, for Aite
Group, a research firm.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Citigroup Inc. and Morgan
Stanley also managed the offering for AIG, according to the
prospectus.  “It’s a good thing to test the capital markets and see
what kind of answer they get,” said Erickson. “It’ll be a good
clue to see if they’re ready to stand on their own.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  