-- Apple’s IPhone Void Leaves a Nation Begging: Alexandre Marinis
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   M a r i n i s
-- 2010-11-30T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/apple-s-iphone-void-leaves-a-nation-begging-alexandre-marinis.html
It would be hard to find a country
where  Apple Inc.  products are more coveted and more difficult to
buy than Brazil.  Brazil is the world’s eighth-largest economy and one of its
fastest-growing; it has more mobile phones per inhabitant than
the U.S.; its people spend more time on the Internet than they
do watching TV; they are passionate about social networks; and
they love hearing music on digital devices. Even so, Apple,
heralded as one of the most astute and revolutionary technology
companies on the planet, all but ignores Brazil.  Apple has its own brand stores in the 10-largest economies
in the world, except Brazil. Brazil’s 190 million consumers are
so far off Apple’s map that they can’t even buy music on Apple’s
online iTunes store. Worse, Apple doesn’t export enough products
to Brazil to meet local demand. Inventories of the iPhone 4
disappeared almost instantly from Brazil’s mobile-phone stores.
Local operators set up long waiting lists, but gave up after
they realized Apple wouldn’t be sending more devices soon.  Lacking alternatives, better-off Brazilians who hunger for
iPhones, iPods or iPads buy them outside Brazil -- or on the
local black market, where they can cost two to three times the
manufacturer’s suggested price. Even when they  pay  inflated
prices, Apple doesn’t provide Brazilians with adequate technical
assistance. It’s hard to imagine an international brand that
treats a huge group of potential customers with such casual
neglect.  Rio Invitation  In March, Brazil’s O Globo newspaper reported that Apple
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  was invited by the city of
Rio de Janeiro, which will host the 2016 Olympics, to open the
company’s first store in Brazil. Jobs replied: “We cannot even
export our products, with Brazil’s crazy policy of super-high
taxation. This makes it very unattractive to invest in Brazil.
Many high-tech companies feel this way.”  It is true that the Brazilian tax burden borders on the
obscene; it also makes imported electronics sold in Brazil among
the world’s most expensive. But this didn’t prevent Apple’s main
competitors from opening plenty of stores in Brazil, and
transferring part of their manufacturing to the country in
recognition of the great market potential -- not to mention the
ample tax incentives offered by local governments.  An example is Samsung Electronics Co., of South Korea,
which has just begun selling its new Galaxy Tab in Brazil. While
the iPad has yet to be introduced in Brazil, Samsung’s tablet
already is being manufactured in Campinas, a town in the
interior of Sao Paulo state.  Already in Brazil  Another is  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker of mobile
phones, which has been manufacturing in the Manaus Free Trade
Zone in the Amazon for 12 years. Sao Paulo and Manaus also host
production lines of Motorola Inc., Sony Ericsson Mobile
Communications, LG Display Co., Siemens AG and Vitelcom Mobile
Technology SA among others.  In almost all these cases, it was the high cost of
importing that motivated these companies to take advantage of
the tax benefits offered by the Brazilian government for
producing locally.  When citing high taxation to justify Apple’s sub-minimal
presence in Brazil, Jobs shows that he still sees the country as
merely a consumer of imported products, while his competitors
see Latin America’s largest economy as a producing and exporting
center, as well as a big consumer market.  Other economic arguments shoot holes in Jobs’s
justification. In recent years, the increase in the  minimum wage 
and greater availability of credit has increased Brazilians’
purchasing power.  Buying Power  Today, a Brazilian needs 9.6 times the minimum wage to buy
a basket of digital products -- including a smartphone, a
notebook computer, an LCD TV with home theater and Blu-ray
player, a video game, and a digital camera -- versus 10.1 times
a year ago. The Argentinean consumer, by comparison, needs 14.7
times his minimum wage to buy this basket of products, according
to a study by Marco Marketing Consultants, which specializes in
developing economies.  Along with the economic evidence, Apple also seems to leave
out of account, or doesn’t know, the profile of the Brazilian
consumer.  A  survey  by consultants Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd. in
early 2010, in seven countries including the U.S., Germany,
Japan and India, found that Brazilian consumers were among those
most committed to getting their hands on new technology products
the moment they are introduced. Brazilians also ranked as the
biggest users of digital audio players, even though they still
can’t buy music from iTunes.  Meanwhile, Nokia offers purchasers of some of its cell
phones free unlimited music downloads from its online store.  Computer Affair  Brazilians who have access to computers already spend more
time -- 30 hours a week -- on the Internet than watching TV (17
hours). And it’s hard to imagine a people with a greater
penchant for social networking through Facebook, Twitter and
Orkut, a Google-owned site run out of Brazil.  All of this makes you wonder why Apple has waited so long
to make a bigger splash in such a welcoming market.  A hint of an answer may have come earlier this month when
Brazilian entrepreneur  Eike Batista , ranked No. 8 on Forbes
magazine’s list of the world’s richest people, said that he is
negotiating to set up an Apple assembly plant in Brazil. When he
uses an iPhone 4 -- bought outside Brazil -- to phone Steve Jobs
I hope Apple’s CEO takes the call. I have a feeling his
 shareholders , and Brazilian consumers, will thank him.  ( Alexandre Marinis , political economist and founding
partner of Mosaico Economia Politica, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Alexandre Marinis in Sao Paulo at  amarinis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  