-- Target Black Friday Sales Surpassed Expectations, Cleveland Says
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-11-30T23:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/target-black-friday-sales-surpassed-expectations-cleveland-research-says.html
Target Corp. ’s sales during
Thanksgiving weekend exceeded expectations as customers took
advantage of discounts to load up on electronics and clothing,
according to Cleveland Research Co.  The weekend performance may help boost  Target’s sales  at
stores open at least a year as much as 6 percent this month,
from an earlier top-end  estimate  of 4 percent, the Cleveland-
based researcher said today in a report.  Target attracted shoppers with discounts on flat-panel
televisions and other electronics, the researcher said. The
Minneapolis-based chain is vying for customers with larger  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc . this holiday season, as well as with department
stores, dollar stores and specialty retailers.  Sales of women’s apparel, toys and groceries also exceeded
expectations, giving Target a better chance to surpass sales and
profit forecasts, Cleveland said. The firm has a “buy” rating
for Target, the second-biggest U.S. discount retailer.  Target rose 61 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $56.94 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares
have gained 18 percent this year.  Several stores reported lines of more than 1,000 people for
the 4 a.m. opening on the Friday after Thanksgiving, Raslyn
Wooten, a Target spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Top-sellers
included electronics such as Apple Inc.’s iPod and Nikon Corp.’s
Coolpix camera, she said. Target will report same-store sales
for November on Dec. 2.  Profit in this quarter may be $1.46 a share, 5 cents higher
than Cleveland’s previous estimate. That compares with the $1.40
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  