-- Asian Stocks Extend Falls as China, Europe Concerns Temper U.S. Sales Data
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-11-30T09:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/asian-stocks-fluctuate-as-u-s-holiday-sales-data-counters-europe-concerns.html
Asian  stocks  dropped, with the
regional benchmark falling to its lowest level in eight weeks,
amid concerns Europe’s debt crisis may spread and China may
raise interest rates to curb inflation. Exporters rose after a
report showed U.S. consumers increased holiday spending.  China Construction Bank Corp. , the nation’s second-biggest
lender, decreased 1 percent after a Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences economist said the government needs to raise borrowing
costs by another 2 percentage points. TDK Corp., a Japanese
electronics maker that gets more than 30 percent of its sales
from China, dropped 3.6 percent. Li & Fung Ltd., the biggest
supplier to retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc., climbed 1.4
percent in Hong Kong.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 1 percent to 128.34, its
lowest level since Oct. 5, as of 6:17 p.m. in Tokyo, with more
than two stocks falling for each that rose. The measure earlier
climbed as much as 0.4 percent.  Today’s decline means the gauge has dropped 0.8 percent
this month, the first retreat in three months. China ordered
banks to set aside larger reserves twice this month after
raising interest rates in October to fight inflation.  “Interest rates in China are still too low,” said  Pauline Dan , Hong Kong-based chief investment officer at Samsung
Investment Trust, which oversees about $72.1 billion in assets.
“I’d rather see China normalize interest rates sooner rather
than later. Inflation is not good for the economy over the
longer term.”  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  fell 1.6 percent. Hong
Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  slipped 0.7 percent. China’s recent
increases in banks’ reserve requirement ratio won’t be enough to
reverse excessive liquidity in the system, Zhong Jiyin, an
economist with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, wrote in
a commentary in the China Daily today.  Chinese Lenders Drop  China Construction Bank slipped 1 percent to HK$7.01 in
Hong Kong.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s fourth-
largest lender by assets, declined 1 percent to HK$4.05.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 1.9 percent, the most
since Oct. 12, as a report showed the nation’s unemployment rate
climbed. The measure rose 10 percent this month to yesterday,
the fastest pace among gauges for the world’s 40 largest equity
markets.  India’s  Sensitive Index  advanced 0.6 percent after a report
showed the nation’s economic growth in the third quarter beat
estimates.  DLF Ltd. , the country’s biggest developer, jumped 6.4
percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.7 percent. South
Korea’s  Kospi Index  gained 0.5 percent, rebounding from two
straight days of declines in the wake of an artillery attack by
North Korea last week.  ‘Jitters May Linger’  “Some investors feel relieved that there’re no further
provocations by North Korea,” said Seo Jung Ho, a fund manager
at UBS Hana Asset Management Co. in Seoul. “Jitters may linger
for a while, but there seems to be an increasing perception that
this geopolitical issue won’t spread further.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.2 percent
today. The index slid 0.1 percent yesterday in New York as
Ireland’s bailout failed to ease investor concern that Europe’s
debt crisis may spread.  Ireland, swamped by the bursting of a decade-long real-
estate bubble and unemployment approaching 14 percent, became
the second country to tap European assistance this year,
following Greece. Officials meeting last weekend in Brussels
agreed to an 85 billion-euro ($111 billion) bailout package.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 2.1 percent last week
on concern the European Union will fail to contain the spread of
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and as North Korea bombarded
South Korea.  ‘Difficult to Measure’  “I don’t think the geopolitical risks have been priced
in,” Samsung Investment’s Dan said. “This risk is more
difficult to measure than Europe’s credit crisis. In the case of
a sovereign debt crisis, you will have some idea on the time
frame on how this is going to roll out.”  Gauges  of consumer discretionary companies as well as
energy and raw material suppliers led declines among the 10
industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index on concern
economic growth in China will slow as the government intensifies
efforts to curb inflation.  TDK, the world’s largest maker of magnetic heads for disk
drives, dropped 3.6 percent to 5,390 yen.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the
world’s biggest mining company dropped 1.2 percent to A$42.74.
Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s largest producer of the metal,
decreased 1.8 percent to HK$22.50 in Hong Kong. Cnooc Ltd., an
offshore oil producer, slid 1.9 percent to HK$16.84.  Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. , a Japanese maker of
excavators that gets more than one-fourth of its sales in China,
sank 3.1 percent to 1,908 yen. Komatsu Ltd., a maker of earth
movers that gets about 20 percent of its sales in China,
retreated 2.4 percent to 2,318 yen.  Japan’s Jobless  Separately, Japan’s unemployment rate in October rose to
5.1 percent from the previous month’s 5 percent, the statistics
bureau said today in Tokyo. The median forecast of 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was 5 percent.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc., the world’s second-largest
computer-memory chipmaker, slumped 5.2 percent to 23,500 won in
Seoul. KTB Securities Co. cut its share-price estimate to 23,000
won, saying the company will probably post operating losses
through the end of next year’s third quarter.  Among advancing stocks, exporters climbed after a report
showed U.S. consumers spent more over the Thanksgiving weekend
than last year, signaling fuel demand may increase in the
biggest crude-consuming nation.  Exporters Advance  The average shopper in the U.S. spent 6.4 percent more over
Thanksgiving weekend than last year as more people picked up
jewelry and toys, heartened by the economic rebound.  Li & Fung, which counts the U.S. as its biggest market,
climbed 1.4 percent to HK$48.40 in Hong Kong.  Techtronic
Industries Co. , maker of Ryobi power tools and Hoover vacuum
cleaners, gained 2.6 percent to HK$8.44 in Hong Kong. Nintendo
Co., maker of Wii video game consoles, rose 3.4 percent to
22,730 yen.  Among Indian stocks, DLF surged 6.4 percent to 304.8 rupees.
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. , India’s largest mobile-phone carrier, surged
5.8 percent to 358.3 rupees. Reliance Infrastructure Ltd.,
controlled by billionaire  Anil Ambani , rose 2.2 percent to
841.55 rupees.  The nation’s gross domestic product rose 8.9 percent in the
third-quarter from a year earlier, matching the revised pace of
growth in the previous quarter, the Central Statistical
Organisation said in a statement in New Delhi today. That was
above the 8.2 percent median estimate of 30 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 7.6 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 6.5 percent for the
S&P 500 and 3.3 percent for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 14.3 times estimated
 earnings  on average, compared with 14 times for the S&P 500 and
11.6 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net . 