-- Asia Bond Risk Climbs to Highest Level in Two Months on Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-11-30T04:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
The cost of protecting Asian bonds
from non-payment rose to the highest in two months as concern
spread that Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($111 billion) bailout
will fail to contain Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of credit-default swaps on 50
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan rose 5 basis points to
118 basis points as of 10:35 a.m. in Singapore, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices show. The index is on course for its
highest close since Sept. 28, according to data provider CMA.  “People might not be only concerned about the Irish
bailout, and whether it works, but also which country may be
next,”  Joseph Yiu , a trader at Westpac Banking Corp., said in a
phone interview from Sydney. “For every one that you save, the
ability to save the next one might come into question.”  European governments agreed on Nov. 28 to support Ireland
through an aid package and proposals that would force
bondholders to bear some of the cost of future bailouts. The
euro weakened and benchmark stock indexes in Asia fluctuated
today even as a report showed U.S. consumers spent 6.4 percent
more over the Thanksgiving weekend than last year.  The uncertainty has slowed corporate bond sales globally,
with issuance down 31 percent since Nov. 15 compared with the
same period a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In Asia, companies including Hongkong Electric
Holdings Ltd., Yuzhou Properties Co. and Vietnam National Coal-
Mineral Industries Group shelved plans to sell dollar bonds.  Australia, Japan  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 5 basis points to
115 basis points as of 1:42 p.m. in Sydney, Nomura Holdings Inc.
prices show. That’s the highest since Oct. 5, according to CMA.
The Markit  iTraxx Japan index  increased 3.5 basis points to 97
as of 10:08 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Morgan Stanley. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The price action is showing that the market is quite
jittery at the moment,” Yiu said.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
debt against default and traders use them to speculate on credit
quality. An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement.  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 