-- Asian Currencies Decline for First Month Since May on Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-30T09:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/asian-currencies-decline-for-first-month-since-may-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Asian currencies completed a monthly
decline, led by India’s rupee and the South Korean won, as
investors slowed investment in emerging markets on concern
Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar  Index slumped 1.1
percent in November to 114.12 as of 4:47 p.m. in Hong Kong, the
biggest monthly drop since May. The rupee lost 3.4 percent to
46.02 per dollar, South Korea’s won weakened 2.9 percent to
1,159.25 and the Philippine peso fell 2.2 percent to 44.01.  “Everyone’s still paring back risk as there’s a lot of
uncertainty in the world right now, mostly around funding and
exposure to Spain and peripheral Europe,” said  Stuart Oakley ,
the Singapore-based head of emerging markets foreign exchange
for Asia at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. “We are still seeing
better buying of dollars right now.”  Overseas investors were net sellers of equities this month
in Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand, according to
exchange data. The euro fell toward a two-month low against the
dollar on concern Europe’s banking crisis will spread as Spanish
and Portuguese bonds slumped yesterday following an 85 billion
euro ($111 billion) bailout for Ireland.  The won posted its biggest monthly loss since May as
military tension on the Korean peninsula curbed demand for South
Korea’s assets. The currency reached 1,172.50 on Nov. 24, the
weakest level since Sept. 9, the day after North Korea’s attack
on the South’s Yeonpyeong island. Four people died in the
shelling and President Lee Myung Bak said yesterday that Kim
Jong Il’s regime will “be made to pay for any further
provocation.”  Slowing Growth  “The European debt crisis is being highlighted again,”
said  Kim Jin Ju , a currency trader at Korea Exchange Bank in
Seoul. “It’s a stronger dollar story. The geopolitical risk
from North Korea may be subsiding, but it will trigger losses if
we see another attack.”  India’s rupee trimmed daily losses after a report showed
its  economy  grew 8.9 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier. That was more than the 8.2 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  The Philippine peso had its biggest monthly decline since
May after a report last week showed  growth  slowed to a weaker-
than-expected 6.5 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, compared with an 8.2 percent expansion in the previous
three months.  Thailand’s baht declined this month as slowing economic
growth reduced the need for higher interest rates and attempts
to remove the Democrat party from power damped demand for the
nation’s assets. The baht retreated 0.8 percent to 30.21.  Charges Dismissed  Thailand’s Constitutional Court yesterday dismissed charges
the Democrat party misused state campaign funds, clearing one of
two cases that may see Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva become
the third leader forced from office since the 2007 election. The
Bank of Thailand will keep its  benchmark interest rate  at 1.75
percent tomorrow, refraining from raising borrowing costs for a
second meeting, according to 12 of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Five forecast the rate will be lifted to 2 percent.  “Investors are already risk averse due to Europe’s
problems,” said  Tohru Nishihama , an economist at Dai-ichi Life
Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “Thailand also has political
risk, making them stay away from Thai assets. In addition, the
economy is slowing down and we won’t probably see any more rate
hikes for the time being, further weighing on the baht.”  Elsewhere, The Singapore dollar fell 1.7 percent this month
to S$1.3205, Malaysia’s ringgit dropped 1.5 percent to 3.1660
and the Indonesian rupiah lost 1.1 percent to 9,034. Taiwan’s
dollar weakened 0.2 percent to NT$30.85.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 