-- AT&T Gains FCC's Ear as Regulators Near Decision on Net Neutrality Rules
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-30T20:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/at-t-gains-fcc-s-ear-as-regulators-near-decision-on-net-neutrality-rules.html
AT&T Inc.  has spoken more frequently
than any other company with U.S. officials as they near a
decision on rules that may restrict how carriers offer mobile
Internet service, according to regulatory filings.  Jim Cicconi , a Republican who is AT&T’s top Washington
executive, talked at least six times about the net-neutrality
rules from Nov. 4 to Nov. 26 with  Edward Lazarus , chief of staff
at the Democrat-led Federal Communications Commission, according
to disclosure filings with the agency.  In that span no other company discussed the open-Internet
rules more than twice with Lazarus, who reports directly to FCC
Chairman  Julius Genachowski , according to the filings. Lazarus
and officials advising Genachowski on the issue have met about
two dozen times in the past month with AT&T opponents and
public-interest advocates, Josh Gottheimer, an FCC spokesman,
said today in an interview.  Companies such as  Google Inc.  that rely on the Web to reach
customers have urged the FCC to pass rules that bar telephone
and cable providers from interfering with the Internet traffic
they deliver to subscribers. The carriers led by AT&T and
 Comcast Corp.  say rules may restrict their ability to manage
their networks and discourage investment in Internet capacity.  “I don’t believe anybody else presumes to hijack the
commission’s staff resources in that manner,” said Cathy Sloan,
a vice president at the  Computer & Communications Industry
Association , a Washington-based trade group that opposes AT&T on
the issue.  ‘Can Only Hurt’  AT&T’s frequent access to FCC officials “can only hurt.
That’s what it’s designed to do,” said Sloan, whose group lists
as members Google,  Dish Network Corp. ,  Yahoo! Inc. , Facebook
Inc. and  Microsoft Corp.   Both sides are trying to affect draft rules that
 Genachowski  may present to commissioners for a Dec. 21 vote.  “I’m proud of the process we’ve run,” Genachowski said at
a news conference in Washington today. “It’s been a
participatory process engaging with the broadest possible array
of stakeholders.”  According to FCC filings, those speaking to Genachowski’s
advisers in the past week included representatives of Media
Access Project and Public Knowledge, Washington-based groups
that advocate for an open Internet.  Verizon Communications Inc. 
Chief Executive Officer  Ivan Seidenberg  on Nov. 24 told
Genachowski the “FCC should not adopt rules that would
effectively dictate the structure of what is still a new and
evolving industry,” according to  a filing .  Flexibility Sought  Regulators are considering whether mobile Web service
should be subject to the same rules as Internet service
delivered over wires. AT&T opposes net-neutrality rules for
wireless in part because companies need flexibility to manage
traffic on crowded airwaves, the company said in a  filing .
Carriers’ wireless traffic and revenue are increasing as more
consumers adopt smartphones such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone.  The Computer & Communications Industry Association’s
position is that “there’s no reason to exempt” mobile services
from regulations, Sloan said.  Republican lawmakers, who gained control of the House in
the Nov. 2 election, have told the FCC that adopting net-
neutrality rules would be “a mistake.” Representative  John Boehner  of Ohio, the incoming House Republican leader, has
warned of “a government takeover of the Internet.”  Access to Genachowski  Cicconi, AT&T’s senior executive vice president, also spoke
once with Genachowski, as did AT&T Chairman  Randall Stephenson ,
according to filings, which are required when someone discusses
a pending issue with the commission.  Genachowski and Lazarus spoke separately with opponents of
AT&T’s net-neutrality position, including Dish Chief Executive
Officer  Charlie Ergen  and Markham Erickson, executive director
of the  Open Internet Coalition , which lists Google,  Amazon.com 
and  EBay Inc.  as members.  Cicconi declined to comment, said  Michael Balmoris , a
Washington-based spokesman for AT&T. Lazarus wasn’t available to
comment, said  Jen Howard , an FCC spokeswoman.  Genachowski, a former technology entrepreneur and executive
at  IAC/InterActiveCorp , in September 2009 proposed rules to keep
Internet-service providers from selectively blocking or slowing
content delivered to subscribers, or favoring their own
offerings. The regulations would need approval from the
commission, on which two Democrats join Genachowski in the
majority.  ‘All Options’ Considered  The agency is considering “all the options” as it seeks
“the right rules to write down to preserve Internet freedom and
openness,” Genachowski said at a conference in San Francisco on
Nov. 17. At a news conference today he declined to comment on
when the issue may come to a vote.  For the FCC, listening to the largest U.S. telephone
company offers a chance to deflect criticism of net-neutrality
rules,  Andrew Jay Schwartzman , policy director for Washington-
based Media Access Project, a public-interest law firm, said in
an interview.  “The chairman’s office is concerned about minimizing
opposition to his plans, and AT&T represents the greatest threat
because of its political and financial clout,” Schwartzman
said.  Getting AT&T’s assent can help protect the agency from
congressional backlash,  Joel Kelsey , a political adviser to the
Washington-based advocacy group Free Press, said in an
interview.  Political Coverage  “It gives them the ability when they’re hauled up in front
of the House Republicans to say, ‘There’s wide support for
this,’” Kelsey said. His group supports net-neutrality rules
and says they should apply to wireless services.  On Nov. 19 and Nov. 21, Cicconi, a former deputy chief of
staff to President George H.W. Bush and a former special
assistant to President Ronald Reagan, discussed with Lazarus
“the merits” of draft legislation never made public that
“should be a model” for the commission, according to an AT&T
filing.  The legislation was proposed by U.S. Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat, and withdrawn when it failed to
win Republican support. It would have let mobile Web providers
block some data-hungry applications while denying that ability
to service delivered over wires, Harold Feld, legal director for
the Washington-based advocacy group Public Knowledge, said in an
interview.  It’s “a problem” that the House draft is a basis for
discussion at the FCC, said Sloan of the Computer &
Communications Industry Association.  “A long list” of U.S. senators support strict rules, she
said. “I wonder what they would think about some cozy deal
between AT&T and a supposedly independent agency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  