-- Aussie Trades Near Eight-Week Low on Europe's Debt Concerns, Stock Losses
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-30T16:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/australian-dollar-erases-advance-against-greenback-as-asian-shares-decline.html
Australia’s dollar traded near an
eight-week low versus the U.S. currency as concern that Europe’s
debt crisis will spread curbed demand for higher-yielding
assets.  The Aussie had its biggest monthly slump since May before a
report forecast to show the nation’s economic growth slowed last
quarter. The New Zealand dollar was close to a two-month low
against the U.S. currency after data showed home-building
approvals unexpectedly dropped in October. Both currencies fell
as a slump in  Chinese shares  dragged down a regional benchmark
index for equities.  “There is a little bit of investor concern about what the
sovereign debt issues may mean for the growth outlook. You are
seeing some investors reduce risk, reduce equity exposure and
consequently move out of euros into U.S. dollars,” said  Richard Grace , chief currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia in Sydney. “As a result of these, this is putting a
bit of downward pressure on Aussie and kiwi.”  The Aussie fell 0.3 percent to 96.03 U.S. cents as of 11:40
a.m. in New York after earlier touching 95.44 cents, the weakest
since Oct. 5. New Zealand’s dollar slid 0.2 percent to 74.45
U.S. cents after reaching 73.98 cents, the lowest level since
Oct. 5.  The Aussie declined 2.3 percent against the dollar this
month, while the kiwi has lost 2.8 percent.  Spain is the “big elephant” in the European debt
crisis because there may not be enough money to bail out the
Iberian nation, said Nouriel Roubini, the New York University
professor who predicted the global financial crisis. His comment
came as European governments agreed this week to an 85 billion-
euro ($111 billion) aid package for Ireland.  Chinese Shares  The  Shanghai Composite Index  slid 3.4 percent, dragging the
benchmark MSCI Asia Pacific Index 0.7 percent lower. China needs
to raise interest rates by another 200 basis points to curb
inflation, Zhong Jiyin, an economist with the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences, wrote in a commentary in the China Daily today.
China is Australia’s biggest trading partner.  The report “certainly wouldn’t be a reason to buy
Australian dollars,” Commonwealth Bank’s Grace said.  Australia’s gross domestic product advanced 0.4 percent
last quarter from the previous three months, when it grew 1.2
percent, according to economist estimates before the report
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  