-- Australia Third-Quarter Current-Account Deficit Widens as Currency Gains
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-30T01:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/australia-third-quarter-current-account-deficit-widens-as-currency-gains.html
Australia’s current-account  deficit 
widened in the three months through September as a strengthening
currency lowered exports.  The shortfall on goods, services and investment increased
to A$7.83 billion ($7.55 billion) from a revised A$5.41 billion
in the second quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. The median  estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of 22
economists was for an A$6.6 billion gap.  The value of exports dropped from July through September
for the first time in a year as the Australian currency climbed
15 percent over the period, the second-biggest quarterly gain in
more than three decades. Exports were a near-record $74.5
billion in the second quarter as demand surged for minerals such
as iron ore.  “Australia’s current-account deficit will widen further
over 2011-12 as increased net capital inflows to fund the strong
investment cycle offset a growing trade surplus,”  Katie Dean ,
head of Australian macroeconomics at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group in Melbourne, said before the report.  The current account is the broadest measure of trade
because it includes investment flows as well as goods and
services shipments. A deficit represents money Australia has to
borrow overseas to pay for the goods and services it imports,
and to finance investment not covered by local savings.  Growth Drag  Net exports subtracted 0.4 percentage point from gross
domestic product growth in the third quarter, the bureau said
today.  GDP  rose 0.5 percent in the three months through September
from the previous quarter, when it surged 1.2 percent, according
to the median of 24  estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey. The
figures will be released tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. in Sydney.  The  net-income deficit  widened to A$13.2 billion in the
third quarter from A$11.5 billion in the previous three months,
today’s report showed. The goods and services trade balance
recorded an A$5.8 billion surplus in the third quarter compared
with an A$6.6 billion surplus in the prior quarter.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  