-- BA, Iberia to Move Forward on More Mergers in `Short Period,' Vazquez Says
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-30T14:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ba-iberia-to-move-forward-on-more-mergers-in-short-period-vazquez-says.html
British Airways Plc  and  Iberia
Lineas Aereas de Espana SA  of Spain, with which the U.K. company
is merging, will advance plans for further takeovers in a “short
period,” the combined carrier’s future chairman said.  Following the $9 billion tie-up, approved by shareholders
in ballots held in London and Madrid yesterday, the pair will
become “genuine protagonists” in global consolidation, Iberia
Chairman  Antonio Vazquez  said from the Spanish capital.  “We have made it clear since the very beginning of the
merger project that this company is initiating its life with the
vocation of being a very active consolidator,” Vazquez said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s The Pulse with Andrea
Catherwood. “In a short period we will make up our mind.”  Shares  of the enlarged carrier, named International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA to reflect the plans for further
expansion, will begin trading on Jan. 24. The tie-up will
strengthen the dominance of London-based British Airways on
trans-Atlantic routes and close the gap with European market
leaders Air France-KLM Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG.  British Airways has identified about 12 airlines that are
attractive candidates for consolidation, narrowing the list from
an initial pool of about 40, according to Chief Executive
Officer  Willie Walsh , who will also be CEO of IAG.  The U.K. company and Iberia are “not in discussions with
anybody” right now, he said today on Bloomberg’s The Pulse.  “Our ambition ultimately is global because we believe that
the industry will pursue global consolidation,” Walsh said.
“There are significant regulatory hurdles to doing that today,
so some of our ambitions will probably be put on hold until we
see governments address these regulatory issues.”  The executive has said that takeover candidates are more
likely to come from within the  Oneworld alliance  of which
British Airways and Iberia are members, as are carriers
including AMR Corp.’s American Airlines, Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. and Qantas Airways Ltd. BA has led the group’s recruitment
of India’s Kingfisher Airlines, S7 Airlines of Russia and Air
Berlin Plc, Germany’s biggest carrier after Lufthansa.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Catherwood in London at 
 aatherwood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  