-- Bain Capital Said Close to Deal to Buy RBS's Priory Mental Healthcare Unit
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-11-30T12:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/bain-capital-said-close-to-deal-to-buy-rbs-s-priory-mental-healthcare-unit.html
Bain Capital LLC may be close to a
deal to acquire Priory Group Ltd., the U.K. operator of mental-
health and addiction clinics being sold by  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , said three people with knowledge of the
matter.  Bain, the Boston-based private-equity firm founded by Bain
& Co. partners including former Massachusetts governor  Mitt Romney , may announce the purchase imminently after RBS didn’t
attract better offers, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private. RBS went back
to previous bidders including Advent International Corp. and
 Blackstone Group LP  last week after Bain sought a lower purchase
price, one of the people said.  Priory attracted offers of less than 1 billion pounds
($1.55 billion), and Edinburgh-based RBS had been seeking about
1.1 billion pounds, people with knowledge of the matter said in
September. RBS took over Priory, which has treated celebrities
including model  Kate Moss  and singer  Amy Winehouse , from ABN
Amro Holding NV when it bought the Dutch bank in 2007.  RBS spokesman Michael Strachan and an official from Bain
declined to comment.  RBS  is selling assets including bank branches and its
credit-card payment processing unit after taking 45.5 billion
pounds of U.K. government funding during the global financial
crisis, more than any other bank in the world.  ABN Amro purchased the mental health care provider in 2005
from London private-equity firm Doughty Hanson & Co. for about
875 million pounds. Doughty had purchased the business in 2002
for 306 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 