-- Banks Resisting Fannie, Freddie Demands to Buy Back Mortgages
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2010-11-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/banks-in-u-s-resisting-calls-to-repurchase-fannie-mae-freddie-mac-loans.html
Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  are
facing growing resistance as they attempt to push failed home
loans off their books and onto the balance sheets of banks
including  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   The two government-owned mortgage companies are enforcing
contracts that require lenders to buy back loans that didn’t
meet underwriting standards. At the end of September, the
companies reported, banks hadn’t responded to $13 billion in
buyback requests. A third of those were at least four months old
and Freddie Mac has begun to assess penalties for the delays.  Lenders say they are resisting buybacks because McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac and Washington-based  Fannie Mae  are
unfairly second-guessing old appraisals, accusing originators of
failing to verify income, or pinning failed loans on minor
technical errors. Larger banks say they can handle the potential
losses. Some smaller lenders say the strain could sink them.  About 40 percent of repurchase requests are rescinded after
lenders provide additional paperwork, said  John A. Courson ,
chief executive officer of the Mortgage Bankers Association, a
Washington trade group.  “We’re burning a lot of stockholder resources, and clearly
a lot of Fannie and Freddie resources, to have 40 percent of
these things rescinded,” Courson said in an interview. “It
hurts the banks and frankly we’re wasting government resources,
too.”  ‘Reasons are Grayer’  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, known as government-sponsored
enterprises or GSEs, have been operating under U.S.
conservatorship since 2008. They have tightened credit standards
and cut spending as they prepare for a government reorganization
of mortgage finance that the administration of President  Barack Obama  could propose as soon as next year. They say the mounting
buyback demands are the result of growing delinquencies, not new
enforcement.  “This is the first time in history you’ve seen this much
pushback against the GSEs,” said  Guy Cecala , publisher of
Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry trade publication in
Bethesda, Maryland. “It’s just the volume of it. It’s bigger
numbers. And this time the reasons are a lot grayer.”  Analysts say that banks’ total exposure to losses stemming
from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac buyback requests is probably
limited to an amount that large banks, at least, will be able to
handle.  Overall, 33 percent to 39 percent of loans questioned by
the GSEs are leading to buybacks, which could result in $20
billion to $33 billion in losses by the banks, analysts at FBR
Capital Markets reported on Nov. 29. In an Oct. 29 research
note,  Credit Suisse Group AG  analysts estimated that Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac would successfully be able to put back 5 percent
of their delinquent loans, recovering between $15 billion and
$20 billion.  ‘Pretty Contained’  “The overall loss amount is pretty contained from the
GSEs,”  Mahesh Swaminathan , a Credit Suisse mortgage strategist,
said in an interview.  A bigger risk to large banks could be the private mortgage-
backed securities issued by investment banks when subprime
lending was at its peak, analysts say.  Repurchase demands from GSEs and private investors combined
could cost financial institutions between $54 billion and $106
billion, the FBR analysts said in their Nov. 29 note. JPMorgan
analysts in an Oct. 15 report put the total at $55 billion to
$120 billion.  Chris Gamaitoni , a Compass Point Research and Trading LLC
analyst, said in August that private-label buybacks and related
legal expenses could cost banks as much as $179.2 billion.  Past Due  Of the 30 million mortgages that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
currently own or guarantee, 1.3 million are more than 90 days
past due, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the GSEs’
overseer,  reported  Nov. 18.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac say they have always sampled new
loans for errors, which leads to some buyback demands. The vast
majority, however, are the result of scrutiny that comes after
borrowers fall behind.  “There’s no new policy. This is something that’s always
been done,” said Freddie Mac spokesman  Brad German . “The fact
that more defaulted loans are triggering reviews that may lead
to repurchase requests, given the volume of defaults, is not
entirely surprising.”  Courson, of the mortgage bankers group, said the industry’s
concerns about the buybacks go beyond the volume. “It’s the
nature of the requests, where so many try to assert a defect
that has no actual bearing on the individual loan’s
performance,” he said.  Unemployment  Lenders say that while Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are
asserting that loans went bad because of faulty underwriting,
the leading cause of default is actually unemployment.  “If a loan paid for five years, then the client lost their
job and somebody goes back and says, ‘You didn’t dot that I or
cross that T,’ technically the originator has to buy that loan
back,”  William C. Emerson , chief executive officer of Detroit-
based Quicken Loans, said in an interview. “Loans are being put
back for very vague, gray reasons.”  Fannie Mae lenders paid the company for losses on $1.6
billion worth of loans last quarter and the company has
outstanding demands on loans worth $7.7 billion more, the
company reported in a third-quarter filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. It was the first time the
company has reported how much of its buyback requests were
outstanding.  Freddie Mac won payments on $1.7 billion worth of loans and
made demands on another $5.6 billion as of the end of September,
about the same as three months ago and up from $4.8 billion at
the end of March, the company reported. The amount lenders might
actually owe could be far less, depending on how much of the
loan has been paid down and whether the GSEs have recovered any
costs, for example from a foreclosure sale.  Managing Demands  The biggest mortgage lenders and servicers say they are
confident they can manage demands from the GSEs. Charlotte,
North Carolina-based  Bank of America , which acquired troubled
mortgage lender  Countrywide Financial Corp . in 2008, has
received $18 billion in claims from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
for loans made during the housing bubble, with another $6.6
billion outstanding. The company estimates it is about two-
thirds of the way through its GSE claims.  San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. , which acquired
Wachovia and its large home loan portfolio during the credit
crisis in 2008, has reduced reserves to buy back soured
mortgages to $1.3 billion from $1.4 billion, reflecting a
 decline  in GSE demands, the company reported.  JPMorgan Agreement  JPMorgan  on Nov. 4 reported an increase in demands from the
GSEs and private investors. The New York-based company reported
$2.9 billion in repurchase demands so far this year, compared
with $3 billion for all of 2009 and $2 billion the year before.  At the same time, the bank reached agreement with Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac on repurchase demands for a portion of its
loan portfolio, those it acquired through the 2008 acquisition
of Washington Mutual, whose collapse was blamed on subprime
lending.  “We should be near the end of the process as it relates to
the GSEs,” JPMorgan’s Chief Financial Officer  Doug Braunstein 
said Nov. 17 in New York.  As for smaller mortgage lenders, their financial situation
may be more precarious. Officials from smaller banks say the
ultimate victims could be homebuyers, who are finding it harder
to get loans even when they meet Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
standards.  Fear of Future Buybacks  “On one hand you’ve got the administration saying we want
you out there lending money to help bring on the recovery, but
we find ourselves as an industry rejecting loans because of fear
of future buybacks,” said Ron J. McCord, chairman of First
Mortgage Co., an Oklahoma City lender and servicer that
originates more than $1 billion a year.  In Washington, the government role in the mortgage market
remains under debate. The Obama administration is scheduled to
release a plan for overhauling the GSEs in January, while some
Republican leaders are calling for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
be dismantled entirely.  Democrats and Republicans alike are pressing for the GSEs
to return to solvency and repay taxpayer funds.  “We need to pursue all available legal claims to limit the
losses to taxpayers,” said Representative  Brad Miller , a North
Carolina Democrat who serves on the House Financial Services
Committee.  The GSEs should get what they’re owed and leave it to
regulators to take action later if buybacks cause problems for
banks, said  Phillip Swagel , a former assistant Treasury
secretary under President  George W. Bush   “It’s better to uncover everything and for people to face
up to their obligations,” Swagel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 