-- Barclays Capital Is Said to Plan Hundreds More Job Cuts by End of January
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-11-30T16:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/barclays-capital-said-to-plan-more-job-cuts-by-end-of-january.html
Barclays Capital, the securities
unit of  Barclays Plc , is preparing to eliminate hundreds of jobs
in the next two months following a decline in investment banking
revenue, three people familiar with the matter said.  The cuts will follow a review how much capital each unit of
the business uses, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified as the details aren’t public. That review will be
completed in January, one of the people said. A spokesman for
Barclays in London declined to comment.  The lender , which purchased Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
North American unit in September 2008, has added 2,000 people
from Europe to Asia in the past year to expand its equities and
merger advisory operations outside the U.S. Revenue at Barclays
Capital dropped 24 percent in the third quarter to 2.8 billion
pounds ($4.35 billion) as  earnings  from fixed income, currency
and commodities trading fell. The bank’s cost-to-income ratio
rose to 71 percent from 62 percent in the year-earlier period.  “Compensation ratios have to come back down after
investment banks lost control of them,” said  Simon Maughan , co-
head of equities at MF Global U.K. Ltd. in London. “It’s good
news for shareholders.”  Barclays raised investment bankers’ base salaries as a
proportion of total pay, a person familiar with the matter said
in December last year.  Revenue from fixed-income, currencies and commodities
trading fell at most investment banks in the most recent
quarter.  Credit Suisse Group AG  said in October fixed-income
sales and trading revenue in the third quarter fell to 1.46
billion Swiss francs ($1.6 billion) from 2.48 billion francs in
the year-earlier period.  Morgan Stanley  Barclays will continue to hire employees in its equities
and mergers advisory teams in Asia, one of the people said.  Other firms have also been cutting employees or freezing
their numbers.  Morgan Stanley  stopped hiring at its investment-
banking unit for the rest of the year, a person briefed on the
decision said in September. Bank of America Corp. is firing as
many as 400 employees in its global banking and markets
division, a person briefed on the matter said in the same month.
Barclays Capital also cut 300 jobs across administrative and
support functions, a person familiar said in August.  Barclays Capital, which previously focused on bonds, loans
and foreign exchange, climbed to fifth place in the rankings for
advisers on global takeovers this year from seventh in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  