-- SEC Avoiding Criticism on Lehman Deal, Barclays Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-11-30T19:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/barclays-urges-bankruptcy-court-to-throw-out-sec-claim-on-lehman-transfer.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission faulted  Barclays Plc ’s purchase of bankrupt  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s brokerage to avoid “political
criticism” if any brokerage customers don’t get paid, Barclays
said in a court filing.  The U.K. bank asked a U.S. bankruptcy judge to dismiss the
SEC’s argument that $1.3 billion in pending transfers may be
needed for customers. The assets were allocated to Barclays in a
sale given “unqualified support” by previous SEC commissioners
faced with “a potentially disastrous liquidation” of the
brokerage in the 2008 financial crisis, Barclays said yesterday
in a filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  “This court should not countenance new SEC commissioners
repudiating their predecessors’ position before this court in an
effort to avoid any perceived political criticism,” Barclays
said in the filing.  Barclays  is awaiting the judge’s verdict after a court
trial over what Lehman says was an $11 billion “windfall” that
the U.K.’s  third-largest bank  made by buying the brokerage in
September 2008. Barclays says it is still owed $3 billion
allocated to it under a sale contract signed by all parties to
the deal.  The SEC and other regulators supported the deal even though
they weren’t sure if enough assets would remain to meet customer
claims, Barclays said.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to immediately
comment.  SEC’s Argument  The SEC said in a Nov. 22 court filing that two transfers
from the  Lehman  brokerage would violate securities law if they
increased the deficiency in the accounts. They involve
$769 million in securities held in the brokerage’s reserve bank
account and $507 million in assets listed as a debit item in the
brokerage’s customer reserve, according to the SEC.  The assets in the two accounts are included in the
$3 billion claimed by  Barclays , which was never delivered.  It would make “little sense” to construe that customer
protection laws don’t apply to a bankrupt brokerage, the SEC
said in its filing.  The SEC “did not raise these alleged prerequisites at the
time of the sale,” Barclays said in court papers. Securities
regulators now are asking the judge “to retroactively impose
such a rule in this case” where it doesn’t apply, it said.  ‘Enormous Risk’  “Barclays was making an enormous investment (and taking an
enormous risk) by acquiring” Lehman’s business, the bank said.  Barclays was the sole bidder for Lehman’s brokerage, taking
10,000 employees and giving 72,000 customers access to
$40 billion in assets frozen in the bankruptcy, the bank has
said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James Peck  is presiding over three
lawsuits against Barclays, including one by the Lehman
brokerage’s trustee,  James Giddens , and one by creditors. He may
rule in January or February, said lawyers in the case.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 