-- Barclays, SocGen, Dow, ING, Halliburton in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-30T11:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/barclays-socgen-ing-foxconn-halliburton-in-court-news.html
  Barclays Plc  deliberately designed
structured notes that would have a much higher risk of default
than their triple-A rating suggested, lawyers for a San Marino
bank told a  London  judge yesterday.  Cassa di Risparmio della Repubblica di San Marino SpA , or
CRSM, is suing Barclays in London for 92 million euros ($120.5
million), alleging fraudulent misrepresentation over the sale of
collateralized debt obligations. Barclays denies the
allegations.  The CDO had been rated AAA, CRSM lawyer George Leggatt told
the court yesterday, suggesting that the risk of a default on
the bonds and causing CRSM to lose money was “a fraction of 1
percent.” The real probability of default was “of a completely
different order -- 25 percent or more,” he said.  While Barclays did nothing wrong by creating the product,
selling it based on a credit rating it knew didn’t properly
reflect the risk of the investment “crossed the line into
misrepresentation and potentially deceit,” Leggatt said.  Barclays lawyer  Andrew Baker  said that neither the credit
rating nor the 25 percent default risk mentioned by the San
Marino bank reflected what Barclays thought “would actually
happen to investors’ money.” Comparing the two “is to compare
the incomparable.”  CRSM’s case is “without merit,” Barclays said in a
separate e-mailed statement. “There is no factual basis for any
of the claims and the fraud allegations against Barclays and its
employees are strenuously denied,” the bank said.  The case is Cassa di Risparmio della Repubblica di San
Marino SpA v. Barclays Bank Plc, Case No. 08-757, High Court of
Justice, Queen’s Bench Division. The case is scheduled to last
for the rest of the year.  SocGen Asks Court to Overturn $10.5 Million Severance Verdict    Societe Generale  SA asked a U.K. appeals court to overturn
a lower court’s decision that an 8 million-euro ($10.5 million)
severance package it offered to a former banker was too low.  The bank didn’t “appropriately” word a November 2007
letter firing Raphael Geys, a former managing director of
European fixed-income sales at Societe Generale, a court ruled
in March. The Paris-based lender told appellate judges yesterday
that Geys should have known his job was terminated when the
letter was sent because he had received a severance payment.  “The employee does not need to know about the termination
for it to be effective,” Ian Gatt, a lawyer for the French
bank, told the U.K. Court of Appeal at a hearing. “Once Mr.
Geys knew a payment-in-lieu-of-notice was made, he knew the
contract was over.”  Geys won the  judgment  in March that under his contract’s
terms he was owed more than the amount offered. Judge George
Legatt said in his ruling the parties should negotiate a
settlement on the amount. Geys argued he was entitled to more
than 12.5 million euros under his contract.  The bank may have saved itself about 2.5 million euros had
it worded the November 2007 letter firing Geys appropriately,
Legatt said. The judge said the company didn’t properly end
Geys’s contract until months later, meaning Societe Generale
owed him a year-end bonus.  The case is Raphael Geys v. Societe Generale, claim no.
HC08C02683, High Court of Justice,  Chancery Division  (London).  Railroad-Worker Injury Clash Draws U.S. Supreme Court Review  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to consider tightening the
standards for lawsuits by railroad-industry workers who blame
their company for injuries they suffered on the job.  The justices yesterday said they will hear a  CSX Corp .
unit’s bid to overturn a $184,250 award to a locomotive engineer
who says the company is responsible for a hand injury he
suffered during a day at the helm of a train.  The case centers on the test for determining whether a
railroad’s negligence was the cause of an employee’s injury. In
the CSX case, the federal judge overseeing the case told the
Benton, Illinois, jury that the railroad was responsible if its
negligence “played a part - no matter how small - in bringing
about the injury.”  CSX contends workers should have to meet the more demanding
standard, known as proximate cause, that applies in other types
of personal-injury suits.  In upholding the award, a federal appeals court in Chicago
said the Federal Employers’ Liability Act, which governs
railroad-industry suits, lets workers recover damages without
meeting the proximate cause test.  McBride’s injury occurred at the end of a day he spent
training to deliver rail cars from one location to another near
Evansville, Indiana. He says the process was made more difficult
because he had to use wide-body locomotives, which had a
different type of brake than smaller engines.  At trial, McBride testified that near the end of the day he
put his hand on the brake and felt intense pain. He says he
later underwent two surgeries and physical therapy.  The case is CSX Transportation v. McBride, 10-235, U.S.
Supreme Court   Washington ).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Dow, Sasol Sued by Greenpeace Over Espionage Claims    Dow Chemical Co . and Sasol North America Inc. were sued for
espionage by a unit of Greenpeace International, the nonprofit
environmental advocacy group, which alleges the chemical
companies illegally searched its trash, hacked into its
computers, and tapped its phones.  From 1998 to 2000, Dow, Sasol and two public relations
firms conspired to infiltrate and steal confidential information
in order to thwart Greenpeace Inc.’s environmental
campaigns, according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Washington. Greenpeace said the spying included
breaking into locked trash bins outside its Washington
headquarters and infiltrating meetings and electronic
communications.  “These unacceptable and underhanded tactics interfered
with valuable work we were undertaking to protect public health
and expose environmental crimes,” Greenpeace USA Executive
Director Phil Radford said in a statement.  Greenpeace, during the time the group claims the companies
were spying upon it, was criticizing Dow for using chlorine in
its manufacturing process. Greenpeace also was examining Dow’s
sales of products containing genetically modified organisms,
according to the complaint.  The case is Greenpeace Inc. v. The Dow Chemical Company,
10-cv-02037, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  For more, click here.  AXA Sues ING Over $1.5 Billion Mexican Insurance Company Sale  A unit of French insurer AXA sued an ING Group company over
the $1.5 billion sale of a Mexican insurance company in 2008.  The suit, filed in  New York  state Supreme Court, claims AXA
Mediterranean Holding SA discovered after the deal was completed
in July 2008 that ING Insurance International BV had made false
representations and warranties about the Mexican insurer’s
financial statements and condition. AXA said it suffered
“millions of dollars of out-of-pocket damages” as a
result.  The case is AXA Mediterranean Holdings SA v. ING Insurance
International BV, 652110/2010, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Foxconn Singapore Sues Creative Technology for $500,576  Foxconn Technology Group’s Singapore unit sued
Creative Technology Ltd. for failing to pay $500,576 for
supplies and services that Foxconn, the world’s biggest contract
manufacturer of electronics, said it provided.  Foxconn Singapore Pte said Creative, the maker of the Zen
music player and Ziio tablet computer, repeatedly failed to make
payment and didn’t give any “substantive” reason for its
refusal, according to a Sept. 8 lawsuit filed with the Singapore
High Court. A hearing is scheduled for Dec. 3.  Foxconn isn’t entitled to any payments because there are no
contracts with either Foxconn or its flagship Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co., Creative claimed in court papers.  Foxconn refused Creative’s request for a discount on the
fees, according to court papers. Foxconn, controlled by Taiwan’s
richest man, Terry Gou, in September cut its long-term growth
target by 50 percent after raising wages and accelerating
factory relocation plans in  China .    Edmund Ding , a spokesman for Taipei-based Hon Hai, declined
to immediately comment on the lawsuit. Creative spokeswoman
Wynne Leong couldn’t be reached for comment.  The case is Foxconn Singapore Pte v Creative Technology
Ltd. S614/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Broadcom Says It Assists With Insider-Trading Probe (Update2)    Broadcom Corp ., the biggest maker of chips for television
set-top boxes, said it is cooperating with a U.S. investigation
into allegations that Don Ching Trang Chu provided inside
information about the chipmaker to hedge funds.  Chu was arrested Nov. 24 on charges he arranged the sharing
of information on publicly traded companies, including Broadcom,
to clients of the consulting firm, Primary Global Research LLC,
where he worked. Sources of the information included two
unidentified Broadcom employees, according to the complaint.  “We have been in contact with the government and are
cooperating fully,” Bill Blanning, a Broadcom spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We can confirm that the employees
referred to in the complaint are not executive officers.”  He declined to name either of the employees.  Chu communicated with Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a former
partner at hedge fund Spherix Capital LLC, about his contacts at
Broadcom, the government said in its complaint. One, a director-
level employee in charge of greater China, had been with the
chipmaker for 10 years and was in a position to see the
company’s “numbers,” according to the complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 10-Mag-2625, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Nigeria Frees Halliburton, Panalpina Officials on Bail  Nigeria freed on bail 23 officials from companies including  Halliburton Co . and a former subsidiary of  Panalpina
Welttransport Holding AG  after they were arrested last week in
connection with a bribery scandal.  Those freed included 11 people from Panalpina, 10 from
Halliburton and one each from  Saipem SpA  and  Technip SA , Femi Babafemi, spokesman for the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission, said by phone yesterday from Abuja, the capital.  “They’ve all been granted administrative bail and will be
required to report to our office tomorrow,” Babafemi said.
Their travel documents have been withheld as investigations
continue, he said.  The former officials at Panalpina, a Swiss freight
forwarding company, were arrested last week over an alleged
payment of $240 million in bribes to officials in Nigeria and
other countries. The Halliburton, Saipem and Technip officials
were arrested in connection with $180 million in bribes
allegedly paid to win a $6 billion liquefied natural-gas
contract.  Nigeria charged a former aide of President Olusegun
Obasanjo with six counts of money-laundering on Oct. 13 in
connection with the alleged payment of bribes by companies
including former Halliburton unit KBR Inc.  KBR and Halliburton agreed to pay $579 million in February
2009 for bribery payments that stretched from 1994 to 2004.
Technip took a charge of 245 million euros ($342 million)
related to its stake in the Nigerian group, TSJK, and discussed
“resolution of all potential claims” with the U.S. Justice
Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Paris-based company said on Feb. 12.  Panalpina, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and five oil services
companies agreed to pay $236.5 million to resolve a U.S. probe
of overseas bribery, the  Justice Department  said on Nov. 4. The
bribes were paid to expedite the import of goods and equipment,
avoid customs duties on imported goods, extend drilling
contracts and lower tax assessments, according to the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Vietnam Arrests Company Chairman in Securities-Fraud Case  Vietnam arrested a pharmaceutical company executive in
connection with securities fraud, the first such case since the
country’s stock exchange opened a decade ago.  Criminal proceedings against Le Van Dung, chairman of Vien
Dong Pharma Joint-Stock Co., for “stock-price manipulation”
commenced on Nov. 24, the company said in a  statement  dated Nov.
26 that was posted yesterday on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock
Exchange website. Dung was arrested on Nov. 26, the company said
in a Nov. 27  statement  on its website.  “It’s the first time fraud in securities trading has led
to the arrest of a company official and caused the police to
file a criminal case,” Nguyen Son, the head of market
development at the  State Securities Commission , said in a phone
interview.  Dung was suspended as chairman and general director of Vien
Dong on Nov. 25, according to the company’s statement, which
didn’t give details on the nature of the alleged stock-price
manipulation. Tran Thanh Hoa has been appointed as chairwoman to
replace Dung, while Dao Xuan Huong has been appointed as general
director, the statement said.  Vi Le Hang, Vien Dong’s deputy general director in charge
of communications, wasn’t in her office when called for comment.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Alberto-Culver Agrees to Settle Lawsuit Over Unilever    Alberto-Culver Co ., the maker of VO5 and Tresemme hair-care
products, agreed to settle shareholder lawsuits that claimed
Unilever’s planned $3.7 billion takeover isn’t favorable to
investors.  The settlement covers four shareholder complaints filed in
Delaware Chancery Court. As part of the deal, the company agreed
to alter features of its agreement with Unilever including
lowering any termination fee by $25 million. The company also
agreed to share the same confidential information provided to
Unilever to any other potential bidder, according to papers
filed yesterday in the Wilmington courthouse.  “This settlement removes the barriers to any potential
acquirer who wants to put forth a superior bid,”  Stuart Grant ,
an attorney for the shareholders, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Unilever, the maker of Dove soap, announced in September
that it would pay $37.50 a share in cash for Melrose Park,
Illinois-based Alberto-Culver. The deal is Unilever’s largest in
a decade. Unilever’s Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman is
expanding in home and personal-care products as part of a plan
to double total sales.  Dan Stone, a spokesman for Alberto-Culver, didn’t
immediately return a phone message seeking comment on the
settlement.  Lawyers for Alberto-Culver said in court papers that the
company agreed to the settlement to “avoid the costs,
disruption and distraction of further litigation.” The company
denies any wrongdoing.  The case is Laborers Local 235 Benefits Fund v. Lavin,
CA5873, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  EBay Wins Round Against Tiffany as High Court Rejects Appeal  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to revive  Tiffany &
Co .’s bid to hold  EBay Inc . accountable for sales of
counterfeit goods on its auction website.  The justices yesterday left intact a ruling that said New
York-based Tiffany couldn’t use federal trademark law to sue
EBay, the most-visited U.S. e-commerce site.  Tiffany, the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry
retailer, argued unsuccessfully that EBay knew enough about the
widespread sale of knockoffs to warrant being held liable for
contributing to trademark infringement. EBay, based in San Jose,
California, countered that it had taken extensive anti-fraud
measures, spending $20 million a year on “safe trading”
programs.  In September, a federal trial judge in New York tossed out
a false advertising claim Tiffany was pressing as part of the
same suit.  The case is Tiffany v. EBay, 10-300.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 