-- Barrack Seeks $1.3 Billion Profit From First Republic Bank Public Offering
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-11-30T19:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/barrack-seeks-1-3-billion-profit-from-first-republic-bank-public-offering.html
Colony Capital LLC and General
Atlantic LLC, the private-equity firms that led the buyout of
First Republic Bank five months ago, may post a paper gain of 70
percent when the bank completes a planned initial public
offering.  First Republic’s equity would be valued at $3.27 billion if
the San Francisco-based bank sells shares at $25.50 each, the
midpoint of the proposed range, according to calculations based
on government filings. Excluding the value of new shares to be
issued, that’s $1.3 billion more than Los Angeles-based Colony,
General Atlantic LLC and co-investors paid for the bank in July,
when they spent $15 a share on average.  By targeting a profitable bank, First Republic’s owners may
reap returns sooner than competitors who focused on struggling
lenders. Colony Capital head  Thomas Barrack , a First Republic
client and former board member, last year recruited co-investors
including General Atlantic and billionaire  Eli Broad  to complete
the buyout from Bank of America Corp. after private-equity firms
Carlyle Group and TPG Capital failed to make a deal.  “They bought a bank with a great track record at an
attractive price and reconstituted a successful franchise,”
said Chip McDonald, a partner with Jones Day in Atlanta.
“That’s unlike many other private-equity deals, which focused
on turnaround situations that may not have panned out yet.”  Bank of America, which received $45 billion in U.S. rescue
funds, inherited First Republic when it took over Merrill Lynch
in 2008. It opted to sell the bank after determining it wasn’t a
core business, given its existing U.S. Trust wealth management
arm, the bank said at the time. The timing of the sale,
announced in October 2009, caused Bank of America to miss out on
gains as markets recovered.  Paper Profit  Any profit for Colony, General Atlantic and the other First
Republic owners will be mostly on paper for now. The firms are
selling only a small portion of their stakes in the IPO, which
is scheduled to price next week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  First Republic is testing a public market that’s had mixed
reactions to private-equity backed companies. While companies
including Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. and LPL Investment
Holdings Inc. have gained after their IPOs, Caesars
Entertainment Inc. pulled its IPO, citing market demand.  Colony and General Atlantic plan to each sell about 1.67
million shares in the IPO, according to the filing. That will
leave each firm with 25.4 million shares, or 19.8 percent of the
shares outstanding each.  BankUnited  “We are global growth investors with a long-term
horizon,” General Atlantic spokeswoman Patricia Hedley said.
Colony spokesman  Owen Blicksilver  declined to comment, as did
Bank of America spokesman  Robert Stickler .  First Republic differs from other bank deals in that it was
a relatively healthy bank bought without financial help from the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. or any other federal agency. The
bank has been profitable for 25 years, according to its filings.  Other private-equity buyouts of struggling banks have yet
to show definitive results. Flagstar Bancorp Inc., which was
rescued in 2009 by MatlinPatterson Global Advisors, on Nov. 2
said it had completed share sales totaling $400 million. That’s
at least the second time it’s sought additional capital since
the takeover.  BankUnited Inc., bought with FDIC assistance by investors
including Blackstone Group LP and Carlyle in 2009, filed for its
own IPO last month. The underwriters haven’t set a price range
for the offering, which may raise as much as $300 million,
according to government filings.  IndyMac, renamed OneWest Bank FSB, after it was seized by
the FDIC in 2008 and sold to investors including J.  Christopher Flowers , has since been used by regulators to absorb other
California lenders.  -- Editors:  Christian Baumgaertel ,  Larry Edelman .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 Jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  