-- Belka Says Poland Shouldn't Rush to Euro With Currency's Future `In Doubt'
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2010-12-03T09:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/belka-says-polish-zloty-s-slide-not-dramatic-sees-no-reason-to-panic-.html
Poland shouldn’t hurry to adopt the
euro until the European Union adjusts its political institutions
and economy to support a stable common currency, central bank
Governor  Marek Belka  said.  “The European Monetary Union is an ambitious but
unfinished project,” Belka said yesterday in a lecture in the
city of Krakow, the newspaper  Dziennik Gazeta Prawna’s  Forsal.pl
website reported. “Political ambition wasn’t matched by the
capacity and willingness to adjust economic institutions to
fit,” which is the issue “that puts the euro’s future in
doubt, and for us poses an enormous dilemma about what to do.”  Poland last year dropped its plan to enter the euro area in
2012 after budget revenue slumped due to the global economic
slowdown. The country’s general government deficit soared to 7.2
percent of  gross domestic product  in 2009, more than double the
European Union limit. The government forecasts a deficit of 7.9
percent this year and plans to trim the shortfall to less than 3
percent by 2013.  Belka said that while he favors Poland’s adoption of the
euro, under current conditions the issue of the entry date is
“hypothetical.”  The  27-nation bloc  lacks a common budget or centralized
fiscal policy, Belka said, according to Forsal.pl. “As a
surrogate we have the Maastricht Treaty, which is a gentleman’s
agreement, only it turned out there weren’t enough gentlemen,”
he said.  ‘Long Road’  The government approved a plan in October to ready the
country’s laws, banking system and administration to adopt the
euro as soon as it meets economic and political requirements. On
Nov. 29, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said Poland has a
“long road ahead” before it adopts the euro, especially
because the country will need to meet eligibility requirements
for the single currency on a “deep, sustained” basis.  Poland, which joined the EU in 2004, must adopt the euro as
part of its accession agreement.  “Paradoxically, while the euro acted as a protective
umbrella before the financial crisis, it also sheltered the euro
area from making necessary economic adjustments,” Belka said in
Krakow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  