-- Berlusconi to Secure Broader Majority in Confidence Votes, Frattini Says
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-30T09:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/berlusconi-to-secure-broader-majority-in-confidence-votes-frattini-says.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
will win confidence votes next month that threaten to topple his
government after securing a broader majority in parliament,
Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said.  “I am confident that we will expand the ruling majority,”
Frattini said today in an interview in Dubai, where he is
attending a conference on foreign investments in Afghanistan.
“I am confident that the result of the vote will be positive.”  The government will win the Dec. 14 votes in the two
branches of parliament by a “broad margin,” Berlusconi told
reporters after a Nov. 26 cabinet meeting. He also called on
 Gianfranco Fini,  his former ally who is now leading the
challenge to Berlusconi’s rule, to “take a step back” before
trying to topple the government at a time when investors are
shunning the debt of Europe’s high-deficit nations.  Italy, the Euro region’s second most-indebted country after
Greece, is facing surging borrowing costs as Europe’s debt
crisis spreads. The  premium investors demand  to hold Italian 10-
year bonds over equivalent German debt rose 20 basis points to a
euro-era record 209 as of 9:50 a.m. in Rome.  The export-led recovery in the $2.3 trillion  economy  slowed
in the third quarter as the global economic rebound eased and
foreign demand for its goods and services fell. Gross domestic
product rose 0.2 percent in the three months through September,
down from 0.5 percent in the second quarter.  “Italy’s economy is strong, it’s positive in 2010,
positive in 2011 and 2012 because our economy is thriving on
small and medium-sized businesses,” Frattini said today.
“Also, our banking system is strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Dubai at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net 
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  