-- Bernanke Tells Ohio Executives He's Concerned About Long-Term Unemployment
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-11-30T21:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/bernanke-tells-ohio-executives-he-s-concerned-about-long-term-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy isn’t growing fast enough to
“materially” reduce unemployment and expressed concern about
workers who have been without a job for a long time.  “This is very unusual and very worrisome because people
who are out of work for an extended period, their skills tend to
erode,” Bernanke said at a meeting with business leaders in
Columbus, Ohio. The share of unemployed who are jobless for more
than six months is greater than 40 percent, Bernanke said.  Bernanke listened to concerns of executives including  Alan Mullaly , president and chief executive officer of Ford Motor
Co., and Jeni Britton Bauer, president of Jeni’s Splendid Ice
Creams. The meeting took place against the backdrop of the most
intense political attacks on the Fed in three decades following
its Nov. 3 decision to purchase $600 billion in Treasury
securities.  Bernanke and other Fed officials have been defending the
central bank’s announcement that it would purchase $75 billion
in Treasury securities a month through June to “promote a
stronger pace of economic recovery” and prevent inflation from
falling too low.  The program, known as quantitative easing, has been
criticized by officials in countries including China and
Germany. A letter from 23 people, including Republican officials
and economists, urged the Fed to end the program early.  Maximize Employment  A separate letter from four top Republican lawmakers
expressed “deep concerns” over the plan. Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker  and Indiana Representative  Mike Pence , both Republicans,
proposed removing the Fed’s mandate to maximize employment and
instead focus the central bank solely on price stability.  Bernanke gave brief opening remarks and mostly listened to
the business leaders’ assessment of the economy. At one point,
he asked the executives what action from Washington could help
them create jobs.  “Clarity,” said  Samuel Palmisano , chairman of
International Business Machines Corp. “Regulation is fine, just
tell me what they are,” he said.  Palmisano said companies did not lack for liquidity.
“There’s more than we could probably consume at rates that are
very attractive at this point of time.  It’s not a credit
issue,” he said. “It’s simply clarity.”  Ford’s Mulally also cited regulatory clarity, as did the
co-founder of Jeni’s Splendid Ice Creams. “Every step along the
way is very complex,” Jeni Britton Bauer said, of navigating
the regulations necessary to set up her company.  Skilled Workers  Participants also stressed the importance of educating
skilled-workers and making sure that trade and tax policies
allowed American firms to compete internationally.  Responding to the concerns of panelists, Bernanke said “We
do want to provide as much clarity as we can so people will
understand what the rules are.”  This year Bernanke has traveled around the country for
several on-the-record, unscripted discussions, including one
with students in Jacksonville, Florida, on Nov. 5 and today’s
appearance with business leaders in Columbus.  “The Federal Reserve is very oriented toward getting this
kind of on the ground intelligence,” Bernanke told the
panelists and an audience of graduate students at Ohio State
University.  “In order to find out what’s really happening on the
ground and what’s going to happen in the future we need to get
out,” Bernanke said.  Central bankers are weighing whether Bernanke should hold
regular press conferences and where to draw the line between
confidential policy discussions and officials’ public comments,
the Fed said in minutes of its Nov. 2-3 meeting and an Oct. 15
videoconference held by governors and regional presidents.  Press Conferences  Bernanke is the only head of a major central bank who
doesn’t give press conferences to explain actions and
projections. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
and Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  each hold one after
every policy meeting, while Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
speaks once a quarter. Most presidents of the Fed’s 12 regional
banks regularly take questions from press.  As Ohio’s capital, Columbus has 18 percent of its workforce
employed in government, compared with 15 percent statewide,
according to the U.S. Department of Labor. Columbus is home to
companies such as Huntington Bancshares Inc., American Electric
Power Co., and retailer Limited Brands Inc.  Unemployment in Columbus stood at 9 percent in July, the
most recent month for which data are available, compared with
the statewide rate of 10.3 percent and the national rate of 9.5
percent that month. Manufacturers account for almost 7 percent
of employment in the Columbus area, according to the Labor
Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Columbus, Ohio at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  