-- Bharti Airtel Gains Most In Five Months in Mumbai After Rating Upgrade
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2010-11-30T10:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/bharti-airtel-gains-most-in-five-months-in-mumbai-after-rating-upgrade.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. , India’s largest
mobile-phone operator, gained the most in almost five months in
Mumbai trading on speculation the company may benefit if India’s
government cancels licenses of some competitors.  The stock jumped 6.3 percent, the most since July 9, to
360.15 rupees, as of the 3:30 p.m. close in the city.  Reliance
Communications Ltd. , the second-largest operator, and  Idea
Cellular Ltd.  also rose.  India will send notices to some phone operators asking them
why their airwave licenses shouldn’t be canceled for not meeting
eligibility criteria, the Department of Telecommunications said
yesterday. The companies will be given 60 days to respond,  Kapil Sibal , communications minister, said in New Delhi. That is
“positive” for Bharti and Idea as any cancellation of license
will reduce competition in the industry,  G.V. Giri , an analyst
at IIFL Capital Ltd. wrote in a note dated today.  “With this, the stage is set for a comprehensive
improvement in the regulatory environment, especially relating
to transparency and license payout risk,” wrote Giri, who
boosted his rating on Bharti to “buy” from “reduce.”  Giri raised his target price for the stock, which has
lagged behind the gains in the benchmark  Sensitive Index  this
year, to 399 rupees from 280 rupees earlier.  The owners of 85 airwave licenses awarded in 2008 will be
given 60 days to respond, Sibal said. Separately, 119 phone
companies that haven’t met the network rollout commitments will
be issued notices, he said, without naming any company.  Reliance Communications, whose shares reached a record low
yesterday after the Supreme Court asked it to pay more charges
related to routing phone calls, rose after the company said it
doesn’t expect any “material liability” from the judgment.  Reliance Communications rose 3.2 percent to 131.80 rupees,
its first gain in six days. Idea climbed 3.9 percent to 72.55
rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shikhar Balwani  in Mumbai 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 