-- Fredriksen Bets $2 Billion on Rigs After BP Spill
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-11-30T11:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/billionaire-fredriksen-bets-2-billion-on-rigs-after-bp-spill-spurs-demand.html
Billionaire  John Fredriksen ’s
Seadrill Ltd. invested $2 billion in the past two months on oil
rigs, leading a jump in orders as safety concerns after  BP Plc ’s
Gulf of Mexico disaster spur demand for newer platforms.  Seadrill , owner of the second-largest fleet of deepwater
rigs, and others such as  DryShips Inc . have ordered 20 deepwater
and shallow-water rigs since BP’s Macondo well was plugged in
July, raising global orders by 22 percent, according to data
from Sanford Bernstein & Co. Deepwater rig rates have stabilized
after a 30 percent plunge, and may return to pre-recession
records within three years, consultant ODS-Petrodata said.  “No oil company wants to be the new BP,” said  Kim Andre Uggedal , an analyst at Agilis Securities in Oslo. “The new
order cycle is partly driven by Macondo, increased demand and
favoring of newer assets.”  Offshore exploration from Brazil to Greenland is generating
demand for rigs after oil prices more than doubled since the end
of 2008. Yards have cut prices and finding financing has been
easier after the global credit crisis ebbed. Newer platforms now
fetch double the rate of older ones, ODS-Petrodata said.  “The entire drilling market is improving,”  Alf Thorkildsen , Seadrill’s chief executive officer, said in
telephone interview on Nov. 19. “There might be a bigger risk
attached to being first out, but there’s also bigger
potential.”  Meeting Demand  Seadrill this month ordered two ultra deep-water
drillships, which can reach 12,000 feet (3,700 meters), at $600
million each for delivery starting in 2013. It has options for
two more. The company also ordered four jack-up rigs for $780
million since October, with options for six more, and bought a
high specification jack-up from Petrojack IV Pte. Ltd. today.
Seadrill Chairman Fredriksen, who also heads the world’s biggest
operator of supertankers, has a 28 percent  stake  in the company.  The company today reported a third-quarter profit growth of
8.3 percent to $352 million, beating analyst estimates of $346.5
million, and forecast “good growth and solid profitability” in
the fourth quarter.  Seadrill shares have gained 62 percent to 188 kroner in
Oslo since reaching a year-to-date low on July 1. The strength
of rig demand means the shares have further to go, said  Ingolf Gillesdal , head of equity research at Nordea Securities, who has
a  target price  of 207 kroner.  ‘Upside Potential’  “There’s still upside potential as the long-term outlook
is very, very good,” Gillesdal said on the phone from Oslo.
“There’ll be new demand for deepwater rigs in 2012, so it’s
good that we’re starting to get new ones built now.”  Other orders include two jack-ups by  Atwood Oceanics Inc. 
as well as from Eurasia Drilling Co., according to Bernstein.
DryShips took out an option last week for four drillships at
$600 million each. Transocean Ltd., the largest rig company and
owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig that blew up and sank at
Macondo, this month agreed to buy a jack-up rig for $195 million
for delivery in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Maersk Drilling, a unit of shipping company A.P. Moeller
Maersk A/S, plans to order a rig every six months over the next
year and a half, CEO  Claus Hemmingsen  said this month.   Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-owned company, has
leased 20 foreign rigs to start in the next two years as it
seeks to pump oil from its so-called pre-salt fields, the
biggest oil finds in the Americas since the 1970s. The U.S. has
lifted the post-spill moratorium, allowing the restart of
deepwater drilling there next year.  Built on Speculation  “Deepwater and ultra deepwater is where the resources are
and that’s where the acreage is exciting,” said  Jason Kenney ,
head of oil research at ING Commercial Banking in Edinburgh.
“They want safe, secure, technically capable rigs and the more
of them the better. There’s not enough of them at the moment.”  The risk for drillers is demand won’t rise enough to absorb
the rigs ordered. In total, there are 43 jack-up rigs, which
operate in shallower waters, and 60 floating rigs scheduled for
delivery by 2013, Bernstein said in a Nov. 19 report. Sixty-five
percent of the jack-ups are being built on speculation, without
a contract, Bernstein said.  “It seems to be more supplier driven than demand driven,
because the rigs aren’t being backed by contracts,”  Scott Gruber , an analyst at Bernstein in New York, said by phone.  Still, rates on ultra-deepwater rigs may reach the pre-
financial crisis level of $600,000 to $650,000 a day within
three years from about $450,000 now, said  Gavin Strachan , an
Aberdeen-based consultant at ODS-Petrodata.  “The market is recovering a bit better than what we
originally thought,” he said.  Scorpion Offshore  Newer jack-ups now fetch about $130,000 a day, down from
$220,000, while rates on older jack-ups have plunged 62 percent
to $60,000 a day, according to ODS-Petrodata.  The industry’s trend toward consolidation will continue as
companies use cash flow from improved earnings to acquire
smaller rivals, analysts said.  Noble Corp. earlier this year agreed to buy FDR Holdings
Ltd. for about $2.16 billion, while Rowan Cos. in July took
control of Norway’s Skeie Drilling & Production ASA. Seadrill
bought Scorpion Offshore Ltd. earlier this year.  Gruber at Bernstein said takeover targets include Pride
International Inc. and Vantage Drilling Co., smaller, new
entrants and rigs being built without full financing.  Crude will need to rise to more than $100 a barrel to
support a gain in rig rates to pre-crisis levels, Bernstein’s
Gruber said.  Crude is forecast to reach $102.13 a barrel by 2013
according to a weighted average of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Oil traded at about $83.67 a barrel on Nov. 26 in New
York, up from a low of about $34 a barrel in December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  