-- BMW's Quandt Family Renews Pledge as Audi Vows to Nab Top Luxury Position
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-11-30T17:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/bmw-s-quandt-family-vows-to-uphold-commitment-to-german-luxury-automaker.html
The Quandt family,  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG ’s dominant shareholder, vowed to carry on its
commitment to the carmaker as Volkswagen AG’s Audi challenges
BMW’s lead in luxury vehicles.  “We as a family are looking forward” to shaping the
future with BMW,  Stefan Quandt  said at a Munich event today to
mark the 50th anniversary of the shareholders’ vote approving
the German family’s rescue of the luxury-car maker. “Lead,
don’t follow - that’s the entrepreneurial calling of BMW.”  Investor  Herbert Quandt  fended off a takeover attempt five
decades ago by Stuttgart, Germany-based  Daimler AG , then called
Daimler-Benz, by bankrolling development of the 1500-model
midsize sedan. His family still owns 46 percent of BMW, and
Stefan Quandt and  Susanne Klatten , two of his children, sit on
the supervisory board.  BMW surpassed Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz division as the
world’s largest luxury-car maker five years ago and aims to
almost double annual sales by 2020 to 2 million vehicles. That
may not be enough to fend off Audi, which aims to leapfrog BMW
and Daimler to become the largest maker of luxury cars by 2015.  “Volkswagen will at some point have benchmark costs and
BMW has to ask itself whether it can face this challenge on its
own,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive
Management in Bergisch Gladbach, Germany. “BMW will have to
consider whether it will accept cross shareholdings to secure
long-term strategic partnerships.”  Sales Targets  Audi is targeting record sales this year of more than 1.08
million cars and SUVs, boosted by the new A1 subcompact and the
Ingolstadt, Germany-based company’s position as the top high-end
carmaker in China.  BMW  projects 10 percent sales growth to 1.4
million vehicles, its third-highest annual delivery figure.  The VW unit’s third-quarter operating profit amounted to 11
percent of sales, beating margins of 8.1 percent at BMW and 9.5
percent at Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz Cars division.  BMW, which also owns the Mini and Rolls-Royce brands, has
posted consistent profits since Quandt’s rescue except in 1999,
when losses at the Rover brand in the U.K. prompted BMW to break
up and sell the division. BMW’s go-it-alone strategy,
underscored by the unsuccessful Rover acquisition, is being
challenged as the  industry  consolidates to meet tighter
environmental regulations and expand in growing Asian markets.  Share Swaps  Daimler  swapped stakes with  Renault SA  and Nissan Motor Co.
in April to seal a partnership that will add to the German
company’s small-car lineup. Turin, Italy-based  Fiat SpA  bought a
stake last year in Chrysler Group LLC. Volkswagen is adding
 Porsche SE  to its luxury holdings that, along with Audi, include
Lamborghini and Bentley. Porsche shareholders today are voting
on a 5 billion-euro ($6.5 billion) stock sale to pay down debt.  BMW has preferred focused cooperation to broad alliances.
The company is working with  PSA Peugeot Citroen  on hybrid-drive
components and four-cylinder engines for the Mini brand, which
represents BMW’s last connection to Rover. BMW has also linked
up with  SGL Carbon SE  to make carbon fiber for the frame of an
electric-powered city car that will go on the market in 2013.  “BMW stands for long-term, future-oriented thought and
action,” chairman  Joachim Milberg  said. The Quandts are “still
today a stabilizing factor,” who will help the Munich-based
carmaker emerge stronger than before from the financial crisis.  The Quandt family’s backing allowed Chief Executive Officer
 Norbert Reithofer  to lay out a strategy to achieve the 2 million
delivery goal for 2020, he said. Reithofer has also had the
freedom to break with tradition, including developing front-
wheel-drive vehicles and exiting the Formula One racing.  New Products  There are “parallels” between the crisis the company
faced 50 years ago and the recent recession, Reithofer said
earlier this month. In both cases, BMW invested in new  products .  “Securing the survival and successful development of BMW
is a commitment” stemming from Quandt’s rescue, Reithofer said
today. “That means recognizing chances and taking them.”  The focus in the 1960s was the BMW 1500, which closed the
gap between the entry-level BMW 700 and the high-end 501, the
so-called Baroque Angel.  Last year, in the midst of the recession,  BMW  introduced
the X1 compact sport-utility vehicle and 5-Series GT, which
combines elements of an SUV and sedan. In 2010, BMW rolled out a
revamped 5-Series and the new Mini Countryman, the brand’s first
model with four doors.  “In cyclical industries like automaking, it is extremely
important for management to remain true to its strategy, and
that works better with a stable major shareholder,” said
 Juergen Meyer , a fund manager with SEB Asset Management in
Frankfurt, whose largest holding is BMW stock. “The Quandts
have been an asset to BMW in this regard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Munich via 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 