-- BofA Mortgage Morass Deepens After Employee Says Notes Not Sent
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-30T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/bofa-mortgage-morass-deepens-after-employee-says-trustee-didn-t-get-notes.html
Testimony by a  Bank of America Corp. 
employee in a New Jersey personal bankruptcy case may give more
ammunition to homeowners and investors in their legal battles
over defaulted  mortgages .  Linda DeMartini, a team leader in the company’s mortgage-
litigation management division, said during a U.S. Bankruptcy
Court hearing in Camden last year that it was routine for the
lender to keep mortgage promissory notes even after loans were
bundled by the thousands into bonds and sold to investors,
according to a transcript. Contracts for such securitizations
usually require the documents to be transferred to the trustee
for mortgage bondholders.  In the case, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Judith H. Wizmur  on Nov.
16 rejected a claim on the home of John T. Kemp, ruling his
mortgage company, now owned by Bank of America, had failed to
deliver the note to the trustee. That could leave the trustee
with no standing to take the property, and raises the question
of whether other foreclosures could similarly be blocked.  Following the decision, the bank disavowed the statements
by DeMartini, whom it had flown in from California to testify.
It was the policy of Countrywide Financial Corp., acquired by
Bank of America in July 2008, to deliver notes as called for in
its securitization contracts, according to  Larry Platt , an
attorney at K&L Gates LLP in Washington designated by the bank
to answer questions about the case.  “This particular employee was mistaken in what she said,”
Platt said in a telephone interview.  Attorney Analysis  Wizmur’s ruling is being scrutinized by lawyers for
borrowers seeking to stall repossessions as a way to press
lenders to modify their debt. Attorneys for homeowners have
already won cases by calling into doubt the legitimacy of
affidavits used to take back properties.  “If this is correct, many, many, many  foreclosures  already
occurred in which this plaintiff didn’t have the note,” said
Bruce Levitt, the South Orange, New Jersey, attorney
representing Kemp. “This could affect thousands or hundreds of
thousands of loans.”  Companies that service loans, including Bank of America,
temporarily halted home seizures in the wake of disclosures that
they relied on employees to sign thousands of affidavits without
reading them, a practice that has become known as robo-signing.
The attorneys general of all 50 states are jointly investigating
foreclosure practices of servicers.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, is the
largest U.S. mortgage servicer, overseeing $2.09 trillion of
loans as of Sept. 30, according to industry  newsletter  Inside
Mortgage Finance.  Investor Impact  The Kemp case is also being examined by lawyers for
investors in mortgage-backed securities. Owners of the bonds
have been cooperating in an effort to force sellers to take back
loans, saying they were misled about their quality. The Wizmur
ruling may give investors an additional opportunity to push for
mortgage buybacks on grounds that the bonds weren’t created in
keeping with securitization contracts.  “It may mean investors who think they bought mortgage-
backed securities bought securities that aren’t backed by
anything,” said  Kurt Eggert , a professor at Chapman University
School of Law in Orange, California.  The potential impact of DeMartini’s testimony may depend on
the outcome of a broader dispute between homeowner and industry
lawyers about whether missing or incomplete paperwork
subsequently can be fixed, Eggert said.  ‘Not Customary’  Wizmur, chief judge of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the
District of New Jersey, said during hearings that the
Countrywide securitization contract covering Kemp’s loan called
for a trustee to take possession of the promissory notes, which
represent the borrowers’ obligation to repay their loans.  The judge asked DeMartini whether the notes ever move to
follow the transfer of ownership, according to the  transcript  of
the August 2009 hearing.  “I can’t say that they’re never moved because, I mean,
with this many millions of loans as we have I wouldn’t presume
to say that, but it is not customary for them to move,”
DeMartini said.  “This is something that would concern investors,” said
 Talcott Franklin , a Dallas-based lawyer whose firm is helping
owners of more than $600 billion of mortgage bonds as they
consider ways to limit their losses.  DeMartini held management and training positions since
joining Countrywide Home Loans about a decade ago, according to
her testimony. She said she has been involved in every aspect of
servicing and “had to know about everything in order to do
that.”  Beyond DeMartini’s Knowledge  Platt, the lawyer for Bank of America, said DeMartini was
wrong, as was the bank’s local attorney in the case, who argued
in court that notes weren’t moved in part because of the risk of
losing them. The transfer of mortgage notes was outside the
scope of DeMartini’s knowledge because she doesn’t deal with the
sale of loans, Platt said.  DeMartini, who at one point said she wasn’t “comfortable”
testifying about the extent to which notes were transferred
before continuing to do so, couldn’t be reached for comment.
 Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the bank, said that she remains
an employee.  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Washington Mutual
Inc. said in prospectuses for some mortgage-bond deals that they
would hold onto notes for the trusts. They were empowered to act
in custodial roles on behalf of trustees, according to the
pooling and servicing agreements that govern the transactions.  Countrywide Deals  The securitization contracts related to the Kemp loan, and
at least two other Countrywide mortgage-bond transactions,
didn’t assign the company the additional role of document
custodian for the trust. Countrywide, as the servicer, can take
back the notes from the trustee when needed to manage
foreclosure actions and mortgage payoffs, according to the
contracts.  One risk to investors when notes remain with sellers acting
as custodian is that an acquirer or creditor of those companies
could walk in and take the notes, the banks that disclosed the
practice in mortgage-bond prospectuses warned. Typically,
trustees or custodians also are charged with checking that
either all the necessary documents get delivered or letting
sellers know about missing paperwork.  “If Countrywide had a special agreement to act as a stand-
in for the trustee, given the inherent conflicts involved, one
would have thought that would have been material and disclosed
to investors,” said  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at New York-based
Graham Fisher & Co.  He said that the possibility that Countrywide retained
documents raises questions about whether  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. , which serves as the trustee for the securitization of the
Kemp loan, fulfilled its obligation to review loan files.  Stress-Tested System  “We have an established, clearly defined document review
process,” said  Kevin Heine , a spokesman for New York-based BNY
Mellon. “It is a controlled and well-documented system that has
been stress-tested and audited. We are comfortable that it works
well.”  Heine declined to comment on the Kemp case or Countrywide’s
policies.  Mortgage-bond contracts require that loan sellers deliver
certain files to trustees, or other companies acting on their
behalf, typically within a few months. “Material” missing
paperwork can require sellers to take back loans for their full
face value, according to the agreements.  “If the notes weren’t properly transferred to the trusts,
then investors have the mother of all put-back claims,”  Adam J. Levitin , an associate professor at Georgetown University Law
Center in Washington, wrote on a  blog  four days after citing the
Wizmur ruling during a hearing by a House Financial Services
subcommittee.  Trust Law  Giving notes to the trustees after the fact isn’t a
solution because the rules governing trusts, enforced by New
York trust law, require that assets are in place by a specified
closing date, said  O. Max Gardner III , a Shelby, North Carolina,
bankruptcy litigator. The notes also can’t be transferred to the
trust without first being conveyed through a chain of interim
entities, he said.  “If they do an end run and directly deliver it to the
trust, that would violate all the documents they filed with the
SEC under oath as to what they did,” Gardner said.  Industry lawyers said trust law isn’t relevant in this
instance. Based on other legal codes, loans have already been
transferred into the mortgage-bond trusts, making a clean-up of
paperwork permissible, they said.  Refuted Attack Strategies  “Those who seek to attack the integrity of securitizations
have taken a number of approaches that have been refuted, so now
they’re focusing on New York trust law,” said  Karen B. Gelernt ,
a lawyer in New York at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP who
works for banks.  The part of the law they cite relates to “actions taken by
the trustee after the trust is formed; it’s nonsensical to apply
this provision to the creation of the trust,” she said. “There
doesn’t appear to be any case law that supports their
interpretation.”  Platt, the Bank of America lawyer, said that any bank that
failed to initially deliver all the documents required in
contracts may be required to refund investors only in cases in
which foreclosures actually get blocked.  “The judges may decide it’s better for the system to allow
everyone to” send missing paperwork to trustees, said Rosner,
the Graham Fisher analyst. “It’s too early to really answer
question about the implications” if the Bank of America
testimony is true.  The case is In the Matter of John T. Kemp, Kemp v.
Countrywide Home Loans Inc., 08-02448, U.S. bankruptcy Court for
the District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  