-- BP Suspends Construction of Liberty Rig in Alaska
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2010-11-30T22:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/bp-to-suspend-construction-of-alaska-liberty-rig-to-conduct-safety-review.html
BP Plc, the largest producer of oil
and natural gas in the U.S., suspended construction of a
drilling rig at its Liberty project in Alaska to “take time to
evaluate the safety systems” on the rig,  Steve Rinehart , a
company spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  BP’s Liberty project, estimated to cost more than $1
billion, is designed to tap a field in the Beaufort Sea
estimated at more than 100 million barrels, according to the
project  website .  Production was expected to begin in 2011 and has now been
delayed, Rinehart said. “We don’t have a new schedule,” he
said.  The decision to halt construction of the drilling rig was
made after “a number of engineering and design issues arose,”
during construction, which began after parts of the rig reached
Alaska’s North Slope in the late summer of 2009, Rinehart said.
He declined to provide further details.  “It’s the first rig like this ever built and after the
issues arose we decided to stop construction, not the project,
and go through all the safety systems to ensure we have what we
need,” Rinehart said. During the engineering evaluations, the
focus will include “safety critical systems, power systems, and
high pressure mud pumps.”  The rig will be located on a 31-acre manmade gravel island
offshore that’s connected to land by a gravel causeway. To reach
the Liberty field’s oil reservoir, five or six long-reach wells
will be drilled. Once production begins, output is expected to
be about 40,000 barrels a day, BP said on the project’s website.  Deepwater Horizon Rig  The final decision to halt construction was “put in
place” yesterday and contractors involved and regulatory
agencies were informed, Rinehart said.  “When we first announced the Liberty project we
anticipated drilling in 2010 and the first oil in 2011, now we
are going to wait until and see what the engineering schedule
shows,” he said. “In the course of this review we can apply
everything we’ve learned from the Deepwater Horizon rig.”  A blowout on April 20 of BP’s Macondo well 40 miles (62
kilometers) off the Louisiana coast in the Gulf of Mexico led to
explosions that engulfed  Transocean Ltd. ’s Deepwater Horizon rig
in flames and killed 11 crew workers.  The catastrophe sank the $365 million vessel and damaged
the well, which gushed 4.9 million barrels of crude before it
was capped on July 15.  “Even though the environment is different for the Liberty
project, at the same time it’s a challenging project and is
based on the ability to drill extended reach wells,” Rinehart
said. “While the rig has unique capabilities to match these
deep wells, we need to make sure going forward that every single
piece has had a second look.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Samantha Zee  in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 