-- Brazil to Freeze $12 Billion Next Year, Mantega Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-11-30T22:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/brazil-to-freeze-12-billion-in-2011-to-help-bring-down-rate-mantega-says.html
President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  will
block new spending initiatives and slash subsidies to the state
development bank next year to allow the central bank to cut
interest rates, Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  The government may freeze more than 20 billion reais ($11.7
billion) of the 2011 budget, or about 0.5 percent of Brazil’s
gross domestic product, to reduce public demand, Mantega said in
an interview in Brasilia. Some ministries will have their
budgets cut, and Rousseff’s government may also reduce the 2011
budget for the  PAC  infrastructure drive.  “It is important to carry out this fiscal consolidation
and help reduce interest rates, because this will end up helping
the currency too,” said the 61-year-old Mantega, who was asked
by Rousseff to remain in his post when she takes office Jan. 1.  Traders are wagering that the central bank will resume
interest rate increases next year in a bid to rein in consumer
prices that rose at their  fastest monthly pace  since February
through mid-November. Policy makers will increase the overnight
rate to about 12.75 percent by the end of next year, according
to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  Policy makers kept the Selic rate unchanged at 10.75
percent at their past two meetings, after raising it 200 basis
points from a record low 8.75 percent earlier this year.
Consumer prices jumped 0.86 percent in the month through mid-
November, pushing the  annual rate  to 5.47, above the
government’s 4.5 percent target for the third-straight month.  Doubts on Delivery  The government’s recent failure to control spending has led
investors to treat Mantega’s statements promising austerity with
skepticism, said  Tony Volpon , a Latin America strategist at
Nomura Securities in New York. The market is looking for a
strong statement from either Rousseff or  Antonio Palocci , if he
is named chief of staff, Volpon said.  “He’s certainly signaling the right things, but given the
track record over the last two years the market is really
doubting that Mantega is going to deliver,” Volpon said.  Brazil posted an unexpected budget deficit in October as
government spending outpaces growth in Latin America’s biggest
economy. The government had a nominal budget deficit of 6.4
billion reais last month, after removing Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA, the country’s biggest utility, from its budget
calculations.  The figure, which includes federal and local governments
and state companies, compares with a record surplus of 12
billion reais in September that was boosted by the government’s
sale of oil rights to state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA.  Inflation ‘Key’  While vowing to slow spending growth, Mantega said the
central bank’s interest rate decisions next year will depend on
inflation data.  “I don’t know how inflation will behave and that’s the key
variable,” he said. “From the fiscal point of view there will
be room to cut the interest rate, without a doubt.”  A spending cut that is equivalent to 1 percent of GDP would
slow inflation by 0.32 percentage point, according to the median
estimate of economists in a central bank survey published Nov.
8.  Rousseff’s government will also cut the loans it provides
the  BNDES state development bank  by more than half in 2011 from
the 104.7 billion reais it gave the bank in 2010. The Rio de
Janeiro-based bank, Brazil’s biggest provider of long-term
credit, has more than doubled lending since 2007 to 137.4
billion reais last year.  ‘Reasonable’ Real  Mantega said lower interest rates will reduce pressure on
the currency, which has strengthened 35 percent since the start
of 2009, more than all 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
except the Australian dollar.  The Brazilian real is currently trading at a “reasonable”
level, as the European debt crisis brings a temporary “truce”
to the global currency war, he added.  The real weakened 0.9 percent during November, after
Mantega tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreigners’ fixed-income
purchases. Mantega said Brazil will take additional steps if
necessary to prevent the real from strengthening and protect the
country’s exporters.  The real gained 0.3 percent to 1.7143 per U.S. dollar at
5:05 p.m. New York time. The yield on the interest rate futures
contract maturing in January 2012 fell 6 basis points to 11.99
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  