-- U.S. Senate Approves Biggest Food-Safety Overhaul in 70 Years
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-30T19:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/broadest-food-safety-overhaul-in-70-years-approved-by-senate-in-73-25-vote.html
The biggest U.S. food-safety
overhaul in more than 70 years won Senate passage as lawmakers
sought to curb food-borne illnesses that cost the nation an
estimated $152 billion a year.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration would gain more power
to police food companies under the bill that passed today in a
73-25 vote. The measure, backed by the food industry, public-
health groups and consumer advocates, adds inspections and lets
the FDA force recalls, rather than relying on companies to
voluntarily remove contaminated foods from store shelves.  The bill had awaited a full Senate vote since winning
unanimous approval a year ago by the  Health, Education, Labor
and Pensions Committee . It was prompted partly by recalls of
cookie dough, spinach, jalapenos and salmonella-tainted peanuts
that killed at least nine people and sickened more than 700 in
2008 and 2009.  “It’s shocking to think that the last comprehensive
overhaul of the food-safety system was in 1938,” Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat who heads the health committee, said in
debating the legislation this month. “Food safety has too often
become a hit-or-miss gamble. That is frightening, and it’s
unacceptable.”  The House, which passed a food-safety bill last year, has
agreed to adopt the Senate version, bypassing the need for a
conference to integrate the two bills, Harkin said Nov. 18. Once
both chambers have approved the measure, lawmakers will send it
to President  Barack Obama  for his signature. Obama urged the
House in a statement today to “act quickly on this critical
bill.”  Inspection Focus  The Senate bill calls for the FDA to inspect at least 600
foreign food facilities within a year of enactment, and double
its number of foreign inspections in each subsequent year for
five years. The measure would require inspections every three
years for U.S. manufacturing and processing plants the FDA deems
to be at a high risk for contamination, and every five years for
all other domestic facilities.  Under that schedule, 50,000 foreign and domestic food
facilities would be inspected in 2015 by the FDA or by federal,
state, local or foreign officials acting on the agency’s behalf,
according to the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office . The
legislation would cost about $1.4 billion during five years,
according to CBO estimates.  The FDA inspected fewer than half of the 51,229 U.S. food
facilities that were subject to such visits during the five
years ending in 2008, federal investigators said in an April
 report  that found “significant weaknesses” in the agency’s
food-safety system.  Reduced Visits  Food facility inspections declined to 15,000 in 2008 from
17,000 in 2004, according to the report, issued by the Health
and Human Services Department’s inspector general. The FDA
oversees 80 percent of the nation’s food supply, with meat and
poultry falling under  Department of Agriculture jurisdiction .  The legislation would require most food producers to
develop hazard prevention plans and would give the FDA access to
those records when requested. Some local food producers with
annual sales under $500,000 would be exempt from that rule under
language written by Democratic Senator  Jon Tester  of Montana, an
organic farmer.  An estimated  76 million  people contract  food-borne
illnesses  in the U.S. each year, with 325,000 hospitalizations
and 5,000 deaths, according to the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention  in Atlanta. Such illnesses cost the U.S. economy
$152 billion a year in health care and related expenses,
according to a March  report  by Georgetown University’s  Produce
Safety Project  in Washington.  Egg Recall  Salmonella that made as many as 1,800 people  ill  this year
was linked to eggs from two Iowa farms. The FDA said today that
Wright County Egg, one Iowa producer tied to a salmonella
outbreak this year, was cleared to resume U.S. shipments after
more than 900 hours of inspections.  The Senate legislation “doesn’t fix the real problem”
with the food safety system and may drive up food prices by $300
million to $400 million as companies pass compliance costs onto
consumers, said Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who
opposed the measure.  The Senate rejected, in a 62-36 vote, an  alternative  food-
safety proposal by Coburn that would have required FDA
technology upgrades and more coordination between that agency
and the Department of Agriculture.  “The problem with food safety is that the agencies don’t
do what they’re supposed to be doing now,” Coburn said in
today’s debate. “They don’t need more regulation; they need
less.”  Prevention Strategies  Food-industry and consumer groups urged the House to pass
the Senate measure quickly.  “This landmark legislation provides FDA with the resources
and authorities the agency needs to help strengthen our nation’s
food safety system by making prevention the focus of our food-
safety strategies,”  Pamela Bailey , president of the  Grocery
Manufacturers Association  in Washington, said in a  statement .
 Nestle SA  of Vevey, Switzerland, and Northfield, Illinois-based
 Kraft Foods Inc. , the world’s two biggest food companies, are
among the more than 300 members in the group.  Senate passage of the bill “represents a major milestone
for food-safety reform,”  Jean Halloran , director of food policy
initiatives at the nonprofit Consumers Union in Yonkers, New
York, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 