-- Burkle Is Said to Plan Commercial-Mortgage Bond Backed by Americold's Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-11-30T18:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/burkle-is-said-to-plan-commercial-mortgage-bond-backed-by-americold-s-debt.html
Billionaire  Ron Burkle  is seeking to
raise cash in a bond offering backed by  Americold Realty
Trust ’s debt as sales of securities tied to commercial
properties climb, according to people familiar with the
transaction.  Americold, a warehouse operator owned by Burkle’s Los
Angeles-based Yucaipa Cos., is planning a $600 million offering
linked to mortgages as soon as this week, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the plans aren’t public.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are managing
the transaction, the people said.  Burkle is turning to the bond market as Wall Street steps
up lending to property owners in a bid to revive sales of
commercial-mortgage-backed securities. Americold’s banks are
offering the debt six months after shelving an initial public
offering amid concern that Europe’s widening debt crisis would
spread.  “We are starting to see the signs of a new-issue market
beginning to take flight going into 2011,” said Harris Trifon,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. “This deal is
unique because it’s entirely comprised of specialized real
estate.”  The offering will be secured by refrigerated warehouses,
compared with recent transactions that have been backed
primarily by shopping malls and office buildings.  Burkle’s Plans  About $10 billion of commercial-mortgage bonds have been
issued this year, up from $3.4 billion in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales may reach $45 billion in 2011,
according to a Nov. 24 report from JPMorgan. Issuance in the
$650 billion market tumbled 95 percent to $11.2 billion in 2008
from a record $234 billion in 2007 as the credit crisis sapped
demand.  Burkle planned on using proceeds from the $660 million IPO
to buy warehouses from Vancouver-based Versacold International
Corp., which is partially owned by Yucaipa, according to a May 5
filing with the Securities and Exchange.  Yucaipa owns 49 percent of Versacold, and has an option to
acquire the remaining 51 percent, the filing said. Proceeds from
the bond sale could be used to purchase Versacold assets, one of
the people said.  JPMorgan spokeswoman Jennifer Zuccarelli and Michael
DuVally of Goldman Sachs declined to comment. Yucaipa spokesman
Frank Quintero didn’t immediately return phone calls seeking
comment. Both banks are based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  