-- Bush Tax-Cut Puzzle Has 6 Pieces to Fit Together With Brackets
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-30T17:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/bush-tax-cut-puzzle-has-six-pieces-that-need-to-fit-together-with-brackets.html
President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans kick-started negotiations today at the
White House over a possible extension of Bush-era tax cuts that
are set to expire Dec. 31.  They will have to confront six areas of dispute dealing
with taxes as well as issues such as renewing federal subsidies
for extended jobless benefits that run out today. Some are
exempt from budget-balancing rules. Others have to be paid for
with offsetting tax increases or spending cuts or Congress has
to vote to waive those budget rules, which requires 60 votes in
the 100-member Senate. Still others weren’t enacted under
President George W. Bush or already have expired.  The  Tax Coalition , a Washington group that includes anti-
tax organizations such as  Americans for Tax Reform  and business
trade associations such as the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , warned
lawmakers yesterday that a delay in extending the Bush-era tax
cuts would hurt the economic recovery.  “It’s going to muck up economic decisions” and cause
widespread selling of stocks as investors seek lower capital-
gains tax rates before year-end, said  Mark Bloomfield , president
of the  American Council for Capital Formation , a Washington
group that advocates for lower taxes on investments. Consumers
and investors “will be frozen because they don’t know what the
government’s going to do.”  Target: Highest Bracket  Groups including the AFL-CIO labor union back only an
extension of the middle-class tax cut. AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  this month said it is “absolutely insane” to preserve
lower tax rates at the top.  “We need to focus on creating jobs by giving tax breaks
only to middle-class families,” Trumka said earlier this month.
“Millionaires and Wall Street already had their party, which
tanked our economy and left Main Street stuck paying the bill.”  Following are the six elements, their revenue implications
and a description of where Obama and lawmakers stand.  The fight between Obama and congressional Republicans
centers on whether to cap an extension of lower tax rates and
higher credits adopted in 2001 for single taxpayers who earn
more than $200,000 a year and couples earning more than
$250,000. Obama supports the cap; Republicans and some Democrats
don’t.  The 2001 law carved a new 10 percent bracket from the 15
percent rate and reduced other marginal rates to 25, 28, 33 and
35 percent. In 2011, the 10 percent rate is scheduled to be
absorbed into the 15 percent rate, and the other brackets will
rise to 28, 31, 36 and 39.6 percent, respectively.  Credits, Subsidies  Lawmakers agree on preserving the 10, 15, 25 and 28 percent
brackets for taxpayers earning less than $250,000, which
requires an act of Congress. The government would forgo $66
billion in revenue in 2011 and $1.18 trillion across a decade by
doing so. Budget rules allow these cuts to be financed with
deficits.  There’s also no dispute over preserving  provisions  such as
a $1,000 child credit, relief from the so-called marriage
penalty and subsidies for education, adoption and child care.
Those provisions are permitted to add another $24 billion to the
deficit in 2011 and $746.3 billion over 10 years.  Republicans support the extension of lower rates in the top
brackets, along with abolishment of provisions that phase out
deductions and personal exemptions for high wage earners. Under
current law, Congress would have to raise taxes or cut spending
elsewhere in the budget by about $21.3 billion for 2011 and $573
billion over the next decade to retain the 33 and 35 percent tax
brackets. Alternatively, lawmakers can waive the budget law by
declaring an emergency, which would require 60 votes in the
Senate.  Alternative Minimum Tax  For married couples, the 33 percent rate currently applies
to taxable income between $209,250 and $373,650, after which the
top rate takes effect. If a couple had about $50,000 in
deductions, for example, they’d have to earn about $425,000 a
year to pay the top rates. Many would pay the alternative
minimum tax instead.  While Obama and Congress clash over taxes for 2011, they
are under pressure to act by Dec. 31 to roll back a $66 billion
tax increase already on the books for 2010 because of the
alternative minimum tax. The levy was created in 1969 to prevent
155 wealthy Americans from avoiding tax by claiming extensive
deductions, credits and exemptions.  It replaces common deductions such as those for medical
expenses and state and local taxes with a flat exemption.
Amounts that exceed the exemption are taxed at a 26 percent or
28 percent rate, depending on the amount of income. Taxpayers
who may owe the AMT must calculate their liability under both
systems and pay the higher amount.  Unintended Consequence  Because the AMT wasn’t indexed for inflation, over time it
has come to affect Americans with more modest incomes, many of
whom are surprised to find they owe it. Congress has spared
these taxpayers with a series of annual “patches” that
increase the flat exemption amount to account for inflation.  Lawmakers said Nov. 9 they are drafting legislation to set
the 2010 exemptions at $72,450 for married taxpayers filing
jointly and $47,450 for single taxpayers. The exemptions
currently are $45,000 and $33,750.  If nothing is done, it would result in an average tax
increase of $3,000 to $5,000 in 2010 for about 25 million
households, most of whom have never paid the AMT, according to
H&R Block Inc., the largest U.S. tax-preparation firm.  A one-year patch would cost the government about $66
billion in foregone revenue and can be financed with deficits
under budget rules.  Capital Gains, Dividends  The 2003 tax law reduced taxes on most long-term capital
gains to 15 percent from 20 percent. It also set a 15 percent
rate for many dividends that had been taxed as ordinary income
at an individual’s top marginal rate. Those previous rates are
slated to be reinstated in 2011 unless Congress acts, although
assets held longer than five years would qualify for an 18
percent capital-gains tax rate.  Obama proposes preserving the 15 percent rates on both for
individuals earning less than $200,000 and joint filers earning
less than $250,000. He supports allowing the capital gains rate
to revert to 20 percent for high earners. He also would cap the
dividend tax rate at 20 percent rather than allowing dividends
to be taxed as ordinary income. Budget rules don’t provide for
the 20 percent rate for dividends to be financed with deficits,
so Obama or lawmakers would have to waive them or find an
estimated $10 billion elsewhere in the budget for 2011, or $100
billion over 10 years.  Obama won enactment of higher taxes on investment income as
part of the health-care law he signed in March. In 2013, a 3.8
percent Medicare tax will apply for the first time to investment
income claimed by high-income taxpayers.  Business Tax Breaks  Republicans are seeking to keep the 15 percent rates in
place for high-income taxpayers. That would require budget
offsets of about $314.6 billion over 10 years or a waiver of the
rules.  Congress also is struggling to renew dozens of expired tax
breaks, about 80 percent of which benefit businesses. They
include a research and experimentation credit popular with such
companies as  Dow Chemical Co.  and  Harley-Davidson Inc .  Another break is tax deferral on profits that companies
including  General Electric Co.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  earn
from financing equipment sales or issuing credit cards overseas.
Versions of the legislation also would extend the Build America
Bonds program used by states and cities to finance things such
as road building and repairs.  State, Local Taxes  A handful of tax breaks for individuals also are popular
with lawmakers, the biggest being a deduction for state and
local sales taxes.  Like the AMT patch, most of these tax breaks expired at the
end of 2009, and lawmakers have been under pressure to renew
them since. They’ve been unable to agree because Republicans,
and a few Democrats, object to the revenue-raising proposals
added to comply with budget rules, the largest of which calls
for higher taxes on so-called carried interest.  Carried interest is the compensatory share of profits
earned by managers of investment partnerships. It can qualify
for lower capital gains rates even as the share is tied to the
manager’s labor rather than a capital investment. Democrats have
framed the proposal as ending a loophole exploited by executives
at private-equity firms and passed legislation taxing carried
interest at the higher rates that apply to wages.  Carried-Interest Fight  Republicans have opposed the proposal with the help of the
real estate and venture-capital industries. They argue that the
change is so sweeping it would also raise taxes on family
partnerships. They’ve also opposed other revenue offsets in the
bill, including higher levies on oil and gas companies.  Dropping the carried interest provision would provoke
outrage among Democrats who still control the House during the
lame-duck session.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  of Montana
said this month that he’s committed to keeping the carried
interest provision in the measure. Analysts say that would make
it tough to find 60 votes in the Senate in support of dropping
the proposal.  The funding puzzle is further complicated by the fact that
a one-year extension would renew the breaks for 2010 only.
Extending them through 2011 would more than double the cost.  Estate, Gift Taxes  There’s no federal estate tax for 2010 because of a phase-
out schedule established by the 2001 law; in its place is a
complicated capital gains tax.  The expiration is sandwiched between two sets of rules for
2009 and 2011, which has perplexed lawyers, accountants and
wealthy families.  In 2009, individuals had a $3.5 million tax-free allowance
they could distribute to heirs; couples had a $7 million
exemption. Amounts beyond those were subject to a top 45 percent
tax rate. Next year, the estate tax is slated to return, with a
higher top rate of 55 percent and a lower tax-free allowance of
$1 million per individual. That would generate $34.4 billion in
revenue for 2011, according to the  Congressional Research
Service .  Obama favors, and the House of Representatives has passed,
permanently reinstating the 2009 rates and allowances.  Extending the 2009 parameters through 2011 requires no
offsets.  Any long-term change that generates less revenue than a 55
percent rate and a $1 million exemption would require budget-
balancing measures. A 45 percent rate in 2011 would generate
$18.1 billion in revenue, according to the CRS.  Most Republicans favor repealing the estate tax, which
would require $666.1 billion in revenue offsets over the next
decade under the budget rules.  Phase-In Proposal  More recently, Republicans such as Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky have endorsed an approach advanced
by Senators  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, and  Blanche Lincoln ,
an Arkansas Democrat, to phase in a $5 million tax-free
allowance and set the top rate at 35 percent. That would require
up to $315 billion in budget offsets or a waiver.  No proposal yet has mustered the 60 votes needed to clear
procedural hurdles in the Senate and pass.  The last major element of the debate involves Obama’s tax
policies rather than those of Bush. The 2009 stimulus bill
created a new Making Work Pay tax credit that increased the
paychecks of married couples by up to $800 in 2009 and 2010.
That credit expires Dec. 31, along with the Bush-era tax cuts,
and would cost about $61.8 billion a year to extend. It would
require budget offsets. The stimulus measure also expanded
refundable credits for the working poor.  Illinois Senator  Richard Durbin , the No. 2 ranking
Democrat, said on Nov. 28 that Democrats would insist on an
extension of Obama’s policies during negotiations. He also said
Democrats would tie extension of federal subsidies for extended
unemployment benefits to the tax discussion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  