-- California Order to Release Inmates Questioned by U.S. Justices at Hearing
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-30T20:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/california-inmate-release-order-questioned-by-u-s-high-court.html
U.S. Supreme Court  justices
questioned whether a lower court went too far when it ordered
California to reduce its prison population by 46,000 within two
years to ease overcrowding.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, the justices sought
to balance the rights of the inmates, who say they lack access
to adequate medical and mental health care, with the state’s
interest in managing its own penal system and with the safety
needs of its citizens. The release order is the largest of its
kind in U.S. history.  The 80-minute hearing revealed a court likely to be divided
on the order, issued by a three-judge federal court after more
than two decades of litigation. The split may leave the outcome
in the hands of Justice  Anthony Kennedy , whose questioning
suggested that he would require changes in the order without
overturning it altogether.  “At some point the court has to say, ‘You have been given
enough time,’” Kennedy said. “Overcrowding is the principal
cause, as experts have testified, and now it’s time for a
remedy.”  California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  is appealing the
order, arguing that it conflicts with a federal law aimed at
reducing prison litigation. The lawyer representing the state,
 Carter Phillips , told the justices that the lower court didn’t
adequately consider the public safety impact of releasing so
many prisoners.  “I guarantee you that there is going to be more crime and
people are going to die on the streets of California,” he said.  $19 Billion Deficit  California, the nation’s most populous state, doesn’t
contest that its prisoners have been held in unconstitutional
conditions. Its appeal focuses solely on the remedy ordered by
the lower court and argues that the state should have been given
more time to address the problems. The state is facing a $19
billion budget deficit during its next fiscal year.  Two groups of prisoners, along with the union that
represents the state’s prison employees, are pressing the case
against California.  The three-judge panel found that some prisons had
populations approaching 300 percent of their intended capacity,
leading to increased violence and disease. The panel ordered the
state to find a way to cut its inmate population to 137.5
percent of design capacity.  Freeing Prisoners  Justice  Samuel Alito  questioned whether the best way to
address the problems was to set prisoners free.  “Why order the release of all those people, rather than
ordering the provision of the construction of facilities for
medical care, facilities to treat mental illness, hiring of
staff treat mental illness?” Alito asked.  A lawyer representing some of the inmates said a trial
judge had issued 70 orders over a 15-year period aimed directly
at the health-care problems. Only when those efforts proved
ineffective did the three-judge panel issue the release order,
he said.  “Unless you reduce the crowding, nothing else is going to
work,” said the lawyer for the inmates, Donald Specter. “When
you reduce overcrowding, the prison will be able to operate and
will be able to provide those services that it can’t provide
now.”  A Long Wait  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  signaled that she would back
Specter’s argument. “How much longer do we have to wait?
Another 20 years?” she asked.  Justice  Stephen Breyer  said he had looked at pictures of
the prison facilities online and found them to be “pretty
horrendous.” Justice  Elena Kagan  said the state was asking the
court to second-guess lower court judges on “the facts that
they’ve been dealing with for 20 years.”  Other justices offered more support for the state. Chief
Justice  John Roberts  said he questioned whether the three-judge
panel had considered the effect on public safety, as is required
under the 1996 Prison Litigation Reform Act.  “Isn’t that a basis for overturning the remedy that’s
imposed here?” Roberts asked.  Kennedy wondered aloud whether the release order went too
far. He questioned the panel’s requirement that the state cut
its inmate population to 137.5 percent of design capacity,
saying an order requiring a reduction to 145 percent might have
been sufficient.  Under the 1996 law, “if there is going to be a release
order, it must be releasing the minimum amount,” Kennedy said.  The case, which the court will resolve by July, is
Schwarzenegger v. Plata, 09-1233.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 