-- Canada Economy Slows to 1% Pace in Third Quarter as Currency Cuts Exports
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-30T21:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/canada-economy-probably-slowed-in-third-quarter-as-currency-curbed-exports.html
Canada’s economy slowed more than
forecast in the third quarter as a strong currency restrained
 exports  and boosted imports, giving the central bank more reason
to keep  interest rates  unchanged into next year.  Gross domestic product  expanded at a 1 percent annual pace
in the third quarter, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa,
following an increase of 2.3 percent in the prior three months.
Economists predicted a 1.5 percent gain, according to the median
of 26  estimates  gathered by Bloomberg News.  The Canadian dollar has strengthened 26 percent against the
U.S. dollar since March 2009, curbing exports by companies such
as forest-products firm  Tembec Inc . and encouraging companies to
import equipment to boost productivity. Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  left interest rates unchanged last month after three
prior increases, citing the “more gradual” recovery, and a
separate economist survey suggests no further action until the
second quarter of 2011.  “The Canadian economy can’t put distance between itself
and the U.S., and that’s because of trade,” said  Doug Porter ,
deputy chief economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.
“There is no urgency for the Bank of Canada to start tightening
again.”  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.8 percent to C$1.0264
per U.S. dollar at 4:44 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0181
yesterday, after touching C$1.0287, the weakest level since Oct.
28. One Canadian dollar buys 97.43 U.S. cents.  Exports Decline  Exports, which equaled 32 percent of Canada’s economy in
2009, declined by 1.3 percent following four previous gains,
today’s report showed. About three-quarters of those shipments
went to the U.S. last year.  On a monthly basis, output unexpectedly shrank 0.1 percent
in September, led by oil and gas production and manufacturing.
The median estimate was for a 0.1 percent rise in a Bloomberg
survey of 26 economists.  Imports of goods and services rose 1.6 percent in the July-
September period, the fifth straight increase, Statistics Canada
said. The rise in imports was led by a 6.3 percent increase for
machinery and equipment, today’s report said.  Capital spending by companies on the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index that have reported results in this earnings
season rose 19.2 percent from a year earlier to C$27 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Strong Dollar  The Canadian dollar has traded for close to parity with the
U.S. dollar for most of this year, adding to pressure on
exporters from increased competition and uneven global demand.  The U.S. Commerce Department last week said the world’s
largest economy grew at an annualized pace of 2.5 percent, up
from an initial estimate of 2 percent.  “The economic recovery is slow to pick up momentum,
especially in the U.S.,”  Alain Bouchard , President and Chief
Executive Officer of Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc., said on a
Nov. 23 earnings call. The Laval, Quebec-based company owns
Mac’s and Circle K convenience stores.  Carney has said Canada’s recovery will be led by exports
and business investment over the next two years as government
stimulus spending wanes and consumer spending slows. Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  has said he is ending a two-year package
of infrastructure spending at the end of March.  Housing was also a drag on growth in the third quarter,
posting a 1.3 percent drop that was the first since the start of
last year, Statistics Canada said. Government spending growth
slowed to 0.2 percent from 0.7 percent.  Consumers Lead  Growth was led by consumer spending on goods and services,
which advanced by 0.9 percent, and by a 4.6 percent gain for
business investment in plant and equipment, the fastest since
2005.  Businesses inventories rose by C$17.5 billion in the third
quarter, compared with a C$15 billion accumulation in the second
quarter.  Gross domestic income, a measure of purchasing power, rose
at a 0.3 percent annualized pace in the third quarter. That was
slower than rates of 2.7 percent in the second quarter and 7.8
percent in the first three months of the year.  The central bank will keep its policy rate unchanged at 1
percent until the second quarter of next year and raise it to 2
percent by the end of 2011, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predict. The next decision is Dec. 7.  The report “is a disappointment to the market and it’s a
disappointment to the Bank of Canada,”  Eric Lascelles , chief
economics and rates strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit, said in a phone interview. He predicts no rate
increase until July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  