-- Canada's Ruling Conservatives Capture Key Toronto-Area Seat in By-election
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-30T15:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/canada-s-ruling-conservatives-capture-key-toronto-area-seat-in-by-election.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper’s  Conservative Party won a by-election in a constituency
near Toronto formerly held by the opposition Liberals, making
inroads in a region where it needs to win in order to form a
majority government.  Julian Fantino , the former commissioner of the Ontario
Provincial Police, ran for the Conservatives and won in Vaughn,
a constituency held by the Liberals for more than two decades.
While losing the Toronto-area seat, the Liberals captured a seat
in Winnipeg, Manitoba, formerly held by the left-leaning New
Democratic Party in a separate vote. Three by-elections  were
held  yesterday, with the Conservatives retaining a second
Manitoba constituency.  “The Conservatives know that their path to majority
territory must have some sort of breakthrough in the 905 or
suburban belt around Toronto,” said  Nikita Nanos , president of
Ottawa-based polling firm Nanos Research, referring to the
region’s area code. “Vaughan is a very good laboratory test for
the Conservatives.”  The Conservatives need to win more seats in and around
Canada’s largest cities to obtain a majority of seats in
Parliament. After winning minority governments in elections in
2006 and 2008, Harper’s government has emphasized law and order
issues and the  economy  in a bid to boost its representation
around Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal.  Harper said in a statement today that the vote result shows
his party is right to focus on the economy and crime.  ‘Political Juice’  “Last night, voters in the federal by-elections chose to
endorse our government’s actions on these fronts by sending two
new Conservative MPs to be their champions,” Harper said.  Nanos said the victory indicates “that there could be
political juice in crime as an issue.”  Votes took place yesterday to fill seats in the House of
Commons left open by lawmakers who resigned to run in municipal
elections in Ontario and Manitoba. Before yesterday’s by-
elections, Harper was  13 seats  short of a majority in the House
of Commons, meaning he needs the support of at least one of the
three opposition parties to remain in power.  Vaughan , a suburban area north of Toronto, had a median
household income of C$86,915 ($84,625) in Statistics Canada’s
2006 census, compared with C$53,634 per household for Canada as
a whole. Liberal  Maurizio Bevilacqua  held the district, which
was redesigned twice to account for population growth, since
1988.  Polling Numbers  The Conservatives were supported by 37 percent of Canadians
nationally in a Nanos Research  poll  taken Nov. 1 to Nov. 5,
compared with 32 percent for the Liberals. The survey of 1,017
people has a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points. In the
2008 general election, the Conservatives took 38 percent of the
vote, compared with 26 percent for the Liberals.  Fantino won 49 percent of the vote in Vaughan, winning by
1003 votes over Liberal Tony Genco, who had 47 percent,
according to  results  posted on the Elections Canada website.  In the other two by-elections, the New Democratic Party,
the smallest party in the legislature, lost the Manitoba seat of
Winnipeg North. Liberal Kevin Lamoureux received 46 percent of
the vote, compared with 41 percent for the NDP. The
Conservatives held the rural Manitoba district Dauphin-Swan
River-Marquette, gaining 57 percent of the vote.  After the results, the Conservatives will have 143 of the
308  seats  in the House of Commons, the Liberals will have 77,
the Bloc Quebecois 47, the New Democrats 36, and 2 will be held
by independents. There are also three more vacancies to be
filled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 