-- Cantor Fitzgerald Will Hire About 200 in Europe as It Aims to Double Sales
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-11-30T15:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/cantor-will-hire-200-in-europe-in-effort-to-double-revenue-in-five-years.html
Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., a financial
capital market dealer that started an investment banking
business in 2008, plans to hire at least 200 people in Europe
within two years as it seeks to double sales in five years.  “The financial landscape is changing and the opportunity
set has never been better,” Chief Executive Officer Shawn
Matthews said today in an interview. “ We think we can grow our
business organically or through acquisition. I will be
disappointed if we don’t double our business in the next five
years.”  Cantor Fitzgerald is expanding after more than 300,000
financial-industry jobs were cut during the worst recession
since the Great Depression. The New York-based firm is looking
to build its investment-banking franchise through expanding its
distribution networks and cementing relationships with mid-sized
companies, which encounter difficulty getting services from
large investment banks. It’s also looking at opportunities to
buy capital markets divisions of banks or individual dealers.  About half of the new hires would be for fixed-income
business, which accounts for about 50 percent of Cantor’s sales
now, he said. Cantor, founded in 1945, has about 180 people in
Europe. In January the firm said it will target more municipal
bond business, adding bankers and traders.  Targeting Mid-Market  “Big institutions are going after the top 200 accounts
because that’s where the liquidity is. I think we can forge more
relationships in the mid-market especially when liquidity is
easy for the big guys but pretty hard once you drop below
that,” Matthews said. “There are a lot of orphaned
corporations that don’t have the banking capabilities they used
to have three, four years ago.”  Banks are halving the interest margin they charge for
lending to investment-grade companies in Europe to an average 89
basis points this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Investment-grade corporate borrowers raised 74 percent more from
syndicated loans this year, according to Bloomberg data. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Matthews expects smaller banks to retrench “drastically”
from overseas markets in the next few years while large banks
continue to shrink assets as a result of Basel III regulations.  The G-20 endorsed the new rules this month that require
banks to more than triple the highest-quality capital they hold
as provision against losses.  “Eventually the large financial institutions will start to
look more like us than we like them,” Matthews said “It will
take them years and years to change, which is why we are looking
to grow significantly in the next three to five years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  