-- Carrefour Declines After Profit Forecast Cut for Second Time in Two Months
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-12-01T13:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/carrefour-cuts-2010-profit-forecast-brazil-writedown-triples.html
Carrefour SA , the world’s second-
largest retailer, fell the most in almost two years in Paris
trading after cutting its profit forecast and saying Brazilian
writedowns will be more than three times higher than expected.  So-called activity contribution, a measure of operating
profit, will be about 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) in 2010,
the Paris-based company said late yesterday, trimming an earlier
 forecast  by about 130 million euros. One-time charges in Brazil
will be 550 million euros, up from an October estimate of 180
million euros, and will now be taken as non-operating income.  The forecast revision is the second in two months from
Carrefour, which has predicted higher sales and profit through
2015 as it upgrades western European superstores.  Lars Olofsson ,
who joined as chief executive officer last year, aims to win
more customers in Europe by cutting prices, offering more of the
retailer’s own products and boosting discounts and advertising.  “This is a blow to credibility,”  Dave McCarthy , an
analyst at Evolution Securities in London, wrote in a note.
“While we still believe that management are taking the correct
actions in restructuring the business, results are unlikely
until later in 2011 at the earliest.” McCarthy cut his
recommendation on Carrefour to “neutral” from “buy” and
lowered his price target to 35 euros a share from 48 euros.  Carrefour  dropped  as much as 3.53 euros, or 10 percent, to
31.33 euros, the steepest intraday decline since Dec. 18, 2008.
The stock traded at 32.30 euros as of 1:57 p.m.  2013, 2015 Targets Unaffected  The retailer’s targets for 2013 and 2015 won’t be affected
by “earlier mismanagement” in Brazil, Olofsson said on a
conference call yesterday. Carrefour aims to lift activity
contribution to 5.2 billion euros in 2013 and 6.4 billion euros
in 2015, compared with 2.7 billion euros in 2009, the CEO said
in September.  “We now believe it unlikely that the market will buy into
2013 and 2015 guidance until tangible improvement is seen in
reported numbers,” Evolution’s McCarthy wrote.  The reduction in the profit outlook stemmed from weak sales
at Brazilian superstores, a worse-than-expected performance in
France since September and adverse economic conditions in Italy,
Greece and Spain, Chief Financial Officer  Pierre Bouchut  said on
yesterday’s call. The measure of operating profit was also cut
by 50 million euros after the sale of Thai operations last
month.  Brazilian Charges  Carrefour replaced its  management  in  Brazil  and hired KPMG
LLP in October to audit its operations there after a poor
performance of the unit’s superstores. The retailer has also
commissioned a separate investigation to identify who may be
responsible for the need to make accounting changes that include
adjustments to inventory and asset depreciation at the unit.  “We are confident that we can fix the situation rapidly to
come back to a sustainable, profitable earnings situation in
Brazil,” Bouchut said.  The Brazilian charges are made up of 110 million euros of
depreciation and inventory adjustments; 280 million euros of
provisions for labor and tax litigation; 35 million euros of
unrecoverable supplier rebates; 75 million euros of asset
depreciation; and 50 million euros of other accounting
adjustments, Bouchut said.  French Market Share  Carrefour has lost market share in France since September
after competitors opened more stores, while price deflation “is
evidently pressing margins,” Olofsson said yesterday. On a so-
called like-for-like basis, the retailer is gaining market share
and considerable cost reductions mean “we should be able to
grow our  margins  in 2010 compared to 2009 in France,” he said.  “An increasingly competitive environment in France, as
well as economic weakness in Europe cited by the company suggest
Carrefour may struggle to retain the benefit of its cost-cutting
initiatives,”  Christopher Hogbin , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in London, wrote today in a report. He maintained his
“market perform” rating on the stock and lowered his price
target to 36 euros a share from 40 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  