-- Businesses in U.S. Grow at Faster Pace Than Forecast
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-30T15:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/chicago-purchasing-managers-index-increased-to-62-5-in-november.html
Businesses in the U.S. expanded at a
faster pace than forecast in November, signaling the world’s
largest economy was speeding up heading into 2011.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its  business barometer  rose to 62.5 this month, the highest
since April, from 60.6 in October. Figures greater than 50
signal expansion. The  median forecast  of 63 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News projected the gauge would fall to 59.9.  Manufacturing may keep accelerating as  exports  grow and
companies invest in new equipment, sustaining the recovery from
the worst recession since the 1930s. Gains in factory production
will probably help offset continued weakness in housing, which
is a shrinking part of the world’s largest economy.  “Manufacturers still have orders coming in and they have
to be filled,”  Thomas Simons , an economist at Jefferies Group
Inc. in New York, said before the report. “There is a lot of
foreign demand and a lot of business demand.”  Others reports today showed consumer confidence improved
more than forecast and home prices cooled.  The Conference Board’s  confidence index  increased to 54.1,
a five-month high, from a revised 49.9 in October, figures from
the New York-based research group showed. Measures of employment
and income expectations improved.  Home Prices  Home prices in 20 cities rose in September at the slowest
pace in eight months, showing the latest slump in sales is
destabilizing housing. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values climbed 0.6 percent from September 2009, the smallest
gain since January, the last time prices declined year over
year. The increase was smaller than the 1 percent  median
forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Stocks trimmed earlier losses following the reports. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent to 1,179.78 at
10:06 a.m. in New York on concern the European debt crisis will
worsen. Treasury securities rose, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 2.77 percent from 2.82 percent
late yesterday.  Estimates for the Chicago purchasers’ index ranged from 55
to 62.1.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual
pace from July through September, the Commerce Department said
last week. Investment on equipment and software rose at a 17
percent pace while consumer spending rose at a 2.8 percent rate.  Production, Orders  The Chicago group’s production gauge climbed to 71.3, the
highest level since February 2005, from 69.8 in October. The
gauge of new orders climbed to 67.2, the highest since May 2007,
from 65. The employment measure rose to 56.3 from 54.6 the prior
month.  The average shopper in the U.S. spent $365.34, or 6.4
percent more, over Thanksgiving weekend than last year as more
people picked up jewelry and toys, the National Retail
Federation said Nov. 28. Retailers lured people into stores with
promotions like  Wal-Mart Stores  Inc.’s $5 Barbie and J.C. Penney
Co.’s $10 diamond-accented earrings.  Automakers are seeing sales and profits pick up. Car sales
in October rose to a 12.25 million unit annual pace, the highest
since August 2009, from 11.7 million in September, industry data
showed this month.  Sales at Ford in October increased 15 percent from a year
earlier to 157,935, the Dearborn-Michigan based company said in
a statement. Sales at  General Motors Co.  climbed 3.5 percent to
183,759, the Detroit-based automaker said this month.  Expanding Capacity  GM, the automaker 33 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury,
will invest $163.2 million at two plants in Michigan and one in
Ohio to expand production of small engines, the Detroit-based
company said last week in a statement.  The investment will preserve 184 jobs in Flint and Bay
City, Michigan, and Defiance, Ohio, the automaker said.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the outlook
nationally. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge of measure
of overall growth. Its members have operations across the U.S.
and abroad.  Other measures of manufacturing so far showed a divergence
this month. One regional survey showed  New York-region  factories
contracted in November for the first time in more than a year
while another Fed survey showed those in the  Philadelphia  area
expanded at the fastest pace this year.  Manufacturing Nationally  The ISM’s monthly national  factory index , due tomorrow, may
drop to 56.5 in November from 56.9 in October, which was the
highest in five months. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  Foreign sales are a bright spot for factories as exports in
September rose to the highest level in two years, according to
Commerce Department data released Nov. 10. Some businesses are
responding to greater demand from the U.S. and abroad by
replacing aging equipment and bringing more parts of their
plants online.  Rockwell Automation  Inc., the Milwaukee-based maker of
factory software, said it sees interest rising in large-scale
plant projects for full-production lines in developed markets, a
sign that those economies may be picking up steam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 