-- China Yangtze Said in Talks to Take Stake in EuroSibEnergo as IPO Investor
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-30T09:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/china-yangtze-said-in-talks-to-take-stake-in-eurosibenergo-as-ipo-investor.html
China Yangtze Power Co. , the
nation’s biggest hydro dam operator, is in talks to buy a stake
in  OAO EuroSibEnergo  as a key investor for the Russian utility’s
planned initial share sale in Hong Kong, said three people
familiar with the matter.  The investment requires approval from the Chinese
government, the people said, declining to be identified as the
talks are private. EuroSibEnergo has delayed its offering until
2011 because of the discussions, according to the people. The
companies are still negotiating on the price, one of them said.  Chinese utilities are collaborating with neighboring
countries including Myanmar on power projects that would help
supply the world’s fastest-growing major economy. The Russian
utility, controlled by billionaire  Oleg Deripaska , has also
enlisted  China Yangtze  as a partner in building power plants in
Siberia and Russia’s Far East, with some of the generation due
for export to China.  “China Yangtze is looking abroad to diversify its
portfolio,”  Cheng Jianguo , an analyst with Guoyuan Securities
Co., said by telephone. “Potential hydro resources outside
China, including Russia and some southern Asian countries, will
be able to supplement its domestic projects and maintain the
company’s growth.”  China is undertaking a study with Myanmar and Thailand on a
7,000-megawatt plant on the Salween, the Chinese government said
Nov. 16. EuroSibEnergo and  China Yangtze , whose output more than
doubled in the first nine months, plan to add 10,000 megawatts
of capacity in Russia, Deripaska’s company said yesterday.  China Yangtze has fallen 15 percent in Shanghai this year,
tracking the 14 percent decline in the benchmark Composite Index.
The  stock  dropped 1.6 percent to close at 7.57 yuan today.  Exports to China  Andrei Petrushinin , a spokesman at EN+ Group, Deripaska’s
holding company for EuroSibEnergo and his 48 percent stake in
Rusal, declined to comment.  Lou Jian , China Yangtze’s Beijing-
based secretary, couldn’t immediately be reached by telephone.  EuroSibEnergo in September signed an accord with Just
Group to install 4,000 megawatts of output capacity in Mongolia
that may transmit power to China, EuroSibEnergo said on Sept. 8.  It may take at least five years to start exporting
electricity to China from Russia, partly because of a lack of
infrastructure, EN+ head of strategy Dmitry Yudin said on Sept.
15. The group is in talks with Chinese electricity producers on
joint ventures, Yudin said at the time.  Seeking Funds  EuroSibEnergo, controlled by  Oleg Deripaska , is seeking
$1.5 billion in a Hong Kong IPO, adding to the $2.2 billion
raised by the billionaire’s  United Co. Rusal  in a share sale in
January. Aluminum maker Rusal, whose listing was the first by a
Russian company in Hong Kong, has since  dropped  9 percent.  New York hedge fund manager Paulson & Co., Russian state-
owned development bank Vnesheconombank and Malaysian billionaire
Robert Kuok were among investors that agreed to buy Rusal’s
shares as so-called cornerstone investors. Cheung Kong (Holdings)
Ltd., controlled by billionaire Li Ka-shing, also took part.  Investors would be more confident in EuroSibEnergo’s share
sale were it backed by “independent, prominent financial
investors,”  Michael Hanson-Lawson , chief executive officer of
Hong-Kong based East Capital Asia Ltd., said by phone. “It’s
not really surprising that China Yangtze is going to promote
this listing as it’s in their own interest.”  Proceeds from the EuroSibEnergo share sale will help repay
debt, buy assets and add capacity, a person familiar with the
plans said in August. An analyst at BOC International Holdings
Ltd., one of the IPO’s underwriters, valued the company at $4.1
billion to $5.3 billion.  Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Credit
Suisse Group AG, VTB Capital and Renaissance Capital are among
the other banks helping to manage the IPO.  Companies in Hong Kong, Asia’s third-biggest stock market,
have raised a record $49 billion from IPOs this year as
investors seek to benefit from growth in the region, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg that include overallotment shares.  -- Wang Ying  in Beijing,  Fox Hu  in Hong Kong and  Yuriy Humber  in
Tokyo. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Tan Hwee Ann .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuriy Humber  in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 