-- China Property Market's Outlook Stable, Correction Expected, Moody's Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-30T04:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/china-developers-will-withstand-moderate-price-correction-moody-s-says.html
China’s property market was given a
stable outlook by Moody’s Investors Service, which expects
developers to withstand a “moderate downward correction” in
prices in the next year following government curbs.  China this year suspended mortgages for third-home
purchases and pledged to speed up trials of property taxes to
restrain foreign capital and cool real estate prices. It last
month raised interest rates for the first time in three years.  “The improved liquidity positions of developers, resulting
from robust sales over the last year, and the low debt leverage
of buyers together reduce the risk of any panic sales,” Moody’s
analysts  Kaven Tsang ,  Peter Choy  and  Gary Lau  wrote in a report
today. That would also help “avoid any drastic correction,”
they said.  Home sales volume in 17 of 35 major cities increased last
week from the previous week, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. ,
which operates China’s biggest real-estate  website . Beijing had
the biggest increase, with sales volume climbing 62.4 percent
last week, SouFun said in an e-mailed statement, while coastal
cities Hangzhou and Chongqing in southeastern China both posted
gains of more than 30 percent.  China’s  property prices  rose at the slowest pace in 10
months in October after the rate increase and expanded measures
to limit the risk of asset bubbles in the world’s fastest-
growing major economy. Home  prices  in 70 cities climbed 8.6
percent from a year earlier, the government said on Nov. 10.  The latest set of regulatory measures will be
“progressively enforced,” Moody’s said.  Contracted sales values, or a combination of sales volumes
and prices, for the 23 Chinese developers tracked by the credit
rating company will drop 15 percent to 20 percent in 2011,
Moody’s said. That is “manageable” for most of the real-
estate companies, it added.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. , Country Garden
Holdings Co. and  Agile Property Holdings Ltd.  are among the
Chinese developers rated by Moody’s.  -- Bonnie Cao . With assistance from  Victoria Batchelor  in Sydney.
Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Bonnie Cao  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  