-- China Stocks Cap First Monthly Drop Since June on Rates, Europe Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-30T09:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/china-stocks-head-for-1st-monthly-drop-since-june-on-rate-europe-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell, sending the
benchmark index to its first monthly drop since June, as
speculation the government will raise interest rates and the
European debt crisis may spread threatened the economic outlook.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. slid more than 2
percent, pacing losses for lenders, after a Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences economist said the government needs to boost
borrowing costs by another 200 basis points. Kweichow Moutai Co.
and Harbin Pharmaceutical Group led declines by consumer staples
and drug stocks after the industry groups outperformed benchmark
indexes this month and the government cut medicine prices.  “The government’s tightening measures like interest-rate
hikes may come faster than the market expects, as it proved to
be in the previous rounds,” said  Leo Gao , who helps oversee
about $600 million at APS Asset Management Ltd. in Shanghai.
“The stock market will face downward pressure.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 46.18, or 1.6 percent, to close
at 2,820.18. That capped a 5.3 percent decline this month, the
first drop since June. The  CSI 300 Index  fell 1.7 percent to
3,136.99.  The Shanghai gauge has lost 11 percent since reaching an
almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 after the government ordered
banks to set aside larger reserves twice this month after
raising interest rates in October to fight inflation. Consumer
prices jumped 4.4 percent last month, more than the 4 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists, the
statistics bureau reported Nov. 11.  Tighter Liquidity  China’s stocks extended losses on concerns about tighter
liquidity and after the Ministry of Finance said it will expand
a capital gains tax of 20 percent on the sale or transfer of
restricted shares.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures funding
availability in the money market, climbed 63 basis points to
3.31 percent, the highest level since October 2008, according to
a fixing rate published by the National Interbank Funding Center.  Holders of so-called lock-up shares through mergers or
inheritance will be required to pay the tax on each transaction,
the ministry said in a statement. It previously only required
investors to pay the tax if they sold restricted stock acquired
through a state-owned company’s transition to a publicly listed
company.  ICBC paced  declines  for banks, sliding 2.1 percent to 4.20
yuan. China Construction Bank Corp. dropped 1.7 percent to 4.62
yuan.  The recent increases in the reserve requirement ratio won’t
be enough to reverse excessive liquidity in the system, Zhong
Jiyin, an economist with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences,
wrote in a commentary in the China Daily today.  Faster Inflation  China may see inflation quicken this month from October’s
price rises driven by food costs, making it “almost certain”
that inflation will top 3 percent for the full year,  Sheng Songcheng , former head of the central bank’s Shenyang branch,
wrote in a commentary in the official Financial News.  The central bank should clearly state that it is shifting
to a “prudent” monetary policy and allow further yuan
appreciation to combat rising inflation, Sheng said. There is
still room for further increases in reserve requirement ratios
for banks, Sheng wrote.  The government will hold an annual economic conference in
Beijing late next week to set guidelines for monetary and fiscal
policy in 2011, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Officials may discuss lending and inflation targets at the
Dec. 10-12 meeting, one of the people said, speaking on
condition of anonymity.  Economic Data  The Purchasing Managers’ Index, a gauge of manufacturing,
may rise to 54.8 percent this month from last month’s 54.7
percent, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The measure is scheduled to be released tomorrow.  A gauge of  consumer staples  companies slid for the first
time in nine days, losing 3.2 percent. Kweichow Moutai, a
spirits maker, fell 5.4 percent to 204.81 yuan, narrowing this
month’s gains to 26 percent. Rival Wuliangye Yibin declined 4
percent to 39.13 yuan. The measure gained 10 percent this month,
the most among the 10 industry groups.  Harbin Pharmaceutical led declines for drugmakers, sliding
3.5 percent to 24.92 yuan. The health-care gauge has risen 4.5
percent this month for the second-best performance among groups.  China will cut the prices of 17 types of medicines
including antibiotics and cardiovascular drugs starting Dec. 12,
the National Development and Reform Commission said today. The
cuts were announced after the nation’s top planning agency said
in an urgent notice on Nov. 23 it will trim prices of selected
drugs to stabilize costs in the country.  Developers Drop  Property developers  fell after Moody’s Investors Service
said that it has a stable outlook for China’s property sector,
although a “moderate downward correction” is expected in
prices during 2011.  China Vanke Co., the country’s largest developer by market
value, slipped 0.5 percent to 8.13 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group
Co. lost 1.3 percent to 12.12 yuan.  Emerging-market equity funds have taken in $84.3 billion
this year, exceeding the record $83.3 billion received last year,
EPFR Global said in an e-mailed statement. China posted its
largest weekly inflows in the week to Nov. 24 since September,
it said.  “The liquidity-driven rally will likely carry on in the
next six months,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Minggao Shen
wrote in a note to clients. “We remain bullish on China.”  Liquidity Gains  The  A-shares index  may touch 3,800 to 4,000 in 2011, they
said. Given the inflationary environment and prospects for
further yuan appreciation, Citigroup said it recommended an
“overweight” allocation for cement companies, automakers,
heath-care companies as well as technology stocks.  Global stocks extended losses into a fourth week and the
euro weakened as Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($113 billion)
bailout failed to ease concern the region’s most-indebted
nations will need further aid.  Ireland, swamped by the bursting of a decade-long real-
estate bubble and unemployment approaching 14 percent, became
the second country to tap European assistance. Spain is the
“big elephant” in the European debt crisis because there may
not be enough money to bail out the Iberian nation, said Nouriel
Roubini, chairman of Roubini Global Economics, who predicted the
global economic slump of 2008.  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 20
percent the nation’s overseas shipments.  The Shanghai gauge has rebounded 19 percent since reaching
this year’s low on July 5 on expectations central banks around
the world will inject more cash into their economies to boost
growth. The index remains down 14 percent this year, Asia’s
worst performing benchmark index, after the government tightened
monetary policy and curbed lending growth to cool the economy.  “The rebound is doomed to be short,” said Li Jun, a
strategist at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “With
liquidity reduced and a weaker global economy, there’s no major
support for a big rise.”  -- Irene Shen . With assistance from Judy Chen. Editors:  Allen Wan ,
 Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  