-- Chinese Throng Burgundy Auction, Barrel Fetches $526,080
-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 2010-11-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/chinese-throng-burgundy-auction-barrel-fetches-526-080-a-craig-copetas.html
It looked to be just another humdrum
barrel of wine rolled out at last week’s 150th  Hospices de
Beaune , the annual charity auction that historically sets the
benchmark price for French Burgundy.  “Very fruity,” was the verdict of Christie’s
International Plc wine master  Anthony Hanson  on the donated 2010
Beaune 1er Cru Cuvee Nicolas Rolin.  Then China’s $2.5 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves --
and the country’s growing taste for any fluid festooned French -
- transformed a mediocre Burgundy harvest into a vintage of
magnificence.  “Sold for 400,000 euros ($526,080),” shouted French film
star Fabrice Luchini, who as guest auctioneer slammed the gavel
down on a 500-liter “tonneau” of Beaune table wine that
Chinese market forces translated into more than 1,500 euros a
bottle. The buyer was listed as Patriarche Pere & Fils, a
Burgundy negociant.  As the Hospices solons tell it, mostly anonymous Chinese
bidders this year accounted for almost 13 percent of the 5.13
million euros in total sales. What the Chinese may lack in
expertise they make up for in their desire to buy a lavish label
at any price. Merchants use stronger language to describe the
auction that doubled the Hospices de Beaune’s previous barrel
record of 200,000 euros.  Busloads of Tourists  “We are not as fickle or flighty as the Chinese actors,”
Louis-Fabrice Latour, president of Burgundy’s negociants, sulked
on the morning after the outlandish night before. Yet to ensure
Beijing’s boundless cash flow comes back to embellish the French
barrel head, Pierre-Henry Gagey, president of the Burgundy Wine
Dealers Association, says the 400,000 charity euros banked from
the sale of the Cuvee Rolin will be poured into health projects
in China.  The cumulative impact of the busloads of Chinese tourists
in Beaune for the auction has sent many local wine merchants
into a non-alcoholic funk. Taste and pride are at stake.  “It’s most sad,” says Jean-Francois Rateau, proprietor of
Caveau Chassagne Montrachet, a family-run wine emporium tucked
into the Grand Cru Montrachet hills. “Hospices wines were
already way too expensive and 2010 is by no means near a great
vintage.”  Still, the average price for 2010 Hospices whites rose 15.7
percent, and was up 12.5 percent for reds, compared with last
year.  “The Chinese hunger for what they believe to be luxury
wines at any price will come back to haunt us,” Rateau warns of
Asians’ pursuit of Burgundy wine. “What we saw at the Hospices
this year is not Burgundy. It’s frustrating.”  Cavern Huddles  It does, however, make for intriguing detective work.
Huddling with Rateau in his dimly lit cavern is  John Lonardo ,
international vice president of Kerdyk Real Estate in Coral
Gables, Florida, and a member of the “Raiders of the Lost
Vine,” a 5-year-old troupe of businessmen and bankers who each
Hospices season gather to discover fine long-term investments
and, at the same time, ready-to-drink Burgundies at reasonable
prices for holiday gift-giving.  “It will increasingly become an exercise in finding wines
the Chinese left behind, but not yet,” the 60-year-old Lonardo
says, illuminating a 125 euro Mazis-Chambertin Grand Cru 1999
from Domaine Dominique Laurent with an iPad flashlight app.
“Asian buyers haven’t yet learned how to crawl down here and
get dirty. They wrongly believe only auction houses,  Robert Parker  and wine-investment funds know how to track down the good
stuff.”  Big Vintages  Rateau calls this process the “focus.” It’s a strategy
aimed at isolating “big vintage year” orphans whose
unpretentious price tags are sufficient grounds for banishment
from the institutionalized glory-wine lists. Instructing Lonardo
to turn the glowing iPad to a far wall, the light shines on
“2003, the biggest of big vintages,” Rateau says.  A few hours and a pail of discarded corks later, Lonardo
and French chef Didier Quemener emerge from the cave with
indulgent holiday wine priced at less than the cost of a glass
of Hospices de Sino-Beaune. The source:  A.-F. Gros , a 22-year-
old domaine owned by Anne-Francoise Gros, one of Burgundy’s few
female winemakers.  Gros’s 2003 Grand Cru repertoire includes an Echezeaux at
78 euros and a Richebourg at 168 euros. Although the superrich
for years have rallied around the poshly expensive Echezeaux
offered for thousands of dollars a bottle by Domaine Romanee-
Conti, wine historian and critic  Clive Coates  says Gros’s
domaine “produces some of the finest wines in  Burgundy.”  As for the Richebourg, arguably the greatest of all
Burgundies, beaming with violets, coffee and chocolate, Gros’s
2003 is a sumptuous example of the wine Coates calls
“indisputably the best.” A few miles south from this Cote de
Nuits vineyard, the ancient inscriptions on the walls of the
village of Savigny-les-Beaune read: “The wines of Savigny are
nourishing, theological and will chase away every illness.”  Stocking Stuffers  While anonymous Chinese bidders were inflating the value of
what Christie’s dubbed the “flesh and harmony” of the
village’s morbid 1er Cru Cuvee Arthur Girard to 3,600 euros a
barrel, Lonardo and Quemener were scooping up 26 euro stocking-
stuffer bottles of Gros’s wholesome 2003 Savigny-les-Beaune 1er
Cru Clos des Guettes.  Guettes’s grapes are spiritual. They hail from pinot noir
vines grown near the Bois de Noel (Christmas Woods). Rateau says
he can only hope the lady’s stalwart Savigny and other
appellations remain immune from Chinese wineflation.  “The only sure remedy,” Lonardo reckons, “is to drink it
all before they do.”  To contact the writer on the story:
 A. Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 