-- China Investors May Put Cash Into Gold ETFs Through Lion Fund, Yang Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-30T02:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/china-investors-may-put-cash-into-gold-etfs-through-lion-fund-yang-says.html
Lion Fund Management Co.  will raise
up to $500 million in China to invest in overseas exchange-
traded funds backed by gold, the first in the country to be
approved to do so, a company executive said today.  The fund manager has received approval from the  State
Administration of Foreign Exchange  and the  China Securities
Regulatory Commission , Yang Zi, an executive at Lion Fund’s
marketing department said by phone from Beijing. Institutional
and retail investors can buy into the fund via banks, she said.  “We will be the first fund in China to offer an access to
invest in overseas gold-backed ETFs,” Yang said. “Given the
inflationary environment we are in right now, Chinese investors
have great enthusiasm for gold investments.”  China doesn’t have a gold-backed ETF and investors normally
buy physical gold jewelry, bars or coins, or invest through gold
contracts traded on the Shanghai Gold Exchange, the Shanghai
Futures Exchange or through banks.  Gold demand in China, the world’s largest producer, gained
in the first half of this year as government measures to cool
the property market and falling equities spurred investment, the
Shanghai Gold Exchange said July 7.  Gold for immediate delivery climbed to a record $1,424.60
an ounce on Nov. 9 as investors sought to protect their wealth
amid concerns about the global economic recovery, and is headed
for a 10th consecutive annual increase.  Sales of gold products such as bars and coins by China
National Gold Group Corp., owner of the country’s largest
deposit, jumped as much as 40 percent in the first half, Song
Quanli, deputy party secretary at the company, said July 7.  Exchange-traded funds have become popular worldwide since
their creation in 1993 as they widened investors’ access to
different types of assets.  -- Feiwen Rong . With reporting by  Chua Kongho  in Shanghai.
Editors: Richard Dobson, Jake Lloyd-Smith.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing on 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  