-- China Slashes Roche, Bristol-Myers Drug Prices to Curb Health-Care Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-30T10:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/china-will-cut-prices-of-17-medications-national-reform-commission-says.html
China is slashing the price of drugs
made by  Roche Holdings AG  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  by about
a third, part of government efforts to rein in health-care costs
and cool the fastest inflation in two years.  The National Development and Reform Commission highlighted
Roche’s antibiotic  Rocephin  and Bristol-Myers’ heart pill
Capoten in announcing new maximum retail prices for 174
medications from more than 60 companies. Prices will be cut by
an average of 19 percent on Dec. 12. Health-care stocks in China
fell after the announcement, dragging down the  CSI 300 Index .  The commission in Beijing said in an  urgent notice  Nov. 23
that it would lower prices of selected drugs to stabilize costs.
China’s pharmaceutical market, the world’s third-largest, is
forecast by  IMS Health Inc . to expand at least 25 percent next
year, spurred by a new $125 billion national health insurance
system designed to improve access to medical care.  “As technology advances and the market expands, companies’
operating costs are declining by varying degrees,” the economic
planning agency said in a  statement . “Hence, the NDRC has
decided to reduce the prices of high-price drugs.”  The cuts also apply to medicines made by  Pfizer Inc. ,  Merck
& Co. ,  Eli Lilly & Co. ,  Novartis AG ,  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. ,
Astellas Pharma Inc. and  Daiichi Sankyo Co.  The reductions will
result in savings for the public of almost 2 billion yuan ($300
million) a year, the agency said. It has ordered reductions on
prices of selected medications more than 20 times in a decade,
based on a 2007 statement from an official at the commission.  Drug Volumes  Drugs account for about 40 percent of total health spending
in China, compared with about 15 percent in developed nations,
said  Henk Bekedam , director of health sector development for
the World Health Organization’s western Pacific region.  Although lowering prices is “laudable,” it may not reduce
health-care costs in China because doctors who rely on direct
payments from patients may over-prescribe certain treatments to
top up their salaries, Bekedam said over the telephone from
Manila.  “If you don’t deal with the aspect of volume, then you do
only half of the job,” he said. “Volumes aren’t being
controlled.”  Pharmaceutical sales in China will increase by 25 percent
to 27 percent to more than $50 billion in 2011, IMS, a Norwalk,
Connecticut-based researcher, said  last month .  ‘Mixed Messages’  Price changes will bring “mixed messages” for
multinational drugmakers, Datamonitor Plc, a London-based health
information company, said on Nov. 25.  To access the broadest market in China, foreign drugmakers
must list their products on the country’s National Reimbursement
Drug List, which subjects them to price reductions, the research
company said. The drug list proposes to cap the sales margin on
brand-name drugs at 23 percent, Datamonitor said.  “While some are pushing for their drugs to be listed on
NRDL despite the risk of price reductions, others are lobbying
for the Chinese government to introduce a more balanced system
and to reward innovation and quality,” Datamonitor said in a
statement last week.  A gauge tracking 15 health-care companies traded in
Shanghai and Shenzhen fell  3.2 percent , the most among 10
industry groups. North China Pharmaceutical Co. fell 4.8 percent
to 15.88 yuan and Yunnan Baiyao Group Co. dropped 4.8 percent to
63.80 yuan. The broader  CSI 300 Index , comprising A-shares
listed in China, lost 1.7 percent.  Rapid Gains  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said two weeks ago that the
cabinet is drafting measures to counter overly rapid gains in
the prices of food and raw materials. Inflation in October was
4.4 percent, higher than any of the estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists, mainly driven by food costs.  The retail price of captopril, sold as Capoten by Bristol-
Myers’  China venture  to treat high blood pressure, will be cut
by 35 percent to 22.1 yuan for a pack of 20,  12.5-milligram
strength pills, the commission said today. Ceftriaxone, an
injected antibiotic sold as  Rocephin  by Roche, will be reduced
by 30 percent to 65.7 yuan for the 1-gram form, it said.  Patty Lee, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for Roche,
declined to comment as did  Patrice Grand , a Paris-based
spokesman for Bristol-Myers.  Sales in China for Roche, Europe’s largest drugmaker,
jumped more than 20 percent to about 800 million Swiss francs
($805 million) in 2009, the Basel, Switzerland-based company
said in February. Roche moved its regional headquarters to
Shanghai from Sydney last year.  -- Yidi Zhao . With assistance from  Simeon Bennett  in Singapore
and  Helen Yuan  in Shanghai. Editors:  Lena Lee ,  Jason Gale .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  