-- China's 3 Billion Yuan Debt Sale May Yield 2% Interest, Western Asset Says
-- B y   S o n j a   C h e u n g   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-11-30T03:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/china-yuan-bond-sale-in-hong-kong-may-yield-about-2-western-asset-says.html
China’s 3 billion yuan ($450 million)
sale of two-year bonds to individual investors in Hong Kong may
pay interest of about 2 percent because of the limited supply of
yuan assets in the city, says Western Asset Management Co.  The  Ministry of Finance  plans to sell a total of 8 billion
yuan of notes, with the other 5 billion yuan targeted at
institutions such as insurance companies in maturities of three,
five and 10 years. Details of the debt offering may be announced
at a press conference attended by Vice Finance Minister Li Yong
today at 2:30 p.m.  “The retail tranche could yield about 2 percent or even
slightly lower,”  Rajeev de Mello , head of Asian investment at
Singapore-based Western Asset, which oversees $469 billion of
funds, said in an interview yesterday. “It would be a success
at that rate. Investors are hungry for yuan assets offshore.”  Yuan  deposits  in Hong Kong more than doubled to 149 billion
yuan in the six months through September, according to the
city’s central bank. That compares with less than 41 billion
yuan of bonds denominated in China’s currency that have been
sold offshore, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on China’s benchmark  two-year  government bond has
climbed 35 basis points this month to 2.77 percent yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on government
debt sold in Hong Kong last year due in October 2014 has fallen
17 basis points in the same period to 2.825 percent. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  More Generous  The yuan traded in Hong Kong at 6.6525 per dollar as of
11:25 a.m. local time, 0.2 percent stronger than the rate in
Shanghai, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Twelve-month non-
deliverable yuan forwards indicate traders are betting China’s
currency will rise 1.9 percent against the greenback in a year,
increasing returns on local debt for overseas investors. The
spot rate for the yuan dropped 0.1 percent to 6.6680 per dollar
in Hong Kong today.  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based senior strategist for
Asia excluding Japan at Credit Agricole CIB, said China may
offer a rate of more than 2 percent to soothe investor concern
that the central bank will add to last month’s first interest-
rate increase in almost three years.  “I’d expect a more generous offering on China’s retail
tranche, possibly up to 2.5 percent, as interest rates on yuan
assets in Hong Kong and China’s rates are expected to be on an
uptrend,” Cheung said in an interview yesterday.  The People’s Bank of China raised its benchmark one-year
lending rate by a quarter of a percentage point on Oct. 19 to
5.56 percent. It increased the deposit rate by the same margin
to 2.50 percent.  China’s two-year interest-rate swap, the fixed rate needed
to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, dropped eight
basis points today to 3.38 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It has climbed almost a percentage point since the October
policy tightening.  “I wouldn’t really advise retail investors to buy at below
a 2 percent coupon,” said Cheung.  -- Sonja Cheung . Editors:  Simon Harvey ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in Hong Kong at 
 Scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  