-- Coffee Harvest Slows in Vietnam As Rain Returns, Hurting Picking, Drying
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-30T10:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/coffee-harvest-slows-in-vietnam-as-rain-returns-hurting-picking-drying.html
Coffee harvesting in Vietnam, the
world’s biggest grower of robusta beans used in instant drinks
and espressos, has been disrupted by renewed rains just one week
after picking began, local officials and traders said.  Rains started Sunday and continued through Tuesday,
hindering harvesting and drying that was already delayed by
almost a month because of heavy showers, helping push global
prices higher.  “The harvesting has slowed down due to the rains, and
farmers can’t dry the beans in this wet weather,” said Nguyen
Van An, general director of Thai Hoa Production & Trading Corp.,
the country’s third-biggest exporter. “This may also slow
traders’ sales,” he said by phone today.  Robusta-coffee futures in London have jumped 39 percent
this year and advanced to a two-year high of $2,098 a metric ton
on Nov. 9 as rains delayed the Vietnam harvest. The March-
delivery contract, the most-active by open interest, traded at
$1,793 a ton at 6:35 p.m. Singapore time.  Rains are expected to last for another day, Nguyen Dai
Nguong, general director of the Dak Lak Hydrology and
Meteorology Office, said by phone today.  Harvesting in Dak Lak province, the country’s biggest
growing region, was about 40 percent complete before the rains
returned, Huynh Quoc Thich, head of the cultivation office in
the province’s agricultural department, said by phone yesterday.  Harvesting should have started at the beginning of
November, Nguyen Van Sinh, deputy head of the agricultural
department in Dak Lak, said on Nov. 3.  Rainfall in Buon Ma Thuot, the capital of Dak Lak, totaled
250.4 millimeters between Nov. 1 and Nov. 20, compared with 89.4
millimeters in the same period last year, according to figures
from the Dak Lak Hydrology and Meteorology Office.  Vietnam may produce 1.1 million tons of coffee this year,
about 3 percent less than the previous year, according to an
Oct. 29 forecast from the Vietnam Coffee & Cocoa Association.  A Bloomberg News survey of 10 growers, analysts and traders
last month predicted an increase to 1.2 million tons. Officials
in Dak Lak, Lam Dong and Gia Lai have all forecast production
gains in their regions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net .
Nicholas Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at  