-- Collahuasi Copper Mine Seeks End to Record-Matching Chile Strike on Wages
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-30T12:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/collahuasi-copper-mine-seeks-end-to-record-matching-chile-strike.html
Anglo American Plc  and  Xstrata Plc’s 
Collahuasi venture will attempt to end a strike that matches the
longest recorded at a major Chilean copper mine in a second day
of wage talks with union leaders in northern Chile.  Company and union representatives at the world’s fourth-
biggest copper mine returned to a negotiating table yesterday
mediated by Iquique City Catholic Bishop  Marco Antonio Ordenes 
after individual negotiations failed to garner enough
acceptances under Chilean law to end the strike. Talks will
continue today, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  “Long live Chile!,” hundreds of workers cheered when
union President Manuel Munoz finished a speech at the union’s de
facto headquarters in an abandoned Iquique school, after the
first day of mediated talks. He declined to comment when leaving
the building, citing a pact of silence with the company.  The  Collahuasi  standoff is now in a 26th day, equaling a
strike at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida copper mine in 2006.
While the company is using non-union workers and contractors to
help run the mine, prospects of an output cut helped drive
copper to a London Metal Exchange record earlier this month.  The mine and port continue to operate “normally” today,
company spokeswoman Bernardita Fernandez said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The company started loading a 44,000-ton
shipment of copper yesterday at its Patache port.  Copper Study Group  The International Copper Study Group said Nov. 24 that
global demand in the eight months ended Aug. 31 exceeded output
by 363,000 tons, compared with a deficit of 47,000 tons a year
earlier. Supply may tighten in the short term if the Collahuasi
strike doesn’t end soon, Commerzbank AG said in a report.  Copper rose in London today, heading for a fifth monthly
gain, as speculation about potential shortages overcame concern
that demand may weaken as China moves to limit inflation.  Copper for delivery in three months climbed $77.50, or 0.9
percent, to $8,297 a ton at 11:49 a.m. on the LME. The contract
is up 1 percent this month. Copper for delivery in December
added 0.3 percent to $3.778 a pound on the Comex in New York.  Collahuasi produced 535,000 tons last year, or 3.5 percent
of global output, according to Standard Bank Plc. Its production
is only surpassed by Escondida,  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc.’s  Grasberg mine in Indonesia and Codelco’s Norte division
in Chile. Anglo American and Xstrata each own 44 percent of
Collahuasi. A group led by  Mitsui & Co.  holds the remainder.  Company Offer  The company offered individual workers 14 million pesos
($28,753) on Nov. 17, sidestepping the union, to end the strike.
Most workers declined the offer. Chile’s Work Inspectorate
issued a resolution last week for talks to resume.  “They’re claiming that mining companies are making large
profits from the copper price and they want a share of that,”
said  Cesar Perez , managing director of Celfin Capital SA in
Santiago. “What you’re seeing is very strong determination by
the union to receive what they’re asking for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Iquique at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  