-- Comcast Starts Web ‘Toll Booth,’ Netflix Supplier Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-30T21:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/comcast-starts-online-video-toll-booth-netflix-web-partner-level-3-says.html
Comcast Corp.  has begun imposing a
fee on Internet middleman  Level 3 Communications Inc. , one of
the companies that  Netflix Inc.  has hired to deliver movies and
TV shows to Web customers.  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable TV company, has set up an
Internet “toll booth,” charging Level 3 whenever customers
request content, the Broomfield, Colorado-based company said in
a statement yesterday.  Level 3 plans to complain to U.S. regulators who may enact
so-called net-neutrality rules next month. The Federal
Communications Commission is seeking to bar phone and cable
providers from interfering with legal traffic on their networks.
The rules are backed by President  Barack Obama  and companies led
by  Google Inc. , EBay Inc. and  IAC/InterActiveCorp.  Phone and
cable companies say rules aren’t needed and may hurt investment.  “This action by Comcast threatens the open Internet and is
a clear abuse of the dominant control that Comcast exerts in
broadband access,”  Thomas Stortz , Level 3’s chief legal
officer, said in the statement. “With this action,  Comcast  is
preventing competing content from ever being delivered to
Comcast’s subscribers at all, unless Comcast’s unilaterally
determined toll is paid.”  Comcast, which is seeking regulatory approval to  acquire 
majority ownership of NBC Universal, defended the fee in a
statement, saying it is based on “long established and mutually
acceptable commercial arrangements” with Level 3’s peers.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said today the agency will
examine Level 3’s complaint.  Traffic Jam?  Level 3 is preparing to more than double the traffic it
puts on the cable provider’s network and has tried to pressure
the company into accepting it for free,  Joe Waz , Comcast’s
senior vice president for external affairs, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Level 3 announced on Nov. 11 that it will carry films and
TV shows for the Web streaming service offered by Netflix.  Netflix accounts for more than a fifth of the traffic
downloaded during the peak hours of 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. in the
U.S., according to a  report  from broadband network company
Sandvine Inc. Level 3 has said it will add capacity to its
network to handle the extra load from Netflix’s movies.  Steve Swasey , a spokesman for Netflix, declined to comment.  Genachowski  Genachowski, in proposing net neutrality rules last year,
called for a principle of non-discrimination by Internet-service
providers. The FCC will meet on Dec. 21.  “This means they cannot block or degrade lawful traffic
over their networks,” he said.  Public Knowledge and the Media Access Project, two
Washington-based advocacy groups, backed Level 3 yesterday. The
groups said the request for payment to carry Level 3 traffic
shows the need for stronger net neutrality legislation and more
scrutiny of Comcast’s NBC deal.  Comcast  fell  18 cents to $20.04 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Shares of the Philadelphia-based
company have gained 19 percent this year. Level 3, down 34
percent this year, rose 1 cent to $1.01. Netflix, based in Los
Gatos, California, gained $6.98 to $205.90.  NBC Deal Risk  Comcast is seeking to buy 51 percent of NBC from  General
Electric Co.  and needs FCC and Justice Department approval to
complete the deal, which was announced almost one year ago.  Critics, such as Representative  Rick Boucher , a Virginia
Democrat and head of a U.S. House panel on communications, are
concerned that a merger would restrict customers’ access to
content, particularly programs available online.  Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-based analyst for Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said the investigation into the Level 3 fees
could delay the approvals that Comcast needs to complete the
merger. She had said previously that it was likely the review of
the deal would extend into early 2011.  Comcast remains “focused on regulatory approval by year
end,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Washington-based spokeswoman for the
company, said in an e-mailed message. “This is a business
dispute” that is unrelated to the transaction, she said.  Genachowski declined to comment today on a timetable for
reviewing the NBC merger.  Also yesterday, Boston-based  Zoom Telephonics Inc.  told the
FCC that Comcast requires unreasonable tests of modems used to
connect to the Internet. Zoom asked the FCC to set aside
Comcast’s testing regime.  Comcast didn’t ask Zoom to submit to testing that is any
different than what it asks of other cable modem manufacturers,
Fitzmaurice said in an e-mailed message.  “Comcast wants to make sure devices our customers purchase
at retail will work well and are safe,” Fitzmaurice said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  