-- U.S. Economy: Confidence Improves, Businesses Expand
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-30T21:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-rises-more-than-estimated-to-a-five-month-high.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
in November to the highest level in five months and a gauge of
business activity unexpectedly climbed, signaling the recovery
is taking hold heading into 2011.  The Conference Board’s sentiment  index  increased to 54.1,
exceeding the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey,
figures from the New York-based research group showed today. The
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its business
 gauge  advanced to the highest since April.  Gains in spending that are giving retailers like  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  a boost during the holiday-shopping season are more
likely to continue into next year as households sense that job
and income prospects are improving. The reports helped shares
trim losses as an accelerating U.S. economy offset concerns the
European debt crisis will deepen.  “The economy has weathered the soft patch and is regaining
some lost momentum,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial
economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York. “Consumers are
being fairly jolly as far as the early Christmas season is
concerned.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.6 percent to
1,180.55 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The gauge had been
down as much as 1.1 percent before the confidence and purchasing
managers indexes were released. Treasury securities rose,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.81
percent from 2.82 percent late yesterday.  Higher than Forecast  Economists forecast the confidence gauge would improve to
53, according to the median of 78 projections in a Bloomberg
survey. Estimates ranged from 50 to 60. The index averaged 96.8
during the last economic expansion that ended in December 2007.
The Conference Board revised the October index down to 49.9 from
a previously reported 50.2.  Another report today showed housing remained the American
economy’s weak link. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values
in 20 cities climbed 0.6 percent in September from the same
month in 2009, the smallest gain since January, the last time
prices declined year over year. The gauge fell 0.8 percent  from
the prior month  after adjusting for seasonal variations, the
biggest drop since April 2009.  Prices are “going to be flat for a while,”  Karl Case ,
retired professor at Wellesley College and a co-founder of the
index, said in an interview with Bloomberg Radio. The long run
backdrop is “a little discouraging.”  Unemployment, Foreclosures  The end of a government tax credit and  unemployment  near 10
percent have led to a decrease in home sales, delaying a
recovery in the industry that precipitated the worst recession
since the 1930s. Mounting foreclosures and declining home values
threaten to undermine the improvement in consumer confidence
that is helping boost spending and growth.  “We are concerned that the further rebound in consumer
confidence in November will not translate into a sustained
acceleration in consumption growth when the unemployment rate
remains high and a double-dip in house prices is underway,”
 Paul Dales , a U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
Toronto, said in an e-mail.  Factories, which helped lead the economy out of the
recession, are still bolstering the expansion. The Chicago ISM’s
business barometer rose to 62.5 in November, exceeding even the
highest  estimate  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Manufacturing may keep accelerating as  exports  grow and
companies invest in new equipment, sustaining the recovery. The
group’s production gauge climbed to the highest level since
February 2005, and the index of new orders rose to a three-year
high.  Exports, Investment  “Manufacturers still have orders coming in and they have
to be filled,” said  Thomas Simons , an economist at Jefferies
Group Inc. in New York. “There is a lot of foreign demand and a
lot of business demand.”  The Conference Board said the improvement in confidence was
led by gains in the  gauge of expectations  for the next six
months as household believed more jobs will become available and
their incomes will climb.  A Dec. 3 report from the Labor Department is forecast to
show the economy created 145,000 jobs in November, according to
the median projection in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
Employers added 151,000 jobs to payrolls in October, enough to
keep the unemployment rate at 9.6 percent.  Retailers had a stronger start to the Christmas holiday
shopping period. The average shopper spent 6.4 percent more over
the Thanksgiving weekend than last year, the National Retail
Federation said Nov. 28. About 212 million people headed to
stores and visited websites, spending an average of $365.34.  Retailer Discounts  Wal-Mart and  J.C. Penney Co.  lured customers with
promotions like a $5 Barbie doll and $10 diamond-accented
earrings.  A report from Coremetrics today showed online sales rose 19
percent yesterday, coming in as the biggest Internet shopping
day of the year so far as Web retailers gained ground on
traditional stores.  The economy expanded at a 2.5 percent pace in the third
quarter, more than initially estimated, the Commerce Department
said last week. Consumer spending rose at the highest rate in
almost four years and wage and salary gains were revised up for
the past two quarters.  Federal Reserve policy makers remain concerned the economy
isn’t growing fast enough to bring down unemployment.
Joblessness is forecast to exceed 9 percent through next year,
according to a Bloomberg survey earlier this month. Central
bankers this month announced they will inject another $600
billion into the financial system by June to help spur the
recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  