-- Contagion May Force EU to Expand Arsenal to Fight Debt Crisis
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-12-01T11:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/contagion-may-force-eu-to-expand-arsenal-to-fight-debt-crisis.html
Investors’ no-confidence vote in the
aid package for Ireland may force European policy makers to
expand their arsenal to fight the debt crisis threatening to
tear the euro apart.  Options outlined by economists at  Societe Generale SA  and
Barclays Capital include: Boosting the 750 billion-euro ($975
billion) temporary rescue fund or turning it into an asset-
buying program; cutting interest rates on bailout loans; issuing
joint bonds for the 16 euro nations or flooding the economy with
cash from the European Central Bank.  All would be unprecedented, and none of Europe’s political
leaders -- dominated by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  -- has
indicated the steps are being considered. Earlier this year,
they struggled to cobble together the measures that investors
and economists now say are proving inadequate to safeguard the
euro and keep speculators at bay.  “You’ve had repeated interventions, but the markets are
still selling in response,” said  Andrew Balls , London-based
head of European portfolio management at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund.
“Policy makers have to move beyond a country-by-country
approach and think about the system-wide challenges.”  Investors punished Europe’s markets in the two days since
Ireland became the second euro nation after Greece to get
outside aid. Selling extended beyond “peripheral” countries
including  Portugal  to core members of the euro area such as
Italy and Belgium.  Market Declines  The euro yesterday fell to a 10-week low versus the dollar
and yen. Italian, Belgian and Spanish government bonds fell,
driving the extra yield investors demand to hold them instead of
German bunds to euro-era records. The ECB bought Irish and
Portuguese bonds today, people with knowledge of the matter
said. Standard & Poor’s yesterday put Portugal’s sovereign debt
ratings on “CreditWatch” with “negative implications.”  Risk premiums narrowed today as Italian, Spanish and Irish
bonds rose after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signalled
officials may be willing to step up their response. The euro
gained 0.9 percent to $1.3104 at 11:30 a.m. in London.  Policy makers must assert authority to fight “demanding”
market conditions, Trichet said. “We need a sense of
direction,” he told lawmakers in Brussels. Observers “are
tending to underestimate the determination of governments.”  ‘Whatever It Takes’  Behind the selloff are concerns that the European Union is
overcharging Ireland; fear that politically unpopular deficit
cuts will flop or trigger recession; suspicion some countries
may still restructure their debt; doubts that cash injections
can treat underlying debt woes, and speculation that the EU’s
fractured politics will negate a pledge by Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  to do “whatever it takes” to
maintain financial stability.  While euro-area governments can lend to each other, they
are barred from assuming each other’s debts under rules dictated
by Germany in the 1990s.  The off-the-shelf option is to expand the European
Financial Stability Facility, set up in May to lend to
distressed treasuries. Ireland was the first to tap it, drawing
about 18 billion euros from a 440 billion-euro war chest
underwritten by euro-region governments.  War Chest Size  Due to collateral constraints, the EFSF’s actual lending
capacity is less than the headline figure, raising doubts about
whether it would be able to respond to a fiscal emergency in
Spain, the euro region’s fourth-largest economy, according to
strategists at Barclays. They say at least another 100 billion
euros of funds should be added.  The  EFSF  needs twice the firepower, said  Paul de Grauwe , a
professor at the Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium and
two-time candidate for an ECB post. Ireland’s average interest
rate on the bailout of 5.8 percent is “punitive,” he said, and
jolts confidence by showing that European governments aren’t
sure they’ll get their money back.  “We shouldn’t be surprised if the markets don’t trust it
either if the European leaders don’t trust their own program --
that’s what the high interest rate means,” De Grauwe said. “It
really undermines the credibility of this whole program.”  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber ’s suggestion last week to
increase the fund was repudiated the next day by Merkel and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , both targets of domestic
criticism for using taxpayer money to prop up Europe’s fiscal
weaklings.  Expanding Mission  Just as U.S. authorities transformed the aim of their
Troubled Asset Relief Program from buying illiquid assets to
injecting cash into banks,  Klaus Baader , co-chief European
economist at Societe Generale, suggests EU policy makers may use
the facility to buy bonds of peripheral countries.  “They would have to burn short positions with serious
amounts,” said Baader, who also says governments may soon
threaten to ban certain bets against European bonds.  The U.S. Treasury Department said yesterday that its top
international official,  Lael Brainard , will visit Madrid, Berlin
and Paris this week to meet with senior officials.  Another option is to make the EFSF available to countries
before they succumb to a speculative attack, along the lines of
a flexible International Monetary Fund credit line tapped by
Poland last year, said  Andre Sapir , an economics professor at
the Universite Libre de Bruxelles and former EU adviser.  “One could discuss which countries would maybe benefit and
the system as a whole would benefit from having that umbrella,”
Sapir said. “This is the next step that should be considered
seriously.”  Joint Bonds  Joint bond issuance -- an idea kicking around since the
pre-euro era -- is also back up for debate. Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the panel of euro-area
finance ministers, last week sought to overcome German
opposition to forging a common bond market for all euro users.  The upside would be to create a more liquid market,
attracting buyers such as China. The downside, in the German
mind, is that fiscally prudent governments would end up paying
higher interest rates, in effect subsidizing the weaker ones.  “If bond yields keep rising like this then we may see a
much faster move towards a de facto fiscal union with a central
debt management office and a single European government bond,
possibly under the auspices of the EFSF initially,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed income at London-based Evolution
Securities Ltd.  ‘Unhelpful’ Move  To ease bank borrowing costs in debt-strapped nations, the
ECB should resume purchases of covered bonds, Morgan Stanley
analyst  Huw Van Steenis  says. Its decision to end the program,
enacted during the recession in 2009 to encourage lending, on
June 30 was “unhelpful,” he wrote.  Another solution suggested by JPMorgan Chase & Co. chief
European economist  David Mackie  is to transfer 350 billion euros
from the balance sheets of Greece, Ireland and Portugal to
richer sovereigns. Mackie calculates that would reduce their
debt to the EU limit of 60 percent of gross domestic product,
and push up the debt ratios of core euro economies by less than
5 percentage points.  The result would be a reduction in the fiscal tightening
required in the weaker economies and the elimination of chaos
caused by a debt restructuring, he said in a Nov. 17 report.  “In the next five to 10 years there has got to be more of
a fiscal union within the euro region than we have today,” said
 Paul Donovan , deputy chief global economist at UBS AG in London.
“One of the things that Europe does well is integrate in a
crisis.”  Rescue Doubts  Economists such as  Charles Dumas , research director at
Lombard Street Research Ltd. in London, doubt policy makers
would be able and willing to head off sovereign default.  “We’re waiting for someone to say the emperor has no
clothes,” Dumas yesterday told  Ken Prewitt  and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.” “We’re waiting for
people who have spent 12 years explaining what a great thing
euro is to admit they were wrong.”  With politicians sluggish to act, investors are banking on
tomorrow’s meeting in Frankfurt of the ECB’s Governing Council
amid speculation it will again delay its exit from emergency
liquidity measures for the good of the euro.  Peter Westaway , chief European economist at Nomura
International Plc, predicts the ECB will delay a return to more
limited auctions of three-month loans until after January. It
will boost its buying of bonds to include Spanish and Italian
assets, he said. The bank already bought the most government
bonds in two months last week.  No Time to ‘Experiment’  “This is not the time to experiment with money-market
operations,” said Westaway. “A significant increase in ECB
bond purchases to the extent that is feasible would signal that
it is providing a crucial policy back-stop that would halt the
increase in periphery bond spreads.”  The ECB may be forced to follow the Federal Reserve and
Bank of England in conducting quantitative easing in which it
buys assets to inject cash into the economy and doesn’t offset
the purchases as it does now, said  Marc Chandler , global head of
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York.  “As the crisis deepens and threatens core countries, the
future of monetary union continues to be called into question,”
said Chandler. “As the situation becomes more desperate, the
unthinkable has to be thought. Quantitative easing by the ECB
may be one of the few ways out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  