-- Corn Drops Most in a Week on Concern European Debt May Damp Commodity Use
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-30T20:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/corn-declines-on-concern-european-debt-woes-may-slow-demand.html
Corn futures fell the most in a week
amid speculation that the European Union may have to bail out
more members, damping the global economy and demand for raw
materials, including grain.  The  MSCI World Index  of equities fell to the lowest level
in eight weeks, the euro dropped against the dollar and costs to
insure the debt of Italy, Spain, Portugal and Ireland reached
records. In November, corn slumped 6.5 percent, ending a five-
month rally.  “The ongoing fears of the European-debt problems are
reducing investments in grain markets,” said  Jim Gerlach , the
president of A/C Trading Inc. in Fowler, Indiana. “World
economic concerns are the overriding negative factor.”  Corn futures for March delivery fell 9.25 cents, or 1.7
percent, to close at $5.44 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the biggest drop since Nov. 19.  On Nov. 9, the price reached a 26-month high of $6.175
after the U.S. Department of Agriculture said that adverse
weather reduced the size of the domestic crop, the world’s
biggest. Futures have gained 31 percent this year.  Corn prices also fell on speculation that China will be
slow to increase imports from the U.S., Gerlach said.  China  was a net importer in the year ended Sept. 30 for the
first time in 14 years, according to USDA data. China, the
second-biggest producer, imported almost 1.3 million tons last
year.  China’s imports won’t show a “fast increase” because of
adequate supplies from the domestic crop, Ning Gaoning, the
chairman of Cofco Ltd., the country’s biggest grain trader, said
yesterday. The U.S. is the leading exporter.  “The comments raised the possibility that China may not
need to buy as much as traders expected,” Gerlach said. “I
still expect China will import at least 5 million tons in 2011
to keep domestic prices in check.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  