-- Corporate Spreads Show Strain, Swaps Soar, Returns Dwindle: Credit Markets
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-12-01T17:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/corporate-spreads-show-strain-swaps-soar-returns-dwindle-credit-markets.html
The failure of European leaders to
contain the region’s debt crisis with a bailout of Ireland has
driven relative borrowing costs in the global corporate bond
market to a 12-week high.  Investors demand an extra 1.77 percentage points in yield
to own company bonds instead of government debt, the most since
Sept. 8, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
premium European banks pay in the currency swaps market to
borrow in dollars has almost doubled in the past three weeks,
reaching the highest level since May yesterday, as the cost to
protect against losses on their bonds jumped to a 20-month high
before paring the gain today.  Global debt markets are showing signs of strain on concern
a sell-off in euro-region bond markets will force leaders to
bail out more nations, impose losses on creditors and cause
growth to slow. Company bonds lost 1.04 percent in November, the
worst performance since falling 4.44 percent in October 2008,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate
index shows.  “There’s definitely more fear in the market than we had a
couple of weeks ago,” said  Eric Stein , a money manager who
helps oversee $54.2 billion in fixed-income assets at Eaton
Vance Management in Boston. “We need a real sustainable
solution. These kind of ad hoc Band-Aid measures aren’t really
going to do anything to help Europe over the long term and
investors are more and more realizing that.”  ‘Completely Different’  While the credit markets have weakened, it’s not as
pervasive as in May, when the combination of a potential default
by Greece, the end of a Federal Reserve debt-buying program, the
biggest offshore oil spill in U.S. history and a government
investigation of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. triggered the largest
jump in spreads since the financial crisis of 2008.  “It’s completely different from what we saw in May,” said
 Jason Quinn , co-head of U.S. high-grade trading at Barclays
Capital in New York. “That could change pretty quickly. Our
market is going to lose more and more confidence each day that
they feel the situation is worsening.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to protect U.S.
corporate bonds from default fell from a six-week high. The
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 4.7 basis points to a mid-price of
94.66 as of 12:06 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which falls as investor confidence improves and
rises as it deteriorates, ended yesterday at 99.4 basis points,
the highest since Oct. 19. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Citigroup Notes  Citigroup Inc. plans to sell $1.875 billion of five-year
notes as soon as today, according to a person familiar with the
offering. The transaction is a remarketing of 6.7 percent junior
subordinated debt due in March 2042, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Freddie Mac, the government-supported mortgage company,
sold $4 billion of two-year debt. The reference notes yield 0.69
percent, or 17 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, the McLean, Virginia-based company said today in an
e-mailed statement.  Last month’s loss in corporate bonds was the first since
they fell 0.4 percent in May, and trims this year’s gain to 8.01
percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Corporate index. Average yields rose to 3.734
percent, the highest since Aug. 2, the index shows.  Bond Losses  Europe’s debt crisis is beginning to distract U.S.
investors from signs that an economic recovery is gaining
traction and from a plan by the Fed to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June to support financial markets. U.S.
investment-grade bonds lost 0.86 percent last month, trimming
this year’s gain to 10.6 percent. Bonds rated below investment-
grade lost 1.12 percent paring 2010’s rally to 13.2 percent.  Even after European leaders agreed on an 85-billion-euro
($110.5 billion) rescue package for Ireland, investors are
focusing on the possibility that larger nations may also need
aid. S&P said yesterday it may cut Portugal’s ratings on concern
the government has made little progress on boosting growth to
offset the fiscal drag from scheduled 2011 budget cuts.  Spain’s Deficit  Concern that Spain will fail to close Europe’s third-
highest deficit has driven up financing costs for the nation’s
lenders. Relative yields on euro-denominated Spanish bank bonds
rose 141 basis points to 385 basis points in November -- the
biggest monthly jump on record, according to data compiled by
Bank of America Corp.  “Stabilizing Spain would go a long way toward creating
broader stability and re-instilling confidence in the market,”
Quinn of Barclays Capital said.  Credit markets rallied for the first time in a week today
after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
investors were “tending to underestimate the determination of
governments” to solve the crisis.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
insuring European junk bonds declined 22.7 basis points to 503,
after surging to a two-month high yesterday, according to Markit
Group Ltd. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to banks’
subordinated bonds dropped 16 basis points to 295.5, after
yesterday climbing to the highest since April 2009, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. prices show.  Belgian Bonds  Default swaps insuring Belgian bonds dropped 6 basis points
to 199, contracts on Ireland fell 40 basis points to 566 and
Italian risk declined 29 basis points to 239, according to CMA.
Spain decreased 39 basis points to 325 and Portugal dropped 57
basis points to 485. Swaps on all the nations were at record
highs yesterday.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Signs of strain are showing up in the interest-rate swaps
market. The difference between the rate to exchange floating-for
fixed-interest payments for two years and the comparable-
maturity Treasury yield, known as the swap spread, widened 3.78
basis points to 27.1 basis points after reaching 30.88
yesterday, the most since July.  Swap spreads are used as a gauge of investor perceptions of
credit risk. They serve as benchmarks for investors in many
types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  Funding ‘Pressure’  “The general theme is that investors are getting more and
more concerned about the creditworthiness of European banks, and
whenever we’ve seen this throughout the whole financial crisis,
we’ve seen pressure in the dollar funding markets,” Eaton
Vance’s Stein said in an interview yesterday.  The European crisis also is causing a surge in the premium
European banks pay to borrow in dollars in the swaps market. The
price of two-year cross-currency basis swaps between euros and
dollars reached minus 50.6 basis points yesterday, the largest
effective premium for dollar borrowing in swaps since May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap, which narrowed
to minus 46.75 basis points today, has widened from minus 30.3
basis points on Nov. 22.  “People perceive credit risk much higher in European
counterparties,”  Douglas Borthwick , head of foreign-exchange
trading at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros Trading LLC, said
in an interview. The increase in swap rates is “extremely
aggressive, and what that means is that essentially over the
last three or four days, credit departments have gone around
saying we need to adjust your credit with local names,” he
said.  ----With assistance from  Ed Johnson  in Sydney and  Liz Capo McCormick ,  Sapna Maheshwari ,  Sarah Mulholland  and  Hugh Son  in
New York. Editors:  Robert Burgess ,  Faris Khan   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  