-- Crude Oil Declines on Speculation Chinese Demand May Slow on Rate Increase
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-11-30T13:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/crude-oil-trades-near-a-two-week-high-on-u-s-retail-sales-colder-weather.html
Oil dropped from the highest price
in two weeks amid concern that the European Union may have to
bail out more member states after Ireland agreed to a rescue
package from the EU and the International Monetary Fund.  Futures fell as much as 1 percent as the euro weakened
against the dollar. The cost of insuring against default on
Portuguese and Spanish debt climbed to records yesterday after
Ireland secured financial aid this weekend. Oil also retreated
on speculation that measures to slow China’s economy will damp
crude demand in the world’s largest energy user.  “I’m surprised that oil hasn’t fallen further, because the
euro is so low against the dollar,” said  Gerrit Zambo , a trader
at Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “People are afraid that the
EU will next have to rescue Portugal, Spain, and further on
Italy, so the debt situation of these countries is critical.”  January futures fell as much as 85 cents to $84.88 a barrel
in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The
contract was at $85.08 at 1:07 p.m. London time. Prices are up
4.5 percent this month. Brent for January settlement fell as
much as 74 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $86.60 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London.  Crude, which is headed for a third monthly gain, climbed
2.4 percent yesterday to $85.73, the highest settlement since
Nov. 11, after a report showed U.S. shoppers increased purchases
ahead of the Christmas holiday, raising expectations of climbing
fuel demand as the economy improves.  Stronger Dollar  Prices dropped today as the dollar reached a 10-week high
against the euro on concern Ireland’s banking crisis will spread
to Spain and Portugal. A rising U.S. currency damps investor
demand for commodities.  Spanish bonds fell yesterday by the most since the start of
the euro era as a bailout for Ireland failed to assuage
speculation that the debt crisis will spread. The cost of
insuring the debt of Italy, Spain, Portugal and Ireland surged
to records and the euro fell.  Rising fuel demand from emerging economies prompted Societe
Generale SA, France’s second-biggest bank, to increase its
forecast for benchmark oil prices next year. London’s benchmark
Brent crude will average $93.10 a barrel next year, up from the
previous forecast of $85, according to a report by the company’s
commodities research team.  U.S. Inventories  Supplies of distillates, which include heating oil and
diesel,  probably fell  for a 10th time last week as demand
increased, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Stockpiles dropped
1.1 million barrels in the seven days ended Nov. 26, according
to the median of 11 analyst estimates before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. The industry-funded American
Petroleum Institute publishes its weekly report today.  Crude supplies probably decreased 900,000 barrels from
358.6 million, the analysts said. Gasoline inventories probably
climbed 750,000 barrels, the survey showed.  Hedge funds and other speculators reduced their bets on
rising oil prices, government data released yesterday showed.  Net-long  positions  in oil dropped by 38,654 futures and
options combined, or 22 percent, to 139,743 the week ended Nov.
23, said the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly
Commitments of Traders report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai   adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 