-- Foreign-Exchange Derivatives Doubles to $3.2 Trillion Since 2007, BIS Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-11-30T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/currency-derivatives-market-values-double-since-07-amid-turmoil-bis-says.html
The value of currency derivatives
worldwide doubled in the past three years to $3.2 trillion amid
the “turbulence” of the credit crisis, according to the Bank
for International Settlements.  The gross market value, or the cost to replace all open
contracts such as swaps, options and forwards, jumped from $1.6
trillion in June 2007, according to Basel, Switzerland-based
BIS. The poll is published every three years.  Derivatives let users hedge against swings in currency
rates, with the value of the contracts typically rising as
 market turmoil  increases. Since 2007, markets were roiled by the
U.S. subprime mortgage market failure, the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  “Sharp asset price movements following the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers in September 2008 resulted in the rise of gross
market values in the second half of 2008,” according to the
report. Prices increased again this year as currency markets
went through “another bout of turbulence,” the BIS said.  The notional value of currency derivatives outstanding in
the over-the-counter market increased 9 percent since 2007 to
$57.6 trillion, according to the report. The notional amount is
the value of the underlying assets, not the money at risk.  The growth in outstanding contracts was led by currency
swaps, contracts that helped  Greece  hide the extent of its
budget deficit, which expanded by a third to $19 trillion from
2007. The outstanding amount of currency options fell 12 percent
from 2007 to $12 trillion, according to the survey.  Derivatives are financial instruments derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events like changes in interest rates.  Market Turnover  The BIS also confirmed its provisional survey published in
September that global foreign-exchange trading rose to $4
trillion a day in the three years to April, a 20 percent
increase from April 2007.  Trading increased as hedge funds, pension funds, mutual
funds, insurance companies and central banks used more currency
contracts. Turnover from these financial institutions rose 42
percent from 2007 to $1.9 trillion in April, the BIS said.  Britain maintained its position as the biggest global
foreign-exchange hub, with U.K.-based banks increasing their
share of the market to 37 percent from 35 percent in 2007. The
U.S. had an 18 percent share, followed by Japan, Singapore,
Switzerland, Hong Kong and Australia.  The BIS was formed in 1930 and acts as a central bank for
the world’s monetary authorities. Its Central Bank Survey of
Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Market Activity is based on
data from 53 institutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  