-- U.S. Online Sales on `Cyber Monday' Increase 19.4%, IBM's Coremetrics Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-11-30T13:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/cyber-monday-2010-online-sales-increased-19-according-to-coremetrics.html
Online sales in the U.S. rose 19
percent yesterday, coming in as the biggest Internet shopping
day of the year so far as Web retailers gain ground on
traditional stores, according to research firm Coremetrics.  The average order climbed 8.3 percent to $194.89, San
Mateo, California-based Coremetrics said today in a statement.
Sales of luxury goods rose 24 percent. Coremetrics, owned by
 International Business Machines Corp. , is an analytics company
that tracks online consumer spending and shopping behavior.  Cyber Monday -- the day consumers return to work after the
weekend following Thanksgiving and continue to shop online -- is
an indicator of how the rest of the holiday season is shaping
up.  “Consumers this year appear much more willing to open
their wallets and are turning to online stores for the
convenience,” said John Squire, chief strategy officer of
Coremetrics. “Retailers have done an exceptional job across the
board of appealing to consumers with highly personalized
promotions and a slew of free shipping promotions.”  Online retailers, led by  Amazon.com Inc. , will account for
7 percent of total retail sales in the U.S. this year, up from 6
percent last year, according to Forrester Research Inc.  The National Retail Federation coined the term Cyber Monday
in 2005 to generate buzz around the first working day after
Black Friday, which is the day after Thanksgiving and the
traditional start to holiday shopping.  Flat-Screen TVs  Amazon  posted hundreds of Cyber Monday deals on its site,
including one for a 47-inch (119-centimeter) television from
Vizio Inc. for $599. The set regularly sells for $998.  Holiday sales over the Internet on Nov. 26, this year’s
Black Friday, tallied $648 million, a 9 percent increase from
the corresponding day a year earlier, according to researcher
ComScore, based in Reston, Virginia.  “So far e-commerce trends for the 2010 holiday season are
encouraging,” said  Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co.
in San Francisco.  Even so, it’s still too early to declare the season a
success,  Imran Khan , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York, said in a note to investors yesterday.  “With the biggest days of the holiday season still ahead,
we would view these numbers with caution,” Khan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  