-- New U.S. Deficit-Reduction Proposal Said to Include Social Security Cuts
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-01T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/debt-panel-unlikely-to-reach-agreement-ryan-says.html
A new plan by the co-chairmen of
President  Barack Obama ’s deficit-reduction commission will keep
their recommendation to cut Social Security and is likely to
include a payroll tax holiday, according to a person
knowledgeable about the panel’s work.  The proposal, to be released today, will aim to cut at
least $3.8 trillion from the deficit, the target set in a Nov.
10 draft proposal, co-chairman  Erskine Bowles  said at a news
conference yesterday. A panel vote on whether to approve a plan,
which had been set for today, was delayed until Dec. 3 and
Bowles said he didn’t know if members will reach agreement.  Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, a Republican member
of the commission, said he probably won’t support the proposal.
Ryan said in an interview, “I don’t think there’s 14” votes --
the number needed among the panel’s 18 members for a plan to be
sent to Congress. “And I don’t think I’ll be one of those 14,”
he said.  The revised proposal may include a payroll tax holiday to
win support from Democrats pressing for measures to create jobs,
said the person knowledgeable about the plan. A tax holiday was
proposed by an outside group led by commission member  Alice Rivlin , a Democrat and former director of the nonpartisan
Congressional Budget Office.  Social Security Ages  Under the earlier proposal by Bowles and panel co-chairman
 Alan Simpson , a Republican former senator from Wyoming, the
Social Security retirement age would rise to 68 in about 2050
and 69 in about 2075.  The new plan will retain various options for eliminating
tax breaks, such as the home-mortgage interest deduction, while
lowering income-tax rates, the person said. The co-chairmen
still were working yesterday on how deeply to cut defense
spending and Medicare, the person said.  Bowles, the White House chief of staff under President  Bill Clinton , said the revised plan won’t be a “watered-down”
version of the Nov. 10 draft that drew criticism from Democrats
and Republicans.  “The era of  deficit  denial in Washington is over,” Bowles
said. “I don’t think there’s a soul left in American who
doesn’t understand this deficit and this debt is like a cancer
and it’s going to destroy our country from within.”  Ryan said the revised plan didn’t include “huge” changes
from the panel leaders’ earlier draft.  Representative  Jan Schakowsky  of Illinois and Senate Budget
Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  of North Dakota, both Democrats
on the panel, agreed with Ryan’s assessment that the outlook for
agreement was dim.  ‘Extremely Difficult’  “It appears to be true given my experience in the
commission meetings thus far,” said Schakowsky. “Trying to
accommodate the Democrats means that a number of things would
have to be changed that would further alienate the
Republicans.” Conrad said it will be “extremely difficult” to
get 14 votes.  Senator  Judd Gregg , a New Hampshire Republican on the
panel, suggested he may support the plan. “I haven’t formally
announced what I’m going to do, but I’m very impressed with the
product,” Gregg said. “Obviously there are warts on
everything, but anything that is bipartisan is going to have
warts and this has to be bipartisan.”  He said of the panel’s leaders: “I think they’ve done an
excellent job.”  The panel’s vote was delayed to give members more time to
consider the revised proposal. “It’s tough to ask anybody to
support something that they just got that’s this big,” said
Ryan.  Bowles and Simpson spent much of yesterday meeting
privately with individual lawmakers and also had lunch with Vice
President  Joe Biden . Bowles said they briefed him on the revised
plan.  Initial Proposal  On Nov. 10, Simpson and Bowles proposed a $3.8 trillion
 deficit -cutting plan that would trim Social Security and
Medicare, reduce income-tax rates and eliminate tax breaks
including the mortgage-interest deduction. It would reduce the
annual federal deficit from $1.3 trillion this year to about
$400 billion by 2015 and start reducing the $13.7 trillion
national debt.  The plan would raise the gas tax, slash defense spending
and farm subsidies and bring down health-care costs by clamping
down on medical malpractice suits.  Its release sparked instant opposition from Democrats, some
Republicans and groups such as the Mortgage Bankers Association
and the Aerospace Industries Association. Democratic House
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California called the targeting of
Social Security and Medicare “simply unacceptable.”  Even if the panel is unable to agree on a plan, Bowles and
Simpson have “made a great contribution to the debate, they’ve
advanced it, they’ve sobered up Congress and the country,” Ryan
said. “This was not a wasted exercise.”  The current deficit figure was 9 percent of gross domestic
product, according to the CBO. Economists such as former White
House budget director  Peter Orszag  say policy makers should aim
to reduce the deficit to no more than 3 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  