-- Delta Wins Dismissal of Virgin First-Class Seats Suit
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-30T14:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/delta-air-wins-dismissal-of-virgin-suit-over-first-class-seats.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. , the world’s
second-biggest carrier, won the dismissal of a Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. U.K. lawsuit over a patent for flat-bed seats.  Virgin, the long-haul carrier controlled by billionaire
 Richard Branson , sued Atlanta-based Delta in 2008 over claims
that its seats, designed by  Premium Aircraft Interiors Group
Ltd. , infringed Virgin’s patent. The British carrier “has no
real prospect of establishing infringement,” Judge  Richard Arnold  in London said in a judgment today.  The ruling “does not necessarily deprive Virgin of the
possibility of relief against Delta,” Arnold said. “Virgin may
be able to bring a claim against Delta for infringement of one
or more of its U.S. patents. It may also, at some point in the
future, be in a position to sue Delta for infringement of a
European patent containing seat unit claims.”  Delta asked the court at a hearing Nov. 17 to dismiss the
lawsuit and determine that it doesn’t infringe the patent on the
Solar Eclipse seating system. The case had to be decided before
Delta could add the seats to a planned 30-million pound ($46.6
million) retrofit of 32 aircraft in 2013, the airline’s lawyer,
 Mark Vanhegan  said.  Virgin is “disappointed with the result” and will seek
permission to appeal, said Janine Doy, a spokeswoman for the
Crawley, England-based airline.  “Virgin Atlantic invests huge amounts in its design and
product innovation and it is a major area of differentiation
between us and other airlines,” Doy said in an e-mail. “We
will always seek to protect our assets and brand from other
airlines, seat manufacturers and others to ensure our
intellectual property rights remain protected.”  Virgin in October 2009 won a patent lawsuit accusing
Premium, a U.K. maker and designer of airplane cabins, of
infringing the same patent.  The case is Virgin Atlantic Airways v. Delta Air Lines,
Case No. HC08C1577, High Court of Justice Chancery Division.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 