-- 
Demjanjuk Nazi Guard Case Verdict Might Be Based on ‘New Legal Territory’

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-05-12T08:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/demjanjuk-nazi-case-punctuated-by-delays-fights-with-judge-after-one-year.html
The 18-month trial of  John Demjanjuk 
on charges he aided in the murder of 27,900 Jews during World
War II is scheduled to end today with a verdict from Munich
judges that may enter “new legal territory.”  Demjanjuk, a former U.S. citizen, has faced similar charges
before. He spent almost eight years in Israeli custody before
being acquitted in 1993 of accusations he was Treblinka
extermination camp guard “Ivan the Terrible.” He was charged
in  Germany  in 2009 with being a guard aiding in the murder of
Jews at the Sobibor death camp in then German-occupied Poland.  The case, drawn out by the 91-year-old Demjanjuk’s failing
health and disputes over 68-year-old evidence, reflects the
pitfalls of prosecution of Nazi-related crimes,  Frank Saliger , a
professor of criminal law and philosophy of law at Hamburg’s
Bucerius Law School, said in an interview.  “If you look at Demjanjuk, you don’t see the typical Nazi
criminal you’d imagine,” Saliger said. “Many other
perpetrators were never brought to justice -- and that’s just
one of the case’s many imbalances, which leave you with a bitter
taste.”  Judges are tentatively scheduled to deliver the verdict
today. The court opened today’s session by rejecting 32 motions
Demjanjuk’s lawyer Ulrich Busch filed yesterday when finishing
his closing arguments. If Busch files further motions, the
verdict could be delayed. The hearing is in recess and is set to
resume at 12:30 p.m.  The maximum sentence under German law is 15 years. The
prosecution asked for a six-year term, saying the time served in
 Israel  should be taken into account.  Identity Card  The Munich prosecutors’ principal evidence is an identity
card and staff lists that indicate Demjanjuk served at Sobibor
from March to September 1943. The fact he was at the camp is
enough for a conviction, because everyone who worked there
supported the Nazi death machine, prosecutors say.  The prosecution departed from a 2003 decision by Germany’s
investigative unit for Nazi crimes not to prosecute Demjanjuk
because there was no way to prove what specific acts he
committed.  Five years later, an investigator at the unit read about
the U.S. stripping Demjanjuk of his citizenship. He started a
new probe using the concept that anybody who served at a death
camp supported the murders.  “This was certainly new legal territory we were entering
with our concept,” Thomas Will, the deputy head of the unit
said in an interview. “The court will now have to decide
whether it’s valid.”  SS Officers  About 25 to 30 German SS officers served in the camp, aided
by about 100 to 120 guards recruited from Russian prisoners of
war who were called Trawniki after the name of their training
camp. The Germans captured Demjanjuk, who was fighting in the
Russian Army, in 1942 and then transferred him to Trawniki,
according to the indictment.  If historical documents suggest Trawniki men had no other
task than helping kill Jews and the court is convinced Demjanjuk
served there, a conviction is in line with the law, said
Saliger, the Hamburg law professor.  “It could be different if Demjanjuk somehow could show he
was an atypical Trawniki with a different task,” said Saliger.
“But that would require him to say he actually was there, which
he of course doesn’t want to admit.”  Demjanjuk’s lawyer Ulrich Busch, in his closing arguments
last week, reiterated what he has said in hundreds of
unsuccessful motions: the documents were forged and any
conviction would be egregious given the fact that higher-ranking
Germans were acquitted of similar charges.  Victims, Survivors  Even if he had been there, Demjanjuk would have been the
“smallest of the small fries,” said Busch. Russian prisoners
of war often starved and serving as a guard was the only way to
escape death, he said.  About 35 relatives of camp victims and survivors, most of
them from the Netherlands, registered as co-plaintiffs in the
case. While all asked for a conviction, some said a prison
sentence wasn’t necessary.  Even if the court acquitted Demjanjuk, he couldn’t return
to his family in  Ohio , which he was able to do after he was
cleared in Israel, because he is no longer a U.S. citizen.
Instead he would remain in Germany, most likely living on
welfare in a nursing home.  “In that sense, Demjanjuk already has a life sentence
regardless of what the verdict will be, and that’s another
factor that leaves you with a bitter taste,” said Saliger. “He
appears to also be a victim of history: he was at the wrong
place at the wrong time on too many occasions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 