-- Developers' Dollar Bonds Deliver First Loss Amid Loan Curbs: China Credit
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-11-30T04:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/developers-dollar-bonds-deliver-first-loss-amid-loan-curbs-china-credit.html
Investors in China real estate
companies’ dollar bonds had their first loss of this half after
the central bank imposed restrictions intended to limit
developers’ access to bank loans and slow mortgage growth.  The 21 China property bonds in Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Asian Dollar Corporate Index delivered a negative 0.35
percent return in November, compared with a positive reading of
as much as 4.46 percent in July, after regulators ordered banks
to set aside more capital against potential losses.  “Credit growth impacts property developers both directly,
through their own access to loans, and indirectly, through
property purchasers’ access to mortgage credit,” said  Viktor Hjort , a credit strategist for Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong.
“Developers have managed to translate improving sales into
lower leverage and stronger balance sheet liquidity, and this
may now change for the worse.”  Chinese property prices rose 8.6 percent in October from a
year earlier, helping push inflation to a two-year high and
threatening the world’s fastest-growing major economy’s ability
to sustain growth that’s averaged more than 10 percent in the
past five years. The People’s Bank of China raised interest
rates last month for the first time since 2007, and from
yesterday increased banks’ reserve-ratio requirements for the
fifth time this year in a bid to cool lending.  Climbing Sales  China Vanke Co., the nation’s largest publicly-traded
developer, reported a 137 percent jump in October sales while
 Poly Real Estate Group Co ., the second largest, said contracted
sales were 8.9 billion yuan ($1.34 billion) for the month,
without giving a percentage change. For the first 10 months of
the year Poly’s contracted sales rose 37 percent to 50.3 billion
yuan, the Guangzhou-based company said on Nov. 3.  A downward correction in home prices can be expected next
year “as the most recent set of regulatory measures are more
effectively enforced,” Moody’s Investors Service said in its
Chinese property sector outlook published today. Contracted
sales value -- a combination of sales volumes and prices -- will
drop by as much as 20 percent for rated companies, it said.  The yield on Guangdong-based Agile Property Holdings Ltd.’s
$650 million of 8.875 percent notes due April 2017 rose 35 basis
points to 8.717 percent this month, ING Groep NV prices show.
The similar-maturity 11.25 percent notes issued by Country
Garden Holdings Co., also of Guangdong, climbed 52 basis points
to 10.031 percent, according to the Dutch bank.  Both are the steepest monthly increases for the developers
since July 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Sales Pulled  Chinese real estate companies raised $7.8 billion from
dollar-denominated bonds this year, the most since Bloomberg
began collecting the data in 1999 and almost 12 times the $675
million they raised in the same period of 2009. Developers and
home buyers signed a combined 1.8 trillion yuan of property-
related loans in the third quarter, according to  CEIC Data Co .  Yuzhou Properties Co ., a developer of projects in southern
China, shelved a $300 million bond sale as market conditions
soured, a person familiar with the matter said on Nov. 23.
Tensions on the Korean peninsula and escalating European debt
concerns claimed at least two more speculative-grade bond sales
in Asia this month and were said to derail an offering by
Hongkong Electric Holdings Ltd., rated the fifth-highest
investment grade of A+ by Standard & Poor’s.  Real estate is “a very leveraged play and is linked to
loan growth in China and credit policy,”  Alex Yao , Hong Kong-
based fixed-income strategist at Amias Berman & Co. LLP, said in
a phone interview. “Faced with what’s happening in Korea and in
Ireland, and coming towards the end of the year, investors don’t
want to risk the profits they’ve made.”  BRIC Peers  Among the four nations comprising the so-called BRIC group
of emerging economies, China’s $1 billion of 4.75 percent notes
due October 2013 yield 1.72 percent while Russia’s $2 billion of
3.625 percent bonds due April 2015 yield 3.44 percent, according
to RBS. Brazil’s $1.25 billion of 10.25 percent notes due June
2013 yield 1.59 percent, according to Collins Stewart Plc prices.
India hasn’t sold any dollar bonds.  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on China’s bonds
climbed 12 basis points to 71 basis points this month, CMA
prices show. The contracts fell about 15 percent in October
following a drop of 19 percent in September.  Credit-default swaps typically decline as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities should a borrower fail to honor debt repayments.  A rising yuan has made it cheaper for Chinese borrowers to
repay dollar debt. The yuan has appreciated 2.5 percent versus
the dollar since a two-year peg was relaxed in June, and non-
deliverable forwards show traders are betting on a 1.9 percent
increase in the coming 12 months. It rose 0.1 percent to 6.6685
per dollar as of 12:45 p.m. in Hong Kong today.  Lending Pace  One-year interest-rate  swaps , or the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , fell 13 basis
points to 3.25 percent yesterday. Five-year swaps dropped seven
basis points, to 3.95 percent. That rate is up from this year’s
low of 2.68 percent on Aug. 12, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China will control the pace of bank lending for the rest of
this year because it will be difficult to stay within the
government’s 7.5 trillion yuan target for new loans in 2010,  Hu Xiaolian , a deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China, said
in a  statement  posted on the central bank’s website on Nov. 24.  The nation’s three biggest banks are close to reaching
their annual lending quotas and plan to stop expanding their
loan books to avoid breaching limits, four people with knowledge
of the matter said on Nov. 23.  Bond Pipeline  Policy makers in Beijing have introduced a raft of measures
since January aimed at cooling the property market and slowing
home price inflation. A curb on loans for third home purchases
and tighter down-payment requirements for second homes failed to
prevent Chinese property bonds from outperforming the high-yield
dollar market in Asia by about 200 basis points in the second
half, according to Morgan Stanley.  “To fund land purchases and construction costs on the back
of credit tightening measures we’re likely to see issuers
tapping the bond market again next year,” Amias Berman’s Yao
said. “I’m neutral on the sector fundamentals, but owing to the
sudden market volatility I think investors will continue to
cash-in at least in the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  