-- Diamond Parries Attacks on Pay With Vow to Earn Public Trust
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B a k e r   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-11-30T16:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/diamond-parries-attacks-on-pay-at-barclays-with-vow-to-earn-public-s-trust.html
As 1,100 managing directors from
Barclays Capital descended on the Grosvenor House hotel near  London ’s Hyde Park in late September, they had more to celebrate
than having successfully swallowed the North American unit of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. two years earlier. Their guy,  Bob Diamond , the Massachusetts-born founder of  Barclays Capital , had
just been handed the top job at parent  Barclays Plc  in a sign of
how he had transformed the 320-year-old British institution in
his 14 years as investment bank chief, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its January issue.  “Bobtimistic” is how  Rich Ricci , Barclays Capital’s new
co-chief executive officer, described Diamond’s eternally upbeat
attitude to the assembled executives as he introduced a five-
minute video send-off.  “I’d like to say that he’s too humble to recount what we
are about to show in this video, but you’ll probably just have
to hear it twice,” Ricci joked.  The tribute, heralded by blaring trumpets, featured a
digital scrapbook titled “The Wonder Years,” with clips of
Diamond hiking up his yellow suspenders in 1997 as he talked
about making Barclays Capital a bond market leader; a mock image
of him dressed like the children’s cartoon character Bob the
Builder; his first pep talk to Lehman employees after acquiring
the bankrupt broker-dealer in 2008; and photos of him with
Rolling Stone Mick Jagger, soccer stars of London’s Chelsea
Football Club and pro golfer Phil Mickelson.  Public Anger  Outside the five-star hotel, the appointment of the 59-
year-old American investment banking chief to run one of
Britain’s oldest financial institutions was met with less
celebration. In some U.K. media and political circles, Diamond
is the personification of a greedy banker, a symbol of all that
has gone wrong in global finance.  Two years after U.K. taxpayers invested, loaned or pledged
more than 850 billion pounds ($1.32 trillion) to shore up the
British financial system, Diamond’s rise to the top of the
world’s fifth-largest lender by assets prompted London’s tabloid
Daily Mail to call him “The Real-Life Gordon Gekko.” Although
Barclays itself didn’t take a farthing directly from the British
government to boost capital, Diamond has been attacked for the
level of his own compensation.  He took home a 21.1 million-pound pay package in 2007 and
then pocketed 26.8 million pounds from the $15.2 billion sale of
Barclays Global Investors in 2009.  Even though he shunned a bonus in 2008 and 2009, Diamond
remains the poster boy for banker-bashing. Just weeks before the
May 6 U.K. general election, then-Business Secretary Peter Mandelson called Diamond the “unacceptable face of banking.”  Re-earning Trust  “He hasn’t earned that money,” Mandelson told The Times
of London newspaper. “He has done so by dealmaking and
shuffling paper around.”  Diamond, who has a fondness for cigars and is surrounded by
a coterie of American executives, shrugs off such vituperation.  “I have to live with it,” he says in an October interview,
sitting jacketless at a conference table while eating a lunch of
tomato soup and salad on the 31st floor of the bank’s
headquarters in London’s Canary Wharf. “Although Barclays
performed exceptionally well and never took any public money, to
some extent the public throws us all in the same basket: We’re
all banks. We have to re-earn public trust.”  The man whose mantra is “execution” has more pressing
issues to worry about than his image. Diamond, who takes the
formal title of group chief executive on April 1, now counts as
one of the most powerful players in finance.  Shunned By Investors  Yet the institution he inherits is being shunned by
investors. Barclays’s stock declined 16 percent in the six
months ended on Nov. 30, to 256.15 pence, while the 53-member
Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index declined
1.24 percent.  The shares traded at 0.62 times the book value of the
bank’s assets -- compared with the 1.31 average multiple for
European banks -- as shareholders fretted about the effect of
higher capital rules on the bank.  Barclays’s decision to sell BGI to  BlackRock Inc . in 2009
to raise capital made the bank even more dependent on investment
banking revenue, which slackened in 2010. Barclays Capital
accounted for 75 percent of the company’s 4.27 billion pounds of
pretax profit in the first nine months of 2010. On Nov. 9,
Barclays reported that quarterly pretax profit fell 76 percent
from a year earlier, to 327 million pounds from 1.36 billion
pounds, as Barclays Capital weathered reduced trading volumes.  Diamond’s Challenge  The investment bank unit posted a third-quarter loss of 182
million pounds after a 24 percent decline in revenue to 2.8
billion pounds from a year earlier. The bank plans to eliminate
hundreds of jobs at Barclays Capital by the end of January,
according to three people familiar with the matter. A spokesman
for Barclays in London declined to comment today on the report
of job cuts.  Barclays’s corporate banking arm has also struggled, hit by
bad loans in Spain, as it posted a pretax loss of 414 million
pounds in the first nine months of 2010.  Those results show the scale of the challenges Diamond
faces in reviving Barclays’s fortunes and strengthening the
retail and corporate banking operations, says John-Paul Crutchley, an analyst at UBS AG in London.  “BarCap has been a phenomenal success,” he says. “But
for Diamond’s tenure to be a success, investment banking will
have to be proportionally smaller than it is now.”  Boosting Returns  Banks that don’t execute well and can’t boost returns will
be ripe for takeovers, Diamond says.  “If you’re earning significantly below your cost of equity,
it’s going to create consolidation because it won’t be
sustainable,” he says.  That’s the strategic challenge Barclays now faces: Its
return on equity is 6.7 percent as of Sept. 30 and its cost of
equity -- the return that shareholders expect from dividends and
the stock price -- is 12.5 percent, the bank says.  Apart from a side table jammed with pictures of his three
children, Diamond’s London office is unadorned. It’s his first
day as deputy group chief executive officer in a six-month
transition working alongside John Varley, the Oxford-educated
Barclays boss who helped navigate the bank through the financial
crisis and drove the lender’s dealmaking.  “The stereotypical image of Varley is of the conservative,
genteel British banker and Diamond as the aggressive risk
taker,” says Naguib Kheraj, a former Barclays executive who is
head of Lazard International. “Whilst both are calculated risk
takers, if you asked me which of the two is more willing to take
risks, I would say John, not Bob.”  Deal Making  While Diamond built Barclays Capital without acquisitions,
Varley, 54, spent $4.3 billion buying a majority stake in Absa
Group Ltd., the South African lender, in 2005.  At the time, it was the biggest purchase for Barclays
outside the U.K. Varley also oversaw the acquisitions of Russian
lender Expobank for $745 million in March 2008 and the banking
unit of Edinburgh-based insurer Standard Life Plc for 226
million pounds in October 2009.  One of Diamond’s first tasks will be to keep Barclays in
one piece. Britain’s Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition
government has set up a commission that will rule in September
whether the country’s big banks should be broken up by splitting
off investment banking units from retail operations. British
Business Secretary Vince Cable says Diamond’s promotion shows
the dangers of risky investment banking practices infecting
commercial banking.  London’s Role  “What this appointment illustrates is the wider policy
question about how banks can be made safe, and we are worried
about this combination of the casinos and the traditional
banks,” Cable told the British Broadcasting Corp. on Sept 8.  Banks are responding to that rhetoric. Since August,  HSBC
Holdings Plc ,  Standard Chartered Plc  and Barclays have all
threatened to quit London if the commission rules for a split or
the government imposes punitive taxes on banks.  That has former Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling concerned about the future role of the U.K. capital as a
center for banking, as financial services account for about 10
percent of the British economy.  “I would like to see as many banks and financial services
institutions as we can get based in London,” Darling says. “I
very much doubt the commission will recommend breaking up
banks.”  Bonus Payments  Diamond has already won over Mandelson, who now says he was
wrong to personalize the bonus debate. Even so, finance
executives must do something about their generous pay packages,
Mandelson says.  “The banks need to face up to what everyone apart from the
recipients, it seems, feels about bonuses,” he says. “They are
just way out of line with what is justifiable or acceptable.
They need to agree among themselves to bring them down.”  Barclays has attracted negative coverage in British
newspapers for paying its employees billions of pounds in
bonuses, even during the financial crisis. In 2009 -- the year
after the financial crisis widened -- Barclays spent 2.7 billion
pounds on bonuses. The bank set aside 2.2 billion pounds in the
first three quarters of 2010 for bonuses, including deferred
payments, putting it on track to exceed 2009’s total.  The bank is able to dole out that largesse in part because
Diamond dodged two major bullets in his rise to the top. In 2007,
Varley and Diamond lost the takeover battle for ABN Amro Holding
NV to a group headed by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , which
bid a record 73.3 billion euros ($96 billion) for the Dutch
lender in a deal that eventually brought the U.K.’s second-
largest bank to its knees.  Lehman Advantage  Then Diamond drove the Barclays bid to buy Lehman just days
before the brokerage declared bankruptcy, only to see the deal
slip away when the U.S. government declined to guarantee the
firm’s trading operations and British officials, including
Darling, quashed the deal. That allowed him to snap up Lehman’s
U.S. broker-dealer business for $1.75 billion from the wreckage
of the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  The bargain-basement price paid for the Lehman acquisition
helped propel Barclays Capital past its rivals. The investment
bank still makes most of its money trading fixed income and
currencies. It’s also the top underwriter of international bonds,
a position it has held since 2008. The Lehman deal helped
Barclays move to No. 5 in advising on global mergers and
acquisitions in 2010, leapfrogging Deutsche Bank AG, which held
that position in 2009.  Quick Growth  “It gave us the opportunity to put five or six years of
growth into 90 days,” Diamond says. “We needed an opportunity
to get scale in the U.S. if we were going to achieve our
ambitions.”  Barclays Capital -- which ranked 10th in 2010 in equity
offerings worldwide -- has spent 430 million pounds in 2010 to
build up the equity and advisory business mostly outside the U.S.  “Scale in the U.S. equity business is key to being a
success globally,” Jerry del Missier, co-CEO of Barclays
Capital, says. “Building Europe isn’t difficult as long as you
have the U.S.”  Like most major banks, Barclays faces regulatory pressure
to reduce its risks. Lenders will have to more than double the
amount of capital they hold in relation to risk-weighted assets
under the new Basel III regulations that were agreed on by
regulators from 27 nations in September 2010. Those rules, which
take effect in 2019, could add 60 billion pounds of risk-
weighted assets that require higher capital, rising to as much
as 150 billion pounds depending on how the Basel III capital
changes affect different parts of the business, Diamond says.  Basel Rules  Barclays will knock that down by about 50 billion pounds
through the controlled growth of risk-weighted assets,
allocation of capital to businesses with higher returns and
asset sales, Barclays Finance Director  Chris Lucas  told analysts
on Nov. 9. As part of that effort, Diamond began chairing a
weekly returns committee meeting to control how the bank
allocates capital.  “You should not expect us to raise equity,” he says. “We
know what the impact will be assuming no actions; that’s
manageable. We don’t need to raise capital, and we’re going to
take management actions,” Diamond says.  The new Basel rules are so stringent that Barclays Capital
would have posted a total economic loss of more than 4 billion
pounds in 2008 and 2009 if the capital requirements had been in
effect, UBS analysts said in a Nov. 15 note.  Crispin Odey, founder of London-based hedge fund Odey Asset
Management LLP, says Barclays’s stock price will stay stagnant
until the bank begins paying higher dividends and buying back
its own shares.  ‘Slow Recovery’  “We see this as being a slow recovery story,” says Odey,
who bought Barclays stock as the price bottomed out, holding as
much as 19 million shares in March 2009. “We’ve probably got
another year before they have enough capital to start buying
back shares.”  Barclays has a market value of 32 billion pounds, less than
the 42 billion-pound market capitalization of RBS, the crippled
bank that beat Barclays in the ABN Amro fight.  While other British banks needed direct taxpayer bailouts
in 2008, Barclays headed for shelter in the Middle East. In
November 2008, the bank raised more than 7 billion pounds from
investors, the bulk from Abu Dhabi and Qatar, at a time the U.K.
government began spending 66 billion pounds buying shares in
Lloyds Banking Group Plc and RBS to keep them operating.  “The decision to stay independent has proved to be the
right one,” says  Florian Esterer , who helps manage about $58
billion at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich, including
Barclays shares. “They were very aggressive about steering
their own course.”  Legal Wrangle  While the Lehman deal boosted Barclays’s fortunes in the
U.S., it also triggered a legal headache for the duo running the
bank. Lehman’s creditors are suing Barclays in U.S. bankruptcy
court in  New York , alleging the British bank obtained $11
billion of windfall profits when it acquired the bankrupt
broker-dealer by undervaluing key assets.  Diamond and Varley testified at the trial in June to
challenge the claim, saying the price was fair given the
collapsing financial markets of 2008.  At the heart of the case is the allegation by Lehman
lawyers that Barclays made $5 billion of “secret” profit on a
portfolio of securities it took on with the brokerage and a
further $6 billion by writing up business assets, skimping on
promised payments and culling money held in accounts including
margin deposits backing Lehman trades. Barclays denies all of
the allegations.  Share Price Drag  As part of the deal, Barclays says Lehman agreed to make
two transfers worth about $1.3 billion to Barclays that the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a filing could have
violated securities laws. In response, Barclays says the assets
were allocated to it in a sale document signed by all parties to
the transaction in the 2008 financial crisis. The U.K. bank
still claims the assets, which were never delivered, and asked
the judge to uphold the transfers in a Nov. 29 filing.  The bank says Lehman has no right to challenge the deal
because its advisers knew all of the transaction details, which
were documented. Barclays’s lawyer David Boies, best known for
representing Al Gore in the Supreme Court battle over the 2000
U.S. presidential vote recount, told Judge James Peck that he
couldn’t overturn the sale order just because one side benefited
more than the other from the deal.  “The Lehman trial is definitely weighing on Barclays’s
stock price,” says Simon Maughan, London-based co-head of
equities at MF Global U.K. Ltd.  Little League  Diamond, a Boston Red Sox fan and a golf nut with a
handicap of 9, has a knack for using unconventional routes to
achieve his long-term ambitions. The son of a teacher turned
high school principal, Diamond was one of nine children born
into an Irish-Catholic family in Concord, Massachusetts, a
suburb of Boston.  When he was 8, his father, Robert Sr., encouraged him to
try out for catcher on his Little League baseball team, instead
of the more sought-after position of pitcher. He made the team.  “It wasn’t going to be skill that got me a position,” he
told students in a 2008 commencement address at his alma mater,
Colby College, in Waterville, Maine, recalling his father’s
advice. “It was going to be about attitude and hard work.” In
high school, Diamond applied the same principles to playing
football, going for the unheralded role of pulling guard instead
of quarterback.  Wall St. Outsider  As a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity at Colby in
the early 1970s, Diamond began as an average student, says Henry
Gemery, who taught Diamond economics and, a few years later,
Edson Mitchell, the bond trader who built Deutsche Bank’s
markets business and died in a plane crash in 2000.  “He was a remarkably enthusiastic student for analyzing
markets,” Gemery says.  That fascination with markets spurred Diamond into getting
his MBA at the University of Connecticut in Stamford. In another
unconventional twist, he turned down a job at  International
Business Machines Corp . to join the training program in
information technology at United States Surgical Corp., betting
he could gain more experience at a smaller company.  When his boss at U.S. Surgical left for Morgan Stanley,
Diamond followed him to work in the firm’s back office and later
became an assistant to the chief financial officer. It was a
backdoor route to an establishment  Wall Street  firm.  “That was when the Morgan Stanleys and Goldman Sachses
only recruited people from Princeton, from Harvard and from
Yale,” Diamond told the Colby graduates.  Trading Floor  He finally negotiated his way onto the trading floor. He
moved to London in 1988 and ran fixed-income trading for Morgan
Stanley International; four years later, he was lured by the
prospect of working in  Asia  to join CS First Boston in Tokyo as
head of its Asian operations, eventually becoming head of global
fixed income and foreign exchange in New York.  Diamond spent what he calls four unhappy years at CSFB. He
quit in 1996 in a dispute with then-CSFB CEO Allen Wheat over
the size of the bonus pool for his fixed income team.  Offers from Wall Street firms came Diamond’s way, but he
turned them down to join Barclays, the once-innovative British
bank that had introduced credit cards and ATMs to the U.K. in
the 1960s. Diamond became head of global markets at its sleepy
investment bank unit Barclays de Zoete Wedd. He bet that Europe
would adopt a single currency and spur a new, fast-growing
capital market.  ‘Bad Shape’  A year after Diamond arrived, Barclays decided it would be
too costly to compete against Wall Street firms and sold BZW’s
equities and advisory businesses at the end of 1997 to CS First
Boston, the firm Diamond had fled. Diamond became chief
executive of the rump group, renamed Barclays Capital, which
focused on fixed income and foreign exchange.  “The investment bank was in bad shape,” says Kheraj, who
joined Barclays Capital in 1997 and held various positions at
the bank, including that of finance director from 2004 to 2007.
“We changed 80 percent of the people in three years.”  Under Diamond’s leadership, Barclays Capital adopted what
bank insiders say is a “no a--hole” rule, meant to stamp out
bankers who hoard accounts and don’t work well with others. The
same strict attitude applies to hiring and promotions, as senior
candidates are put through three- to five-hour interviews where
they’re asked about every job they’ve ever held, Barclays
Capital co-head Ricci says.  No Jargon  Ricci is one of the American-born “friends of Bob” who
have served Diamond at the investment bank. Others include del
Missier and Tom Kalaris, who runs Barclays Wealth, the private-
banking business. Colleagues report that Diamond doesn’t cut any
slack to any FOB who lapses into jargon at meetings. “Bob has
this expression he uses: ‘Don’t give me all this psychobabble;
talk to me like a 2-year-old,’” Ricci says.  By 2003, Diamond was a leading candidate for Barclays’s top
job. Instead, in October of that year the board picked then-
Finance Director Varley, who had married into one of  Barclays’s 
founding Quaker families, to replace Matthew Barrett as CEO when
he was appointed chairman of the bank. “It would be wrong to
say that Bob wasn’t disappointed,” outgoing Chairman Peter
Middleton told journalists at the time.  On the day of the announcement, Varley called Diamond into
his office, where they spent several hours discussing future
strategy. Diamond stayed at Barclays with the possibility of one
day taking Varley’s place, even though he was five years older
than his boss. Both practicing Catholics, the pair divvied up
responsibilities: By the end of 2004, Diamond took over Barclays
Wealth. The next year, he became Barclays president and joined
the board.  Varley’s Defense  In 2007, Varley offered 63 billion euros for ABN Amro, in
the biggest-ever financial takeover battle. Diamond publicly
backed the bid.  Varley pursued ABN beyond the start of the credit crisis.
He urged shareholders to back the takeover on Sept. 14, 2007,
the same day that Northern Rock Plc was bailed out by the  Bank
of England , leading to a run on the Newcastle-based lender. RBS,
with Banco Santander SA and Fortis Bank, ended the six-month
takeover battle with a 73.3 billion euro almost-all-cash offer
for ABN Amro.  In October 2008, debt-ridden RBS received an injection of
U.K. taxpayer cash to keep operating; today, the British
government owns 83 percent of the Edinburgh-based bank.  “They were damn lucky not to win the ABN Amro bid,” says
Alistair Milne, a finance professor at Cass Business School in
London.  Lehman Pursuit  Varley defends his offer for ABN Amro, saying his largely
all-share bid would have protected Barclays’s balance sheet.  “This was not luck,” Varley says. “We had our eyes open
on this transaction.”  After losing ABN Amro, Barclays began considering another
transformative deal by targeting Lehman. As Diamond tells it,
the saga began when Robert Steel, then the U.S. Treasury
Department’s undersecretary for domestic finance, called him in
April 2008. It was a month after the U.S. Federal Reserve had
saved Bear Stearns Cos. from bankruptcy by backstopping its
takeover by JPMorgan Chase & Co. It wasn’t an official call, but
Steel wanted to see if there was a price at which Barclays would
be interested in buying Lehman in case the U.S. firm ran into
trouble.  “Yes, there is a price, and it’s very, very distressed,”
Diamond answered.  Fire Sale  When he was asked what Barclays would need from the U.S.
Treasury to consider buying the firm, Diamond says he told Steel
that Barclays would need help with Lehman’s distressed assets
and aid with clearing the broker’s trades.  Over the summer, Barclays was in no position to do a deal.
In July 2008, it had raised 4.5 billion pounds from backers
including the Qatar Investment Authority to replenish capital
after writedowns.  Lehman became a candidate for a fire sale in early
September. After Lehman CEO Richard Fuld announced a $3.9
billion loss on Sept. 10, Barclays and  Bank of America Corp .
began planning separate bids.  The following weekend leading up to Lehman’s bankruptcy was
one of the most contentious periods in modern finance -- and
Diamond played a critical role.  John Gieve, then deputy governor of the Bank of England for
financial stability, recalls first hearing about the Lehman deal
while at a European Union meeting in Nice, France, on Sept. 12
with Darling, then-chancellor of the Exchequer.  ‘Little England’  “I took the view that it was completely crackers for
Barclays -- which we thought of as undercapitalized and sailing
very close to the wind -- to try to absorb a massive further
highly leveraged balance sheet,” he says. “The British
authorities were never happy with it, but they were consulted
far too late.”  On Saturday, Sept. 13, Barclays became the sole Lehman
suitor after Bank of America dropped out. The next day, Darling
told then-U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  that the British
government wouldn’t support the deal after it became clear that
the Fed wouldn’t backstop Lehman’s trades on Monday morning.  “I had grave doubts about such a move because, effectively,
the British taxpayer would be underwriting a big American
bank,” Darling says.  Diamond was devastated. “Couldn’t have gone more poorly,
very frustrating. Little England,” an angry Diamond wrote in a
BlackBerry message to Steel revealed in Andrew Ross Sorkin’s Too
Big to Fail (Viking/Allen Lane, 2009).  “I regret having sent that text,” Diamond now says.  Late Deal  With the deal effectively dead and Lehman headed for
bankruptcy, an exhausted Ricci, Diamond and del Missier headed
to  Smith & Wollensky ’s steakhouse on Manhattan’s Third Avenue to
drown their sorrows on Sunday night. That was when Lehman
President Bart McDade called Diamond to see if Barclays was
interested in buying Lehman’s U.S. broker-dealer business. It
was exactly the prize Diamond wanted.  After Barclays agreed to buy the broker-dealer, Diamond
addressed Lehman employees assembled on the trading floor to
reassure them that he would try to save as many jobs as possible.
“I cannot even begin to imagine what all the people of Lehman
have gone through,” Diamond told them.  Later, as Diamond walked the floor, a trader blasted out
“God Save The Queen” over the intercom. After the deal was
sealed, Diamond -- who had moved to New York earlier in the year
-- established his office on the trading floor and mothballed
Fuld’s 31st-floor executive suite.  Crisis Meeting  After the purchase, Barclays fired 4,000 people, only about
half of whom were from Lehman, Ricci says. Nomura Holdings Inc.
bought Lehman’s overseas operations from the brokerage’s
creditors in September 2008.  Four months after Barclays bought Lehman, its share price
collapsed. Even though the bank had bolstered its capital base
with a further injection of Middle Eastern cash in November,
Barclays stock plummeted 73 percent in 10 days, dipping as low
as 47.6 pence during trading on Friday, Jan. 23, 2009.  Diamond flew back to London during the weekend to help
Varley and Chairman Marcus Agius craft a letter telling the
market that the bank didn’t need to raise capital.  “We never had any of our big depositors pull out,”
Diamond says. When the markets opened on Monday, Jan. 26,
Barclays shares surged to 88.7 pence.  Even as he prepares for the top job, Diamond shuttles
between his homes and offices in New York and London and faces a
challenge to build up Barclays Capital’s business in Europe
after losing out to Nomura.  ‘Flow Monster’  “We wanted the whole thing; I’m not going to deny that,”
Ricci says. “But there was such overlap in Europe between
Barclays and Lehman that there would have been a bloodbath.”  While Barclays has avoided duplication, it has struggled
with the cost of building an equities platform in Europe and
Asia. Diamond plans to create a high-volume “flow monster” in
equities similar to Barclays Capital’s role in fixed income and
commodities. Barclays Capital has hired more than 850 people in
equities and advisory in Europe and Asia since 2009 at a time
when other companies were shedding jobs.  Besides building the equities unit, Diamond must also
figure out how to revive Barclays’s flagging corporate and
consumer banking businesses. “We think we can dramatically
improve our performance in commercial banking,” Diamond says.
He’s betting that Barclays’s position in Africa, where it
operates in 11 countries, will boost returns as economic growth
outpaces that of developed markets.  Brand Value  Retail banking head  Antony Jenkins  -- the only Briton running
a major Barclays unit -- wants to add another 4 million clients
to the bank’s 37 million retail customers worldwide. Jenkins
says Barclays doesn’t need a large retail acquisition to build
the business. It’s investing 1 billion pounds in its retail unit
to boost returns. That means everything from refurbishing
branches to getting bank cards out faster and reducing customer
complaints.  “Our business is an annuity business that you build a
brick at a time,” Jenkins says.  Diamond is also pouring 375 million pounds by 2015 into
Barclays Wealth, with the aim of becoming one of the world’s top
five private banks.  “Their brand value in the Commonwealth is just incredible;
it is seen as one of the truest English institutions, just like
English tea, public schools and Burberry,” says Lothar Mentel,
a former wealth manager at Barclays and now the London-based
chief investment officer at Octopus Investments Ltd. “I am just
not convinced they have the patience to wait.”  Diamond’s signature patience finally won him the job he
coveted. Now, he faces battles on several fronts to shore up
Barclays’s share price, rebuild its traditional business and
keep his bank in one piece -- a challenge that may tax even this
most “bobtimistic” of executives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Baker in London at 
 stebaker@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net .
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  