-- Dollar Debt Falls Most Since August on Contagion Concern: Argentine Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-11-30T20:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/dollar-debt-falls-most-since-august-on-contagion-concern-argentine-credit.html
The biggest tumble in Argentine
bonds in more than three months is causing the country to lag
behind emerging-market debt on concern Europe’s financial crisis
will spread beyond Ireland.  Dollar-denominated bonds in South America’s second-biggest
economy are down 4 percent this month, compared with a 3.4
percent decline for Mexico and a 3 percent drop for Brazil,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. Argentine debt
fell 2.6 percent yesterday, the biggest one-day decline since
Aug. 25 and the most in Latin America after Venezuela.
Developing-market government bonds declined 0.7 percent.  Sovereign securities in Argentina are headed for the
biggest monthly decline since May as Ireland became the second
country to tap assistance by receiving an 85 billion euro aid
package. Before yesterday, Argentine bonds  withstood  a tumble in
emerging-market debt better than Latin American peers this month
as the government’s move to improve ties with the International
Monetary Fund buoyed investor confidence.  “It’s the sovereign debt concerns in Europe coupled with
the fact that people are being protective of whatever gains they
may have had year-to-date,”  Alejandro Urbina , an emerging-
market debt manager at Silva Capital Management in Chicago, said
in a phone interview.  Before yesterday, Argentina’s dollar-denominated bonds fell
1.4 percent in November, while debt from the region declined 2.9
percent, according to JPMorgan. Brazilian bonds slid 2.6 percent
this month and Mexico’s tumbled 3.1 percent.  Contagion Issue  Yesterday’s decline for Argentine debt was sharper than the
nation’s peers in the region. Mexican government  bonds  fell 0.35
percent and  Brazilian  debt dropped 0.43 percent.  Standard & Poor’s rates Argentine government debt B, five
steps below investment grade, and the same as Bolivia, Belize,
Honduras and the Dominican Republic. In June, Argentina
restructured $12.2 billion in defaulted debt.  “When you have the sovereign concerns in Europe and the
contagion concern obviously you are going to sell these lesser-
rated credits, the ones with more embedded volatility,”  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income research at
IDEAglobal in New York, said in a phone interview. “It’s all a
consequence of risk aversion.”  Credit Default Swaps  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 22 basis points to 577,
according to JPMorgan.  Warrants linked to economic growth fell 0.14 cent to 13.05
cents today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps increased 44 basis
points to 703 yesterday, according to data compiled by CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso decreased 0.1 percent to 3.9847 per dollar, from
3.9813 yesterday.  Argentine debt had benefited this month from President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s  decision to ask the
International Monetary Fund last week to help revamp the
national consumer price index and start talks with the Paris
Club group of creditor nations.  Fernandez requested assistance from the Washington-based
IMF on the inflation index as some economists contend that the
country’s consumer price data is inaccurate. The government said
 inflation  rose 11.1 percent in October on annual basis, while
Buenos Aires-based research company Ecolatina estimates consumer
prices rose 26 percent in that period. IMF staff members will
travel to Argentina next month to start working on a new index.  Change in Direction?  “That shows that there has finally been a change in the
right direction in reclaiming the good statistics on
inflation,”  Claudia Calich , who helps manage $1.5 billion in
emerging-market debt at Invesco Advisers Inc. in New York, said
in a phone interview from Montevideo, Uruguay. “That’s quite a
positive driver for the market.”  Argentina has refused an Article IV review of its economic
policies that the IMF requires for all members.  Nestor Kirchner ,
Fernandez’s late husband and predecessor, had said the
organization helped lead the country into its record $95 billion
debt default in 2001.  “We have been of the idea that Argentina wanted no part of
the IMF and this has proven not to be true,” Alvarez said.  Argentina will likely outperform its peers over the next
several months once the risk aversion over European debt
concerns subsides, said Urbina, whose firm has $800 million
under advisory and management, said.  “If you have cash, if you have some conviction on this,
then these are opportunities for buying because my impression is
this trend for improvement in policy will continue in
Argentina,” Urbina said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  