-- Draft Mojitos, Chicken Bags Emerge as By-Products of Euro Crisis
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-11-30T23:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/draft-mojitos-chicken-bags-emerge-as-by-products-of-euro-crisis.html
As Spaniards cut back on drinking in
bars amid the economic gloom,  Diageo Plc  is giving them a reason
to return: the draft mojito.  Faced with “markedly” declining volumes of their spirits
in Spain,  Diageo  looked for a way to boost sales at bars and
restaurants, where the majority of alcohol is traditionally
consumed. The London-based company engineered its first-ever
draft cocktails after consumers started increasingly drinking at
home. The premixed drinks sell at less than 4 euros ($5.21), or
half the price of a fresh cocktail.  As unemployment in the region climbs and Ireland follows
Greece in getting a bailout, consumer-goods companies are
bracing themselves for years of sluggish European growth.
They’re now focusing innovation on value rather than on being
able to command a higher price for an item amid OECD forecasts
that the region won’t expand more than 2 percent in the three
years through 2012, trailing the U.S.  “Growth will never be the same pace as before,” said
 Giovanni Ciserani , Procter & Gamble Co.’s president for western
Europe. “The world has changed in the past four or five years.
Consumers have become a lot more value-orientated.”  European shoppers are more prone to save rather than
consume, and private-label products are a bigger proportion of
the market than in the U.S.,  Laurent Freixe , head of Nestle SA’s
European business, said in an interview. Nestle’s western
European sales growth has averaged 2.5 percent over the past
five years, excluding acquisitions, divestments and currency
swings, compared with 6 percent in North America.  ‘Low-Growth Area’  “Competition is extremely intense,” Freixe said. “We do
see growth, but for the medium- and long-term, Europe will
remain a relatively low-growth area.”  Nestle  imported innovation from emerging markets to liven
sales in western Europe. Its Maggi Juicy Chicken roasting bags
that sell for a euro originated in Russia. They are one of three
new products that have generated two-thirds of its growth in
Europe. Nescafe Dolce Gusto coffee capsules and antioxidant-rich
Nescafe Greenblend soluble coffee are the other two.  Over the past decade, the fastest-growing major Nestle
brand worldwide has been Nespresso coffee. The coffee, which is
sold only through Nestle-controlled shops and concessions, costs
as much as 10 times unground espresso beans at Swiss
supermarkets.  Driving Sales  Nestle’s new products helped it drive European  sales  up 2
percent in the first nine months, excluding acquisitions,
divestments and currency swings.  Unilever ’s western European
sales fell 0.8 percent in the same period. The company reported
“stagnant” growth in central and eastern Europe.  “European consumer-goods companies face a weak consumer,
but it begs a question, and then what?” said  Thomas Russo , a
partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster, Pennsylvania,
which has about $400 million in Nestle  stock . “If you have
brand-leading positions, presence with the retailers, if you’re
innovative and can keep your products on the shelf at a decent
price, you can drive sales growth.”  Kraft Foods Inc. and Diageo have said they are trying to
avoid price cuts. Instead, they’re introducing products such as
Diageo’s Cacique Mojito. Diageo installed the first Cacique tap
in a corner bar by its Madrid office in December; now 5,000
Spanish bars are selling the drink, said Alicia Garcia, head of
the company’s innovation in Europe.  Testing Mojitos  The company will introduce draft mojitos at 500 bars in the
U.K. in the next few weeks, using Smirnoff vodka. The draft
cocktails have been introduced in Greece and are being tested in
Portugal. The drink has performed “very strongly” in Spain and
has helped bolster sales of the Cacique brand as a whole.  “If you just look at price in this market, it’s just going
to go one way,” said Mark Fisher, director of European customer
marketing at Diageo. “We want to create value for our
customers. People are asking: ‘Am I getting what I’m actually
paying for?’”  Some companies and retailers are trying to repackage
existing products to help persuade consumers they are getting
more bang for their buck.  SABMiller Plc ’s Grolsch brand is selling packs of beer in
the U.K. with a code that allows consumers to rent movies online
at a reduced rate for what it calls the “perfect night in.”  Christmas-Cake Kit  For Christmas, Waitrose Ltd., a U.K. supermarket chain
owned by John Lewis Partnership Plc, is selling a cake kit
containing flour, sugar, spices and dried fruit pre-soaked in
brandy for 10 pounds ($15.6). The company said buying the
ingredients separately for the recipe by television chef Delia
Smith would cost more than 23 pounds. Bakers have to add butter,
eggs and citrus zest at home.  Unilever  has also focused on packaging, putting Stork
margarine in tougher, longer-lasting plastic tubs, making them
easier to store leftovers in, spokesman Paul Matthews said. The
company, whose European sales have lagged the rest of the world
for more than two years, has said they expect to be able to lift
prices again in the fourth quarter.  “Main Street-man is under pressure and is likely to remain
so for some time,” said Jon Cox, an  analyst  at Kepler Capital
Markets in Zurich. “It’s the big guys, the Unilevers, P&Gs and
Nestles who are doing a better job in innovation, the guys who
have the budget to spend.”  Kraft’s re-sealable chocolate packaging keeps the product
fresher for longer, according to Mike Clarke, the head of Kraft
in Europe. “The family doesn’t have to finish that tablet in
one go,” he said.  “You can either go two routes: provide low price, or
provide value and convenience,” to attract customers, Clarke
said. “We would rather provide value and convenience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
 Clementine Fletcher  in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 