-- Airbus to Offer More Fuel-Efficient Version of A320 Model Starting in 2016
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-12-01T06:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/eads-said-to-give-airbus-backing-to-upgrade-a320-aircraft-series.html
Airbus SAS  said it plans to offer its
A320 series of aircraft with an option of more fuel-efficient
engines to help defend its stake of the single-aisle jet market.  The company will start delivering the new versions starting
in early 2016 and predicted a market potential of as many as
4,000 aircraft for the type over 15 years, the Toulouse, France-
based manufacturer said in a statement today. Airlines can
choose two new engine options on the jets, dubbed A320 NEO, or
opt for the existing power plants, according to the release.  Airbus is seeking to extend the life of the top-selling
A320, which entered service in 1988, before work begins on a new
single-aisle jet that probably wouldn’t be ready before the mid-
2020s.  Boeing Co.  is considering an upgrade of its 737, and
planemakers from Canada and China also are entering the market.
Airbus studied the upgrade for more than a year, as it weighed
the risk of deploying engineers needed on other aircraft.  “Finding the necessary resources for the A320 NEO wasn’t
exactly a walk in the park,” Airbus Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said in the statement. “We are confident that the A320
NEO will be a great success across all markets and with all
types of operators, offering them maximum benefit with minimum
change.”  Different Variants  Airlines can now order A320s and related variants either
with the new power plants, picking between Pratt & Whitney or
the CFM International joint venture owned by  General Electric
Co.  and Safran SA, or stick with existing engines that have
powered the A320 since its creation. Other variants of the plane
including the larger A321, seating 180, and the smaller A319
with 124 passengers.  Both the A320 and 737 are twin-engine models that seat
about 125 to 185 people. List prices for each plane range from
about $65 million to $95 million, depending on the version.  The new engine option incorporates large wing-tip devices
that help save fuel and increase range, dubbed “sharklets” by
Airbus. Modifying the series will cost as much as $1.5 billion,
a fraction of the $10 billion an all-new aircraft development
program can cost, Airbus has said.  The A320 NEO’s increased fuel efficient will reduce carbon
emissions, with the potential to cut 3,600 tons of CO2 savings
annually per aircraft, Airbus said.  Geared Turbofan  The two new engines will be the geared-turbofan engine
developed by  United Technologies Corp. ’s Pratt, or the Leap-X
engine being created by CFM International. Bombardier Inc. also
plans to use the Pratt geared turbofan on its new C-Series jet.  In studying the merits of the A320 NEO, Airbus, the
planemaking unit of European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co.,
had to consider the risk of committing additional engineers who
may be needed to finish developing the wide-body A350 model due
to enter service by the end of 2013. Airbus is also still
ramping up production of its A380 superjumbo aircraft.  Boeing continues to make improvements to its 737 and
remains open to what the next approach will be,  Jim Proulx , a
spokesman, said yesterday in an interview.  “We have the option of offering a new engine for the
737,” he said. “Customer feedback to date has been mixed, and
on balance, has been against a new engine but it’s still a
consideration and it’s a technically viable option. We are
continuing to evaluate the potential of a new airplane.”  The step would be more challenging for the Chicago-based
manufacturer because the aircraft already sits so close to the
ground that the landing gear would need to be redesigned to
allow clearance for the newer, bigger engines.  For Pratt, supplying Airbus would mark the company’s return
as a solo engine maker to the biggest slice of the commercial
airplane market and a victory for United Technologies Chief
Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert , who spent more than a decade
championing the program. GE and Safran dominate the narrow-body
engine market with the CFM engine, the sole choice on the 737.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  