-- LeBron James Leads Miami Heat to Win After Meeting With Coach Spoelstra
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-30T06:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/lebron-james-leads-miami-heat-to-win-after-meeting-with-coach-spoelstra.html
LeBron James  had a half-hour meeting
with coach  Erik Spoelstra  and then scored 30 points to lead the
Miami Heat to a 105-94 home victory over a Washington Wizards
team that remains winless on the road this season.  Last night’s win was the second in six games for Miami,
which has stumbled to a 10-8 record with the All-Star trio of
James,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh .  The National Basketball Association’s two-time
reigning Most Valuable Player, James said he’s trying to ignore
off-court distractions surrounding the team -- from media
reports about players’ displeasure with Spoelstra to offensive
struggles and his return to Cleveland in two days.  “I’ve been around this block long enough where I’ve seen
everything, heard everything,” James, 25, said during a news
conference. “When things are going bad you try to nitpick and
find whatever you can find. I don’t get too carried away with it
because I understand there’s a next day and an opportunity to
get back on track.”  James, Wade and Bosh combined to score 76 points as Miami
topped 100 points for the first time in seven games.  “There’s a lot of things swirling with the Miami Heat off
the court, we have to talk about it and we have to hear
questions about it,” Wade said. “But like coach told us before
the game, ‘There are 2 1/2 hours on this court that we get to do
what we love to do. Let’s have fun with it, let’s work hard and
then we’ll deal with the rest later.’”  Frustration With Spoelstra  According to an  ESPN report  yesterday, some Heat players
are frustrated with Spoelstra and don’t think he’s the right
coach for the team. Players have questioned Spoelstra’s
offensive strategies and think he’s panicking because his job is
in jeopardy, ESPN said, citing unidentified people close to the
situation. The Heat had a 40-minute players-only meeting after
their Nov. 27 loss in Dallas.  “I call these ‘healthy conflicts,’” Spoelstra told ESPN
after his meeting with James yesterday. “I truly believe these
are good for a team. As long as you can survive these, it’ll
make you stronger. It’ll make your bond stronger.”  Spoelstra collected his 100th career coaching win last
night, when the Heat led by as many as 22 points. The Wizards
played without No. 1 draft pick  John Wall , who has a bruised
right knee, and are now 0-8 on the road this season.  Miami’s  Juwan Howard  was ejected from the game with 32.3
seconds left in the third quarter after shoving Washington’s
 Hilton Armstrong  in the back and sending him sprawling to the
court at AmericanAirlines Arena. Armstrong had flagrantly fouled
Miami’s  Joel Anthony  on a layup attempt and Wade said he was
pleased to see Howard come to his teammate’s defense.  ‘Cheap Shots’  “A lot of teams over the course of our games have taken
cheap shots at us and I love what Juwan did,” Wade, who scored
26 points, said in a televised interview. “He was stepping up
for his teammate and it really fired us up.”  The Heat host Detroit (6-11) tomorrow before visiting the
Cavaliers (7-9) on Dec. 2. James left Cleveland in July after
seven seasons.  Miami is 9-1 against teams at or below .500, winning by
about 14 points a game. The Heat have a 1-7 record when playing
teams with winning records, including six straight losses.  “Right now we’re in a day-by-day process,” Wade said in a
televised interview. “We’ll come back (tomorrow) and try to get
another win on our home floor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  