-- ECB Support May Prove `Critical' for Spain as Crisis Worsens, Buiter Says
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-11-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ecb-support-may-prove-critical-for-spain-as-crisis-worsens-buiter-says.html
The European Central Bank may have
to step up purchases of Spanish government bonds and backstop
its banking system if the country runs into financing
difficulties, Citigroup Inc. Chief Economist  Willem Buiter  said.  “Once Spain needs assistance, the support of the ECB will
be critical,” Buiter said in a note to investors yesterday. A
Spanish crisis would “stretch the resources” of the bailout
fund set up in May by European governments “perhaps beyond its
current limits.”  Spanish bonds  slid by the most since the euro’s debut
yesterday as a rescue package for Ireland failed to stop
contagion spreading through the euro region. While the ECB
bought the most euro-region government bonds in two months last
week, the strategy has been criticized by some policy makers for
threatening to compromise the central bank’s independence.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year government bond jumped 25
basis points to 5.42 percent yesterday and the cost of insuring
Portugal against default rose to a record. Spanish Finance
Minister  Elena Salgado  said Nov. 28 that her country has no
plans to ask for aid.  As EU leaders struggle to contain market turmoil, attention
is turning once more to the ECB. The central bank took the
unprecedented step in May of buying government bonds as part of
a broader EU package to shore up the euro. While the program
aims to smooth the functioning of bond markets, Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber  says there’s no evidence this has been
successful. On Nov. 19, he said the policy should be stopped
“sooner than later.”  Greater Burden  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will brief reporters on
the central bank’s next steps after its rate decision on Dec. 2.
The Frankfurt-based ECB completed 1.3 billion euros ($1.8
billion) of bond purchases last week, the most since the end of
September, taking the total bought to 67 billion euros.  Unlike the Federal Reserve and the Bank of England, the ECB
currently sterilizes its bond purchases to neutralize their
impact on overall money supply.  Buiter argued that the ECB must be prepared to wield its
power as the euro region’s most powerful financial body and
“take on more of the burden of supporting ailing banks and
sovereigns.”  “As the sole source of unlimited liquidity and as an
institution that can take decisions without the need for
political or popular approval, it is the only institution that
can take actions of sufficient size and with sufficient speed to
stave off major financial instability,” Buiter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  