-- ECB Tried to Force Ireland Into Bailout, Minister Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-11-30T18:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ecb-tried-to-force-ireland-rescue-pressure-now-on-portugal-minister-says.html
European Central Bank officials
tried to force Ireland to seek a bailout earlier this month and
European officials are now trying to do the same to Portugal,
Irish Justice Minister  Dermot Ahern  said.  “Clearly there were people from outside this country who
were trying to bounce us in as a sovereign state, into making an
application, throwing in the towel before we had even considered
it as a government,” he told Irish state broadcaster RTE in an
interview today. “And if you notice, they are doing the same
with  Portugal  now.”  Asked about who was pressuring Ireland, he said, “quite
obviously people from within the ECB.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank’s drive to withdraw
emergency stimulus from the euro-region’s 16-nation economy is
being complicated by a worsening fiscal crisis across the bloc’s
periphery. While Ireland was given an 85 billion-euro ($111
billion) rescue package on Nov. 28, that didn’t stop a bond
market selloff that yesterday sparked the biggest slide in
 Spanish government debt  since the euro’s 1999 debut.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said the bank can’t
afford to set its monetary policy to help individual countries.
Asked whether the ECB pushed Ireland into accepting a bailout,
he told lawmakers in Brussels today that “we couldn’t adjust
our policy to take into account the situation of Ireland.”  ECB Recommendation  The cost of insuring Portugal against default rose 12 basis
points to a record 552 today, according to CMA prices. Portugal
and Germany last week denied a report in the Financial Times
Deutschland that Portugal was facing pressure to ask for aid.  ECB officials, who say they are politically independent,
told Ireland on a Nov. 12 conference call that it should seek
outside help to rescue its banks and contain a debt crisis,
according to a person briefed on the discussion.  Speculation of a bailout mounted in the following days,
even as the Irish government denied talks were under way. Ahern
said in an interview aired on Nov. 14 that bailout speculation
was “fiction.” That evening, the Finance Ministry said it was
in talks.  European Union officials “were leaking in the papers that
Sunday, quite incredible pressure on this country,” Ahern said
today, adding that he won’t stand in the next general election
for personal reasons.  An ECB spokesman declined to comment on his remarks.  Bond Purchases  Ireland’s crisis has forced the ECB to buy government bonds
and pump money into its banking system. Irish domestic lenders
increased their reliance on ECB funding by 3.3 percent in
October and the central bank today purchased more Irish bonds,
according to two people familiar with the transaction.  The bailout has sparked a wave of domestic criticism
accusing Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  of giving up the country’s
sovereignty for punitive terms. More than 50,000 people took to
the streets of Dublin on Nov. 27, a day before the government
agreed on an average interest rate of 5.8 percent for the loans
from the EU and the International Monetary Fund.  “The government was cleaned out in the negotiations,”
said  Michael Noonan , finance spokesman for Fine Gael, the
largest opposition party. “The interest rate of 5.8 percent is
far too high and verges on the unaffordable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  