-- Hedge Funds Increase Natural-Gas Wagers to Four-Month High: Energy Market
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-11-30T20:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/hedge-funds-raise-gas-bets-to-four-month-high-energy-markets.html
Hedge funds increased bullish bets
on natural gas to the highest level in four months on
speculation that lower-than-normal temperatures will bolster
heating demand and trigger withdrawals from record stockpiles.  The funds and other large speculators increased so-called
net-long positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 50 percent in
the seven days ended Nov. 23, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report.  Prices rose 12 percent to $4.264 per million British
thermal units that week as falling temperatures sent inventories
to their first decline since March. Demand for gas, which peaks
during the cold-weather months, drove futures above $6 per
million Btu last January. About 52 percent of U.S. households
use the fuel for heating, according to the Energy Department.  “You had these forecasts for lower-than-seasonal
temperatures that motivated buyers to be a little more
aggressive than they might have been otherwise,” said  Tim Evans , an analyst with Citi Futures Perspective in New York.  Gas  stockpiles  in the U.S. fell 6 billion cubic feet in the
week ended Nov. 19 to 3.837 trillion cubic feet after reaching a
record 3.843 trillion cubic feet the week before, an Energy
Department report last week showed. After the decline, the total
was 9.5 percent above the five-year average for the period.  Colder-than-normal weather may blanket most of the eastern
and central U.S. from Dec. 4 through Dec. 8, according to
Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda, Maryland. Temperatures may
be below-normal in the Southeast from Dec. 9 through Dec. 13 and
normal in the Northeast and most of the Midwest during that
period.  Wholesale Price  Wholesale natural gas at the benchmark  Henry Hub  in Erath,
Louisiana, rose 34 cents, or 8.9 percent, to $4.17 per million
Btu yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Natural gas for January delivery fell 18.9 cents yesterday,
or 4.3 percent, to settle at $4.21 per million Btu on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was the biggest decline in the
futures in four weeks. The contract fell 3 cents, or 0.7
percent, to settle at $4.18 today.  Traders who followed the rising trend in natural gas prices
and increased bullish bets may have bought as prices peaked,
said  Phil Flynn , an analyst with PFGBest in Chicago.  “It’s fool’s gold,” said Flynn. “You’re probably going
to see them reduce their positions. The weather wasn’t as cold
as some people were forecasting and now you’re seeing it
reverse.”  Production Increase  U.S. natural gas production rose 3.7 percent in September
as output from onshore wells increased, the Energy Department
reported yesterday. Output in the lower 48 states rose 0.7
percent to 66.33 billion cubic feet a day from a revised 65.85
billion, the government said in the report. Production in
Louisiana increased 1.5 percent to 6.59 billion cubic feet a
day, according to the report.  Net-long  positions in futures and options combined in four
natural-gas contracts climbed for a fourth week, rising by
27,292.5 futures equivalents to 82,084.25 in the week ended Nov.
23, the CFTC report showed. It was the highest level since
August. The positions are held by what the CFTC categorizes as
managed money, including hedge funds, commodity pools and
commodity-trading advisers.  ‘New Situation’  “Managed money is starting to believe that we have a new
situation in natural gas,” said  Peter Beutel , president of
Cameron Hanover Inc., an energy adviser in New Canaan,
Connecticut.  The measure of net longs includes an index of four
contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas
futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub, in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  In other markets, managed money’s bullish, or long, bets on
 gasoline  prices rose 0.1 percent to 62,739 futures and options
combined, the CFTC data showed. Net-long bets on  heating oil 
fell 49 percent, or 25,920 futures and options combined, to
26,926.  Net-long positions in crude oil dropped by 38,654 futures
and options combined, or 22 percent, to 139,743 the week ended
Nov. 23, according to the commission report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  