-- Russian President Medvedev Fires Regional Police Chief of After Massacre
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-11-30T16:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/medvedev-fires-police-chief-of-russian-region-after-massacre.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
fired the head of police in the Krasnodar region after a
massacre that killed 12 people, accusing officers for conspiring
with criminals.  During the investigation of the murders committed three
weeks ago in Kushchevskaya, about 1,150 kilometers (715 miles)
south of Moscow, the government also examined allegations that
local officials aided a group of criminals that has terrorized
the region since the late 1990s.  Medvedev in his annual state-of-the-nation address today
repeated a pledge to fight corruption as one of his priorities.
He announced plans to reorganize the nationwide police force of
as many as 1.3 million officers after reports of illegal arrests
and beatings.  "Unfortunately, there were a number of tragic events when
our citizens were killed," he said in the speech broadcast from
the Kremlin. "The reasons are, in particular, laxity in law
enforcement and other government bodies, who often join in with
criminals."  Federal investigators collected evidence that the gang
responsible for the killings has committed at least five murders
in the Krasnodar and Rostov regions since 2003, the
Investigative Committee said on its website yesterday.  Officers arrested nine people in connection with the
Kushchevskaya case, including the alleged gang leader, Sergei
Tsapok, a former member of the local municipal parliament.
Police are seeking two other people.  Investigators also arrested one senior Krasnodar policeman
under charges of abuse of power. Officials found to have
cooperated with gangs may get life sentences, Vladimir Vasiliev,
the head of the Security Committee of the State Duma, said on
Nov. 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  