-- Egg Producer Linked to Salmonella Contamination Allowed to Resume Shipping
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-30T18:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/egg-producer-linked-to-salmonella-contamination-allowed-to-resume-shipping.html
Wright County Egg, the Iowa producer
tied to a salmonella outbreak almost four months ago, was
cleared to resume U.S. shipments after more than 900 hours of
inspections.  The Food and Drug Administration  announced  the decision
today after reviewing new safety controls at two hen houses on
one of Wright County’s six farms. Consumers haven’t received
eggs from the closely held Galt, Iowa, company since August,
when they were linked to bacteria that made more than 1,800
people ill, the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  said.  Wright County recalled 380 million eggs in August as part
of the biggest outbreak since the CDC began tracking salmonella
more than 30 years ago. An inspection found rodents, manure and
maggots. The hen houses and feed mill have been sanitized and
routine testing is in place, the FDA said.  “FDA would not agree to the sale of eggs to consumers from
Wright County Egg until we had confidence that they could be
shipped and consumed safely,” FDA Commissioner  Margaret A. Hamburg  said in a statement. “After four months of intensive
work by the company and oversight, testing, and inspections by
FDA, I am satisfied that time has come.”  The agency said it will work with the company to clean its
remaining hen houses so they can also resume shipments.  “We recognize that we will have to continue to do more
than is expected of us as we resume operations at our Iowa
farms, both to ensure our ongoing compliance with FDA
regulations and to re-establish successful relationships with
our customers,” Peter DeCoster, Wright County’s chief operating
officer, said today in an e-mail.  The U.S. Senate passed a food-safety overhaul today
designed to curb illnesses that cost the nation an estimated
$152 billion a year. The legislation would increase inspections
of food manufacturing and processing plants and give the FDA
power to force recalls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  