-- Egypt Sought Spies in Iraq, Syria to Check Iran Espionage, WikiLeaks Show
-- B y   H e a t h e r   L a n g a n
-- 2010-11-30T23:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/egyptians-recruited-agents-in-iraq-syria-to-thwart-iran-wikileaks-shows.html
Egypt’s spy agency recruited agents
in Iraq and Syria to try to counter Iranian intelligence
operations, according to a U.S. diplomatic cable posted on the
 WikiLeaks  website.  “Iran must ‘pay the price’ for its actions and not be
allowed to interfere in regional affairs,” said  Omar Suleiman ,
head of the intelligence service and one of President  Hosni Mubarak’s  closest aides, according to the April 2009 cable. It
gives details of a meeting between Suleiman and Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff.  “If you want Egypt to cooperate with you on Iran, we
will,” Suleiman told Mullen, according to the cable. “It would
take a big burden off our shoulders.”  Egypt has “started a confrontation with Hezbollah and
Iran,” the cable cited Suleiman as saying. “We will not allow
Iran to operate in Egypt,” he said.  Egypt, a close U.S. ally, has accused Iran of using proxy
groups such as the Lebanese Shiite Hezbollah movement to
increase its influence in the Middle East. Egypt and Iran
haven’t had full diplomatic relations since 1979, when Egyptian
President  Anwar Sadat  gave refuge to the deposed Iranian shah,
 Reza Pahlavi .  Suleiman told Mullen that Egypt “sent a clear message to
Iran that if they interfere in Egypt, Egypt will interfere in
Iran,” according to the cable, sent to Washington from the  U.S.
Embassy  in Cairo.  Suleiman added that the Egyptian intelligence service had
begun “recruiting agents in Iraq and Syria,” according to the
cable. He also said the U.S. shouldn’t limit its focus on Iran
to one issue at a time, such as the Islamic republic’s nuclear
program.  Arab Pressure  The Egyptian comments echo those contained in other
diplomatic cables released by WikiLeaks that cite pressure from
Arab governments, including Saudi Arabia, for the U.S. to
prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon.  The Islamic state is under four sets of United Nations
sanctions aimed at curbing its nuclear program. The government
in Tehran says the program is intended solely for civilian
purposes, while the U.S. and its European allies say it is aimed
at developing a nuclear weapon.  No one was available from the Egyptian Foreign Ministry to
comment on the WikiLeaks document after business hours
yesterday.  Suleiman said Iran was attempting to smuggle arms through
Egypt into the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip, a development that
“posed a particularly serious threat to Egyptian national
security,” according to the cable.  ‘Circled by Radicalism’  “Egypt is circled by radicalism,” the cable cited the
intelligence chief as saying.  In April, a court in Cairo convicted 18 Egyptians, five
Palestinians, two Lebanese citizens and a Sudanese man of
plotting attacks in Egypt on behalf of Hezbollah.  The court said the defendants dug tunnels between Egypt and
the Gaza Strip and illegally obtained explosives. Prosecutors
said members of the cell also monitored the movements of foreign
tourists in Egypt’s Sinai Peninsula.  Hezbollah and Hamas are classified by the U.S. and Israel
as terrorist organizations.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Nov. 29 that the
U.S. “strongly condemns” the leak of more than 250,000
diplomatic cables, saying the publication by WikiLeaks “puts
people’s lives in danger, threatens our national security and
undermines our efforts to work with other countries to solve
shared problems.”  ‘Psychological Warfare’  State Department Spokesman Philip J. Crowley yesterday
declined to comment on individual cables, citing administration
policy.  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  on Nov. 29 called the
WikiLeaks revelations “psychological warfare” by the U.S. and
said his country’s “very good” ties with Arab nations won’t be
hurt by the publication of the diplomatic cables.  WikiLeaks.org, a nonprofit group that releases information
the governments and businesses want to keep confidential, on
Nov. 28 began posting on its website what it says are secret,
confidential or in some cases unclassified U.S. embassy cables
written from December 1966 to February 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Langan  in London at 
 hlangan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 