-- Electronic Arts Hunts Video-Game Bargain Bin for Acquisitions
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-30T21:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/electronic-arts-chief-riccitiello-hunts-video-game-bargain-bin-for-deals.html
Electronic Arts Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  John Riccitiello  said the second-largest U.S. video-game
publisher has considered a wide range of acquisitions and found
most too expensive so far.  “There are probably 25 companies on our radar that would
make sense for us at somewhere between 5 and 10 percent of the
asking price,” Riccitiello said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. He said he’s interested in
deals that add technology, capability and intellectual property
without identifying potential targets.  Electronic Arts, publisher of franchises such as “FIFA
Soccer” and “Medal of Honor”, has lost ground in the industry
with the rise of games played on mobile phones and social
networks such as Facebook. The company’s stock is  down 73
percent  over the last three years on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
giving it a $4.95 billion valuation.  Based in Redwood City, California, Electronic Arts is
focused on boosting digital revenue, including online and
mobile-phone sales, to $750 million this year. To get there, the
company is developing a new “Star Wars” game and integrating
the social-game maker Playfish Inc. that it acquired last year.  “I need to finish engineering and building to make that
happen,” Riccitiello said. “I don’t need a billion-dollar
acquisition.”  Electronic Arts fell 10 cents to $14.91 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The stock has lost 16 percent this year.  Activision
Blizzard Inc.  is the largest U.S. video-game publisher.  Social-Gaming Push  Electronic Arts bought Playfish, the second-largest maker
of games on Facebook, for as much as $400 million, and acquired
Chillingo, the U.K.-based publisher of “Angry Birds,” last
month to add titles made for  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and iPad.  The Playfish purchase pits Electronic Arts against Zynga
Game Network Inc., maker of such games as “FarmVille” on
Facebook. Closely held Zynga surpassed Electronic Arts’ market
value last month, according to  SharesPost Inc. , an exchange for
shares of privately held companies.  Riccitiello said he chose to buy Playfish to exploit
Electronic Arts’ own intellectual property instead of paying a
much higher price to bet on Zynga, the leader in the social-
networking game space.  “Zynga has a chance that ‘Farmville’ will stand the test
of time successfully, but it’s far from clear to me that that’s
a certainty,” he said.  Electronic Arts  has an opportunity in the proliferation of
devices for playing games, Riccitiello said. It’s one of the few
companies with the intellectual property and engineering
resources to create strong franchises that span game consoles,
televisions, mobile phones and tablet computers.  Rock Band For Sale  If that opportunity isn’t yet reflected in Electronic Arts’
stock price, then the company has to produce more results to
convince investors, Riccitiello said.  “There is going to be a time when perception catches up
with the facts,” he said.  While buying the  Rock Band  music video game franchise could
make “theoretical” sense, it’s not the strategic direction his
company is moving in, he said  “We’re still out of favor,” he said. “Moves that look
like I’m doubling down on yesterday would make it harder still
to convince investors that tomorrow is the Promised Land.”  Electronic Arts distributes Rock Band, which is made by
 Viacom Inc. ’s Harmonix studio. Viacom said earlier this
month that it plans to sell the unprofitable unit.  “I’m sure some smart investor will buy the business
feeling that they can catch a falling knife,” he said, “but
more people have been cut trying to catch falling knives than
have benefitted from getting the timing exactly right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  