-- Electric Cars to Reach 20% of U.K. Vehicle Sales by 2016, Grid CEO Says
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-11-30T00:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/electric-cars-to-reach-20-of-u-k-vehicle-sales-by-2016-grid-ceo-says.html
Electric cars will make up 20
percent of U.K. auto sales by 2016 as drivers take advantage of
government subsidies and lower fuel costs, according to National
Grid Plc Chief Executive Officer  Steve Holliday .  “Our base scenario has a million electric cars on the road
in 2020,” Holliday, who runs the U.K.’s power grid, said in an
interview in London. This would mean about one in five of all
cars sold in the U.K. from 2016 will be electric, he said.  The U.K. is using subsidies to promote electric vehicles to
reduce carbon dioxide emissions.  Motorists  will receive as much
as 5,000 pounds ($7,795) from January if they buy an electric or
plug-in hybrid car. As much as 8.8 million pounds has been
earmarked to support the development of a national recharging
network, intended to boost the number of roadside plug-in points
to 11,000 by 2013 from about 300 today.  The Nissan Motor Co.’s  LEAF  and Mitsubishi Motors Corp.’s
 iMiEV  will be the first two electric cars to go on sale in the
U.K. within the next few weeks,  Colin Couchman , a London-based
analyst with consultant IHS Automotive, said in a telephone
interview. The cars will cost about 29,000 pounds and can be
charged using a regular household plug, he said.  “At the start, people will plug in at home or at work,”
he said.  In 2009, there were 31 million cars in the U.K., according
to the  U.K. Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders , or SMMT.
The average daily distance traveled by British drivers is 25
miles and the length of a single journey is 8.6 miles, the
society estimates.  Struggle for Balance  While National Grid’s high-voltage electricity transmission
system can manage the demand of 1 million electric cars,
“penetration up and above that becomes a real issue,” Holliday
said. Local distribution networks in cities like London may
struggle to balance their grids if drivers choose to all plug in
their cars at the same time, he said.  The cost of charging an electric car with the LEAF’s 100-
mile range could cost as little as 96 pence and take between six
and eight hours, according to an SMMT  report .
  “Depending on how fast it charges, an electric vehicle can
draw as much power as a house,” Bloomberg New Energy Finance
analyst  Albert Cheung  said in an e-mail. “So if half a dozen
neighbors plug in electric vehicles on the same street, it could
push the local transformer over its rated capacity.”  Other incentives being adopted to encourage the use of
electric vehicles in the U.K. include not having to pay central
London’s 8 pound-a-day congestion charge and free parking in
some neighbourhoods.  Total fuel costs of operating a standard car, driving
10,000 miles annually over a three year period, are around 2,767
pounds, compared with 756 pounds for an electric car operated
over the same time period, according to the SMMT.  Across Europe  European emissions standards taking effect in 2014 that
require carmakers to cut nitrogen-oxide emissions for diesel
engines by 56 percent may boost demand for hybrid and electric
motors. Few diesel cars now comply with the new, Euro 6
regulations.  The Euro 6 rules may help raise the share of hybrid and
electric vehicles across Europe to 13 percent by 2020 from about
0.1 percent today, according to IHS.  European carmakers including Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,
PSA Peugeot Citroen and Daimler AG are developing electric and
hybrid vehicles to help meet tighter environmental regulations
and expand the product line-up to boost sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 