-- Emerging-Market Debt Set for Worst Month Since 2008 on Europe, Korea Risk
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-11-30T21:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/emerging-market-debt-set-for-worst-month-since-2008-on-europe-korea-risks.html
Emerging-market bonds are poised for
the biggest monthly loss in two years as concern Europe’s debt
crisis will worsen and heightened risk of conflict on the Korean
peninsula sapped demand for riskier assets.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI+ Index  of dollar debt issued by
developing nations slumped 3.5 percent, trimming this year’s
advance to 12.5 percent. That’s the biggest drop since Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy caused global credit markets
to seize up in October 2008. Venezuela’s notes led the slide
with a 5.9 percent loss, while bonds issued by Brazil and Russia
fell more than 3 percent. China’s  securities  retreated 0.9
percent.  “The bonds have come off recently as investors are
concerned about the Europe problem and the situation in Korea,”
said  Imran Khan , a Singapore-based fund manager at UOB Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees $10.6 billion. “Given that it
is almost year-end, no one is going to put risk on their books
at this time. There has also been some profit-taking as most
investors would have made money this year.”  Investors pulled money out of emerging-market bond funds in
the week ended Nov. 24, snapping a 25-week run of net inflows,
according to EPFR Global data released yesterday. Ireland in the
past week joined Greece in accepting a European Union-led
bailout and North Korea shot artillery at a South Korean island,
killing four people and prompting retaliatory fire.  Growth, Ratings  Funds focused on developing nations’ debt took in $51.8
billion this year as of Nov. 17, exceeding annual tallies in
EPFR data going back to 1995. Investors pumped record amounts
into the securities as faster economic growth in Asia, Latin
America, the Middle East and Eastern Europe helped improve the
creditworthiness of issuers.  Emerging-market economies in Asia will expand 9.4 percent
this year following 6.9 percent growth in 2009, according to
International Monetary Fund estimates released Oct. 6. Moody’s
Investors Service has raised credit ratings for China and India
this year, and downgraded European Union members including
Spain, Ireland and Portugal.  The difference in  yield  to own bonds sold by developing
nations instead of Treasuries climbed 26 basis points this month
to 2.71 percentage points, the highest level since Oct. 7, based
on a JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Sovereign Spread index. The gap reached
2.32 percentage points on Nov. 9, the least since April.  Rising Yields  The yield on Indonesia’s 5.875 percent dollar bonds
maturing in March 2020 climbed 39 basis points this month to
4.21 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
on Russia’s 3.625 percent Eurobonds due April 2015 jumped 60
basis points to 3.67 percent.  The average  yield  on emerging-market bonds, which moves
inversely to prices, rose to 5.68 percent yesterday, according
to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Sovereign Yield index. It has risen 56 basis
points since touching at record-low 5.12 percent on Nov. 4, a
day after the Federal Reserve announced plans to inject $600
billion into the financial system to shore up growth in the
world’s biggest economy.  “Generally it was sell on the fact of the quantitative
easing,” said  Scott Bennett , a fund manager in Singapore at
Aberdeen Asset Management Ltd., which manages $261 billion
globally. “The size of it didn’t please everybody. There’ll be
negative implications; inflation and a weaker U.S. dollar.”  The market retreat may push up borrowing costs for
countries from Poland to Turkey and Nigeria, which are planning
to sell debt denominated in euros or dollars. Emerging-market
companies and governments have raised $665 billion from bond
sales so far this year, versus $633 billion in all of 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 