-- Emerging Stocks, Bonds Fall on European Debt Crisis; Chinese Shares Sink
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-11-30T22:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/emerging-stocks-bonds-fall-on-european-debt-crisis-chinese-shares-sink.html
Emerging-market stocks and bonds
fell, extending monthly declines, on concern Chinese interest-
rate increases and Europe’s debt crisis will slow global growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 0.5 percent to
1,075.85 at 5:02 p.m. New York time, capping the biggest monthly
retreat since May.  The MSCI emerging-stock index lost 2.7 percent in November
and the JPMorgan  bond  gauge slid 2.9 percent as investors
speculated China’s efforts to curb the highest inflation rate in
two years and Europe’s spending cuts will erode demand for
emerging-market exports.  The Shanghai Composite Index  sank 1.6
percent today after a Chinese Academy of Social Sciences
economist said the government needs to raise borrowing costs by
2 percentage points.  “The possibility of China raising interest rates in the
short term seems much more possible, and that’s triggering the
selling pressure,” said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research
director at Cinda International Holdings Ltd. “Concerns about
the European debt crisis are continuing to deteriorate
confidence in the market.”  The Shanghai Composite gauge posted its first monthly drop
since June after Zhong Jiyin, an economist with the Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences, wrote in a commentary in the China
Daily today that recent increases in banks’ reserve requirements
won’t be enough to reverse excessive liquidity in the system.  Euro Weakens  China’s central bank raised benchmark lending and deposit
rates in October and policy makers ordered banks to set aside
larger reserves this month after consumer prices rose 4.4
percent in October.  China Construction Bank Corp.  declined 1.7 percent in
Shanghai trading today, while  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  lost 2.1 percent.  The euro weakened for a third day on concern Portugal and
Spain may suffer the fate of Ireland, which had to ask for an 85
billion-euro ($110.8 billion) rescue package to help bail out
its banks.  Hungary’s bonds tumbled for a seventh day, lifting five-
year yields to the highest since September 2009, as a row
between the central bank and the government over interest rates
undermined investor confidence.  The central bank increased the benchmark interest rate
yesterday after holding it at a record low for six months and
said further monetary tightening may be needed to contain
inflation. The rate increase was “unjustified,” the Economy
Ministry said in a statement.  Default Swaps  The yield on Hungarian government bonds in due February
2015 jumped 20 basis points to 8.36 percent. The cost of
insuring against non-payment of sovereign debt climbed to the
highest since June, based on credit-default prices from CMA.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
government bonds over U.S. Treasuries widened 7 basis points to
2.73 percentage points today, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+
Index.  South Korea’s won fell 0.6 percent to 1,159.25 per dollar,
completing its biggest monthly loss since May. The currency
reached 1,172.50 on Nov. 24, the weakest level since Sept. 9,
after North Korea’s artillery attack the day before on the
South’s Yeonpyeong island.  ‘Paring Back Risk’  Four people died in the shelling and South Korean President
 Lee Myung Bak  said yesterday that  Kim Jong Il ’s regime will “be
made to pay for any further provocation.”  “Everyone’s still paring back risk as there’s a lot of
uncertainty in the world right now,” said  Stuart Oakley , the
Singapore-based head of emerging-markets foreign exchange for
Asia at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. “We are still seeing better
buying of dollars.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange  Sensitive Index  rose 0.6 percent
today and shares of  DLF Ltd. , India’s biggest developer, surged
7.1 percent. India’s gross domestic product increased 8.9
percent in the three months through September from a year
earlier, the Central Statistical Organisation said in a
statement in New Delhi today. That was more than the 8.2 percent
median estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index fell 0.3 percent, sinking for
a fourth day.  Tam SA  led a drop in airlines after the aviation
regulator suspended some ticket sales for domestic flights
because of too many delays and cancellations.  Poland’s zloty strengthened 1.6 percent against the euro.
Gross domestic product expanded at an annual rate of  4.2 percent 
in the third quarter, the Warsaw-based Central Statistical
Office reported, the fastest pace in two years. The figure
exceeded the 3.6 percent median estimate of 14 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The nation’s benchmark  WIG20 Index  of shares
fell 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 