-- Emerging-Market Equity Fund Inflows Exceed 2009 Record, EPFR Global Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-30T03:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/emerging-equity-fund-84-3-billion-inflows-exceed-2009-record-epfr-says.html
Emerging-market equity funds
attracted more money last week, putting them on course for a
record year, as Europe’s debt worries diverted cash away from
developed-market funds, EPFR Global said.  Emerging-market equities got net inflows of $2.4 billion in
the week to Nov. 24, out of a total of $4 billion for stock
funds worldwide, Boston-based  EPFR  said in an e-mailed
statement. Funds investing in emerging-market stocks have taken
in $84.3 billion this year, more than 2009’s $83.3 billion, EPFR
said. Bond managers posted net outflows of $735 million as U.S.
funds recorded their first back-to-back week of redemptions
since the fourth quarter of 2008.  “Money is going where the performance is,”  Michael O’Rourke , New-York based chief market strategist for BTIG LLC,
said today on a conference call with reporters. “It’s going
where the growth is.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has climbed 9.3 percent
this year, more than the 2.9 percent advance by the MSCI World
Index of 24 developed markets. Developing nations will grow 6.4
percent next year, compared with a projection of 4.2 percent for
world economic growth, the International Monetary Fund said in a
report last month.  MSCI’s emerging-market index fell for three consecutive
weeks to Nov. 26, the longest losing streak since May, amid
concerns over China’s attempts to curb inflation, rising
tensions between North and South Korea and Europe’s debt crisis.
The gauge rose 0.1 percent today as of 11:20 a.m. in Hong Kong.  Ireland Bailout  European governments ended weekend crisis talks in Brussels
by handing Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) aid
package. Regional finance chiefs also backed a Franco-German
compromise on post-2013 bailouts that means investors won’t
automatically take losses to share the cost with taxpayers.  China equity funds had their best week since mid-September
and Greater China equity funds have had 11 consecutive weeks of
inflows, EPFR said. Indian equity funds had the largest weekly
outflow since early July on corruption probes, EPFR said.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index has dropped 15
percent this year, the worst performer among Asia’s stock
markets. The central bank has ordered banks to set aside larger
reserves twice in two weeks after raising interest rates in
October, the first increase since 2007.  “They’re healthy measures,” said O’Rourke. “China has to
do this in order to balance out the currency flows in the
country.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index has lost 7.6
percent since reaching an all-time high on Nov. 5 as officials
said they will investigate the sale of phone licenses for below-
market prices and authorities arrested eight Indian bankers and
brokers following a bribery probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 