-- Lending Probe May Lift Borrowing Costs as Record Year Sours: India Credit
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-11-30T06:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/lending-probe-may-lift-borrowing-costs-as-record-year-sours-india-credit.html
India’s real-estate developers may
face rising borrowing costs and shrinking access to credit, as
record corporate lending slows amid a bribery probe that led to
the arrests of eight executives.  The combination of the regulatory review and tighter
central bank provisioning rules may cause rates on loans for
developers to rise as much as 200 basis points, or 2 percentage
points, by March, according to Kotak Securities Ltd. and Ambit
Capital Pvt. Syndicated loans to companies fell to 140 billion
rupees ($3 billion) in November, down from 199 billion rupees in
October, and compared with 2.75 trillion rupees this year, the
most since Bloomberg started compiling the data in 2002.  “The biggest casualty will be real estate companies,”
said  Shashank Khade , who manages funds for wealthy clients at
Kotak Securities in Mumbai. “The lenient, benign environment
for fund raising will end and life will become difficult as the
cost of funds will increase.”  Property companies in emerging markets are facing rising
loan costs as central banks tighten policy to guard against
concerns that monetary expansion by central banks in Europe and
the U.S. will fuel asset bubbles. Indian developers that had
managed to repair balance sheets after the global credit crisis,
may face delayed loan approvals, CLSA Asia-Pacific Ltd. and HSBC
Holdings Plc wrote in notes to clients last week.  The average cost of debt at New Delhi-based  DLF Ltd. ,
India’s biggest developer, had fallen to about 10.5 percent from
a peak of 12.6 percent during the crisis,  Saurabh Chawla ,
executive director for finance, said in an interview in
September. The company, whose average tenure of loans is almost
four years, is the only developer that has sold corporate debt.  Federal Probe  DLF sold 7 billion rupees of 10.5 percent bonds maturing in
2013 in February, down from the 13.7 percent rate it paid to
sell five-year bonds in August 2008. There are no prices
available for the debt, which is unrated, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. DLF’s funding cost is higher than the
11.09 percent average for five-year BBB-rated Indian companies.
The  difference  in yield between BBB bonds and similar-maturity
government bonds is 321 basis points, near a two-year low.  The Central Bureau of Investigation is probing whether
preferential treatment was given to developers including DB
Realty Ltd. and Lavasa Corp. LIC Housing Finance Ltd., the
property financing arm of India’s largest insurer, is at the
centre of the investigation. Its Chief Executive Officer
Ramachandran R. Nair and officials at the Life Insurance Corp.
of India, Bank of India, Central Bank of India and Punjab
National Bank were arrested on Nov. 24.  Government Bonds  Indian property stocks dropped last week to their lowest in
more than a year, with the Bombay Stock Exchange’s 13-stock
realty  index  dropping 26 percent in 2010.  Investors favored government fixed-income assets, driving
the yield on the 10-year government bond down eight basis points
this month to 8.04 percent. It rose three basis points today.  India’s bonds returned 0.7 percent this month, indexes
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc show, on slowing inflation and
optimism economic growth exceeding 8 percent will help the
government slash its budget deficit. The advance was the best
performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt markets outside
Japan tracked by Europe’s largest bank.  GDP Report  The government said today that gross domestic product rose
8.9 percent in the three months ended September, above the 8.2
percent median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Wholesale-price inflation slowed to 8.58 percent in October from
this year’s high of 11 percent in April.  China raised interest rates for the first time in three
years in October and suspended mortgages for third-home
purchases to cool property prices. Russia is facing a risk of
“explosive” increases in real-estate prices, Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin said in August.  Borrowing costs for Chinese developers have risen this
month, becoming the worst-performing dollar debt in Asia. The
yield on Guangzhou-based Evergrande Real Estate Group
Ltd.’s 13 percent notes due 2015 rose 105 basis points to
11.90 percent this month, according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  Worst Performer  The rupee is the worst performer this month in Asia
excluding Japan, with a 3.4 percent decline to 46.05 per dollar.
It fell 0.2 percent today. The cost of protecting the debt of
government-owned State Bank of India, which some investors
perceive as a proxy for the nation, rose 11 basis points to 174
this month, according to CMA prices.  The gap between India’s benchmark 10-year notes and
similar-maturity securities in the U.S. shrank to 518 basis
points today from 551 at the start of the month. The difference
is up from 375 at the end of last year.  India’s Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee asked state-run
banks to review their loans to companies named by federal
investigators. Last month, the central bank increased risk
weightings for retail housing loans above 7.5 million rupees in
its policy announcement.  Bank financing will now be subjected to more screening and
approvals, forcing developers to rely on cash flows and sales of
property to service debt, said Parikshit Kandpal, an analyst at
Mumbai-based Ambit Capital. He expects short-term borrowing
costs for the industry to climb between 100 basis points and 200
basis points.  “The ease with which developers can access and refinance
existing loans will come into question,” said Krishnamurthy
Harihar, Mumbai-based treasurer at the Indian unit of
Johannesburg-based FirstRand Ltd. “Rates would also have gone
up after the risk weighting was increased by the Reserve Bank.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  