-- England Cricket Fans Suffer as Strong Aussie Cuts Beer Money
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-30T23:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/england-barmy-army-cricket-fans-suffer-as-strong-aussie-cuts-beer-money.html
Cricket’s oldest international
rivalry resumed last week in Australia without a traditional
taunt of traveling English fans: “We’re fat, we’re round, three
dollars to the pound.”  The Australian dollar, the second-best performer among 16
major currencies this year, has soared 55 percent against the
pound since the teams last battled for the Ashes on Australian
soil, making everything from the price of hotel rooms to meals
more expensive for England’s so-called Barmy Army of fans.  The dollar chant “won’t be coming out of the songbook this
time,”  Barmy Army  spokeswoman Becky Fairlie-Clarke said in a
telephone interview. “It’s more like 1 1/2 now.”  The slump in visitors’ purchasing power is reducing the
benefit of the six-week contest for the local economy. The
2006-07 series in Australia generated A$265 million ($256
million) in incremental direct expenditure, according to a URS
Corp. report, as 37,000 fans came from Britain. That may fall to
less than 20,000 this time and those that have come aren’t
leaving as many dollars behind, said Andrew McEvoy, managing
director of government agency Tourism Australia.  At the start of the 2006-07 series, when Australia romped
to a 5-0 series sweep, 500 pounds would have bought a British
tourist A$1,250, according to Travelex Ltd. The same amount is
worth about A$806 now. Four years earlier, during England’s
2002-03 Ashes tour, fans were on average getting A$2.86 a pound.  ‘Measly Amount’  One cricket fan watching his wallet as much as the contest
between bat and ball this time is Andy Clark, editor of England
cricket fanzine “Corridor of Uncertainty.” Clark’s latest
editorial begins by asking readers whether they’re shocked at
the “measly amount” of Australian dollars they’re getting.  “It’s very expensive,” Clark, 41, said outside Brisbane’s
 Gabba  stadium, which hosted the first match. “The cheapest pint
of beer you can get is about 4.50 pounds, which is too much. I
made two pints last about three hours the other night.”  Clark said he’s having to “scrimp and save a bit” to get
to the five Test matches that are scheduled to conclude Jan. 7
in Sydney. He stayed with a friend in Brisbane and will do the
same for Melbourne. He hired a campervan with some friends to
get to the matches in Adelaide and Perth to help save costs.
Backpacker hostels, rather than 3 or 4 star hotels, are the
preferred accommodation, he said. He’s not alone.  “I had to stay in a backpackers’ for the first night
because it’s massively more expensive than when I was here two
years ago,” said James Mellor, 36, from London. “The cost of
food and drink is astronomical in comparison.”  Two Nations Diverge  The U.K. is Australia’s second-largest source of tourists,
trailing only New Zealand, according to the Australian Bureau of
Statistics. In September, 51,800 short-term visitors arrived
from the U.K., according to the most recent government  data .  The previous Ashes series provided a spike in visits, with
76,600 arriving from the U.K. in Dec. 2006, compared with 60,000
arrivals in the same month a year earlier. The next year, when
the tournament wasn’t played, arrivals fell to 55,800.  When measured by economic prosperity across the population,
the countries are headed in opposite directions. Led by surging
demand for commodities such as iron ore and coal from China and
India, the International Monetary Fund said Australia this year
ranks sixth in the world in gross domestic product per capita,
up from 15th five years ago. The U.K. has fallen to 21st from
11th, according to the IMF.  “People come probably thinking that they’re going to spend
say three or four thousand British pounds, and it just doesn’t
go as far as it did in 2006,” McEvoy said in a telephone
interview from Sydney.  Presence Felt  The Barmy Army, a semi-organized group of cricket fans
whose songs provide the soundtrack to England’s overseas tours,
is smaller than four years ago. About half as many tour packages
have been sold through the group’s official website, Fairlie-
Clarke said.  That didn’t stop choruses of “Rule Britannia” and “God
Save Your Gracious Queen” on the final day of the series opener
this week as England hit a record second-innings 517-1 to force
a draw at the Gabba, where Australia is unbeaten since 1988.  Home captain  Ricky Ponting  said it felt like playing in
London. “I forgot where I was,” he told reporters. “It was
like being back at The Oval.”  During the corresponding match four years ago, a record
attendance of 164,727 turned up over five days at the Brisbane
venue. This year’s aggregate was 132,858.  Of the 813,316 tickets to the five matches of the 2006-07
series, about 245,000, or 30 percent, were bought by
international visitors, according to the URS report.  Ticket sales haven’t been “quite as frenzied” as last
time,  Cricket Australia  Chief Executive Officer  James Sutherland 
said. The Melbourne-based governing body is expecting the number
of U.K. visitors to be down, he said.  “We’re all aware of the financial crisis and the impact
that had and the way it’s still affecting European markets,”
Sutherland said in an interview. “On top of that as well is the
currency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Brisbane through the Sydney newsroom at 
8601 or  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  