-- Merck New CEO Frazier Vows Innovation, Wider Markets
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-11-30T21:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/merck-board-elects-kenneth-c-frazier-as-next-ceo.html
Merck & Co. ’s  Kenneth C. Frazier ,
named today as chief executive officer of the second-biggest
U.S. drugmaker, vowed to develop innovative products and
increase sales in emerging markets in his new post.  “The pillar of our strategy will remain innovation,”
Frazier, 55, said in a telephone interview today after the
company announced he will replace  Richard Clark , 64, as CEO.
“Emerging markets is a subset of that innovation strategy.”  Frazier takes over a company in transition. Merck is
eliminating 15,000 jobs and closing facilities following last
year’s $49 billion acquisition of Schering-Plough Corp. It’s
also focusing efforts on costly research that may pay off later
as breakthrough treatments for heart disease and cancer and on a
strategy to sell its newest drugs in developing countries, said
Christopher Bowe, a New York-based analyst for London research
firm  Informa Plc .  “They are making it known that the core of their business
model is to continue to be the high-risk, high-reward science,”
Bowe said in a telephone interview. “That’s clearly not the
case with other companies.”  Frazier has been president of Whitehouse Station, New
Jersey-based Merck since April after joining the company in 1992
as general counsel. He made his name at Merck leading the
company’s legal defense against thousands of claims that its
Vioxx painkiller drug caused heart attacks and strokes.  Frazier’s Compensation  As Merck’s CEO, Frazier is eligible for 2011 compensation
of as much as $11.25 million in cash and stock, which includes
base salary of $1.5 million, a bonus of as much as $2.25
million, and an incentive equity package of $7.5 million, the
company said today in a regulatory filing.  Merck’s shares fell 22 cents to $34.47 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Clark, who joined the
company in 1972 as quality control inspector and  has been CEO 
since 2005, was due to step down next year under Merck’s
mandatory retirement policy.  Merck bought Schering-Plough to add new products and expand
into emerging markets as it faces generic competition to
 medicines  with more than $8 billion in annual sales by 2013. The
company has experimental drugs in the final stages of testing to
fight hepatitis, reduce cholesterol and prevent blood clots.  New Consumers  Emerging markets, led by investments in China and Brazil,
offer drug companies a way to increase sales of medicines after
their patents expire. Merck aims to sell its newest, more
expensive drugs to burgeoning middle and upper classes in those
countries, Frazier said. Sales of Merck’s Januvia, a diabetes
pill approved in the U.S. in 2006, surged 28 percent in the
third quarter this year to $847 million, bolstered by sales in
the Asia Pacific region, Frazier said.  “It shows that no matter where you are, people value
innovation,” he said.  Frazier’s Merck may also reap the benefits of a decade of 
research in cardiovascular disease. The company has four
cardiovascular treatments in final testing that each have the
potential for at least $1 billion in yearly sales by 2016,
according to  Robert Hazlett , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets
in New York.  Frazier’s rise at Merck belies his unassuming roots. His
mother died when he was 12, leaving his father, a janitor at
United Postal Service, to raise three children alone in a North
Philadelphia neighborhood. In college, he sold tadpoles and
newts to a local aquarium store to make pocket money.  He is married with two children and volunteers for
organizations that serve the underprivileged. In the late 1990s,
he helped run the Cornerstone Christian Academy, an inner-city
Philadelphia school that was racked with financial trouble and
staff turnover.  Penn State Graduate  Frazier is a graduate of Penn State University in
University Park, Pennsylvania and Harvard Law School in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, where he graduated two years ahead of
 Jeffrey Kindler , the CEO of  Pfizer Inc ., the world’s biggest
drugmaker.  Frazier described the Vioxx case as “the most significant
challenge I’ve ever faced,” in a 2004 interview with  Bloomberg
BusinessWeek .  Merck withdrew the Vioxx painkiller from the market in 2004
when a study showed the drug doubled the risk of heart attacks
and strokes. Last month, the company set aside $950 million to
resolve a criminal probe, raising potential legal costs from
Vioxx to $7.7 billion. Estimates for potential legal costs at
the time of the first cases ran as high as $18 billion.  ‘Obvious Choice’  “Ken’s being the savior of the company by leading the
Vioxx defense strategy plays a lot into” his promotion, said
Informa’s Bowe, who was an adviser to Schering-Plough Corp. CEO
 Fred Hassan  before the sale to Merck. “Merck’s self image is
really important inside the company. Ken was the obvious
choice.”  Frazier also served as executive vice president and
president of global human health for Merck from 2007 to 2010.
Clark will advise Frazier during the transition, the company
said.  Prior to joining Merck, Frazier was involved in other high
profile cases.  In 1991, as a partner at Philadelphia law firm Drinker
Biddle & Reath LLP, Frazier and two colleagues took on the case
of James Willie “Bo” Cochran, an Alabama man on death row for
allegedly committing a 1976 murder. Frazier and his team,
working on a pro bono basis for a man they believed innocent,
won a new trial for Cochran, who was acquitted in 1997.  While Frazier’s legal experience is extensive, his
experience running the operations of a company is limited and
may cause doubt for some investors, Informa’s Bowe said.  “Does leading a big pharma company in a very challenging
and changing environment require more operational experience?”
Bowe said. “That’s the question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 