-- EU Faces More Bailouts as Euro Contagion Spreads to Portugal: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 2010-11-30T17:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/eu-faces-more-bailouts-as-irish-contagion-spreads-euro-credit.html
The failure of the Irish rescue to
stem a selloff across euro-region bond markets may spell more
bailouts to come, starting with Portugal.  The costs to insure Portuguese debt against default rose to
a record today and Spanish bonds extended declines today after
sliding the most since the euro’s debut yesterday, highlighting
investor concerns that officials lack the tools to contain a
debt crisis threatening the currency’s survival. The  extra yield 
that investors demand to hold Italian debt over German 10-year
bonds rose to the highest in more than 13 years.  “We are barely halfway through the current crisis in the
euro zone,”  Paul Donovan , deputy head of global economics at
UBS AG in London, said in an interview with  Ken Prewitt  and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” program.
“Unless we can see a further significant decline in bond yields
in Portugal, the market is going to expect another bailout. And
then market attention will turn to Spain.”  Market declines deepened less than 48 hours after European
Union finance ministers confirmed their second bailout of a euro
nation after Greece’s in May, handing Ireland an 85 billion-euro
package ($111 billion) to rescue its banks and bolster
government finances. While EU officials also agreed on a
mechanism to smooth bond restructurings after 2013, investors
are speculating that debt-strapped nations won’t be able to cut
deficits fast enough before then.  Euro Drops  The single currency dropped for a third day to a 10-week
low of $1.3039. The premium on  Spanish  10-year bonds over German
bunds rose almost 17 basis points to a euro-era high close of
283.7. The yield on Italy’s 10-year government bond rose 5 basis
points to 4.7 percent, about 65 basis points more than Brazil.
Portuguese credit-default swaps jumped 12 basis points to a
record 552, after surging 40 basis points yesterday, according
to CMA, a data provider.  The challenge for EU leaders is to stop the crisis without
a fiscal union or a clear mechanism to kick profligate members
out of the single currency.  Finance ministers found themselves meeting on Sunday, Nov.
28, to calm markets just six months after agreeing to a 750
billion-euro bailout package for the euro region.  While the fund’s size was supposed to head off future
speculative attacks, Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado 
arrived at the meeting rejecting talk that she would soon join
Ireland in seeking a bailout.  “Speculation exists because it’s part of the fabric of the
markets,” she said. “We have certainty that we can control
it.”  Focus Turns to ECB  Investors’ attention will soon turn to the European Central
Bank, whose 22-member Governing Council will decide on Dec. 2
whether it can afford to stick to a plan to withdraw emergency
stimulus at the start of next year.  While the ECB has so far signaled no willingness to deploy
new measures, London-based HSBC Holdings Plc says it may provide
more help to banks in Spain and Portugal and may even have to
conduct broader asset  purchases .  “The ECB will once again have a role to play to ensure
that financial stability is maintained, albeit reluctantly,”
said  Janet Henry , chief European economist at HSBC in London.
The ECB last week bought the most government bonds in two
months.  Investors have also expressed concerns that the European
Union’s bailout pot may be smaller than advertised and
insufficient to save Spain, whose economy is twice the size of
Ireland,  Greece  and Portugal combined. HSBC’s sums show the
country needs 351 billion euros over the next three years.  Enough Cash?  In practice, the EU may only be able to deploy 255 billion
euros of the 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability
Facility, according to analysts at Nomura International Plc.  That’s because the rescue fund is financed by issuing bonds
and in order to secure a AAA rating, governments agreed to set
aside a pool of cash, depleting the total amount available to
pump into economies. The rest of the bailout pool consists of 60
billion euros from the European Commission and 250 billion euros
pledged by the International Monetary Fund.  “There isn’t enough official money to bail out Spain if
trouble occurs,”  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University
professor who predicted the global financial crisis, said
yesterday in Prague. While it’s “quite likely that Portugal”
will be next in line for financial assistance, “the big
elephant in the room” is Spain, he said.  At 9.3 percent of gross domestic product, Spain will have
the largest budget deficit in the euro area this year after
Ireland and Greece, the European Commission forecast yesterday.
Portugal’s shortfall will be 7.3 percent of GDP.  ‘Fiscal Union’  Some economists point out that the euro region may
ultimately be strengthened by the current crisis if it forces EU
governments to work more on coordinating fiscal policy. The
Greek crisis led earlier this year to the creation of the euro
region’s first bailout fund and Ireland’s rescue accelerated
talks over a permanent crisis resolution mechanism.  “In the next 5 to 10 years there has got to be more of a
fiscal union within the euro region than we have today,” said
UBS’s Donovan. “One of the things that Europe does well is
integrate in a crisis.”  Harvinder Sian , a senior fixed-income strategist in London
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc says the crisis needs to
threaten Germany and its banks before a long-term solution for
the euro region can be found.  Until now, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has been
reluctant to spend her taxpayers’ money on bailouts. She sparked
the latest stage of the crisis by demanding that bondholders
help foot the bill of any future rescues.  “The problems need to hit Germany before more viable
solutions such as more fiscal and political integration look
likely,” Sian said. “That is, it may take a near death
experience for the periphery and core EMU banking systems before
this realization dawns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Fraher  at   jfraher@bloomberg.net 
 James Hertling  at   jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  