-- Most European Stocks Decline; BNP Paribas, Nestle Lead Retreat
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-30T17:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-slide-hochtief-thyssenkrupp-may-move.html
Most European stocks declined as the
region’s debt crisis intensified and a report showed U.S. home
prices rose less than forecast in September.  BNP Paribas SA led bank stocks lower, falling for an eighth
day as Italian and Spanish government bonds slumped. Nestle SA
lost 2.2 percent as Credit Suisse Group AG cut its rating on the
shares for the first time in almost six years. Hochtief AG
gained 2 percent after Actividades de Construccion y Servicios
SA won approval for its 2.7 billion-euro ($3.5 billion) bid for
the German construction company.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  swung between gains
and losses today, slipping 0.1 percent to 261.83 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, as two stocks dropped for each one that
rose. The measure declined 1.6 percent in November, the  first
monthly drop  since August. The  gauge  sank to an eight-week low
yesterday as the bailout of Ireland failed to reassure investors
that the region will contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  “As long as we are facing debt risks in Europe, the market
can drop further,”  Jens Finkbeiner , who oversees 150 million
euros at F+m Financial GmbH in Frankfurt, said. “However, I
don’t expect a correction of more than 3 to 4 percent. If the
situation improves in peripheral Europe and especially Spain,
there’s no reason to sell shares. I expect the economic
situation to stabilize in the U.S. and we could see slight
growth in the region next year.”  U.S. House Prices  The  S&P/Case-Shiller index  of property values in 20 U.S.
cities climbed 0.6 percent from September 2009, the  smallest
gain  since January, which was the last time prices declined
year-on-year, the group said today in New York. Economists had
forecast an increase of 1 percent, the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in November to the
highest level in five months, a signal the biggest part of the
economy may pick up strength. The Conference Board’s confidence
index increased to 54.1, exceeding the  median forecast  in a
Bloomberg News survey, from a revised 49.9 in October, figures
from the New York-based research group showed.  Italian and Spanish government bonds fell, driving the
extra yield investors demand to hold the securities instead of
German bunds higher. The yield spread between 10-year Italian
securities and similar-maturity German debt climbed to more than
2 percentage points for the first time since 1997.  In Germany,  unemployment  fell for a  17th month  in November
as business optimism improved, underscoring the gulf between
Europe’s biggest economy and peripheral nations struggling to
cut their debt, a Federal Labor Agency report showed today.  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index lost 0.4 percent,
while Germany’s DAX Index slid 0.1 percent and France’s CAC 40
Index dropped 0.7 percent.  Banks Drop  BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank, dropped 3.4 percent to
45.60 euros for the longest stretch of losses since January
2008.  Dexia SA , the lender that received a 6 billion-euro
bailout during the credit crisis, slid 3.8 percent to 2.82
euros. Societe Generale SA sank 3.6 percent to 35.71 euros.  ING
Groep NV , the largest Dutch financial-services company, lost 2.8
percent to 6.80 euros.  Deutsche Postbank AG  retreated 2.8 percent to 21.75 euros,
the seventh day of declines for the longest falling streak since
March 2007. The German lender being acquired by Deutsche Bank AG
is close to a deal to sell its Indian operations for about 11
billion rupees ($239.7 million), according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  Nestle, the world’s largest food company, slid 2.2 percent
to 54.55 Swiss francs, the biggest drop in six months. Credit
Suisse cut its rating on the stock after it outperformed peers.  Nestle Downgrade  Credit Suisse lowered its  recommendation  to “neutral”
from “outperform,” its rating since January 2005. The shares
trade at 17 times profit, a premium to peers, compared with a
price-earnings ratio of 12 in 2005, when they were at a discount
to rivals, Credit Suisse analyst  Alex Molloy  wrote in a report.  Ageas  slid 3 percent to 1.76 euros, declining for an eighth
day, its longest losing streak in six months. The insurer
formerly known as Fortis was cut to “hold” from “buy” at
Rabo Securities.  Remy Cointreau SA  lost 3.1 percent to 50.50 euros after
France’s second-biggest distiller said first-half profit tumbled
65 percent on a writedown of its Metaxa brand due to slumping
sales in Greece.  Hochtief, Alstom, Atos  Hochtief advanced 2 percent to 57.05 euros after Germany’s
financial regulator ruled in favor of ACS’s bid. Hochtief will
have to concede after its 10-week battle to fight off the offer,
supervisory board member  Klaus Wiesehuegel  said.  Madrid-based ACS on Sept. 16 announced an all-stock offer
to buy Hochtief, proposing eight of its own shares for every
five of the German builder’s.  Alstom SA gained 2.6 percent to 31.74 euros as Deutsche
Bank AG raised its recommendation on the world’s third-largest
power-equipment maker to “buy.”  Atos Origin SA  surged 2.4 percent to 31.45 euros after
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc rated France’s second-biggest
provider of computer services “buy” in new coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 