-- European Companies With $700 Billion Cash Ease Deal Dearth
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-11-30T10:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/european-companies-with-700-billion-set-to-ease-deal-deadlock.html
European companies  are heading into
2011 with almost $700 billion in cash, raising pressure on
executives to do deals, boost dividends and buy back stock.  Total cash holdings at 466 companies in Europe were $691
billion at the end of September, or 16 percent higher than at
the end of 2007, the year the financial crisis began, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nestle SA , which didn’t report
third-quarter figures, is also sitting on $30 billion in cash.  Europe’s largest companies held back on acquisitions and
payouts this year as the spreading sovereign debt crisis
threatened to undermine earnings and revenue growth. Investors
want companies to put their reserves to work in 2011 to help
spur increased returns for European stocks, which are headed for
their  smallest gain  in more than a decade this year.  “2011 will be an M&A year and a year of share buybacks and
increased dividends,” said  Claudia Panseri , head of equity
strategy at Societe Generale. “The total amount of cash will
decrease going forward because of these three uses of cash.
Considering the risk linked to sovereign debt, having safe
dividends and cash-rich companies is a good protection.”  Deal Deadlock  Total SA ,  Siemens AG  and  Daimler AG  are among 12 companies
that each held more than $10 billion, the data show, up from
five in 2007. Nestle, the most valuable company in Europe with a
market capitalization of 193 billion Swiss francs ($193 billion)
is top of the European cash chart after completing the $28.3
billion sale of its majority stake in Alcon Inc. on Aug. 26.  European executives have been more risk averse than their
U.S. counterparts. Companies in western Europe have announced
4,374 acquisitions so far this year, with 83 of them worth at
least $1 billion. U.S.-based companies so far have announced
7,078 acquisitions with 135 of them breaking the billion-dollar-
mark. The total value of announced deals so far this year is
$427 billion in Europe, compared with $616 billion in the U.S.  “There is still a great degree of nervousness in relation
to macroeconomic factors and companies are not yet at the point
where they are happy to take on increased risk,” said  Adrian Fisk , co-head of European mergers at Nomura International Plc.
“These factors are currently contributing to a lower deal flow
than we have historically seen at this point in the cycle.”  Becoming Targets  ABB Ltd., the Swiss maker of power transmission gear, said
today it plans to bid about $3.1 billion in cash for Baldor
Electric Co., putting to use some of the company’s $5.3 billion
in net cash. The company said it still has excess cash and will
continue to seek deals.  Swelling cash holdings may also lure more feisty suitors,
and companies refraining from takeovers may become targets
themselves, said  Thorsten Winkelmann , who helps manage 3.5
billion euros in equity at Allianz Global Investors.  ACS SA, the Spanish builder with more than 10 billion euros
in debt, is attempting a takeover of German construction company
Hochtief AG, which is practically debt-free. Germany’s regulator
yesterday approved the proposed transaction.  “The risk of big global companies acquiring cash-rich
European players is definitely an issue,” Winkelmann said.
“M&A activity seems more and more likely in Europe.”  Profit Rebound  Among companies that have started opening their coffers is
Siemens, Europe’s largest engineering company. The Munich-based
company said it will boost its dividend by 69 percent for 2010,
after holding it steady for three years.  Siemens had cash  of
more than $19 billion at the end of its fiscal year, after
refraining from large acquisitions for three years.  After announcing the higher dividend, Siemens Chief
Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said on Nov. 11 that surplus
capital is a “luxury problem.” The cash holdings marked a
record for Siemens and are the third-highest among the companies
analyzed, the Bloomberg data show.  “Companies such as Nestle that keep large cash piles have
the advantage that they can absorb losses and remain in more
difficult markets while rivals give up,” said  Thomas Russo , a
partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.  Companies built up cash not only by refraining from
acquisitions and higher dividends. A  rebound in profit  also
contributed, with earnings per share rising 31 percent at the
329 companies in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index that have reported
quarterly results so far. Positive surprises outnumbered
negative ones by almost 2-to-1, Bloomberg data show.  Increased Investment  So far, the higher earnings have failed to translate into
gains on the stock market. The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600  has
advanced 3.3 percent so far this year, putting it on track for
the smallest increase since 1992. Last year, the index rose 28
percent, after contracting in the two preceding years.  “We don’t think that the financial and general crisis is
totally over, so we are sticking to organic growth with little
acquisitions,” said  Pierre-Francois Riolacci , CFO of Veolia
Environnement, the French water utility. “We must be very
thorough on cash management.”  In the absence of deals, companies are investing some of
their cash in existing factories and product lines.  Volkswagen
AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, will invest 51.6 billion euros
($71 billion) in the automotive business over the next five
years.  BASF SE , the biggest chemical company, said it will spend
9 billion euros to 10 billion euros on its main chemical complex
in Germany, securing 33,000 jobs.  Corporate Health  Pierre-Andre de Chalendar , chief executive officer of
French building-products maker Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA, said he
will use some of his cash to finance organic expansion, while
acquisitions will boost growth by 3 percentage points to 4
percentage points on average in the coming years.  “We’ve cut investment during the crisis in 2009,” said de
Chalendar, whose company cut 4,000 jobs in 2008 to weather a
construction slowdown. “As there’s growth again, especially in
emerging nations, we’re starting to lift it again.”  Still, as European government race to quell a spread of the
region’s debt crisis by handing Ireland an 85 billion-euro aid
package, many companies remain reluctant to free up cash. The
Irish rescue came six months after Greece received emergency
loans, and the governments of Portugal and Spain have sought to
stamp out speculation that they, too, will require support.  U.S. companies, too, are hoarding almost $1 trillion of
cash, a sign Moody’s Investors Service said shows borrowers are
still concerned the economy may tip back into recession.
Confidence among Americans has remained subdued, according to
the Conference Board’s sentiment index, highlighting the risk
that unemployment near 10 percent will limit spending, which
accounts for 70 percent of the world’s biggest economy.  “Public authorities should be happy that companies make
good profits,” said  Hermann Scholl , chairman of Robert Bosch
GmbH, the world’s largest automotive supplier. “Higher
corporate profits mean higher tax revenue and lower expenditure
for unemployment benefits. Well-run companies making profits
help to bring down these mountains of debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 