-- Euro Trades Near 11-Week Low as Europe Debt Crisis Prompts Risk Aversion
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-01T02:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/euro-falls-to-near-10-week-low-on-view-ecb-won-t-raise-rates-amid-crisis.html
The euro traded near an 11-week low
against the dollar on concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread
to other countries such as Portugal and Spain, sapping demand
for the region’s assets.  The currency was close to the weakest since Sept. 15 versus
the yen after the Wall Street Journal said European policy
makers are planning a more rigorous round of “stress tests”
for banks. The Australian dollar dropped after a report showed
the nation’s economy expanded by less than economists had
forecast. The dollar traded near a two-month high against
Japan’s currency on speculation a private report will show U.S.
employment rose by the most in almost three years.  “We suspect the European sovereign debt crisis will
continue to occupy most of traders’ attention in the near
term,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “Worsening risk appetite is causing
investors to rush into safe-haven currencies like the yen and
the dollar, with the euro tending to bear most of the brunt of
the strengthening dollar.”  The euro traded at $1.2987 at 11:33 a.m. in Tokyo from
$1.2983 in New York yesterday, when it touched $1.2969, the
weakest level since Sept. 15. The shared currency was at 108.63
yen from 108.65 yesterday, when it reached 108.35 yen, also the
weakest since Sept. 15. The dollar bought 83.63 yen from 83.69
after rising to 84.41 on Nov. 29.  Stress Tests  European Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the newly created European Banking Authority would
have the power to conduct tests next year in a more “rigorous”
manner than the earlier exams, the Wall Street Journal reported.  The tests may examine a bank’s access to funding in
addition to its ability to absorb losses that was the focus of
the tests last summer, the newspaper said, citing people
familiar with the matter.  Concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen has shifted
to Portugal and Spain since Nov. 28, when the region’s
governments gave Ireland an 85 billion-euro rescue package. The
average yield for 10-year debt from Greece, Ireland, Portugal,
Spain and Italy reached a euro-era record as speculation
intensified that other nations will require external support.  The European Central Bank is expected to leave its
benchmark interest rate at 1 percent at its Governing Council
meeting tomorrow, according to all 52 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Borrowing Costs  Australia’s dollar fell for a fifth day after a report
showed the economy expanded at half the pace economists  forecast 
in the third quarter, tempering speculation that Reserve Bank of
Australia will accelerate interest-rate increases.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.2 percent from the second
quarter, when it rose a revised 1.1 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said. That compares with the median forecast for a
0.4 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “It’s fair for the Aussie to sell off on the data,” said
 Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in Sydney. “It’s a fair reflection of the fact that it
was a bit of a disappointing quarter and the risks of the timing
of the next RBA hike being pushed even further out.”  The Australian dollar slid to 95.57 U.S. cents from 95.88
yesterday in New York. It dropped to 79.94 yen from 80.23.  The Dollar Index completed its best month since May after
reports showed yesterday confidence among U.S. consumers rose in
November to the highest in five months and a gauge of business
activity unexpectedly climbed.  U.S. companies added 70,000 jobs in November after a 43,000
increase in October, a Bloomberg survey showed before the ADP
Employer Services’ report today.  ‘Looking OK’  “There is evidence that the economic growth, particularly
in the U.S., has picked up a little bit,” said  Greg Gibbs , a
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Sydney. “The dollar globally is still looking OK.”  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the dollar against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, was little
changed at 81.283. It gained 5.2 percent in November.  South Korea’s won climbed from near a two-month low after
government data showed rising exports and slowing inflation,
bolstering optimism for the economy’s outlook.  The government said today exports expanded for a 13th
consecutive month in November from a year earlier, while the
country’s consumer price growth slowed to within the central
bank’s target range, government statistics showed.  “Our economic strength is still doing all right,” said
 Yun Se Min , a currency trader at Busan Bank in Seoul. “But
Europe is a problem. If the crisis spreads, that’s going to be a
serious problem and the euro may plunge. That will weaken the
won too.”  The won rose 0.4 percent to 1,154.75 per dollar. It reached
1,172.50 on Nov. 24, the least since Sept. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Tokyo at   rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 