-- Euro May Decline to $1.20 Over Debt Turmoil, Fischer Francis's Akant Says
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-30T17:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/euro-may-decline-to-1-20-over-debt-turmoil-fischer-francis-s-akant-says.html
The euro may fall to a level last
reached in June as concern mounts that the region’s debt
problems will spread, according to  Adnan Akant , who helps manage
$36 billion at Fischer Francis Trees & Watts Inc.  The 16-nation currency is overvalued at its current level
and may drop to $1.20 or lower, Akant, head of foreign exchange
in New York, said in an interview with  Erik Schatzker  on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” program. That level was
last reached on June 10.  “The value of the euro is not particularly cheap,” Akant
said. “Given the fact that it’s already pretty expensive,
adding all the political-contagion fears will certainly bring it
down to fair value.”  The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.3032 at 12:18 p.m. in New
York, from $1.3125 yesterday, after touching $1.2969, the lowest
level since Sept. 15. The currency is the biggest loser in
November against the dollar among the most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, having dropped 6.5 percent.  The region has faced surging bond yields in Portugal, Spain
and Ireland, which has accepted a European Union and
International Monetary Fund bailout package. Investors have
shunned periphery countries’ bonds on concern the nations won’t
be able to support the debt of their banks.  “The borrowing costs are very high, and a lot of these
countries will be shut out from the bond  markets  if we continue
on this path,” Akant said. “A fiscal transfer of some sort
would be the ultimate solution.”  Europe needs a “broader solution” rather than country-by-
country bailout packages, according to Akant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  