-- Yen Rises to 11-Week High Versus Euro on China Tightening, Irish Contagion
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-30T22:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/euro-falls-to-11-week-low-versus-yen-on-china-tightening-irish-contagion.html
The euro fell to the lowest levels
in more than 10 weeks versus the dollar and yen as investors
shunned riskier assets amid speculation Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis will broaden.  The yen strengthened against all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts as Portuguese, Italian and Spanish government bonds
slumped and global stocks fell. Standard & Poor’s said it may
cut Portugal’s credit ratings. A measure of currency volatility
reached the highest level since July, discouraging investors
from buying higher-yielding assets.  “The market is still pretty preoccupied with the European
yields and the peripheral euro-zone economies,” said  Amelia Bourdeau , a currency strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at UBS
AG. “It is risk-off because there is just so much headline risk
out of Europe.”  The euro dropped 1.1 percent to $1.2983 at 4:59 p.m. in New
York, after touching $1.2969, the weakest level since Sept. 15.
It was down 6.9 percent in November, the first monthly loss
versus the greenback since August.  The shared currency slid 1.8 percent to 108.62 yen, from
110.60 yesterday, and touched 108.35 yen, also the weakest since
Sept. 15. The Japanese currency gained 0.7 percent to 83.65 per
dollar, from 84.26 yesterday.  “People have moved toward the yen as a refuge in the face
of ongoing concerns in Europe,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head
of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in
New York. “What we’re seeing is a more traditional way where
the yen outperforms even the dollar in a risk-averse
environment.”  Krona, Krone Drop  Sweden’s krona and Norway’s krone fell against most major
counterparts. The Swedish currency fell 0.6 percent to 7.0270
per dollar, and the Norwegian currency dropped 0.8 percent to
6.2075 to the greenback.  “They’re associated with risk-seeking, so when you have a
risk-off environment the Scandinavians react,” said UBS’s
Bourdeau.  The JPMorgan Chase & Co. G7  Volatility Index  rose as much
as 2.1 percent to 13.14, the highest level since July 5 on a
closing basis, hurting so-called carry trade returns.  Investors favor smaller swings for carry trades, where they
sell currencies of nations with low interest rates to finance
purchases in countries with higher yields. The trades have lost
9.7 percent this month, the most since October 2008, according
to a Royal Bank of Scotland  performance monitor .  Portugal, Spain  Concern that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen has shifted
to Portugal and Spain since Nov. 28, when the region’s
governments sought to bolster the euro by giving Ireland an 85
billion-euro ($111 billion) rescue package.  Standard & Poor’s said it may cut Portugal’s credit ratings
on concern the government has made little progress on boosting
economic growth to offset the fiscal drag from scheduled 2011
budgetary cuts.  S&P said today in a report it placed Portugal’s A-long-term
and A-2 short-term foreign and local currency sovereign credit
ratings “CreditWatch” with “negative implications.”  The difference in yield, or spread, between Spanish and
German 10-year debt reached 2.98 percentage points, the most
since the euro premiered in 1999. The spread between 10-year
Italian securities and similar-maturity German debt touched 2.12
percentage points, also a euro-era record, while the Portuguese-
German gap touched 4.46 percentage points, near a record.  Euro to $1.20  The euro may fall to a level last reached in June as
concern mounts that the region’s debt problems will spread,
according to  Adnan Akant , who helps manage $36 billion at
Fischer Francis Trees & Watts Inc.  The 16-nation currency is overvalued at its current level
and may drop to $1.20 or lower, Akant, head of foreign exchange
in New York, said in an interview with Erik Schatzker on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” program. That level was
last touched on June 10.  Colombia’s peso had its biggest monthly loss in almost two
years as concern that Europe’s crisis may worsen hurt appetite
for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The peso plunged 5.4 percent in November, its biggest drop
since January 2009. It fell 1.1 percent today to 1,944.15 per
U.S. dollar, and has plunged 7.3 percent in the past two months,
the worst performance among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The MSCI World Index declined 0.6 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent after briefly paring losses as
President Barack Obama suggested he’s willing to compromise with
Republicans on extending tax cuts. He spoke after a meeting at
the White House with Republican leaders.  China’s Rates  The yen also strengthened on speculation China will take
more measures to cool its economy. Zhong Jiyin, an economist at
the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, wrote in a commentary in
the China Daily that his nation needs to raise interest rates by
2 percentage points. China’s recent increases in the reserve-
requirement ratio won’t be enough to reverse excessive liquidity
in the system, Zhong wrote.  The dollar strengthened 3.9 versus the yen in November, its
first monthly gain since April, on speculation the U.S. economic
recovery is picking up momentum.  The greenback has risen 0.7 percent this year in a measure
of the currencies of 10 developed nations, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show. The yen has
strengthened 13 percent and the Swiss franc has gained 4.2
percent, while the euro has tumbled 9.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  