-- Banks May Escape Sovereign Debt Test in Next Round of European Union Exams
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2010-11-30T18:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/european-banks-may-escape-sovereign-debt-testing-in-next-round-of-eu-exams.html
Lenders may escape examination of
their sovereign debt holdings in the 2011 round of European
stress tests under proposals from regulators.  It isn’t “clear that a repeat of the sovereign risk
sensitivity analysis will be necessary in 2011,” the  Committee
of European Banking Supervisors  said in a document obtained by
Bloomberg News. “Ongoing concerns about the fiscal situation in
some member states mean that consideration of the benefits of
adding a sovereign risk stress will remain.”  Ninety-one banks were examined earlier this year on their
resilience in the event of a shrinking economy and a drop in
government-bond values. The tests were criticized for not being
stringent enough because European banks were shown by regulators
to need only 3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion) of new capital,
about a 10th of the lowest analyst estimate.  “The change in debt on banks’ books from last time
shouldn’t be too drastic if you’re looking at the banking book
which is held to maturity,”  Karel Lannoo , chief executive
officer of the Centre for European Policy Studies, said in a
telephone interview in Brussels. “That would be the thinking
behind a statement like this.”  More lenders could take part in stress tests when the
annual exams take place again next year, said CEBS, whose role
is to coordinate national banking authorities and make policy
recommendations to the European Union on regulation. It may be
“necessary to add additional institutions based on the views of
national authorities” in the next round of the testing,
according to the document, dated Nov. 23. Franca Rosa Congiu, a
spokeswoman at London-based CEBS, declined to comment.  Failing Banks  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. wasn’t tested in the 2010 exams
while Allied Irish Banks Plc and Bank of Ireland Plc passed the
European stress tests. Ireland this week received an 85 billion-
euro aid package, of which 35 billion euros will go to propping
up the country’s banking industry after European governments
sought to quell the market turmoil threatening the euro.  Only Germany’s  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG , Agricultural
Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks lacked adequate
reserves to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of
financial strength, of at least 6 percent under the worst-case
scenarios, according to results of European stress tests
published by CEBS on July 23.  The decision to publish individual banks’ results should
“be based on specific market conditions,” CEBS said in the
Nov. 23 document. “Aggregate reporting also has the benefit of
confidentiality of individual bank data and encourages more
objective participation by banks.”  Capital Ratio  As with this year’s tests, banks will have show they can
maintain a Tier 1 ratio of 6 percent during the stress
scenarios. Using “any measure other than Tier 1 capital ratios
would simply be seen as the imposition of a new regulatory
standard,” the document said.  The Group of 20 nations this month endorsed rules, known as
Basel III, that will more than triple the highest-quality
capital such as shareholders’ equity banks must hold to cushion
against losses.  The leaders left it to regulators to complete the details
of the new rules. The G-20 has called on the committee to agree
on the proposals before the end of this year.  The timing of the European bank tests will be coordinated
“as far as possible” with similar assessments for insurers,
CEBS said.  Stress tests measure banks’ ability to withstand economic
crises. The scenarios this year included securitized debt
products being downgraded four levels by credit ratings
companies, a 20 percent decline in the value of European
equities in both 2010 and 2011, falls in real estate prices and
tests in 50 other macroeconomic parameters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Meera Louis  in Washington at 
 Mlouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 