-- Euro Weakens, Italian Bonds Decline on Contagion Concerns; Stocks Rebound
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-01T00:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/euro-near-two-month-low-bond-risk-rises-on-european-contagion-risk.html
Global stocks fell to the lowest
level in almost two months, the euro slid and Italian and
Spanish bond yields climbed amid concern the European debt
crisis is worsening. Gold and the dollar advanced on demand for
assets considered the safest, while Treasuries pared gains.  The MSCI World Index lost 0.6 percent and the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.6 percent, paring its slide from 1.2
percent after President  Barack Obama  signaled willingness to
work with Republicans to extend some tax cuts. The euro dropped
below $1.30 for the first time since September. Costs to insure
the debt of Italy, Spain, Portugal and Ireland reached records
and yields on Belgium’s government bonds surged. After the U.S.
close, S&P 500 futures fell 0.2 percent at 7 p.m. New York time
while stock indexes for Japan and Australia were little changed.  Stocks, government securities and the euro are being
dragged down by concern Portugal and Spain may suffer the fate
of Ireland, which had to ask for an 85 billion-euro ($111
billion) rescue package to help bail out its banks. S&P said
today it may cut Portugal’s credit ratings on concern the
government has made little progress on boosting economic growth
to offset the fiscal drag from scheduled budget cuts.  “It’s a tough place,” said  Paul Zemsky , the New York-
based head of asset allocation for ING Investment Management,
which oversees $550 billion. “While there’s fear of a spillover
from the European debt situation, it’s also dangerous to go
short U.S. equities here. Once Europe is off the front page,
investors will look at U.S. fundamentals again and stocks can
rally significantly. If you’re short into that rally, you can
lose a lot of money.”  Monthly Drop  The  S&P 500  fell for a third day, wiping out what would
have been a third straight monthly gain, to leave it down 0.2
percent in November and 3.8 percent below a two-year high
reached earlier in the month. The index closed above its 50-day
average after briefly dipping below the level, which is watched
by technical analysts, for a second day. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slumped 46.47 points to 11,006.02, the lowest
since Oct. 19.  Google Inc. slid 4.5 percent, the most since July, as
European Union antitrust regulators probed the search engine for
allegedly discriminating against competitors. Separately, two
people with knowledge of the negotiations said Google is close
to an agreement to buy online coupon company Groupon Inc. for
about $6 billion.  Bank of America Tumbles  Bank of America Corp. slumped 3.2 percent, the most in the
Dow, and costs to protect its debt from default climbed to a 16-
month high on speculation damaging information about the company
will be leaked on the Internet.  Julian Assange , founder of the
WikiLeaks website, told Forbes that he’ll release documents from
a U.S. bank next year and told Computerworld magazine in 2009
that his group had a hard drive from a Bank of America
executive’s computer. Credit-default swaps on the bank soared
24.6 basis points to a 16-month high of 220.1, CMA data showed.  The S&P 500 began paring a loss of as much as 1.2 percent
in early trading after the Conference Board’s consumer-
confidence index rose to a five-month high and the Institute for
Supply Management Chicago-Inc.’s business barometer topped
forecasts.  The Dow briefly erased losses after Obama said he asked
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and budget director Jack Lew
to lead negotiations with congressional Republicans on extending
Bush-era tax cuts. Obama said after meeting with congressional
leaders that both parties agree action is needed to extend tax
cuts to middle-income families before the end of the year even
as they remain divided on tax rates for the wealthiest Americans.  Canada Gains  Canada’s S&P/TSX Composite Index climbed 0.4 percent as a
rally in gold producers and Research In Motion Ltd. overshadowed
data showing economic growth slowed more than economists
forecast last quarter. Gross domestic product expanded at a 1
percent annualized third-quarter pace, slower than the 1.5
percent projected by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.1 percent, with more
than two stocks falling for each that rose. Societe Generale SA,
the Paris-based lender, lost 3.6 percent and Ageas, the insurer
formerly known as Fortis, dropped 3 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.6 percent, capping
its first monthly retreat since June, after Zhong Jiyin of the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences wrote in a commentary in
China Daily that recent increases in banks’ reserve requirements
won’t be enough to reverse excessive liquidity in the system.  The euro weakened against all but one of its 16 most-traded
peers, falling 1.8 percent to 108.62 yen. The  Dollar Index 
advanced a third day, gaining 0.6 percent to 81.340, the highest
intraday level since Sept. 21.  Yield Spreads  The difference in yield between Italian 10-year bonds and
German bunds widened to 199 basis points and reached 212 points
earlier. The Spanish-German yield spread rose 17 basis points to
284 basis points and the yield premium for  Belgian  10-year bonds
reached 133 basis points, the most since January 2009.  “Euro-area contagion is becoming fairly indiscriminate,”
 Valentin Marinov , a currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
London, wrote in a report today. “There is so far little
indication that euro-area politicians will act quickly and
forcefully enough to prevent further spread widening. We cannot
exclude more euro selling.”  Investors’ mistrust of Spain is unjustified and problems in
the banking industry are “manageable,” Deutsche Bank AG Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said. The fundamental economic
data “in no way justifies the apparent mistrust that exists in
the case of Spain, though not only there,” Ackermann, who also
heads the Institute of International Finance, a global industry
group with more than 400 members, said today in response to a
request by Bloomberg News. “Spain can deal with its problems by
itself.”  ‘Waking Up Again’  Credit-default swaps insuring Italian government bonds rose
22.5 basis points to 268.4, contracts on Spain increased 12.8
basis points to 364 and Portugal climbed 4.5 basis points to
542.9, all record highs, according to CMA, a data provider.  “The things that we’ve put to bed are waking up again,”
said Philip  Orlando , the New York-based chief equity market
strategist at Federated Investors Inc., which manages $341.3
billion. “Ireland is a problem. The question is how far behind
are Portugal and Spain? The market is concerned that this is
going to become a bigger deal.”  Ten-year Treasury yields decreased one basis point to 2.81
percent after losing as much as seven basis points, while two-
year yields lost five basis points to 0.46 percent.  Gold for immediate delivery rose 1.4 percent to $1,386.10
an ounce, a two-week high. Lion Fund Management Co. will raise
up to $500 million in China to invest in overseas exchange-
traded funds backed by gold, the first in the country to be
approved to do so, Yang Zi, an executive in the fund’s marketing
department, said by phone from Beijing.  The  S&P GSCI Index  of 24 commodities fell 1.1 percent, the
most in two weeks. Heating oil for December delivery dropped
4.12 cents, or 1.8 percent, to expire at $2.3169 a gallon on the
Nymex.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 