-- Former Citigroup Banker Naka Heads Boutique Brokerage StormHarbour Japan
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2010-12-01T02:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ex-citigroup-s-naka-heads-boutique-brokerage-stormharbour-japan.html
Former Citigroup Inc. Deputy President
 Michimasa Naka  joined StormHarbour Japan Ltd. as head of the
brokerage that starts business in Tokyo today to compete with
global rivals by offering “undervalued” securities in Japan.  “People tend to miss opportunities here because of ‘Japan
passing,’” Naka, chief executive officer of the firm, a unit of
StormHarbour Partners LP, said in an interview in Tokyo on Nov.
25. “There are many undervalued Japanese companies that we can
provide access to our global clients -- our rivals are the major
brokerages around the globe.”  The Tokyo office is the sixth to open worldwide since
 Antonio Cacorino  and  Fredrick Chapey , also from Citigroup,
founded StormHarbour Partners in New York and London last year.
Naka said up to 80 percent of the Japanese operation will be on
selling fixed-income securities, with the rest filled by stocks
and alternative assets such as private-equity and property funds.  StormHarbour Japan begins with about 15 staff, with most
bringing experience in fixed income at Citigroup in Japan. Naka
said he plans to double personnel to about 30 over the next two
years, while declining to give a revenue target.  Naka was deputy president and head of global investor sales
of Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. until he left the company
in June.  Yasuo Yoshida  also joined StormHarbour Japan as chief
operating officer, and formerly was managing director at Nikko
Citigroup Ltd. before the unit separated.  ‘Potential’ for Success  “If they can prove that their line of products is
competitive, they have the potential to be successful,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , chief fund manager who oversees about $450
million in assets at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.
“At the same time, the Japanese market has a very high hurdle
for entry, so as a boutique firm their biggest challenge would be
to win the trust from their clients.”  The Tokyo office plans to target institutional investors,
Japanese companies as well as high net-worth individuals in a
country with financial assets of about  1,500 trillion yen  ($17.8
trillion), Naka said. The Japan office will be able to generate
about 10 percent of the parent company’s total revenue, he said.  For fixed-income products, the firm will mainly offer
domestic and overseas sovereign bonds, credit and securitized
debt, using the experience of the newly hired bankers, Naka said.  On the equity side, StormHarbour Japan aims to focus on
small to mid-sized companies as well as privately held firms,
including hotel and restaurant operators that offer world-class
service, Naka said.  No Proprietary Trading  The Japan office will follow the practice of its
counterparts abroad of not having any proprietary trading desks
that manage the firm’s own money to avoid conflicts of interest
with its clients, Naka said. U.S. banks are trimming proprietary
trading desks to comply with stricter rules developed following
the global financial crisis.  “Unlike a big investment bank, we aren’t taking positions
in the market with our own money, so we can operate in a neutral
and fair manner,” Naka said. “There’s no such boutique firm in
Japan.”  Harutaka Kajiwara and  Yasunari Aicha , two former Citigroup
managing directors, will be principals for StormHarbour. Other
senior staff include  Soichiro Suda  from trading house Mitsubishi
Corp. and  Shiro Noguchi , a former client adviser at UBS AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 Tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors on this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  