-- Ex-Deutsche Telekom Manager Convicted Over Spying on Executives, Reporters
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-30T15:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ex-deutsche-telekom-security-manager-convicted-for-spying-on-journalists.html
A former  Deutsche Telekom AG 
security manager was convicted of violating privacy rules and
improperly using funds for his involvement in spying on
journalists and board members at the company.  The Bonn Regional Court sentenced Klaus Trzeschan to three
and a half years in prison at a hearing today. Trzeschan, who
was also convicted of fraud, had admitted that he participated
in the corporate spying.  The case centers on allegations that managers at the
company obtained phone records for journalists and supervisory
 board members  to search for sources of news leaks. Prosecutors
in June dropped probes into former Chairman  Klaus Zumwinkel  and
ex-Chief Executive Officer  Kai-Uwe Ricke .  “I wouldn’t call this a spy affair, because we’re talking
about serious crimes here,” Presiding Judge Klaus Reinhoff said
after delivering the verdict. “We cannot stress enough that
Deutsche Telekom made it really easy for Mr. Trzeschan to commit
these crimes.”  Prosecutors had sought the three and a half year sentence
for Trzeschan. The defense had requested that only a fine be
imposed.  “We will review the written judgment and will comment at
the appropriate time,” Trzeschan’s attorney Hans-Joerg Odenthal
said after the verdict.  ‘Regain Lost Trust’  “Data protection is a prime issue on our agenda,”
Deutsche Telekom general counsel  Manfred Balz  said in a
statement e-mailed after the verdict. “We introduced strict
data protection measures and work every day to regain lost
trust.”  After confidential information about Deutsche Telekom
appeared in the press in January 2005, Ricke asked the security
department to find out who had leaked it. Ricke, who testified
in October, said he didn’t know that illegal methods were used.  Deutsche Telekom decided journalists were their enemies,
Reinhoff said. The hierarchical thinking at the company allowed
the scheme to be carried out, he said.  “Deutsche Telekom usurped rights not even a judge has,”
said Reinhoff. “The company took the law in its own hand.”  Trzeschan, who was leading the probe into the leak within
Deutsche Telekom, hired outside firms to assist. A Berlin
security company was asked to analyze data concerning about 60
people, including journalists and members of the company’s
 supervisory board .  “It’s disappointing that only one single suspect was
convicted,” said Gerhard Baum, a lawyer for victims in the
case. “He was just used as a pawn here.”  Three other men were originally charged. The case against
the head of a security company was separated because of health
reasons. A T-Mobile employee and another employee of Deutsche
Telekom’s security section settled charges and paid 6,000 euros
($7,800) each.  Zumwinkel had declined to appear as a witness in the trial.
He invoked the right not to testify in a matter that could lead
to his prosecution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Bonn via 
 helfes@bloomberg.net ;
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  