-- Ex-Goldman Programmer Aleynikov Stole Code, Prosecutor Says at Trial Start
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-30T20:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ex-goldman-programmer-sergey-aleynikov-s-theft-trial-begins-in-new-york.html
Sergey Aleynikov , a former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  programmer, “stole valuable secret computer
code” from the brokerage, a prosecutor told jurors at the
opening of the trial in New York on charges of theft of trading
software.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Joseph Facciponti  made the
government’s opening statement today in federal court in New
York. Aleynikov’s lawyer followed, saying his client broke a
confidentiality rule of the company and committed no crime.  Aleynikov is charged with violating the Economic Espionage
Act and the Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property Act.
U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote , who is presiding over the
trial, dismissed a third criminal count of unauthorized computer
access in September.  If convicted, Aleynikov faces as much as 15 years in
prison.  Facciponti told jurors the programmer started at Goldman
Sachs in 2007 and worked there until 2009, when he agreed to
take a job at Teza Technologies LLC. Chicago-based Teza promised
a $1.2 million salary, a bonus and profit-sharing, compared with
$400,000 he was making at Goldman Sachs, the prosecutor said.  At about 5:20 p.m. on his last day of work, June 5, 2009,
Aleynikov sent parts of Goldman’s high-speed trading code to an
outside computer server, Facciponti said.  Breaching a Barrier  He “thought that he’d found a foolproof way of getting
around the security barriers” designed to prevent employee
theft of trade secrets, Facciponti told the jury. Aleynikov sent
stolen code to a code-storage website in Europe that wasn’t
blocked by Goldman Sachs, he said. Aleynikov then executed a
program to cover his tracks, Facciponti said.  Aleynikov was arrested on July 3, 2009. Federal agents
searched Aleynikov’s laptop, a flash drive and his home
computers, with his consent, Facciponti said. All contained code
stolen from Goldman Sachs, he said.  A defense lawyer,  Kevin Marino , argued in his opening
statement that Aleynikov intended to strip out pieces of open-
source software -- software available for use by the public --
contained within the Goldman Sachs code files. He tried to cover
his tracks because he knew he was violating the company’s
confidentiality rules and feared he would be sued by the firm.  “I will dispute to my death that violating a Goldman Sachs
confidentiality provision is a federal crime,” Marino said.  Theft Allegation  Shortly after Aleynikov’s arrest, Facciponti told a judge
that the programmer stole Goldman Sachs’s entire high-speed
trading platform. Prosecutors have since said they believe he
stole only parts of it.  The judge yesterday told lawyers that she won’t seal the
courtroom as the government asked, at least during the testimony
of the first four witnesses, who may testify today.  “I’m hoping that all of the testimony will be public,”
Cote said.  Prosecutors asked Cote to keep parts of the evidence secret
to avoid disclosing trade secrets of Goldman Sachs.  The trial is to take at least two weeks.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 