-- Ex-JPMorgan Banker Pleads Guilty to Rigging U.S. Municipal Bond Contracts
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-12-01T00:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ex-jpmorgan-banker-pleads-guilty-to-rigging-u-s-municipal-bond-contracts.html
A former  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  banker
became the eighth person to plead guilty to rigging investment
contracts and derivatives in a federal antitrust investigation
of the $2.8 trillion municipal-bond market.  James L. Hertz , whom the Justice Department said worked for
a Manhattan-based financial institution that it didn’t name,
pleaded guilty to bid-rigging, fraud and conspiracy charges,
according to a department news release. He also agreed to
cooperate with prosecutors. Hertz, 53, a Cranford, New Jersey,
resident, was employed at New York-based JPMorgan from 1994
through 2008, according to records filed with the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  “Hertz and co-conspirators designated in advance which co-
conspirator provider, either his employer or another financial
institution, would be the winning bidder for certain investment
agreements or other municipal finance contracts,” the Justice
Department said.  Former bankers at  Bank of America Corp.  and  UBS AG  have
pleaded guilty to conspiring with brokers to pay states and
local governments below-market rates on investments purchased
with bond proceeds. One branch of the conspiracy stretched from
California to Pennsylvania and included more than 200 deals
involving about 160 state agencies, local governments and
nonprofits, Bloomberg News has reported.  AnnMarie Hauser, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Five Targets  Hertz didn’t immediately return a telephone message left at
his home. He is one of five former JPMorgan bankers who received
letters informing them that they’re targets of the Justice
Department probe, according to Finra records.  In September 2008, JPMorgan said it would stop selling
derivatives -- financial instruments whose value is tied to
another security -- to municipal borrowers. The bank has
disclosed in company filings that it’s facing a civil suit by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission related to
municipal-bond investment contracts and derivatives.  Hertz received tips from a Minnesota-based broker who
worked for local governments, identified only as Broker E, about
competitors’ bids so that he could alter his offers to win
contracts, according to the charges.  He also conspired with another bank, identified as
Financial Institution A, to fix prices for deals and submit
intentionally losing bids to give the appearance of a legitimate
auction and comply with U.S. Treasury regulations, according to
court documents released today.  University Money  In 2001, Hertz competed for a derivative contract with an
unnamed state university that would go to the firm offering the
lowest interest rate, according to the charges. Hertz initially
told Broker E he would do it for 4.029 percentage points.  The co-owner of the broker handling the bid signaled that
Hertz could raise his offer to 4.039, which Hertz did, the court
papers said. He was awarded the deal.  In another deal based on the lowest price a town could pay
for a portfolio of securities, the broker, after collecting
other bids, advised Hertz to raise his bid by $5,000. He did so
and won the contract, according to the charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 