-- FCC ‘Looking Into’ Charge Against Comcast Over Fee
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-30T19:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/fcc-looking-into-level-3-allegations-against-comcast-over-fee.html
U.S. regulators are investigating
 Level 3 Communications Inc .’s accusation of unfair Internet-
traffic pricing by  Comcast Corp ., a Federal Communications
Commission official said.  “We’re looking into it,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski 
said today at a news conference in Washington.  Level 3, which carries traffic for customers, said in a
statement yesterday that Comcast had set up an Internet “toll
booth” when the cable company this month required Level 3 to
pay it for sending data over the Comcast network to customers.
Level 3 announced on Nov. 11 that it will carry films and TV
shows for the Web streaming service offered by  Netflix Inc .  Comcast in a statement said the fee is based on “long
established and mutually acceptable commercial arrangements”
with Level 3’s peers.  Level 3’s allegations “come at a bad time for Comcast,”
which wants regulatory approval by year-end for its proposed
merger with NBC Universal,  Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-based
analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a note to clients
today.  The allegations “could delay the final review just because
there’s another issue that needs to be considered,” Arbogast
said in an e-mail. In October, she called it “most likely”
that the merger review would extend into early 2011.  “We remain focused on regulatory approval by year end,”
said  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Washington-based spokeswoman for
Comcast, in an interview.  Unrelated Dispute  “This is a business dispute” that is unrelated to the
proposed acquisition, she said.  “I don’t have comment on the timetable for reviewing the
transaction,” Genachowski said.  The FCC and Justice Department are reviewing the deal that
would give Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, control of
the NBC television network, broadcast stations and cable
channels such as MSNBC and USA Network.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed papers opposing the combination as it is currently
proposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  