-- Fidelity's Morrison Favors Rogers, Telus, Bell Aliant Bonds: Canada Credit
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-30T21:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/fidelity-s-morrison-favors-rogers-telus-bell-aliant-bonds-canada-credit.html
Fidelity Investments, which started
two Canadian corporate bond funds in September, may add phone
and cable-operator debt because telecommunications securities
are inexpensive relative to other industries.  Fidelity bought  Rogers Communications  Inc. and Bell Aliant
Regional Communications LP bonds in September for its C$3.6
billion ($3.5 billion) Canadian Bond Fund, Bloomberg data show.
It also holds debt of  Shaw Communications  Inc. and Telus Corp.  Rising corporate profits and the absence of investment-
grade defaults since 2002 underpin Fidelity’s appetite for
Canadian debt. Corporate bonds account for about 37 percent of
Fidelity’s Canadian Bond Fund, compared with 26 percent for its
benchmark, the Dex Universe Bond Index.  Relative yields on Canadian corporate bonds are about 130
basis points more than benchmarks, compared with an historical
average of about 90 basis points, said  Gene Morrison , part of
the Fidelity investment team that manages about C$11 billion in
Canadian fixed-income assets from Merrimack, New Hampshire.  “The easy money has been made in corporate bonds, but
there are still opportunities in sectors where there is a spread
divergence,” Morrison said in an interview. “Communications
are a good example.”  Fidelity joined investors such as CIBC Global Asset
Management in favoring Canadian telecommunications bonds.
Relative yields in the phone and cable industry are higher than
in sectors such as energy, making the bonds more attractive,
Morrison said. Rogers Communications’ 5.8 percent bond maturing
in May 2016 has returned 7 percent this year, and trades at 131
basis points more than government debt.  Stable Cash Flows  “Utilities and energy have tightened up dramatically, so
that’s an area we would look at closely before making a follow-
on investment,” Morrison said. “We like the strong and stable
cash flows of utilities, but their prices have become fairly
rich.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Canada’s economy slowed more
than forecast in the third quarter as a strong currency
restrained exports and boosted imports.  Gross domestic product  expanded at a 1 percent annual pace
in the third quarter, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa,
following an increase of 2.3 percent in the prior three months.
Economists predicted a 1.5 percent gain, according to the median
of 26 estimates gathered by Bloomberg News.  BCE Inc.’s Bell Canada unit said yesterday in a statement
it plans to sell C$1 billion of 3.6 percent debentures maturing
in 2015. The securities will be issued at a price of C$99.832
each for a yield to the investor of 3.637 percent, compounded
twice a year, Montreal-based BCE said.  Corporate Spreads  British Columbia sold an additional C$600 million in 3.7
percent bonds maturing in December 2020. The bonds were priced
to yield 64 basis points, or 0.64 percentage point, more than
benchmark securities.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian corporate rather than federal government debt widened
yesterday to 138 basis points, from 136 on Nov. 26. Spreads were
as high as 143 basis points this month and as tight as 134.
Yields ended at 3.87 percent, from 3.86 percent on Nov. 26.  Corporate bonds have declined 1 percent in November,
snapping six straight months of gains, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. The index of BBB rated bonds, which
includes Rogers, Telus and Shaw debt, gained 8.8 percent this
year, exceeding the 6.8 percent gain of the main corporate
index, according to Merrill Lynch data.  Provincial Bonds  Global corporate bond spreads were 173 basis points
yesterday, from 171 on Nov. 26, and yields were 3.71 percent,
compared with 3.70 percent last week.  Relative yields on provincial bonds narrowed to 53 basis
points yesterday, from 54 basis points on Nov. 26, the Merrill
data show. The spread was 53 basis points at the end of October.
Spreads have been as low as 51 basis points in November and as
high as 54. Yields fell to 3.22 percent yesterday.  In addition to Fidelity, U.S. money managers such as
Pacific Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc. have
started Canadian bond funds this year to tap rising demand for
the nation’s debt. Canada leads the Group of Seven nations in
output growth, its central bank raised interest rates three
times this year and the economy has recouped all jobs lost
during the recession.  Investors poured C$6.4 billion into Canadian bond funds in
the first 10 months of 2010, and another C$10.5 billion into
Canadian balanced funds, which hold a mix of stocks and bonds,
according to the  Investment Funds Institute of Canada . By
contrast, Canadian equity funds had outflows of C$2.4 billion
during the same period, the institute said.  Biggest Holdings  Since the start of the year, Boston-based Fidelity said its
Series B Canadian Bond Fund had returned about 5.9 percent after
fees through Nov. 29, trailing the 6.4 percent return of the Dex
Universe Bond Index.  As of Sept. 30, the fund’s two biggest holdings were
Government of Canada 3 percent bonds due in 2015 and Canada
Housing Trust 4.55 percent bonds maturing in 2012. Together, the
securities accounted for 7.2 percent of fund assets, data show.  Fidelity’s Canadian Bond Fund holds 3.8 percent of its
assets in commercial mortgage-backed securities, Morrison said,
compared with zero for its benchmark index.  These securities are loans that have real estate, such as
office properties and hotels, as collateral. The notes rated AAA
have spreads of about 200 basis points more than government
benchmarks, even though delinquencies in Canada are at 0.5
percent, compared with 7 percent to 8 percent in the U.S.,
Morrison said.  ‘More Protection’  Fidelity sold BBB rated mortgage-backed securities in the
past few months and replaced them with AAA rated paper to guard
against potential losses, he said.  “While we are getting a little less yield with the AAA,
that’s OK because we are getting a lot more protection,” he
said. “That’s part of our risk strategy.”  Fidelity’s newest Canadian funds, the  Corporate Bond Fund 
and the Corporate Bond Capital Yield Class, plan to focus on
Canadian company debt. At the end of October, the funds had
combined assets of about C$22 million, according to the
company’s website. Fidelity won’t disclose detailed holdings
until the funds have completed their first quarter, spokesman
 Chris Pepper  said from Toronto.  Corporate yield ratios, historically about 125 percent of
the underlying government yield, are now trading at about 165
percent, another favorable signal for investors, Morrison said.  “You’re getting paid 1.6 times the yield of government
bonds by investing in corporate bonds,” he said.  Corporate spreads are pricing in a default rate of 2.3
percent for Canadian corporate bonds, compared with a current
default rate of zero and a long-term average of 0.3 percent,
Fidelity data show.  “Given the extraordinary low level of government bond
yields, we like corporate bonds,” Morrison said. “They are one
of the more compelling options in the fixed-income
marketplace.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  