-- Finnair, Blue1 Cancel Flights as Cabin Crew Union Begins Open-Ended Strike
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-11-30T14:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/finnair-cabin-crew-to-start-strike-today-seriously-affecting-flights.html
Finnair Oyj , Finland’s biggest
airline, dropped more than half its flights and  SAS Group ’s
Blue1 unit cut at least 20 percent of services as flight
attendants in Finland start a strike in a work-rules dispute.  The Finnish Cabin Crew Union stopped work as of 1 p.m.
Helsinki time after contract talks broke down. The open-ended
strike is aimed at protecting the amount of time off attendants
receive to recover between flights, Thelma Aakers, the union’s
president, said today in a phone interview.  The walkout will lead to a 2010 loss at Finnair, the
carrier said.  Finnair , which had been forecasting its first
full-year profit  since  2007, isn’t ruling out creating a low-
cost subsidiary as it considers ways to reduce costs, Chief
Executive Officer  Mika Vehvilaeinen  said at a press conference.  “Finnair is ready to keep the planes grounded for a long
time,” said  Jaakko Tyrvainen , a FIM Bank analyst in Helsinki
with an “accumulate”  recommendation  on the stock. “They’re
fighting for work efficiency. It’s quite important they succeed
because they must get their cost competitiveness to the same
level as their peers.”  Finnair , based in Vantaa, fell as much as 6.5 percent to
4.77 euros, the biggest intraday drop since April 16, and was
down 4.3 percent as of 4:14 p.m. in Helsinki trading. That pared
the stock’s gain this year to 30 percent. SAS  fell  as much as
0.7 krona, or 3 percent, to 22.40 kronor in Stockholm.  Cost Estimate  Costs from the strike will reach as much as 2.5 million
euros ($3.2 million) a day for Finnair, the airline said in a
statement. The flight cancellations will also delay mail
transport at Itella Oyj, Finland’s state-owned postal service.  With most of its 2,000 flight attendants taking part in the
strike, Finnair will drop most long-haul services, including
flights to New York and Bangkok, as well as some within Europe,
said  Taneli Hassinen , a spokesman.  Finnair will rent planes and crews from other carriers,
including Air Finland, to operate charter flights and scheduled
services to main European destinations such as London, Paris,
Brussels and Stockholm, Hassinen said, adding that no further
talks are scheduled.  Text Messages  Cancellations at Finnair affected 6,000 passengers, the
company said. The airline will provide  service details  by
mobile-phone text messages to customers and on its website.  “I didn’t know about the strike until I got an SMS from
Finnair” on the way to the airport, Alice Skriver, a chemical
industry saleswoman whose flight to Zurich was canceled, said at
Helsinki-Vantaa Airport. “Of course you think ‘oh no,’ you have
to make new plans.”  Skriver, a Danish citizen who lives in Switzerland, said
she found new tickets with SAS’s Scandinavian Airlines to go to
Geneva instead.  “It’s my first time in Helsinki, so not the best
introduction,” said Kim Schaltz, who will have to stay
overnight in Helsinki after his flight to Copenhagen was
canceled. “I have an extra shirt in my suitcase so I’ll
manage.”  Finnair  is a member of the Oneworld alliance, which also
includes  British Airways Plc  and AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines. British Airways is merging with Madrid-based  Iberia
Lineas Aereas de Espana SA  after the airlines’ shareholders
approved the $9 billion combination yesterday.  Union’s Demand  The Finnish flight attendants’ union views its rest-period
demand as “vital,” particularly with Finnair expanding its
Asian network, “which means more overnight work and flights
across time zones,” Aakers said.  Finnair will be “forced” to consider structural changes
to cut costs, CEO Vehvilaeinen said.  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS 
has been hiring cabin crews through a personnel agency in
Tallinn, Estonia, to reduce labor costs. Finnair isn’t ruling
out taking similar action, Vehvilaeinen said, declining to
elaborate.  “I’m very frustrated with the current developments,”
Vehvilaeinen said. “It’s tragic how the unions are
irresponsibly trying to hold on to traditional ways in a
business that is changing radically.”  Third-quarter  net income  at Finnair totaled 32.4 million
euros compared with a year-earlier loss of 18.1 million euros,
as sales increased 26 percent to 551.4 million euros. Unit
costs, a measure of spending per flight,  declined  3.6 percent
from a year earlier in the quarter and 7.1 percent in the first
nine months of the year.  “We seek to create significant unit-cost savings,” Chief
Financial Officer  Erno Hilden  said at the press briefing.
“Operational profitability isn’t at the level at which it
should be in the long term.”  Blue1, which usually operates 104 flights a day, will
cancel 20 today and may drop 30 to 40 in the coming days, said
Tom Christides, a spokesman at the Vantaa-based carrier. He
declined to comment on any financial effects.  SAS’s main Scandinavian Airlines unit is operating Finnish
flights as normal, Blue1 said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  