-- Florida Doctor Accused of Fraud in Fen-Phen Scheme
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-30T22:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/florida-doctor-accused-by-u-s-of-fraud-in-fen-phen-drug-scheme.html
A Florida doctor was indicted for
helping to submit millions of dollars in fraudulent settlement
claims to a Wyeth trust over the fen-phen diet-drug combination.  Dr. Abdur Razzak Tai, 77, of Orlando, faces 13 counts of
mail fraud and wire fraud over his reviews of echocardiograms of
more than 1,000 patients who filed the claims, Philadelphia U.S.
Attorney Zane David Memeger said today in an e-mailed statement.  Tai certified that patients qualified for settlement
benefits, according to the indictment. The average payment for
qualified claims was more than $350,000. Wyeth, now a unit of
 Pfizer Inc. , set aside more than $21 billion to resolve about
200,000 personal-injury claims over the drug combination, which
was pulled off the market in 1997 after researchers linked it to
heart damage and lung disease.  Victor D. Martinez, an attorney for Tai in Tampa, Florida,
said he hadn’t seen the indictment and couldn’t comment
immediately.  According to the indictment, Tai agreed to read
echocardiograms for clients of plaintiffs’ lawyers to determine
whether they qualified for compensation from a settlement trust.
At least one lawyer paid Tai $100 for each echocardiogram he
read, and the doctor got $1,500 for each claimant who qualified
for benefits, prosecutors said.  Tai is accused of writing reports and signing
certifications attesting that some patients had suffered heart
damage when he knew the tests showed they hadn’t.  Wyeth manufactured the drugs fenfluramine and
dexfenfluramine under the trade names Pondimin and Redux, which
users combined with generic phentermine to suppress their
appetites.  More than 6 million prescriptions were written for the fen-
phen diet combination before Wyeth pulled the drugs off the
market.  The case is U.S. v. Tai, 10-cr-00769, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophia Pearson  in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  