-- Forged Comment Letters Sent to U.S. Regulators Writing Derivative Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2010-11-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/forged-comment-letters-sent-to-u-s-regulators-writing-derivatives-rules.html
Forged  comment letters  purportedly
from an  H.J. Heinz Co . executive, a Burger King Co. franchise
and at least five other Arkansas-based officials or businesses
were sent to the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission .  Some of the letters to the agency, which is writing rules
for derivatives trading, contain identical passages criticizing
banks for their “cartel-like control” of the  $583 trillion
swaps market . They include signatures from a circuit court
judge, a county sheriff and a mental health counselor. All were
forgeries, according to interviews conducted by Bloomberg News.  The letters were among 152 formal comments received by the
 CFTC  on a proposed rule that would limit the ownership of banks
and other financial firms in clearinghouses meant to reduce risk
in the over-the-counter swaps market. The proposal stems from
the Dodd-Frank finance-regulatory overhaul enacted in July.  “This is completely fraudulent,” said Terra Brace,
treasurer of Springdale, Arkansas-based L.W. Clark, Inc., which
operates nine Burger King franchises. “This is not our
letterhead. It looks like someone has just stolen a Burger King
logo and stuck our address underneath.”  The letters, which were posted on the CFTC’s website, carry
no clues about their true origin. In response to questions from
Bloomberg News, a commission spokesman said yesterday that the
agency had removed at least one letter and was checking the
authenticity of others.  A letter supposedly from Wayne Callahan, president of
global Wal-Mart Stores Inc. business for Heinz, told regulators
that the rule they were considering was not restrictive enough.
“It is likely that banks will try to exploit such a loophole to
continue their cartel-like control of the derivatives market,”
the letter said.  Unknown Person  “Heinz has determined that the letter was written by an
unknown person or entity. This letter falsely uses the name and
title of a Heinz executive,”  Michael Mullen , Heinz’s vice
president of corporate and government affairs, said in an e-mail
to Bloomberg News. “The letter was written and filed with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission without the knowledge or
consent of the Heinz executive.”  Dallas County, Arkansas, Sheriff Donny Ford, asked whether
he’d sent an opinion to Washington about derivatives, said,
“What’s that?” After reviewing a faxed copy of the letter, he
said in a telephone interview, “That’s not my signature. This
is not my letterhead, either.”  ‘Not My Signature’  Washington County, Arkansas judge Marilyn Edwards, whose
name appeared on one of the letters, said she didn’t send it.
“I have had nothing to do with that,” she said. “That is
certainly not my signature on the bottom. I am not a very happy
camper about this.”  Edwards said she had given a copy of the forged letter to
the prosecutor in her county. She said she was particularly
concerned that Arkansas Senators  Blanche Lincoln  and  Mark Pryor 
were copied at the bottom of the letter. “It makes those folks
think that’s the way we want them to vote,” she said.  Other Arkansas residents who said that letters carrying
their names were forgeries included Lance Lee, a lawyer based in
Texarkana, William P. Allison, a lawyer based in Little Rock,
and Dan Moore, a Fordyce mental health counselor.  Political campaigns, public relations firms and consultants
sometimes use form letters to generate apparent grass-roots
support for their points of view from individuals, small
businesses and citizen groups.  Climate Change Letters  A case of fraudulent letters surfaced a year ago during the
debate over energy and climate change legislation. U.S.
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, said at
a hearing on Oct. 29, 2009 that his investigators found more
than a dozen forged letters sent to U.S. lawmakers as part of a
campaign run by the Washington-based political consulting firm
Bonner & Associates, under contract with the American Coalition
for Clean Coal Electricity.  Some of the letters from Arkansas contained the same
wording as at least six other letters signed by people in Rhode
Island.  The author of one of the Rhode Island letters said she sent
a copy of the letter after receiving the text from Advocacy
Solutions, a Providence-based public affairs firm.  “We should be doing as much as we can to control the power
of big banks, and closing the loophole in the derivatives
clearinghouses is incredibly important,” said Kate Brock, an
organizer for  Ocean State Action , a Cranston, Rhode Island-based
group that describes itself as pro-union.  Brock said the text of her letter came from a “sign-on
letter” circulated by Advocacy Solutions. Frank McMahon,
president of Advocacy Solutions, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Jan. 14 Deadline  The derivatives rule in question was proposed in October by
CFTC commissioners, who requested public comments by Nov. 17.
The CFTC must complete a rulemaking by Jan. 14.  Derivatives are financial contracts whose value is derived
from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked
to specific events such as changes in interest rates or the
weather.  The Dodd-Frank law aims to move over-the-counter swaps
trades to clearinghouses, in order to reduce risk in the
financial system by requiring parties to post collateral. The
law directs regulators to write rules for the clearinghouses to
limit conflicts of interest.  The CFTC’s proposed regulation would allow clearinghouses to
choose between two types of ownership restrictions. Under the
first, there would be a 20 percent cap on a clearinghouse
member’s equity stake or voting control and a 40 percent cap on
the collective stake that members and restricted non-member
companies could hold in one clearinghouse.  Restricted Companies  The restricted companies would include bank holding
companies with at least $50 billion in assets, non-bank
financial companies supervised by the Federal Reserve, swap
dealers, major swap users and their affiliates.  The second option would impose a 5 percent cap on the
ownership stake and control any clearinghouse member or non-
member could have. The second option wouldn’t include an
aggregate cap.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
which represents banks, securities firms and other companies,
said in a Nov. 12 comment letter to the CFTC and the Securities
and Exchange Commission that it does not believe
there is a requirement in the law for regulators to impose
aggregate ownership limits.  ‘Beyond What is Necessary’  The proposed regulations “go beyond what is necessary to
effectively mitigate conflicts of interest, and would have the
effects of limiting access to necessary capital and stifling
innovation,” the association said in the letter.  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, intends to register
as a swap execution facility,  Ben Macdonald , global head of
fixed income at Bloomberg LP, said in a Nov. 17 comment letter
to the CFTC on the proposed regulation. The Bloomberg LP
letter doesn’t comment specifically about the proposed ownership
limits for clearinghouses.  The seven forged public comment letters identified by
Bloomberg News oppose the second part of the proposal.  “I urge the commission to eliminate the 5 percent
alternative, to ensure that banks cannot use it as back door to
continue their dominance of clearing facilities, continuing
their high profits in an anticompetitive market,” reads the
letter purportedly from Moore. The letter claiming to be from
Allison includes the identical sentence.  “I have zero interest in the politics of the issue, and
I’m really quite ignorant on it,’ Moore said in a telephone
interview. ‘‘It didn’t originate from me.”  Allison said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News that the letter
is a “forgery.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Silla Brush in
Washington at   sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
 Clea Benson  in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Lawrence
Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  