-- France Must Triple Tax to Pay EDF's Solar Costs, Watchdog Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-11-30T11:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/france-must-triple-tax-to-pay-edf-s-solar-costs-watchdog-says.html
A French tax on electricity must be
almost tripled next year to pay for a seven-fold increase in
subsidies for solar energy paid for by  Electricite de France SA ,
according to the energy watchdog.  The tax, known as the CSPE, should increase to 12.90 euros
($16.80) a megawatt-hour from the current 4.50 euros to pay for
an increase in the cost of renewable power, mostly solar,
France’s CRE regulator said in  documents  published today. The
cost of solar power for state-controlled utilities is projected
to rise to 915 million euros next year from 128 million euros in
2010.  A 2011 budget law being debated in parliament would raise
the tax. The current tax level has been “insufficient” since
2009 and has led to a shortfall for EDF, according to the
regulator. The shortfall was 1.4 billion euros last year and is
estimated to surpass 1 billion euros this year.  The cost of French solar energy for EDF has come under
increasing scrutiny as capacity has expanded while subsidized
rates for power have remained relatively high. The government
cut the so-called feed-in tariff for solar power on Sept. 1 for
a second time since January to counter what it called a
speculative bubble in the industry. A planned solar-policy
overhaul, to come as soon as this week, may include an annual
capacity growth cap of 500 megawatts, the government has said.  Cutting Prices  Feed-in tariffs require utilities to buy electricity from
renewable sources at more than the standard rate. EDF, France’s
former power monopoly, pays more for solar power than for the
nuclear power it produces at 58 reactors and what it can buy on
European spot electricity markets. The added cost is passed on
to consumers through the tax.  The government is preparing to cut the price EDF pays for
solar energy about 10 percent and cap the annual volume of
installations, Les Echos reported today, citing people it didn’t
identify.  The regulator estimates that EDF will pay an average of 546
euros a megawatt-hour for solar power in 2011. This compares
with estimated spot market power prices of 55 euros.  The CSPE tax is supposed to cover the cost to state
utilities for solar, wind and other renewable energies as well
as subsidies for power to needy households and rural zones.  The total costs will rise to an estimated 3.5 billion euros
in 2011 compared with 2.2 billion euros last year, the regulator
said. The costs of solar power will make up 26 percent of the
total next year, compared with 2 percent in 2009.  Solar Capacity  France will have 860 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity
installed and connected to the grid at the end of 2010 and a
total of 2,150 megawatts by the end of next year, according to
the regulator. This estimate takes into account the fact that
more capacity is in the pipeline than EDF’s power distributor
 ERDF  can connect.  A report on the costs of solar power published by the
government in September and the stipulations in the 2011 budget
law are the “first positive” steps towards “slowing down the
increased impact and gradually eliminating the indirect effect
on EDF group financial debt,” EDF said in a Nov. 15 earnings
presentation.  The government needs to revise targets for solar energy and
further cut subsidies to curb costs to consumers that may
balloon to a cumulative 54 billion euros by 2020, according to
the  report , written for the government by economist  Jean-Michel Charpin .  Reducing Subsidies  New installations should be capped at 300 to 500 megawatts
a year, Charpin wrote. France is on track to surpass its 2020
target for installed solar capacity by 2013 as companies rush to
profit from inflated tariffs, he said.  Declining costs for making photovoltaic panels are forcing
governments to reduce subsidies shouldered by consumers when
they pay for electricity from renewable sources.  Spain this month reduced subsidies for new solar-power
projects while backing away from plans to impose cuts on
existing generators after owners threatened lawsuits. The
government cut prices to be earned by new ground-based solar
power plants by 45 percent and for solar-panel installations on
home roofs by 5 percent.  Companies rushed to install  solar power  as tariff increases
became automatic under a 2006 law and as installation costs
declined, according to Charpin. Returns were as high as 26
percent in the sunniest parts of France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  