-- Google Probe, EBay Downgrades Spur Drop in Stocks
-- B y   L i s a   W o l f s o n   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-11-30T21:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/google-probe-ebay-downgrades-spur-broader-drop-in-u-s-technology-stocks.html
U.S. technology stocks fell, led by
 Google Inc. , which is being probed by European antitrust
regulators, and  EBay Inc. , whose shares were downgraded by two
analysts.  The European Commission said today that it’s investigating
whether Google discriminates against competing services and
prevents some websites from accepting rival ads.  “There’s no way this is a positive,” said  Colin Gillis ,
an analyst at BGC Partners in New York. “How much of a negative
is it? It’s not an operational issue. It could require some
changes, and I’m sure Google can make them and survive.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index 
dropped as much as 1.5 percent today, paced by Micron Technology
Inc., EBay and Google. The downgrades on EBay reflects concerns
that the company, owner of the second-most-visited e-commerce
site, will continue to lag behind rivals like Amazon.com Inc.,
said  Sandeep Aggarwal , a Caris & Co. analyst in San Francisco.  “Some are concerned EBay is growing below overall e-
commerce growth,” said Aggarwal, who maintains his
recommendation to buy EBay shares.  Google  slid $26.40, or 4.5 percent, to $555.71 at 4 p.m.
New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have lost
10 percent this year.  EBay  dropped the most in four months,
falling $1.09, or 3.6 percent, to $29.14. The stock has climbed
24 percent this year.  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in
Minneapolis, lowered his rating on EBay to “neutral” from
“overweight.”  Jordan Rohan , at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New
York, cut his recommendation to “hold” from “buy.”  EBay’s rate of innovation from its main Marketplaces site
isn’t “fast enough to stall market-share losses any time in the
next two years, which could hamper earnings growth,” Munster
said in a report. He doesn’t own the shares.  Margins at EBay’s online payment service PayPal, “while
stable, could reduce total company margins over the next two
years as PayPal approaches half of total revenue,” Rohan said
in his report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Wolfson  in San Francisco at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas Macmillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  