-- Google Probed by European Union Over Search Results, Online Ads
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-30T21:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/google-is-investigated-by-european-union-over-online-ads-search-results.html
Google Inc.  faces a probe by
European Union antitrust regulators for allegedly discriminating
against competing services in its search results and for
stopping some websites from accepting rival ads.  The European Commission said  it’s  investigating whether
Google’s AdSense contracts prevent publishers from striking
deals to place ads from other services on their sites. It will
also look at allegations that Google limits advertisers’ ability
to move data, such as search terms, from AdWords to competitors.  Google, the world’s biggest Internet-search company, is
drawing increasing scrutiny from regulators over its market
power. Microsoft Corp.’s  Ciao from Bing  and other rivals filed
an antitrust complaint against the company in Europe earlier
this year. There also has been separate criticism from French,
German and U.K. data protection regulators over Google’s Street
View service, which shows pictures of streets and homes.  “Given the dominance of Google in the European search
market, this doesn’t come as a huge surprise,” said  Sam Hart , a
media analyst at Charles Stanley & Co. in London. Any remedies
will probably result in “minor tweaking” of Google’s search
functionality, rather than sweeping changes, he said.  The EU investigation will examine whether Google’s size has
turned the market into a “closed system,” said  Martin Sorrell ,
chief executive of WPP Plc, a U.K.-based advertising company.
“If there’s nothing wrong and everything’s hunky-dory, then
there’s no problem.”  ‘Do the Right Thing’  Antitrust regulators have power to impose fines of as much
as 10 percent of revenue for monopoly abuses. The EU’s highest-
ever penalty of 1.06 billion euros ($1.38 billion) was against
 Intel Corp.  last year.  Google said in an e-mailed statement it “worked hard to do
the right thing by our users and our industry” by marking ads
clearly and enabling users and advertisers to move data to other
services.  Google  shares  fell $26.40, or 4.5 percent, to $555.71 in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. New York time. The shares
have declined 10 percent this year.  “There’s always going to be room for improvement, and so
we’ll be working with the commission to address any concerns,”
Mountain View, California-based Google said. Advertising
accounted for almost 97 percent of its  revenue  last year, or
about $22.9 billion.  Getting Cooperation  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s antitrust
commissioner, told European lawmakers today that the company had
cooperated with the probe “a lot.”  The company’s European market share is more than 90
percent, Almunia said. “We cannot ignore this, and we need to
do our best to follow up this investigation,” he said.  Google said in a separate statement that its contracts
“can’t prevent users from choosing other search providers.”
Online contracts for AdSense “have never been exclusive” and
the company stopped using exclusive terms for non-online
contracts almost two years ago, it said.  Advertisers can export their ad campaigns to other
platforms, Google said. Even so, ad agencies are restricted from
using an AdWords tool to automatically copy data from one screen
or tab to another.  The commission said it will also investigate whether  Google 
abused its dominant position by promoting its own services over
rival price-comparison sites.  No Proof Yet  “This initiation of proceedings does not imply that the
commission has proof of any infringements,” the commission
said. “It only signifies that the commission will conduct an
in-depth investigation of the case as a matter of priority.”  The agency can close probes if it finds no evidence to back
up the allegations.  Google  is “stifling innovation,” price-comparison site
 Foundem , one of the complainants, said in an e-mail. It “should
not be allowed to discriminate in favor of its own services”
and should clearly label its own services in search results, the
U.K. shopping-search site said.  Microsoft, another of the complainants, declined to
comment, said  Jesse Verstraete , a spokesman for the Redmond,
Washington-based company.  “Google is being very conciliatory in their initial
response,” said Ian Brown, a researcher at the U.K.’s Oxford
Internet Institute. “Clearly any company that has the market
share Google does in Europe is going to have to be very
careful.”  Previous Agreements  Google has reached a series of accords with European
governments and cultural groups this year, aiming to cool
tensions. Last week, Google’s YouTube division announced an
agreement with three French artistic collection agencies over
compensation for online video consumption, following a similar
deal with the country’s largest music-industry group.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software company, has waged
its own battle over competition. Last year, it ended more than a
decade of antitrust disputes with the EU by pledging to offer
consumers an automatic choice between its Internet Explorer and
competitors’ browsers.  Today’s probe announcement “represents growing concern
over Google’s power and dominance, which echoes earlier
antitrust investigations against its rival Microsoft,” said
 Greg Sterling , an analyst at Sterling Market Intelligence in San
Francisco.  Google is expanding via acquisitions, spending $1.6 billion
on more than 20 companies in the first nine months of this year.
It also is close to an agreement to acquire daily coupon company
Groupon Inc. for about $6 billion, according to two people with
knowledge of the negotiations.  On Sept. 25, European regulators said they had closed
investigations into Apple Inc.’s practices after the company
relaxed restrictions on the development tools for iPhone
applications and introduced cross-border iPhone warranty repair
services within the EU region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 