-- Google Said to Near Deal to Buy Groupon for $6 Billion
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-11-30T22:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/google-said-to-near-agreement-to-buy-groupon-for-6-billion.html
Google Inc. , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, is close to an agreement to acquire
daily coupon company Groupon Inc. for about $6 billion,
according to two people with knowledge of the negotiations.  The deal may be clinched as early as this week, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks haven’t
been made public. The purchase price would include payments to
Groupon executives if the acquisition meets certain performance
targets, one of the people said.  Google would use the purchase to benefit from surging
demand for coupons, sent via the Web, that offer discounts on
everything from dinner cruises to dental exams. Groupon’s
strategy is easy to copy, fueling concern that Google wouldn’t
be able to wring a high enough return on its most expensive
acquisition, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners.  “If you overpay for anything, it will be a controversial
buy,” said Gillis, who rates Google shares “hold” and does
not own them. “Groupon’s business is subject to mimicry.”  At the price being discussed, Google would be paying almost
twice the $3.2 billion it paid for online advertising provider
DoubleClick Inc. Technology blog AllThingsDigital  reported 
yesterday that Google has offered $5.3 billion, plus $700
million in so-called earnouts, payments that reward Groupon
executives for meeting certain goals.  A final agreement hasn’t been reached and talks could still
break down, one of the people said.  Aaron Zamost , a spokesman
for Google, declined to comment. Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman
for Groupon, didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  ‘Worth The Money’  Google, which boasts  $33.4 billion  in cash and marketable
securities, initially offered between $3.5 billion and $4
billion to buy Groupon, one of the people familiar with the
negotiations said. The startup, which was also contemplating
raising new venture funding, held out, eliciting a sweetened
offer from Google, the person said.  “It’s obviously a big purchase price for a company that’s
only two years old,” said  Clayton Moran , an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in Boca Raton, Florida. “Given the competitive
position it gives Google in local and daily deals, it’s worth
the money.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, fell $26.40, or
4.5 percent, to $555.71 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market  trading . It has dropped 10 percent this year.  Schmidt’s Acquisitions  Google Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  aims to move
the company into new areas, such as display ads and mobile
marketing messages, to spur growth and keep from losing business
as Facebook Inc., the largest social-networking service, adds
features and lures Web surfers.  Schmidt is doing that partly through acquisitions,
including the $700 million purchase of travel data aggregator
ITA Software Inc., announced this year.  Google  has spent $1.6
billion on more than 20 companies in the first nine months of
the year, according to  regulatory filings .  Google has been reluctant to use its cash pile, one of the
largest among technology providers, to issue a dividend or buy
back shares. That has prompted analysts and investors to urge
the company to make larger acquisitions.  Chicago-based  Groupon , founded two years ago, sends daily
messages to users in 300 markets, offering discounts on products
and services. Groupon keeps a 50 percent cut of every deal sold,
while businesses benefit from a rise in new customers. Deals,
known as groupons, activate when a certain number is sold,
encouraging users to recommend offers to friends.  Government Scrutiny  Regulators would probably scrutinize any planned
acquisition of Groupon by Google to ensure it doesn’t hamper
competition, said Allen Michel, a  management  professor at Boston
University. Still, the government would probably not block the
deal because Groupon’s approach is so easy to copy, he said.  “Groupon is in a market that doesn’t have large barriers to
entry,” said Michel, who frequently lectures on mergers and
acquisitions. “It has already spawned numerous competitors and
will continue to do so, so it’s not a matter that the consumer
is going to be permanently harmed.”  Since May, Groupon has doubled the number of markets it
serves. Sales may top $500 million this year, two people
familiar with the matter have said. Groupon would reach that
milestone faster than  Google  and  Amazon.com Inc.  did.  Groupon had a valuation of about $1.3 billion in April,
after Digital Sky Technologies led a group that invested in the
company. It has raised $170 million from investors, including
Facebook backer Accel Partners and New Enterprise Associates.  Groupon has been hiring about 150 people a month, mostly in
sales, to enlist the local businesses that provide its more than
400 daily deals, President  Rob Solomon  said in an interview this
month.  Local advertising through media including newspapers,
direct mail, radio and the Internet will reach $133 billion in
the U.S. this year, according to BIA/Kelsey, a consulting firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 