-- Military's Demand for Iraqi, Afghan Role Players Boosts Lexicon
-- B y   M a t t   M c C u e
-- 2010-11-30T21:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/military-s-demand-for-iraqi-afghan-role-players-boosts-lexicon.html
To make training as authentic as possible
for troops deploying overseas, the U.S. military contracts with
private companies to provide native speakers for instruction in
foreign language, cultural awareness, and civil operations.
Demand increased after 9/11, and supplemental wartime spending
went from $25 billion in 2001 to an estimated $144 billion in
2009, according to the Center for Arms Control and Non-
Proliferation, a nonprofit research group.  Drawing on 29 years of collective experience in the U.S.
military, Jamie Latshaw and her husband, Leroy, founded Lexicon
Consulting in 2005 to meet this demand. Today their 50-employee
business, with offices in El Cajon, Calif., and Washington,
D.C., specializes in ground support tactical training for
military personnel before they head into war zones in Iraq and
Afghanistan. Jamie, 35, says Lexicon expects $14.4 million in
revenue this year, virtually unchanged from 2009, and $35
million in 2011. Jamie spoke recently with Bloomberg.com
contributor Matt McCue about her time in the military, the
contracting process, and why Lexicon will continue to expand
when the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are over. Edited excerpts
of their interviews follow.  Matt McCue: What does Lexicon do for its clients?  Jamie Latshaw: Our core service is providing role players and
battlefield effects.  Stu Segall , the owner of Strategic
Operations out of San Diego, gave us our first big break in
2007. He does a lot of television production, but he branched
off into ... the explosions and the sights, sounds, and smells
of military training. He had a bunch of contracts to provide
exercise support, so he took a chance and subcontracted the role
players to us.  We [now] employ a huge staff of role players ... close to 540.
You can call them seasonal employees because they work for 20
days and then are off 10 days.  We also started to provide cultural immersion [training] in the
past year, and we’ve been very successful at it. We have
[native] experts who train the military on the cultural dos and
don’ts, the customs and the courtesies, how to negotiate, how to
talk to village leadership, how to get around without offending
somebody, and how to get things done within the theater of
operations.  Q: Your role players speak a wide variety of languages. Do you?  A: A lot of our role players speak Arabic, Khastu, Pashto, Dari,
and Farsi. We specialize in providing those languages, but we
also offer role playing and language training services in any
language you can imagine. Most recently, Tagalog, Swahili,
Somali, and Korean. But Leroy always says that we have trouble
with English. We do not speak any other languages.  Q: You went to West Point, then you were an officer in the
Army’s Transportation Corps for eight years before starting
Lexicon. What was your role?  A: When I was still on active duty and stationed at the Army’s
National Training Center in Fort Irwin, I was a company
commander in the 11th Armored Cavalry Regiment. The NTC is the
largest training center in the U.S., so all the units come there
to do redeployment training before they are deployed. We were
responsible for providing the opposition force.  At the end of my command, the focus at NTC and the Defense Dept.
shifted from traditional force-on-force training to more full-
spectrum combat operations, including counterinsurgency,
cultural awareness training, and all the things the troops
needed to go into Iraq and Afghanistan.  Q: What did you spot in your training that you felt could be
improved and developed further at Lexicon?  A: When we started, we were using Army soldiers to perform the
role of the insurgency. They were going out dressed up as Iraqis
and Afghans in traditional clothing and running around and
chanting. It wasn’t the realistic type of training we thought
the soldiers needed before they were deployed.  Down in El Cajon, where our office is located, there is a huge
Iraqi population and there are pockets of Afghan American
populations around the U.S. These people had actually been
there, and they know the culture and how to teach basic language
skills. We saw how critical it was for our troops to receive
realistic training ... before putting their lives on the line.
That’s when we decided to start Lexicon.  Q: Describe your start.  A: I think Leroy and I experienced everything a new business
owner could experience. We used all of our savings. In the
military, your 401(k) is called a Thrift Savings Plan, and we
cashed those out. We cashed out mutual funds, maxed out credit
cards. I would say we had to provide $100,000 of our own money.
We were trying to get bank financing, and that’s impossible to
do when you haven’t been in business for two years. We were
scraping for every contract we could get.  Q: How did you go about bidding on contracts?  A: When I got out of Army in 2005, we lived with my parents [in
Los Angeles] and started Lexicon from their dining room table.
They allowed us to live with them until we could get our
business off the ground and supported us with encouragement,
babysitting, and the occasional loan to make payroll. For the
first year or so, we traveled from military base to military
base in our RV and wrote proposals, made phone calls, filled out
loan applications, and conducted payroll with a post office box
as our corporate address. We lost many bids before we won our
first contract. Over the course of the past five years, we’ve
probably won less than 20 percent of the contracts we’ve
submitted proposals for.  Q: You’re currently doing a lot of subcontracting. When do you
see yourself moving from small to big business and contracting
the work to smaller companies?  A: The Small Business Administration has several NAICS [North
American Industry Classification System] codes, and each one has
a three-year average dollar cap. Lexicon will not be big
business [in 2011], because most of our work is classified as
Temporary Help Services, which caps out at a $13 million, three-
year average. We still have a long way to go to reach big
business status.  Q: What happens to your company when the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan are over?  A: We’ve thought about that a lot, and we get that question
asked frequently, mostly by banks: ‘Are you going to be in this
for the long haul?’ Our answer is that there is always going to
be military training going on, and we are experts at conducting
it.  To contact the reporter on this story: Matt McCue at
 matt.mccue1@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  