-- Illinois Tobacco Bonds May `Fly' as Yields Prove Attractive: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-11-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/illinois-tobacco-bonds-may-fly-as-yields-prove-attractive-muni-credit.html
Illinois  began taking orders from
individuals on $1.46 billion in municipal bonds backed by
tobacco settlement payments to help meet $2 billion in
outstanding bills.  States and municipalities are poised to borrow about $13.3
billion this week, the  second-highest  weekly total this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called
Railsplitter Tobacco bonds are the week’s largest issue and the
state’s biggest tax-exempt borrowing since a $1.5 billion
refinancing deal in February.  Illinois is issuing a maximum maturity of 17 years compared
with 38 years for a similar bond sold in 2008 by Suffolk County,
New York. That will limit risk to investors, said  Richard Larkin , director of credit analysis at Herbert J. Sims & Co. in
Iselin, New Jersey, which manages $1 billion in debt. The
Railsplitter sale is secured by payments from a 1998 settlement
with tobacco companies, preliminary offering documents show.  “This deal will fly,” Larkin said. “It’s structured very
conservatively. It’s a relatively short bond with a sweet
yield.”  Bonds maturing in June 2027, about $317 million of the
issue, were offered to individual investors today at a 6.25
percent yield, according to a person with direct knowledge of
the sale. That’s about  250 basis points  above top-rated debt,
according to a 17-year BVAL benchmark index. The so-called
retail period will continue today, with sales to institutional
investors such as insurance companies and mutual funds tomorrow.  ‘Strong’ Demand  Initial demand for the securities during marketing was
“strong,” according to  John Sinsheimer , Illinois director of
capital markets. The bond was structured to have full debt-
service coverage for 17 years even if tobacco shipments continue
to shrink, he said.  “Tobacco shipments can fall 10 percent year after year and
we will be fully funded,” said Sinsheimer. “A 10 percent
decline has never happened.”  The compound annual rate of decline since 1997 has been
about 4.2 percent, with a 9 percent drop in 1999 and an 8.6
percent fall last year, according to data from the U.S.
Treasury’s  Alcohol & Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau .  Larkin, who has predicted defaults of previous tobacco
bonds because of the growing unpopularity of smoking, said he
has told his traders to consider these if they become available.  “It’s the best structured tobacco bond I have seen since
they came out,” Larkin said. “I told my traders that if they
become available, it’s a good bond.”  Outstanding Liability  The state has been the recipient of $3.3 billion of tobacco
settlement payments, preliminary offering documents show.
Proceeds from this sale, rated A- by Standard & Poor’s and BBB+
by Fitch Ratings, fourth- and third-lowest, will help the state
pay its fiscal 2010 bills by Dec. 31.  Comptroller  Dan Hynes  warned in an October report that
failure to sell the bonds and collect other short-term revenue
may make it hard to meet the deadline to eliminate $2 billion of
2010 debt. The 2011 fiscal year began July 1 and Illinois has a
“lapse” period to settle outstanding liability before Dec. 31.  The urgency to get the deal done has helped boost yields,
as the state needs to price “aggressively” to clear the
market, said  Matt Dalton , chief executive officer at Belle Haven
Investments Inc. in White Plains, New York, which has $450
million in municipal assets.  Yields on AAA rated debt due in 17 years fell 2 basis
points to 3.73 percent, the lowest since Nov. 15, according to a
Bloomberg Valuation index. Yields fell at most maturities, BVAL
indexes show, with about $275 million of the week’s total
pricing yesterday.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  AMERICAN MUNICIPAL POWER INC. , a Columbus, Ohio-based
supplier to public electric systems, tomorrow will sell $667
million in revenue-backed tax-exempt and taxable bonds,
including $605 million in Build America Bonds. The issue will
finance a 105-megawatt hydroelectric power plant at an existing
dam on the Ohio River, according to an S&P report. Underwriters
led by Wells Fargo will market the securities, which are rated
A, sixth-highest, by S&P. (Updated Nov. 30)  LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER, the largest U.S.
municipal utility, plans to sell $493 million in taxable Build
America Bonds today. The securities, backed by water system
revenue, will fund ongoing capital improvements, according to a
Fitch report. JPMorgan Chase & Co. will lead the marketing of
the issue, which Fitch rates AA+, second-highest and one level
above Moody’s rating, Aa2. (Updated Nov. 30)  NEW YORK STATE URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION , which
facilitates the development of affordable housing for low,
moderate and middle-income people, will sell $1.1 billion in
tax-exempt and taxable bonds, including $349 million in Build
America Bonds. The securities, backed by state income tax
revenue, will finance state facilities and economic development
projects. Morgan Stanley will market the tax-exempt portion and
Citigroup will market the taxable securities, which are both
rated AAA by S&P’s. (Added Nov. 30)  PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY, which owns the
World Trade Center site and runs the three biggest New York-area
airports, will sell $840 million in tax-exempt bonds today. The
issue will fund expansion of JFK International’s Terminal Four,
according to a Fitch Ratings report. Citigroup will market the
issue, which is rated Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P, both one
level above junk, and BB by Fitch, second-highest speculative
grade. (Updated Nov. 30)  CHICAGO, the third-biggest U.S. city by population,
tomorrow plans to sell $804 million in tax-exempt and taxable
general obligation bonds, including $214 million in Build
America Bonds. The securities will refinance existing debt and
fund street, sidewalk and gutter improvements, demolition of
dilapidated buildings and contributions to the city’s pension
funds. Chicago postponed the sale from mid-November for more
favorable borrowing costs. Underwriters led by Loop Capital
Markets LLC will market the issue, rated Aa3 by Moody’s, its
fourth-highest investment grade. (Updated Nov. 30)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  