-- IMF's Lipsky Says the Notion of Threat to the Euro Is `Wildly Exaggerated'
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-11-30T16:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/imf-s-lipsky-says-speculation-over-threat-to-euro-is-wildly-exaggerated-.html
International Monetary Fund First
Deputy Managing Director  John Lipsky  said that the euro has a
“solid” value and that any notion that the currency is under
threat is exaggerated.  “Shoring up the euro is a rather loaded phrase,” Lipsky
said in an interview in Dubai today at the World Economic Forum
Summit on the Global Agenda, when asked about efforts to support
the currency zone. “The euro trades very freely all day, every
day. The value is solid and it seems broadly appropriate. Sure,
there are near-term concerns of one type or another,” though
“the notion that the euro is under threat is wildly exaggerated
given what’s happening in markets.”  The euro today fell below $1.30 for the first time in more
than 10 weeks amid speculation Europe’s debt crisis will spread.
European Union finance ministers on Nov. 28 confirmed their
second bailout of a euro nation after rescuing Greece in May,
handing Ireland an 85 billion-euro package ($111 billion) to
rescue its banks and bolster government finances.  Actions taken on Ireland are “very important” but were
never expected to “assuage all market uncertainty,” Lipsky
said. “After all, the Greek program is on track and yet markets
are still frankly skeptical about its success.”  Lipsky said the actions in both Ireland and Greece give
their governments “breathing space to make the adjustments they
need” and “to convince market participants of the success of
their efforts.”  ‘Proportionate’ Action  Blanket solutions will not work, Lipsky said, and
preventing a contagion will depend on whether governments
continue to take the appropriate actions.  “What’s important is that the responses are proportionate
to the challenges,” he said. “It will require continued
vigilance and delivery on promises by authorities.”  The cost of insuring the debt of Italy, Spain, Portugal and
Ireland surged to records today as Europe’s sovereign crisis
intensified.  “In Spain, dealing with the cajas, the savings and loans,
is going to be accelerated along with a series of other measures
in addition to other measures to increase Spain’s
competitiveness,” Lipsky said. “It will take time, effort and
delivery on promises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Dubai via Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg. at  at
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 