-- Growth May Surpass Government Target for Year, Ushering Higher India Rates
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-12-01T09:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/india-economy-grows-faster-than-estimated-8-9-adding-inflation-pressure.html
India’s economy is likely to surpass
the government’s 8.5 percent growth target for the fiscal year,
forcing the central bank to resume interest-rate increases as
domestic demand offsets [bn:WBTKR=INQGGDPY:IND] risks from abroad.  Gross domestic product [] climbed 8.9 percent for a second
straight quarter in July to September, a government report
showed yesterday, with the gains propelled by the manufacturing
and services industries.  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser to
the finance ministry, said after the data release that India
could achieve a 9 percent growth rate sooner than expected.  India’s expansion bucked a growth slowdown in Asian
neighbors from Thailand to  Malaysia , where currency appreciation
and risks to exports from Europe’s debt crisis and U.S.
unemployment have clouded the outlook. Without higher borrowing
costs, India risks reigniting inflation stoked by rising
commodity prices, expanding credit and strengthening consumer
demand for products such as Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.’s cars.  “There will be a strain on the infrastructure, which in
turn will create more pressure on inflation,” said  Sajjid Chinoy , a Mumbai-based economist with JPMorgan Chase & Co. He
predicted that central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  will raise
interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point in January.  Chinoy, who previously worked at the International Monetary
Fund, said that India’s challenge will be to boost private
investment and expand the nation’s capacity in industries such
as power generation.  Irregular Roads  The finance ministry estimates that India produces about 10
percent less electricity than it needs, and roads, used to
transport about 65 percent of the nation’s cargo, are plagued by
single lanes and irregular surfaces.  The  $1.3 trillion economy  is likely to expand 8.5 percent
in the fiscal year through March, the most in three years, Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  said Nov. 20. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said yesterday the pace may exceed that target.  India’s factory output in November grew at the fastest pace
in six months, according to the Purchasing Managers’ Index
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, rising 58.4,
the highest since May this year. Exports in October grew 21.3
percent to $17.9 billion, a separate report showed.  Rising car sales and expanding bank credit provide evidence
of growing consumer demand in Asia’s third-biggest economy.  Maruti Suzuki, India’s biggest carmaker, Tata Motors Ltd.
and others sold a record 182,992 cars in October, according to
the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers. Loans given by
lenders such as State Bank of India Ltd. and rivals rose 22
percent in the fortnight to Nov. 5 from a year earlier, the
fastest pace since January 2009.  Stocks Rise  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
rose 1.4 percent to 19,793.07 today at 3:04 p.m. amid
expectations higher growth will boost company’s earnings.  India’s GDP gain last quarter compares with an expansion of
1.9 percent in the 16-nation Euro area and 2.5 percent in the
U.S. In China growth cooled to 9.6 percent in the same period.
Australia’s economy grew 0.2 percent from the second quarter,
the worst performance since a contraction at the end of 2008.  ING Groep NV raised its growth forecast for India to 8.7
percent from 8.4 percent after yesterday’s announcement. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley said there are upside risks
to their 8.5 percent growth forecast.  Growth Trajectory  China’s yuan has gained 2.4 percent against the dollar this
year, more than the Indian rupee’s 1.8 percent, which is also
less than the Thai baht’s 10.7 percent increase and the
Malaysian ringgit’s 8.3 percent jump. The smaller appreciation
in India’s currency may have prevented a bigger moderation in
the country’s inflation via lower import costs.  India’s  wholesale-price  inflation rate was 8.58 percent in
October, compared with the “ideal” level of 4 percent to 5
percent, according to Finance Minister  Mukherjee . Consumer
prices are rising at a pace near 10 percent, the fastest in the
Group of 20 nations after Argentina. In contrast, Thailand’s
 consumer-price  gains slowed to 2.8 percent in October.  “The pressure on inflation is still significantly high,”
said  Sailesh Jha , chief Asia strategist at Jefferies Singapore
Ltd., who expects rate increases in December and January.
“India’s trajectory of growth is likely to be in the range of 9
percent to 9.5 percent over the next several years, which means
that the pressure on infrastructure will accelerate.”  Corruption  Rising cases of corruption including the arrest of eight
bankers and brokers in a loan and bribery probe, have also
stymied Singh’s efforts to accelerate rule changes to quicken
growth as opposition parties clamor for deeper investigations
and disrupt Parliament.  Singh’s opponents have also called for a separate
investigation into the alleged sale of phone licenses at below-
market rates.  “The recent spate of high-profile graft,” cases have
again focused attention on the growing governance problems in
India, said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based economist at
Capital Economics Ltd.  Strategists are cutting forecasts for an appreciation in
India’s rupee, Asia’s worst-performing currency last month, as
capital flows to emerging markets slow because of the worsening
debt crisis in Europe.  The currency slid 3.3 percent, the most since May, and
touched a 10-week low of 46.125 yesterday, prompting banks
including Wells Fargo & Co. and Credit Agricole SA to concede
their predictions were too bullish. The currency gained 0.7
percent to 45.5575 to a dollar at 2:33 p.m. in Mumbai.  The Reserve Bank of India has increased borrowing costs six
times this year. Ten of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
yesterday expect the central bank to raise rates by the end of
March, while the rest predict no change for the period.  Governor Subbarao on Nov. 2 raised the benchmark  repurchase
rate  and the reverse repurchase rate by a quarter-point each to
6.25 percent and 5.25 percent, saying inflation continues to
hold above the “comfort zone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  