-- Indian Billionaires Said to Mull Bids for Evonik Unit
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-12-01T09:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/indian-billionaires-said-to-weigh-bids-for-evonik-carbon-black.html
Companies controlled by Indian
billionaires Kumar Mangalam Birla and Rama Prasad Goenka are
considering making offers for a unit of  Germany ’s Evonik
Industries AG, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Phillips Carbon Black Ltd., part of Goenka’s RPG Group, and
 Aditya Birla Group  are among potential bidders for the carbon
black business, which makes material used in tires and synthetic
rubber, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the matter is private. The deal is likely to be valued at more
than $700 million, said two of the people.  A sale would add to the record $26.9 billion of overseas
acquisitions by Indian companies this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Evonik, part-owned by private equity firm
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., is selling the unit and its real
estate and energy businesses to concentrate on chemicals.  “The margins in carbon black tend to be relatively low, so
a buyer who specializes in that business or uses it for their
own products may be able to boost returns,” said Matthias Schell, a credit analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in
Stuttgart, Germany. “Demand from  Asia , especially for tires, is
also rising.”  Birla Group spokeswoman Pragnya Ram in Mumbai and Barbara Mueller, a spokeswoman for Essen, Germany-based Evonik, declined
to comment.  ‘Exploring Opportunities’  Phillips Carbon (PHCB)  “is always exploring opportunities for
growth both organic and inorganic,” the Kolkata-based company
said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange today. “The
company is also aware of the divestment process of Evonik’s
Carbon Black operations. The company have not taken any decision
in this regard.”  Shares of Phillips Carbon rose 1.6 percent to 177.3 rupees
as of 3:21 p.m. local time in Mumbai trading, after earlier
climbing as much as 11.5 percent.  Evonik, Germany’s largest specialty chemicals maker, said
on Sept. 20 it plans to sell the carbon black unit, which has
annual sales of about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) and 1,700
employees.  Barclays Capital  is advising Evonik on the proposed
sale, one of the people said.  The Birla Group is the world’s fourth-largest producer of
carbon black with operations spread across four units including
Alexandria Carbon Black Co. in  Egypt ; Hi Tech Carbon, a division
of  Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd. (ABNL)  in  India ; Thai Carbon Black Public Co.
in  Thailand  and Liaoning Birla Carbon Co. in  China , according to
its website.  Production Capacity  Phillips Carbon, the biggest producer of the material in
India, has an installed capacity of 360,000 metric tons with
plans to increase that to 410,000 tons within the next one year,
the company said in an Oct. 27 statement. Goenka is chairman
emeritus of RPG Group, and his sons run businesses including
power, infrastructure, retail and entertainment.  Evonik said on Nov. 15 that group sales will rise more than
20 percent this year, driving chemicals profit to a record. Net
income in the third quarter rose 55 percent to 260 million euros
as sales grew 24 percent to 4.09 billion euros. Chemicals
account for 81 percent of sales, the  quarterly report  shows.  Inks, Toners  The company said its carbon black unit is the second
largest in the world, with operations in 12 countries. In
addition to rubber and tires, carbon black is used for coatings,
plastics, inks and toners. Evonik said in September it sees
“better perspectives” for the business outside of the group,
citing increased consolidation and the significance of Asian
markets.  Cabot Corp. of the U.S. is the world’s largest maker of
carbon black.  Evonik is also holding talks on the sale of its 3.8
Billion euro power unit, called Steag, and may reach a
preliminary agreement as early as this week, said three people
with knowledge of the matter on Nov. 24.  A group of German local energy suppliers led by the city of
Duisburg’s  utility  as well as Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding
AS of the  Czech Republic  are looking to acquire 51 percent of
the unit, and possibly the remaining stake, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  