-- India Says Climate Negotiations in Cancun Moving Away From Global Treaty
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-30T13:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/india-says-climate-negotiations-in-cancun-moving-away-from-global-treaty.html
United Nations climate talks in
Mexico are moving away from a global treaty, and nations should
focus more on what they can be doing domestically to prevent
climate change, India’s environment minister said.  “An international agreement is not anywhere on the
horizon,”  Jairam Ramesh  said today in New Delhi. “Action has
to be domestic. That’s what the last 15 months has shown.”  Policy makers have lowered expectations for a new climate
treaty after efforts foundered a year ago in Copenhagen to write
a successor to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. India expects to be a
“bridge player” by helping narrow the divisions between the
U.S. and China, the world’s two biggest polluters, Ramesh said.  “I think the Chinese have embraced the Western economic
model lock, stock and barrel,” Ramesh said. “There are 1.5
million automobiles being sold in China every month.” India is
in a position to develop a more sustainable model of economic
and industrial growth, he said.  Ramesh said India will push for “a system of verification
and reporting” of emissions of heat-trapping gases, like carbon
dioxide, blamed for climate change at UN climate talks. The
talks began yesterday in the Mexican resort of Cancun and are
due to conclude on Dec. 10.  Ramesh reiterated India’s position that it won’t entertain
any proposal that attempts to impose binding commitments such as
emission targets on developing countries. The 192-country Kyoto
Protocol, which went into effect in 2005, set emissions targets
for only 38 developed countries.  The U.S. has refused to consider any follow-on agreement
based on Kyoto, which it says will cost it jobs, while China has
resisted verification of its emissions and other actions it’s
taking to combat climate change, according to  Michael Liebreich ,
chief executive officer of Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Countries like India have to ensure that there are no
externally imposed barriers on our growth,” Ramesh said. “Our
growth objectives are not negotiable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 