-- ING to Pay More Interest on Perpetual Issue as EU Blocks Bond Redemption
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r   a n d   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2010-11-30T09:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ing-to-pay-more-interest-as-eu-state-aid-officials-block-bond-redemption.html
ING Groep NV  will pay more interest
on a perpetual bond, after the European Commission blocked a
redemption saying the largest Dutch bank and insurer should
first repay state aid it got during the financial crisis.  “Not repaying this perpetual bond means a step up of
interest payments of 100 basis points compared to what we paid
before,” said  Raymond Vermeulen , a spokesman for Amsterdam-
based ING, by telephone today.  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s antitrust regulator,
denied ING permission to redeem $1.5 billion in hybrid capital
issued in December 2000, ING said in a statement today. From
January, ING will pay holders of those bonds a floating rate of
the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate -- also known as
Libor -- plus 360 basis points, amounting to about 3.9 percent,
according to ING.  ING received 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of government
aid in the wake of the collapse of financial markets in 2008. To
gain EU approval for the bailout, ING agreed to split its
insurance and banking units by the end of 2013. The Dutch
authorities asked the commission on Nov. 16 to allow ING to
reimburse holders of the particular group Hybrid Tier 1
Instruments, for which first date for calling is Dec. 31.  “The commission has rejected the request on the grounds
that the ING restructuring plan, approved by the commission in
November 2009, foresees that the bank and its capital holders
need to contribute an adequate own share to the cost of
restructuring, along with the state support,” the commission
said in a  statement . “This requires, among others, that the
state aid is paid back in full, before hybrid capital holders
can be repaid.”  The Dutch lender is appealing the commission’s decision on
the restructuring plan,  arguing  that the EU executive imposed
overly strict limits in return for approving state aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jones Hayden  at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  