-- Investment Firm Partner Used Client Money for Yankees Tickets, U.S. Says
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-11-30T18:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/investment-firm-partner-used-client-money-for-yankees-tickets-u-s-says.html
U.S. prosecutors accused IVest
International Holdings Inc.’s managing partner of conspiring to
solicit millions of dollars from investors and using the money
for mortgage payments, golfing expenses and $100,000 in New York
Yankees tickets.  William Graulich IV, 54, of Henryville, Pennsylvania, is
charged with interstate wire fraud for promoting risk-free
investments in notes, letters of credit and other financial
instruments, U.S. Attorney  Paul J. Fishman  in Newark, New
Jersey, said in a statement yesterday.  “Graulich, along with unnamed co-conspirators, represented
that they had an ‘exclusive’ investment platform available by
invitation only, and that had been previously open only to those
able to invest at least $100 million,” Fishman said. They
promised “weekly returns of 22 percent,” he said.  If convicted, Graulich could receive a 30-year jail term
and be fined $1 million, according to the statement. Graulich
surrendered to the Federal Bureau of Investigation yesterday.  “He’s taken the position that he’s not guilty of any
financial crime,” Graulich’s lawyer,  Jay V. Surgent  of
Lyndhurst, New Jersey, said in a telephone interview today.
“We’ll proceed with a vigorous defense.”  Graulich has been released under $250,000 bail pending a
Dec. 14 preliminary hearing, Surgent said.  According to the criminal complaint, one unidentified
investor met Graulich in London for a presentation and invested
about $4.4 million with him. Graulich used a bank account in
Morristown, New Jersey, according to the complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Graulich, 10-8302, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 