-- Irish Hormones Rage, Bungee Jump Goes Bad in Tragicomic School Tale: Books
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2010-11-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/irish-hormones-rage-bungee-jump-goes-bad-in-tragicomic-school-tale-books.html
As Ireland tries to survive the
implosion of its economic bubble, one voice foretold the
inevitable almost 10 years ago: “The whole thing’ll come
crashing down, and all anyone’ll have done is eaten a lot of
expensive cheese.”  The line appears in  “An Evening of Long Goodbyes”  (2003),
Irishman Paul Murray’s comic first novel. Ranging from P.G.
Wodehouse meringue to the darker side of  Evelyn Waugh , the book
relates an Irish country gentleman’s encounters with harsh
reality as he loses wine cellar, home and the oblivious fog that
has shielded him from grim family secrets.  For his second novel, Murray has gone from impressive to
world-class. “ Skippy Dies ” concerns a few months in the life
of a Catholic boys high school in Dublin called Seabrook
College. There’s sex and drugs and high jinks, wimps, bullies,
queen bees and brains, jaded teachers, a questionable coach and
an administrator so perfectly full of himself that I was
reminded of Stephen Dedalus’s bloviating Mr. Deasy in
“ Ulysses .”  This is far from the musical TV series “ Glee ,” though.
Characters that verge on cliche prove unpredictable. A teacher
ripe for burnout finds inspiration in a World War I uniform. A
femme fatale reveals the stony investment adviser within. The
punk selling diet pills isn’t the worst pusher in school.  Even when a hackneyed turn threatens -- the wimp charms the
prettiest girl and then outpunches the bully -- Murray’s writing
galvanizes what might have been a limp moment. And the
inescapable cruelty of young people, as perpetrators or victims,
is a constant here.  Doughnut Contest  The book begins with the death of the wimp, Skippy, during
a doughnut-eating contest with his overweight genius roommate,
Ruprecht. While Skippy has had his moment with the Queen Bee, he
has been generally afflicted, coping with his mother’s illness,
his physical shortcomings, a recent introduction to painkillers
and a crucial swim meet.  We learn most of this in the opening 460 pages, which bring
us back to that fatal moment in the doughnut shop, making the
bulk of the novel a flashback, or history lesson.  History is everywhere. From the Big Bang and string theory
that come up in Ruprecht’s science projects to the memory shared
by two teachers of a bungee jump gone awry when they were
Seabrook students. Acting Principal Greg “The Automator”
Costigan, who wants to destroy some of the school’s history by
razing an old building, usurps the place of the priests who have
run the academy. Of course, the students are all forming
personal histories they will carry with them for years.  Irish History  The history teacher, who lives under the cloud of youthful
cowardice and a disastrous stint in finance that drove him to
academia, learns that the combat role of Irishmen in World War I
was largely expunged from history books after Ireland rebelled
against its British masters.  Through the old soldier’s uniform, which belonged to one of
Skippy’s relatives who fought in the war, the nation’s past and
the family history of one of their own are brought home to the
students. Unbeknownst to them, the Automator’s cover-up will
perform a similar erasure to keep the cause of Skippy’s death
from affecting enrollment.  The thematic richness of the writing is impressive, yet the
book is also just plain fun and compulsively readable. Murray
has a terrific ear for student talk, where diffidence, hormones
and burgeoning intelligence all compete. The golden-tongued
student cynic vies with the randy Italian for sharpest quip.  The author also takes traditional occasions for a mad ride.
A Halloween dance turns into a bacchanalia as the chaperones
drift off for a quickie. An anniversary concert succumbs to the
electronic screechings of Ruprecht’s latest experiment.  “History is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake,”
said Dedalus famously in the aforementioned scene from
“Ulysses.” So might many of the characters inhabiting Murray’s
dream of a book.  “Skippy Dies” is published by Faber in the U.S. and
 Hamish Hamilton  in the U.K. (661 pages, $28, 13.99 pounds). To
order this book in North America, click  here .  ( Jeffrey Burke  is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 