-- Italy Fails to Auction Barracks, Damping Sales’ Hopes
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2010-11-30T08:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/italy-fails-to-sell-barracks-damping-hopes-for-further-auctions.html
Italy failed to attract bidders for
a military barracks in the north of the country, damping
prospects for the sale of thousands of state-controlled
properties set to begin next year.  The government set a minimum price of 40 million euros ($52
million) for the  barracks in Albenga  in the northern region of
Liguria, the  state property agency  said in an e-mailed statement
after the bid deadline yesterday. Albenga was the first of 11
military properties to be sold by Dec. 20 that the agency said
were worth a combined total of at least 100 million euros.  “For an investor, 40 million euros represents a
significant commitment to an operation that includes an element
of risk,” said  Mario Breglia , head of real-estate research firm
 Scenari Immobiliari . “This site may be worth that much, but the
market is clearly weak. Four years ago, investors may have lined
up to put in an offer, but not now.”  European governments are looking to real estate sales to
raise cash after the global financial crisis and economic
recession led to higher public deficits and debt. The Italian
government has been forced to cut funding to municipalities and
proposed allowing local governments to keep as much as 3.6
billion euros in proceeds projected from the sale of 12,000
properties starting across the country next year.  Debt Crisis  The closing of the Albenga sale coincided with growing
concern about investing in Italy, Europe’s second most-indebted
nation, after the 85 billion-euro rescue of Ireland failed to
convince investors that the region’s debt crisis was contained.
The  premium investors demand  to hold Italian 10-year bonds over
equivalent German debt rose 18 basis points to a euro-era record
206 as of 9:40 a.m. in Rome. The benchmark  FTSE MIB stock index 
opened 0.4 percent lower today after falling 2.7 percent
yesterday, the biggest decline among Europe’s benchmark indexes.  The broader program of real estate sales is part of Italy’s
efforts to control its deficit and debt. The government this
year cut funding to regional and local governments as it sought
to rein in a  budget shortfall  that reached 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product last year. To help compensate, the government
proposed initially transferring thousands of properties to local
authorities and  allowing for their sale. The initial portfolio
doesn’t include properties in Rome, and five regions, including
Sicily and Sardinia, that will also be eligible for sale.  The government last year put properties valued at 229
million euros on the market, registering record sales of 165
million euros. Property transactions have raised 80 million
euros this year on assets valued at 110 million euros.  Lower Proceeds  Still, Italy is facing more competition from other debt-
burdened governments across Europe. Falling property values and
tougher borrowing conditions cut proceeds from state-owned
property sales in the European Union to 3 billion euros in 2008
and 2009, from 13 billion euros in the two years though 2007,
according to a July report by London-based  CB Richard Ellis
Global Research .  “The trend on the part of governments in various parts of
Europe to continue to look to raise capital by selling property
assets will continue,” Richard Holberton, analyst at CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc., said in a Nov. 26 interview.  Apart from barracks, the local authorities will sell former
military firing ranges, roads, schools, warehouses, farms,
industrial sites, parish buildings, canals and undeveloped land.  Attractive Locations  The barracks were expected to be among some of the most
attractive investments as many of them are located in city
centers or near popular destinations. The Albenga barracks is
next to a beach resort and is zoned for hotel development. There
are three properties among the initial batch of 11 in the
university town of Bologna.  “Barracks are in strategic locations because Italian
cities have often been built close to or around them,” Luigi
Marchesini, vice president of real estate company Galotti SpA,
said in a Nov. 23 interview in Bologna, where the government was
showing a military site to potential buyers. “They’re like
black holes waiting to be used again.”  Italy curbed compulsory military service in 2000 and
eliminated it altogether five years later. The country now has
70,000 fewer soldiers than it did 10 years ago, reducing the
need for housing.  “The barrack sales follow years of development plans to
make them more appealing,” Breglia said. “But since both these
sales and the ones that may be held next year come at a time of
financial turbulence and tighter funding, bids may be lower than
forecast.”  Recovery Struggling  Italy’s real-estate market recovery is struggling to gather
pace as prices remain below pre-crisis levels and are unlikely
to rise until the end of next year, research institute  Nomisma 
said in a Nov. 24 report. The number of properties sold in the
first half of 2010 was 30 percent lower than before the
financial crisis began in 2008, the Bologna-based institute said
in the report.  Property markets around barracks “might get a boost,”
said Luca Biancucci, an architect and investor said during the
viewing of the Bologna barracks. The buildings are often in
“top locations,” he said. “If projects or renovations go
ahead, the market value of the areas area around these buildings
will benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 