-- Italian, Spanish Government Bonds Plunge, as Europe's Debt Crisis Deepens
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-30T16:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/italy-spain-bonds-plunge-as-irish-bailout-fails-to-dull-contagion-concern.html
Italian and Spanish government bonds
fell, driving the extra yield investors demand to hold the
securities instead of German bunds to euro-era records, as
Europe’s debt crisis intensified.  The drop pushed the yield spread between 10-year Italian
securities and similar-maturity German debt to more than 2
percentage points for the first time since 1997. The Belgian
yield premium over bunds reached a record after its borrowing
costs rose at a sale of 2.8 billion euros ($3.7 billion) of
treasury bills. The cost of insuring debt for Italy, Spain,
Portugal and Ireland surged to records, stocks and the euro slid
and U.S. Treasuries advanced.  “Contagion risk is still high on the agenda,” said  Marius Daheim , a senior fixed-income strategist at Bayerische
Landesbank in Munich. “Nobody wants to expose themselves to any
peripheral risks.”  The Italian 10-year bond yield rose a sixth day, gaining
three basis points to 4.68 percent at 4:34 p.m. in London, after
reaching 4.88 percent earlier today. The 3.75 percent security
due in March 2021 fell 0.26, or 2.60 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 92.89. The  spread  with 10-year German bonds increased
to as much as 212 basis points, a euro-era record.  The euro fell as much a 1.2 percent to $1.2969, dropping
below $1.30 for the first time in two months, and slid 1.6
percent to 108.86 yen.  ‘Different Ballgame’  “The problems in European government bond markets are now
spreading to Italy,” said  Norbert Aul , a fixed-income
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in London. “This
is a whole different ball game because Italy is the biggest debt
issuer in the euro area. The European Central Bank and the
European Commission will have to come out and respond soon.”  The cost of insuring the debt of Italy rose 24 basis points
to 270, Spain increased 16 basis points to 368, Portugal was 12
higher at 552 and Ireland was up 4 at 608, according to CMA
prices for credit-default swaps. Swaps on Greece were little
changed at 969 basis points.  The 10-year Treasuries yield fell six basis points to 2.76
percent. The MSCI World Index of stocks fell 0.5 percent.  The average yield for 10-year debt from Greece, Ireland,
Portugal, Spain and Italy reached a euro-era record as
speculation intensified that other nations will require external
support after Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  conceded on Nov.
21 that the country needed a rescue.  As well as drawing up an 85 billion-euro bailout for
Ireland two days ago, European governments also fleshed out a
plan to give the International Monetary Fund a role in
determining losses for bondholders, should countries have
difficulties meeting obligations after 2013.  ‘Throwing in Towel’  Irish Justice Minister  Dermot Ahern  said ECB officials
tried to force Ireland to start seeking a bailout earlier this
month, and European officials are now trying to do the same to
Portugal.  “Clearly there were people from outside this country who
were trying to bounce us in as a sovereign state, to making an
application, throwing in the towel before we had even considered
it as a government,” he told Irish state broadcaster RTE in an
interview today. “And if you notice, they are doing the same
with Portugal now.”  Asked about who was pressuring Ireland, he said “quite
obviously people from within the ECB.”  The ECB bought Irish government bonds in bigger amounts
than it typically does today, according to two people with
knowledge of the transactions.  Ten-year Irish yields were two basis points lower at 9.44
percent, and similar-maturity Portuguese bond yields fell 12
basis points to 7.17 percent.  ECB Pressure  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said “observers” are
underestimating the determination of European policy makers to
shore up the euro region’s stability.  “I don’t believe that financial stability in the euro zone
could really be called into question,” Trichet told lawmakers
in Brussels today.  The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds increased for an 11th
straight day, climbing 11 basis points to 5.57 percent, after a
25 basis-point jump yesterday. That pushed up the yield spread
to German debt to 284 basis points.  The ECB may have to step up purchases of Spanish government
bonds and backstop its banking system if the country runs into
financing difficulties, Citigroup Inc. Chief Economist  Willem Buiter  said.  Spanish ‘Stretch’  “Once Spain needs assistance, the support of the ECB will
be critical,” Buiter said in a note to investors yesterday. A
Spanish crisis would “stretch the resources” of the bailout
fund set up in May by European governments, “perhaps beyond its
current limits,” he said.  Belgian 10-year yields rose 13 basis points to 4.03
percent. Borrowing costs increased as the nation raised 2.8
billion euros in sales of 105-day bills and 168-day securities.
The yield premium over bunds touched a record 139 basis points.  The yield spread between French and German bonds reached
the most since June, climbing to 48 basis points, as the crisis
spread to euro-area nations with higher credit ratings than so-
called peripheral nations.  German 10-year bonds rose, with the yield eight basis
points lower at 2.68 percent. The Nuremberg-based Federal Labor
Agency said today unemployment fell for a 17th month in November
to 3.14 million, the lowest since December 1992.  Irish bonds lost 11 percent this month and 16 percent for
the year to date, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
Portuguese securities handed investors a 5.6 percent loss this
month and Spanish debt dropped 6.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  