-- Titans' Finnegan, Texans' Johnson Fined $25,000, Avoid Bans, After Fight
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   L a r r y   S i d d o n s
-- 2010-11-30T05:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/titans-finnegan-texans-johnson-fined-25-000-avoid-bans-after-fight.html
Andre Johnson  of the  Houston Texans 
and  Cortland Finnegan  of the  Tennessee Titans  said they were
relieved to avoid being suspended by the National Football
League after fighting in a game this weekend.  Johnson, a wide receiver, and Finnegan, a cornerback, were
fined $25,000 each for the fracas in the fourth quarter of the
Texans’ 20-0 victory two days ago, league spokesman Corry Rush
said in an e-mail.  “I’m happy that I’m not suspended, but at the same time,
I’m not happy about my actions,” Johnson told reporters
yesterday after practice. “It’s not something I’m proud about.
I have to suffer the consequences for my actions.”  The fight started when Finnegan, playing about a yard off
the line of scrimmage, jumped forward when the ball was snapped
and shoved Johnson in the facemask with both hands.  Johnson grabbed Finnegan’s facemask, tore his helmet off
and grabbed him by the jersey as the players swung each other
around. The Titans’ cornerback responded by pulling Johnson’s
helmet off and flinging it to the ground. Johnson then tossed
Finnegan to the ground and took three swings.  “Did I want it to escalate into that? Absolutely not.
That’s not what I play the game for,” Finnegan said last night
on Nashville’s WGFX-FM, the Titans’ flagship station. “At a
point he snapped and he started throwing blows.”  Johnson, who had nine catches for 56 yards and a touchdown
in the Texans’ win, appeared to connect on two punches to
Finnegan’s head and missed on an uppercut before officials
intervened.  Johnson was fined $7,500 by the NFL last season for pulling
Finnegan to the ground by his face mask during a scuffle in a
34-31 Houston win. Finnegan was fined three times during a
three-week span earlier this season, Fox Sports said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
 Larry Siddons  in New York at at
 lsiddons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  