-- Ivory Coast Electoral Commission Member Stops Attempt to Release Counting
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-11-30T21:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ivory-coast-electoral-commission-member-stops-attempt-to-release-counting.html
A member of  Ivory Coast’s  electoral
commission prevented an attempt by the authority’s spokesman to
release partial vote results from this week’s presidential run-
off, as observers called for candidates to accept the outcome.  Tokpa Behi Etienne interrupted a press conference being
held by Bamba Yacouba in the commercial capital, Abidjan, today,
claiming the results about to be announced from three regions
were “not validated.” Yacouba disputed the assertion to
reporters.  “The results have effectively been validated by all the
representatives,” he said. Only results from Ivorians who voted
overseas on Nov. 28 have been released, which show opposition
leader  Alassane Ouattara  gaining 60 percent and incumbent
President  Laurent Gbagbo  obtaining 40 percent. Bamba said the
commission would release more results tomorrow.  The election is meant to be a key step toward reuniting the
world’s top cocoa producer, which has been split between the
north that supports Ouattara and a south that casts its weight
behind Gbagbo since a military uprising in 2002.  “Cote d’Ivoire’s elections are an opportunity for the
nation to emerge from years of crisis, return to the community
of democracies, and build a successful and prosperous future,”
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in a  statement 
today.  “Irregularities and intimidations” on election day were not
enough to affect the results of the vote, said Maria Espinosa,
vice chairwoman of the European Union’s observation group in the
country. The candidates should “accept the verdict” in the run-
off and use only legal means to dispute results, the African
Union’s Peace and Security Council said in an e-mailed statement
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra
at   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 