-- Japan Unemployment Rises, Output Falls, Showing Risk Economy May Contract
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-30T03:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/japan-unemployment-rises-output-falls-showing-risk-economy-may-contract.html
Japan’s industrial production
decreased and the unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed in
October, providing early signs that the country’s economy will
likely shrink this quarter.  Factory   output  declined 1.8 percent from September, the
sharpest drop since February 2009, the Trade Ministry said in
Tokyo today. The  jobless rate  increased to 5.1 percent from 5
percent and the economy lost 180,000 jobs, the most since May,
according to the statistics bureau. Bond prices rose.  The figures add to evidence that Japan’s economy may
contract for the first time in five quarters, as the expiration
of stimulus measures and weak exports prompt companies such as
 Toyota Motor Corp.  to reduce production. Japan’s central bank
may face pressure to ease policy further as sluggish demand
fuels deflation, according to economist  Yuichi Kodama .  “Japan will probably remain in an economic lull until the
end of March as exports are slowing,” said Kodama, chief
economist at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co., Japan’s third-
biggest life insurer. “It will be difficult for the BOJ to just
stand by doing nothing” because “the government will likely
increase pressure on the BOJ to take more actions after the turn
of the year,” he said.  The yield on Japan’s five-year government debt declined 1.5
basis points to 0.445 percent as of 11:05 a.m. in Tokyo. The yen
traded at 84.12 against the dollar at 11:45 a.m. in Tokyo, from
84.27 before the unemployment report was released.  0.9 Percent Contraction  Japan’s real gross domestic product is expected to shrink
at a 0.9 percent annualized pace in the three months through
December, according to a survey of 42 economists by the Japanese
government-affiliated Economic Planning Association.  Industrial production fell for a fifth month in October,
today’s report showed. The median estimate of 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 3.2 percent decline.  Manufacturers said they plan to increase output 1.4 percent
in November and boost production 1.5 percent in December, a
government survey included in today’s report showed.  Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said that while the
output figures were better than expected, the economy’s rebound
still is on hold.  “Overall consumption has yet to rebound while prices keep
tumbling. We realize the Japanese economy is stalling,” he told
reporters today in Tokyo.  Price Declines  Japanese consumer prices excluding food dropped for the
20th straight month in October, and exports grew at the slowest
pace this year, figures released last week showed.  “The rebound in exports to Asia has run its course and
exports to the U.S. and Europe remain weak. Such a condition
will likely continue for a half year or so,” Meiji Yasuda
Life’s Kodama said.  The Japanese parliament passed on Nov. 26 an extra budget
to fund a stimulus package aimed at fighting deflation and
combating the stronger yen. To foster growth, the Bank of Japan
last month cut its benchmark interest rate and created an asset-
purchase fund to buy government and corporate debt and assets
such as real estate investment trusts and exchange-traded funds.  More BOJ Easing  “Chances are high” that the BOJ will expand its 5
trillion yen ($59 billion) fund to respond to an economic
slowdown and lingering deflation, said Meiji Yasuda Life’s
Kodama. The central bank may buy more risky assets using the
fund, he said.  Toyota Motor, the world’s biggest automaker, said last week
that its  domestic vehicle production  fell for a second month in
October.  Honda Motor Co.  and  Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s second
and third largest automakers, also cut their domestic output. A
government subsidy program for fuel-efficient cars ended in
September.  Consumers rushed to buy vehicles before the end of the
government’s subsidy program, helping the nation’s  economy  grow
at a 3.9 percent annual pace last quarter.  Exporter earnings are also under threat from the yen’s
strengthening of more than 10 percent this year.  Nikon Corp. , the Japanese maker of cameras, lenses and
chip-making equipment, this month cut its full-year operating
profit and revenue forecasts, citing a stronger yen. The company
revised its assumptions for the currency’s exchange rate to the
dollar to 80 yen for the six months from Oct. 1, from 90 yen
projected three months ago.  More Jobs  In one encouraging sign for hiring, there were 93 newly
advertised jobs in October for every 100 people who started
looking for work that month, the most since 2008, the Labor
Ministry said in a separate report today. Economists consider it
a leading indicator for employment. The  job-to-applicant ratio 
climbed to 0.56, meaning there were 56 job openings for every
100 candidates.  Meanwhile, Japan’s monthly wages rose 0.6 percent from a
year earlier to 268,951 yen in October, the eighth straight
increase, the Labor Ministry said in a report today in Tokyo.  Some economists including  Noriaki Matsuoka  at Daiwa Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo said that today’s better-than-expected
output figures could mean the economy’s performance will exceed
expectations this quarter.  “I was worried the economy was going to slide into a slump,
but today’s reports reduced that risk,” Matsuoka said. “I
think the economy bottomed out in October and we’re going to see
the beginning of another recovery starting November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net 
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  