-- Government-Backed Fund Considers $1.6 Billion in Water Supply Investments
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2010-11-30T15:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/japan-state-backed-fund-considers-1-6-billion-water-buyouts.html
Innovation Network Corporation of
Japan , a government-backed investment fund, may spend about 135
billion yen ($1.6 billion) to buy water-supply firms overseas in
an effort to help Japanese companies compete with foreign rivals.  The fund known as INCJ is searching for buyout targets
mainly in developed European countries, said Tetsuro Toyoda,
managing director of the 900 billion yen fund. INCJ expects to
seal deals in the next three years, he said.  Toyoda led the fund’s investment in water companies in
Australia and Chile this year as Japanese trading houses such as
 Mitsubishi Corp.  and  Marubeni Corp.  accelerated overseas
acquisitions in a global race with France’s Suez Environment Co.
and Veolia Environment SA. Japan’s government estimates the
world’s water industry will more than double to 87 trillion yen
by 2025 from 36 trillion yen now.  “The next three years will be crucial for this battle over
water, given that companies in Europe are recovering from the
financial crisis and regaining resurgent force,” Toyoda, 48,
said in an interview on Nov. 30. “Japan is lagging behind the
international water majors and needs to catch up with a
‘sayonara homerun,’” or large acquisitions, he said.  Toyoda plans to travel to London and Paris next week to
meet with various water-related businesses, he said without
mentioning company names. INCJ wants to buy established
companies in developed nations to set up Japan’s platforms,
which can then tap emerging markets for expansion, he said.  Marubeni and INCJ said in November they agreed to buy Aguas
Nuevas SA, the third-biggest waterworks company in Chile.
Acquired assets include 33 water purification facilities such as
desalination plants and 39 sewage farms.  Australian Water  Mitsubishi closed a A$225 million ($217 million) deal in
October to buy United Utilities Australia Pty from United
Utilities Group Plc, Britain’s largest publicly traded water
company. Mitsubishi teamed up with INCJ, JGC Corp. and Manila
Water Co. on the acquisition.  INCJ has 82 billion yen of state funds and 800 billion yen
worth of government guarantees. It raised 10 billion yen from 19
private companies including  Panasonic Corp. , Toshiba Corp. and
Hitachi Ltd., allowing it to invest up to 900 billion yen. Of
the total capacity, the fund should be able to allocate 15
percent to its water-related investment, Toyoda said.  According to rules set out when it was formed, INCJ will be
dissolved by March 2025 and returns on investments will be
distributed to investors. The fund typically makes investments
with an internal rate of return of more than 10 percent annually,
Toyoda said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  