-- Japan Airlines Wins Court Approval for Turnaround Plan Backed by Lenders
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2010-11-30T09:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/japan-airlines-wins-court-approval-for-turnaround-plan-backed-by-lenders.html
Japan Airlines Corp. ,
restructuring under bankruptcy protection, won court approval
for a turnaround plan that includes slashing jobs, cutting
debt and paring routes.  Five lenders have also agreed to provide loans to
refinance debt,  Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corp. of
Japan , the state-backed fund overseeing JAL’s restructuring,
said today. It didn’t say how large the loans were.  The turnaround body will work toward an initial public
offering of the airline,  Hideo Seto , ETIC chairman, told
reporters in Tokyo. He also said he expects to have
implemented the restructuring plan by the end of March.  Enterprise Turnaround plans to invest 350 billion yen
($4.2 billion) in JAL to help pay for restructuring after the
carrier filed for Japan’s fourth-largest bankruptcy in
January. The airline is slashing a third of its workforce,
eliminating 49 routes and cutting 103 aircraft to pare costs.  The Tokyo-based carrier made an operating profit of 23
billion yen in October, according to the statement today. It
had an operating profit of 110 billion yen for the April-
September period, compared with a loss of  96 billion yen  a
year earlier.  The lenders providing refinancing funds include
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group, Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and state-owned
Development Bank of Japan, which were owed 429 billion yen by
JAL at the end of March 2009. State-owned Japan Bank for
International Cooperation will also give the carrier loans,
according to the statement.  JAL, which was delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange
earlier this year, has said it eliminated 8,000 jobs by
September and aims to cut another 8,000 by the end of March
through early retirements, attrition and shedding or closing
units.  The carrier had sold 33 Boeing Co. 747s and MD-80s as of
the end of August, according to spokeswoman  Sze Hunn Yap . It
had  278 planes  at the end of March, according to its website.  “The most difficult thing in turning around JAL has
been changing bureaucratic thinking,” Chairman  Kazuo Inamori 
told reporters in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  