-- JMI Equity Raises $875 Million in Commitments for Largest Investment Fund
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-11-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/jmi-equity-raises-875-million-in-commitments-for-largest-investment-fund.html
JMI Equity, the private-equity firm
whose investments include technology companies DoubleClick Inc.
and Intergraph Corp., said it raised $875 million for its
seventh and largest fund.  JMI Equity Fund VII LP brings the firm’s committed capital
since its 1992 founding to more than $2.1 billion, according to
a statement released today. The firm, based in Baltimore and San
Diego, raised $600 million for its sixth fund in 2007 and set
out to collect $800 million for the new pool.  JMI bills itself as a “growth equity” firm and focuses on
deals of $10 million to $100 million through transactions
ranging from minority stakes in growing companies to
recapitalizations and buyouts. The firm tapped existing
investors for about 85 percent of the new fund, and won over new
participants with JMI’s history and focus on specific
industries, said  Paul Barber , a managing general partner.  “There’s a flight toward quality and proven track records
and stability of team and strategy,” Barber said yesterday in
an interview. “New investors were looking for that
continuity.”  JMI’s fifth fund, a $300 million pool raised in 2005,
returned an average of  22 percent  a year through March 2010,
according to data provided by California State Teachers
Retirement System, a JMI investor. Private-equity funds raised
that year had an average 4 percent annual return during that
period and venture capital funds averaged a loss of more than 5
percent, according to data compiled by researcher Pitchbook Data
Inc.  Fund-Raising Climate  JMI raised the capital amid skepticism about new
commitments to so-called alternative assets and an aversion
toward generalist funds on the part of institutional investors
after the global credit crunch spurred fund losses. Firms in the
U.S. raised $25 billion in funds during the third quarter, less
than a quarter of what they gathered in the first quarter of
2008,  Pitchbook  said.  JMI was created by  Harry Gruner  and Charles Noell, who’d
previously worked in mergers and acquisitions at Baltimore-based
investment bank Alex. Brown & Sons Inc. Barber, who joined the
firm in 1998, also is a former Alex. Brown banker.  Goodwin Procter LLP , based in Boston, provided legal
counsel for the latest fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  