-- JPMorgan Gives Bankers IPads in ‘Clear and Present Danger’ to RIM
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-11-30T17:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/jpmorgan-gives-its-investment-bankers-ipads-in-challenge-to-rim-blackberry.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  will give its
investment bankers iPads to provide an additional mobile tool as
 Apple Inc . expands its domain to Wall Street, threatening
 Research in Motion Ltd.  in a market it traditionally dominated.  “We believe there are real benefits in our working
environment that can be realized using this device - as well as
the personal productivity and enjoyment that come as part of the
package,” two managing directors at New York-based JPMorgan
said in an e-mail obtained by Bloomberg News.  Apple is building on its momentum in the tablet business,
leveraging its 95 percent market share to expand from its
traditional consumer base into the corporate market as RIM
readies a rival device, the BlackBerry PlayBook. The Canadian
maker of smartphones is trying to catch up with Apple as banks
including Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse Group AG unveil
applications for the iPad and Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America
Corp. consider letting employees use iPhones instead of Wall
Street’s 11-year-old device of choice, the BlackBerry.  “Apple represents a clear and present danger for RIM going
forward,” said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co.
“For the first time you have a viable alternative to secure
mobile communications and by and large we see people moving away
from the BlackBerry platform in droves in favor of the iPhone
and the iPad.”  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. lender by assets behind
Bank of America, will distribute iPads free of charge to all
associates in its global investment banking division, the Nov.
24 e-mail shows. Employees will get to keep the device as long
as they remain at the unit until the pilot program ends on May
1, 2011.  Leveraging iPad  Bankers will be able to access e-mails, contacts, calendar
and attachments via Microsoft Outlook, as well as have the
ability to mark-up and annotate confidential documents and make
client presentations, according to the e-mail. They will also be
allowed to download applications for personal use.  “There are a variety of ways to leverage the iPad. Some
work off-the-shelf whilst others rely on JPMorgan
software/security tools,” the managing directors said.
“Depending on its success we will evaluate if we should repeat
this one time initiative and/or expand it to others.”  JPMorgan spokeswoman  Lauren Francis  declined to comment.  “Many corporations, including Wall Street, are looking at
iPad for business use,” said  Shaw Wu , an analyst at Kaufman
Brothers LP. “There are two things attracting IT managers to
the iPad: it’s easy to use and the price is pretty attractive
relative to traditional notebooks.”  Beating BlackBerry Sales  IPad sales jumped 28 percent to 4.19 million units in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Since the Cupertino, California-based company unveiled the
device in April, it contributed $4.96 billion, or almost 14
percent, to Apple’s revenue, Bloomberg data show. The cheapest
version of the tablet sells for $499, according to Apple’s
 website .  Meanwhile, RIM is winning customers for the tablet ahead of
its first-quarter debut. Toronto-based insurer Sun Life
Financial Inc. has agreed to buy as many as 1,000 PlayBooks, and
the Canadian banking unit of ING Groep NV says it will also
purchase the device.  Apple overtook RIM in the third quarter as the second-
biggest smartphone company with 17.4 percent market share behind
Nokia Oyj, the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones, according
to researcher IDC.  IPhone sales of 14.1 million units “handily beat”
BlackBerry’s 12.4 million in the third quarter, Apple’s Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  said in an Oct. 18 call with
analysts and investors to discuss  earnings .  Banking Apps  “We’ve now passed RIM and I don’t see them catching up
with us in the foreseeable future,” Jobs said. “They must move
beyond their area of strength and comfort into the unfamiliar
territory of trying to become a software platform company.”  More than 80 percent of Fortune 500 companies are
“deploying or piloting” the iPhone as corporations continue to
include the smartphone in their approved device lists, Apple
said Oct. 18.  Apple spokeswoman  Trudy Muller  declined to comment.  Tenille Kennedy , a spokeswoman for Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM, couldn’t
immediately comment.  Morgan Stanley unveiled an application for the iPhone and
the iPad on Aug. 23, allowing its clients to access the New
York-based bank’s research on mobile phones. Credit Suisse,
based in Zurich, followed with its own equity and fixed-income
research application on Oct. 21 and JPMorgan said Nov. 15 that
customers can access its investment-bank reports on the iPad.
Barclays Plc is planning to release an application early next
year, according to a person familiar with the process.  Trend With Legs  Standard Chartered Plc, the U.K. lender that earns about
three-quarters of its profit in Asia, became one of the first
and biggest firms to drop the BlackBerry for iPhones in May. The
London-based bank said in a  May 20 statement  that it will nearly
double the number of mobile devices to 15,000 by yearend, when
it plans to complete distributing the smartphones to employees.  Employees at Citigroup, based in New York, and Bank of
America, with headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, may
also have the option to ditch their BlackBerry devices for
iPhones, according to three people familiar with the plans.  “This is an interesting trend that definitely has legs,”
Gleacher’s Marshall said in a telephone interview. “As
contracts roll out on the BlackBerry we’re going to see more
companies adopt Apple technology. This is a sign of the times
and will continue in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 