-- JPMorgan's CEO Jamie Dimon `Incredibly Impressed' by Africa Opportunity
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-30T10:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/jpmorgan-s-ceo-jamie-dimon-incredibly-impressed-by-africa-opportunity.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said he is “incredibly impressed” by the
opportunities in South Africa and the rest of the continent.  “The growth rate of banking in emerging markets is set to
be two to three times faster than that of the United States and
Western Europe where most of our investment banking is currently
focused,” he said in a statement today after visiting South
Africa with former British Prime Minister  Tony Blair , an adviser
to the New York-based bank.  The lender is seeking to expand in emerging markets
overseas as greater regulation of businesses like derivatives
squeezes revenue in the U.S. The lender generates about 25
percent of revenue outside the U.S. and about 62 percent of net
profit.  Citigroup Inc.  has also announced plans to grow in
Africa, while Barclays Plc owns a stake in Absa Group Ltd.,
South Africa’s third-largest bank.  JPMorgan has hired bankers from rivals like  Morgan Stanley 
and sent employees from Geneva and London to Johannesburg and
Cape Town to bring the number of employees in the country to
about 450. The bank ranks tenth in arranging stock offerings in
the region, and 14th on mergers and acquisitions, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth in South Africa is set to outpace that in the U.S.
in 2011, according to the International Monetary Fund’s World
Economic Outlook, published in October. Sub-Saharan African
economies may expand by 5.5 percent next year, compared with
2.3 percent growth in the U.S., according to the IMF.  The lender, which has slipped down the rankings for equity
offerings, is “committed” to growing its businesses in Africa,
according to  John Coulter , chief executive officer of JPMorgan’s
Johannesburg-based sub-Saharan Africa unit. Coulter, 49, who
left the company in 2005, returned last year and said in an
interview on Nov. 10 he wants JPMorgan to be in a “top-tier
position in any business” it pursues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  