-- Obama's Health-Care Reform Law Survives Challenge by Christian College
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-12-01T05:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/judge-in-virginia-rejects-university-challenge-to-u-s-health-care-reform.html
The Obama administration’s health-
care overhaul survived a federal court challenge in Virginia by
a Christian college.  The suit, brought by Liberty University and five
individuals, claimed the health-care reform law didn’t protect
against mandatory insurance payments being used to fund abortion
coverage. Their claim that the law is unconstitutional was
rejected yesterday by a judge in Lynchburg.  “Plaintiffs fail to allege how any payments required under
the act, whether fines, fees, taxes, or the cost of the policy,
would be used to fund abortion,” U.S. District Judge  Norman Moon  wrote in his ruling. “The challenged provisions of the act
are well within Congress’s authority under the Commerce Clause”
of the U.S. Constitution, he said in a 54-page decision.  The case is one of several challenges to the health-care
act, including a lawsuit filed in Florida federal court by 20
states. A separate action filed by Virginia Attorney General
 Kenneth Cuccinelli  is before a federal judge in Richmond.  A federal judge in Michigan upheld the constitutionality of
the health-care overhaul in October, rejecting an argument by a
self-described Christian law center in the first court victory
for the new law.  U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in Pensacola, Florida, in
October ruled that the 20-state challenge could go forward after
finding that the U.S. government’s expansion of power is
“simply without prior precedent.” He is scheduled to hear
further argument on Dec. 16.  ‘We Are Confident’  “In the weeks ahead there will be additional court cases
examining this matter and the health reform law,”  Stephanie Cutter , assistant to Obama for special projects, said yesterday
in a  blog  posted on the White House website. “We can’t predict
the outcome of each case, but we are confident that we will
ultimately prevail in court.”  Liberty University and the other plaintiffs will appeal,
their attorney,  Mathew D. Staver , said in telephone interview.
“This is only a bump in the road.”  “I am confident that the federal health-care law will
eventually be struck down on appeal because it is
unconstitutional,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “Congress
does not have the authority to force every American to purchase
a particular kind of health insurance product.”  Freedom of Religion  Liberty University, which is located in Lynchburg, and the
other plaintiffs sued in March, alleging that provisions of the
act violated their rights of freedom of religion, association
and equal protection, citing requirements for purchasing health
insurance by individuals or providing such benefits by
employers.  The law violates the Constitution because it “mandates
that plaintiffs and other individuals and employers participate
in interstate commerce by purchasing health insurance coverage
for themselves and/or their employees without regard for
financial, economic, social, religious or cultural
considerations,” Liberty University said in its complaint.  “The individual coverage requirement is a valid exercise
of federal power,” Moon said yesterday. Requiring employers to
offer a minimum level of health insurance is similar to laws
mandating a minimum wage, he said.  “The judge’s ruling today only underscores the importance
of the law’s individual responsibility provision,” Cutter said
yesterday. “In order to make health care affordable and
available for all, the Act regulates how to pay for medical
services.”  The case is Liberty University v. Geithner, 6:10-cv-00015,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Virginia (Lynchburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 