-- Kenya Economy Likely to Meet 5% Growth Target in 2010, Central Bank Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-30T12:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/kenya-economy-likely-to-meet-5-growth-target-in-2010-central-bank-says.html
Kenya’s economy will probably
achieve the central bank’s growth target of between 4.5 percent
and 5 percent this year, the regulator said, prompting it to
“re-evaluate its monetary program.”  “There is evidence and expectation that the growth target
for 2010 will be achieved,” the Nairobi-based Central Bank of
Kenya said in an e-mailed statement today, citing economic
indicators and forecasts from local banks and companies.  The release of third-quarter growth statistics at the end
of December will probably show the economy is expanding at a
faster pace, triggering a rethink of monetary policy, the bank
said. Policy makers will review targets for money supply,
credit, foreign currency reserves and inflation, where the goal
is currently 5 percent, the bank said.  The  Monetary Policy Committee  left the benchmark lending
rate at 6 percent for the second consecutive meeting on Nov. 25,
following reductions of 2.5 percentage points since March 2009.  Kenya’s power and cement consumption each rose by 20
percent in the 12 months through September compared with a year
earlier, the central bank said. Tea production by the world’s
largest producer of the black variety of the leaves gained 5.3
percent, it said.  Optimism  Kenyan commercial lenders and businesses are increasingly
optimistic about the country’s economic prospects. More than
four-fifths of those surveyed said the economy will expand 5
percent or more this year, the central bank said.  Gross domestic product will grow 5 percent this year and 6
percent in 2011, up from 2.6 percent in 2009, President  Mwai Kibaki  said last month. Expansion was 5.4 percent in the second
quarter, compared with 4.8 percent in the previous three months,
the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said Sept. 30.  Kenya’s improved economic outlook was one of the reasons
Standard & Poor’s raised the country’s credit rating on Nov. 19
by one step to B+, four levels below investment grade.  The upgrade, faster economic growth and low global interest
rates make now a good time for the government to sell bonds
overseas, central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u told reporters
today.  Kenya has been mulling the best time to sell bonds abroad
since the sale of $500 million in Eurobonds planned for 2008 was
postponed due to the global financial crisis.  Before entering “the international capital markets, you
want to make sure your risk rating is low. That’s what
happened,” Ndung’u said.  The central bank will continue to increase reserves through
the purchase of foreign exchange, without trying to influence
the exchange rate, according to the central bank statement.  The shilling was little changed when the central bank
temporarily withdrew from the foreign exchange market between
Sept. 13 and Nov. 8, indicating the central bank hasn’t
influenced the local currency, Ndung’u said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 Smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 