-- Kenya Inflation Rate Rises for First Time in 4 Months
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-30T15:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/kenyan-inflation-rate-rises-to-3-8-percent-first-increase-in-four-months.html
Kenya’s inflation rate rose for the
first time in four months in November as economic growth picked
up, while a good harvest restrained food costs.  Inflation accelerated to 3.8 percent from a revised 3.2
percent a month earlier, the Nairobi-based  Kenya National Bureau
of Statistics  said on its website today. The government targets
inflation of 5 percent. Prices in the month rose 0.8 percent,
the agency said.  “We didn’t expect such a big jump but it’s still within
target,” James Mose, a research analyst with Stanbic Financial
Services, said by phone today from the Kenyan capital, Nairobi.
“With gasoline prices coming down, we expect inflation to hover
between 3 percent and 4 percent in the next few months.”  The  Central Bank of Kenya’s  monetary policy committee left
the  key lending rate  unchanged at 6 percent for the second
consecutive meeting on Nov. 25, following six cuts totaling 2.5
percentage points since March 2009. Previous reductions, aimed
at persuading commercial lenders to lower the cost of credit and
spurring economic growth amid the global financial crisis,
haven’t stoked inflation.  The rate of price growth only surpassed the government’s 5
percent target in one month this year, reaching 5.2 percent in
February. Inflation is at an “appropriate” level, the central
bank said on Nov. 25.  Gasoline prices have risen by as much as 12 percent over
the last two months,  David Ohana , general manager of Kenol
Kobil, a Kenyan fuel retailer, said on Nov. 24. Kenol last week
lowered prices to between 98 and 99 shillings a liter from as
much as 104 shillings, Ohana said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 