-- Kenyan Prime Minister Odinga Backs ICC Probe Into Post-Election Violence
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-30T14:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/kenya-s-odinga-backs-cooperation-with-icc-probe-update1-.html
Kenya has “no option” other than
to cooperate fully with the International Criminal Court’s probe
into post-election violence almost three years ago that left
1,500 people dead, Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  said.  Attempts to set up local courts to try perpetrators of the
violence, sparked by a disputed presidential election in 2007,
failed after members of parliament voted against proposed
legislation, Odinga said today in a meeting with U.S. Under
Secretary of State for Democracy and Global Affairs  Maria Otero 
in Nairobi, Kenya’s capital, according to an e-mailed statement
from the premier’s office.  “We tried to set up a local tribunal, but members of
parliament rejected it,” Odinga said, according to the
statement. “That is how the envelope ended up with The Hague
and we have no option but to cooperate with the ICC process.”  Luis Moreno-Ocampo , the Hague-based  court ’s chief
prosecutor, said he plans to present charges next month against
as many as six Kenyans who allegedly instigated the clashes.  Two months of fighting stopped after President  Mwai Kibaki 
created a coalition government with Odinga, the then-opposition
leader.  Former United Nations Secretary-General  Kofi Annan , who
helped mediate Kenya’s power-sharing agreement, gave the ICC a
secret list with the names of alleged ringleaders in addition to
boxes of evidence in July last year.  The government still plans to set up a domestic tribunal to
try suspects, Odinga said. Changes to Kenya’s courts and the
attorney general’s office, promised in a new constitution
enacted in August, will help “win the confidence of the people
of Kenya and the international community and handle suspects,”
according to the statement.  Kenya is a signatory to the Rome Statute that created the
global war crimes court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ù  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 