-- Namibia Wants Tullow to Fast-Track Gas Power Project
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-30T14:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/namibian-regulator-wants-new-800-mw-power-plant-fast-tracked-.html
Namibia’s electricity regulator said
it wants Gazprom OAO and  Tullow Oil Plc  to fast-track plans to
build a new 800-megawatt power plant that will run off gas from
the offshore Kudu field.  “We are going to have problems” with electricity
shortages by 2013, when power imports from Zimbabwe, Zambia and
the Democratic of Congo start petering out, Siseho Simasiku,
chief executive officer of Namibia’s Electricity Control Board,
said in an interview in Cape Town today. Namibia would like a
decision on the new plant to be taken “yesterday.”  Gazprom , Russia’s state-owned natural gas export monopoly,
and Tullow, the U.K. explorer focusing on Africa, are working on
development plans for the Kudu field with Namcor, Namibia’s
state-owned oil company, and Japan’s Itochu Corp. The field
holds about 1 trillion cubic feet of gas resources.  In a Nov. 3 interview in Cape Town,  Boris Ivanov , head of
the Russian company’s global exploration and production unit
Gazprom EP International BV said an investment decision on the
project will be taken within 12 months. Tullow’s Vice President
 Tim O’Hanlon  said that same day that front-end engineering and
design studies for the gas-field project will be done next year.  Namcor currently “has no money to contribute” to the
project, said Simasiku, who is also the oil company’s chairman.
“We are looking to be carried.”  Namibia generates most of its power from the Ruacana
hydropower plant and the coal-fired Paratus and Von Eck power
stations.  If the new gas-fired plant goes ahead it will probably be
built near the southern coastal town of Oranjemund and cost
about $700 million, while about $500 million more will be needed
for related infrastructure, Simasiku said. Namibia will be able
to utilize a maximum of 500 megawatts of the plant’s output,
while the balance can be exported to South Africa, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 