-- Naspers of South Africa Says Increasing TV Investment May Hurt Profit
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-30T15:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/naspers-says-increasing-tv-investment-may-hurt-profit-update1-.html
Naspers Ltd. , Africa’s largest media
company, said second-half profit may be hurt by higher costs for
sports content and more investment in its MultiChoice pay-
television unit, the most profitable division.  Development spending will accelerate, the company said in a
 presentation  on its website. First-half development costs in the
six months through September rose 31 percent from a year earlier
to 631 million rand ($88 million).  Naspers ’s pay-TV offers,
serving about 50 African countries, added 498,000 new customers,
largely because of the soccer World Cup in June.  This “accelerated” subscriber growth will “normalize,”
and investment in new technologies and services will position
the pay-TV business for the future, Cape Town-based  Naspers 
said. First-half development costs for pay TV climbed to 241
million rand from 113 million rand, as the company invested in
mobile and broadband technology.  “We are integrating the Internet component into the pay-TV
world,” Chief Executive Officer  Koos Bekker  said in telephone
interview today. “So when you are sitting in a hotel room and
you want to watch something on your laptop we would like to give
it to you. If you want to see something on your cell phone, we
would like to develop that.”  A more integrated offering will start year, Bekker said.  Naspers fell  3 percent to close at 354 rand in
Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of 143.7 billion
rand. The stock has risen 18 percent this year.  Soccer Costs  “They are gearing up the content, particularly in Africa,
and there is some cost that will be coming through” related to
payments for rights to show English Premier League soccer,  Kevin Mattison , an  analyst  at Avior Research, said in a phone
interview from Johannesburg today. Naspers needs to appeal to
new viewers to counter increased competition in Africa,
particularly Nigeria, he said. Mattison rates the stock “buy.”  MultiChoice’s SuperSport channel is the largest sponsor of
sport in Africa, CEO Bekker said. It funds five football
leagues, and the largest is in Nigeria, where there is also the
greatest competition, he said. “Sport is quite expensive and as
the competition intensifies the cost increases,” he said.  The increase in subscribers during the first half was
“exceptional,” because of the World Cup, held in June in South
Africa, Naspers said. “Competition is gaining some traction and
regulations are increasing,” it said. Naspers is still seeing
subscriber grow in the next months.  Earnings Increase  First-half core headline earnings rose 33 percent on
Internet business in China and growth in African pay-TV
subscribers.  Core headline earnings, which exclude one-time items,
climbed to 3.2 billion rand from 2.4 billion rand a year
earlier. Sales rose 18 percent to 15.8 billion rand, as revenue
from pay TV advanced 20 percent to 10.2 billion rand.  Development expenditure for the Internet business advanced
to 315 million rand from 203 million rand.  The company spent 4.57 billion rand on acquisitions in the
six months through September, mostly for Internet businesses as
part of a strategy to own platforms for socializing and
shopping. The focus for the Internet business is on “medium- to
long-term returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  