-- Need for QE2 Seen in Pausing Electronics Manufacturing Services
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2010-11-30T02:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/need-for-qe2-seen-as-u-s-electronic-firms-signal-weak-business-spening.html
In the week before the Federal
Reserve announced its $600 billion program to help spur the U.S.
recovery, three makers of electronic equipment for companies
such as  Cisco Systems Inc.  announced that demand for their
products was weakening.  “Our customer forecasts are more uncertain,”  Jure Sola ,
chief executive officer of San Jose, California-based Sanmina-
SCI Corp., said on a Nov. 1 conference call. Some clients “have
a lot of inventory in the pipeline” and “are worried about the
economy.”  Policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited the
deceleration in business spending on equipment and software when
they announced Nov. 3 that the Fed would purchase Treasuries in
a second round of quantitative easing to prevent inflation from
falling further and help bring down unemployment, which has
remained  above 9 percent  since May 2009. While investment in
this sector of the economy helped the U.S. emerge from the worst
downturn since the 1930s, the Fed’s gauge of industrial
production by high-tech companies expanded 10 percent in
October, half the pace of the 20 percent increase in April.  “Telecom, and networking in particular, has been very
strong, and what you’re seeing now is that there’s a pause,”
said  Sherri Scribner , a research analyst at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in New York. While contract manufacturers
typically “have very good visibility into the quarter ahead,”
now, “almost across the board” they are being “a bit more
cautious.”  New Bloomberg Index  The new Bloomberg  U.S. Electronics Manufacturing Services
Index , which comprises 14 companies including Sanmina-SCI and
St. Petersburg, Florida-based Jabil Circuit Inc., jumped 91
percent from June 2009, when the recession ended, through April
2010 and has since declined 9 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index climbed 29 percent before rising another 0.1 percent in
the same periods.  “Capital spending is very important to sustaining a
moderate recovery overall,” said  Ethan Harris , head of
developed-markets economic research in New York at BofA Merrill
Lynch Global Research. “QE2 provides a small lift to capital
spending, but it’s a very small stimulus.”  Scribner lists  Sanmina-SCI , Jabil,  Benchmark Electronics
Inc.  in Angleton, Texas, and  Plexus Corp.  in Neenah, Wisconsin,
as holds.  “I think what’s important about this quarter is that
everyone commented on a slowdown,” she said. “Expectations may
have been that things would continue to be strong, but we’re
seeing a bit of pullback.”  Equipment Investment  Manufacturing spearheaded the U.S. recovery, which began in
July 2009 after an  18-month recession . Central to that
transition, and the subsequent expansion, was investment in
business equipment and software. This component of gross
domestic product grew at a 17 percent annual pace in the third
quarter, compared with 25 percent in April through June,
according to Commerce Department figures released Nov. 23.  Spending “is rising, though less rapidly than earlier in
the year,” Fed policy makers said in a Nov. 3 statement at the
conclusion of their two-day meeting in Washington.  Orders for U.S. goods meant to last at least three years
unexpectedly decreased 3.3 percent in October, according to a
Nov. 24 report from the Commerce Department, raising the risk
that companies will scale back on investments in new equipment.  Demand for computers and electronics plunged 7.7 percent,
the first decline since July and the biggest one-month drop
since December 2008, when the central bank lowered its target
rate on overnight loans among banks to  near zero  for the first
time. The Fed has yet to raise rates.  Rise in Imports  “After a very strong increase in the first half of the
year, business investment in equipment and software posted a
smaller, but still solid, gain in the third quarter,” the Fed’s
Open Market Committee said in minutes of the November 2-3
meeting released last week. “But rising demand for equipment
and software during the third quarter was also satisfied in part
by a further rise in imports of capital goods.”  The central bank also cited “constrained” consumer
spending, “weak” investment in commercial construction and
“depressed” levels of new-home construction in the FOMC
statement as reasons for purchasing Treasuries.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual pace in July
through September, after expanding 5 percent in the last three
months of 2009, according to the Commerce Department.
Construction of new homes in October  fell  to a 519,000 annual
rate, the fewest since a record low of 477,000 in April 2009,
and the unemployment rate held at  9.6 percent .  ‘Moderating, Decelerating’  Amitabh Passi , an analyst at UBS Securities LLC in San
Francisco, sees “moderating, decelerating year-over-year
growth” in the next three quarters for makers of electronic
equipment such as Jabil and Singapore-based  Flextronics
International Ltd.  Even so, he rates the two companies as buys
because “the biggest potential is with respect to margin
expansion.”  Recent news from Cisco and  International Business Machines
Corp.  shows how high-tech companies are weighing on
manufacturers. San Jose, California-based Cisco said this month
that revenue in the quarter ending Jan. 29, 2011, will be about
$10.1 billion to $10.3 billion; earnings, excluding some costs,
will be, at most, 35 cents a share. Analysts projected sales of
$11.1 billion and profit of 42 cents on average, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Fewer Contracts  Services signings at IBM declined 7 percent to $11 billion
in the third quarter, the third consecutive quarterly decline in
new contracts, the Armonk, New York-based company said in an
Oct. 18 statement. Investors focus on the service business
because it accounts for almost 60 percent of IBM’s annual sales
and more than 40 percent of its profit.  At the same time, some of Cisco and IBM’s peers have
boosted their profit projections.  Hewlett-Packard Co. , the
world’s largest computer maker, forecast first-quarter earnings
that exceeded analysts’ estimates on Nov. 22 as some
corporations step up purchases of personal computers, printers,
servers and networking gear.  The Palo Alto, California-based company said sales will be
$32.8 billion to $33 billion in the quarter ending in January.
Analysts had estimated $32.8 billion in revenue, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Makers of electronic equipment “should be able to generate
better revenue growth than what we’ll see in broader tech, even
though broader tech for 2011 might be at a modest level
overall,” said  Sean Hannan , an analyst at Needham & Co. in
Boston, who lists  Jabil  and  Plexus  as strong buys. These
companies “are kind of uniquely positioned right now. They
don’t have to depend on robust GDP or organic growth in the
underlying markets as long as some level growth exists.”  Revenue Guidance  That hasn’t stopped several of these companies from saying
customer orders are softening. Sanmina-SCI gave revenue guidance
on Nov. 1 between $1.625 billion and $1.675 billion for the
current quarter, below the consensus estimate of $1.71 billion.
Benchmark on Oct. 26 said sales for the fourth quarter would be
between $590 million and $630 million, compared with analysts’
estimates of $642 million.  “We saw a really broad-based decline in the demand from
our customers except for one,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Cary T. Fu  said on a conference call last month.  Plexus’s President and Chief Executive Officer  Dean Foate 
also talked about weakness in demand on an Oct. 28 conference
call: “Looking ahead to Q1, we currently expect our
Wireline/Networking sector to grow in the mid-single digit
percentage range, although the performance among the top 10
customers is a mixed bag of ups and downs.”  Reduced Projections  Jabil cut its revenue projections in September for the
first time since the recovery began, citing fewer orders for
communications equipment. Three months earlier the company
boosted its forecast on stronger demand.  Looking ahead to 2011 and beyond, Jabil is optimistic about
opportunities for growth, particularly outside the U.S.  “We’re actually pretty bullish about our prospects over
the next several years,” Chief Executive Officer  Timothy Main 
said in a telephone interview. Worldwide GDP is “outstanding
and gives us more than enough headroom to allow us to grow our
business aggressively. We’ll be able to capitalize on the global
trends and then growth in emerging economies to supplement the
growth that we have in North America and Europe.”  That outlook is too positive, Passi said.  “I’ve taken a more conservative approach,” modeling
Jabil’s and Flextronics’s revenue “generally in line with a lot
of the tech” companies such as Cisco and IBM, the USB
Securities analyst said.  Sanmina-SCI said its growth is slowing, particularly as the
U.S. economy lags behind emerging markets in Asia.  “We are moving into a position where we’ll be in more of
an equilibrium” in the next few months, Chief Financial Officer
 Robert Eulau  said in a telephone interview. “It’s a little too
early to say what the impact of the Fed’s actions are going to
be. I think our growth will moderate a bit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net 
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  