-- New Jersey Turnpike Seeks International Buyers for $1.5 Billion Bond Offer
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-30T20:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/new-jersey-turnpike-seeks-international-buyers-for-1-5-billion-bond-offer.html
The  New Jersey Turnpike Authority  is
attempting its first global debt-marketing campaign for its $1.5
billion Build America Bond sale on Dec. 6, as it hopes to
attract international buyers for the U.S.-subsidized securities.  Preliminary offering documents for the taxable bonds have
14 pages of special instructions for potential investors in 21
countries, including France, China and Australia. None of those
foreign disclosures were included in the authority’s only other
issuance of Build America Bonds, in April 2009.  The authority is issuing the debt to help fund a $7 billion
capital-improvement program that includes widening portions of
the 122-mile (196-kilometer) New Jersey Turnpike and 173-mile
Garden State Parkway in the most densely populated U.S. state.
It joins borrowers including Illinois and New York City that
have courted non-U.S. buyers for Build America Bonds, which were
created last year as part of President  Barack Obama ’s economic-
stimulus program to finance public-works projects.  “They have seen increasing appetite for these bonds from
foreign investors because they are taxable,” William Quinn, a
spokesman for the state Treasury Department, said in a telephone
interview today. “It’s more sort of response to the interest
they are getting; it’s not so much a marketing campaign to drum
up new buyers.”  Nobody from New Jersey’s treasury department will travel
overseas to meet with potential investors, though state
officials will participate in conference calls, said Tom Feeney,
a spokesman for the Turnpike Authority.  $170 Billion  Citigroup  Inc., co-senior manager of the deal, is leading
the overseas marketing, according to Feeney.  Alexander Samuelson , a spokesman for Citigroup in New York, didn’t
immediately have a comment when reached by telephone today.  States and local governments save money issuing Build
America Bonds because the federal government rebates 35 percent
of the interest costs to the borrower, reducing the net cost.
Almost $170 billion of the bonds have been sold since the first
issue in April 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Because they are taxable, the  yields  on Build America Bonds
are higher than traditional tax-free municipal bonds, making
them more appealing to foreign buyers who don’t benefit from tax
exemption in the U.S.  International holdings of U.S. municipal debt rose to $83
billion at the end of June, from $50 billion in the first
quarter of 2009, according to  Federal Reserve  data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  