-- New York City Subway Bomb-Plotter Zazi's Father Indicted on New Charges
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-11-30T17:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/new-york-city-subway-bomb-plotter-zazi-s-father-indicted-on-new-charges.html
Mohammed Wali Zazi, whose son
pleaded guilty in connection with a plot to bomb the New York
subways, was indicted on additional charges by a U.S. grand
jury.  Zazi, 54, a native of Afghanistan who lives in the Denver
area, now faces charges, including conspiracy to obstruct
justice, witness tampering, material false statements and three
counts of obstruction of justice, according to the indictment
filed today in U.S. District Court in Brooklyn, New York.  He was charged initially in September 2009 with lying to
investigators and indicted in February on counts of conspiring
to obstruct a federal grand jury probe into terrorism.
Prosecutors alleged that he destroyed or hid evidence into the
probe of his son and lied to agents looking into the subway
plot.  His son, Najibullah Zazi, 25, pleaded guilty in February to
supporting al-Qaeda and conspiring to use a weapon of mass
destruction in a plot to detonate bombs on New York subways
around the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
He faces as long as life in prison.  The elder Zazi has pleaded not guilty to all counts against
him as of February and is free on a $50,000 bond. His next court
appearance is scheduled for Dec. 9 before U.S. District Judge
 Raymond Dearie .  Zazi faces as much as 116 years in prison if convicted of
all charges. His attorney, Deborah Colson of New York, didn’t
immediately return a call left on her voice-mail.  A co-conspirator, Zarien Ahmedzay, pleaded guilty in April
to related charges, while another man, Adis Medunjanin, pleaded
not guilty in August to participating in the foiled plot.  The case is U.S. v. Zazi, 1:10-cr-00060, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 