-- Newark Will Dismiss 167 Police Officers to Narrow Budget Gap, Booker Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-30T03:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/newark-will-fire-167-police-officers-to-narrow-budget-gap-booker-says.html
Newark  Mayor  Cory Booker  said New
Jersey’s biggest city will fire 167 police officers to help
close a budget deficit caused by a drop in state aid and revenue
declines stemming from the recession.  The cuts will begin with the shift starting at midnight New
York time and extend through tomorrow afternoon, Esmeralda
Cameron, Booker’s spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  “These are trying times, but Newark will push forward with
strength as it always has, and will continue setting the
national standard for improvements and innovations in public
safety,” Booker, 41, said late today in a statement.  The mayor said negotiations with the police union will
continue and if concessions are made some of the fired officers
may get their jobs back. Leaders of the Newark Fraternal  Order 
of Police refused to let the union’s members vote on a $9.5
million set of cost-saving steps the city proposed, Booker said.  Rising pension costs, a 23 percent cut in state aid since
2009 and the lingering effects of the recession combined to open
an $83 million hole in the city’s budget. Booker said changes
such as redeploying some officers, 911 upgrades and changing
shifts will maintain the city’s police presence on the streets.  The cuts will force the city to put senior detectives on
street patrol in order to maintain that presence, said Walter
Melvin, vice president of the union representing more than 1,000
officers.  During the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday weekend, six shootings
and five carjackings were reported in the city, Melvin said. One
shooting incident today also included the burning of the
victim’s car, he said.  “The criminal element out there realized this and believed
it had already happened,” he said in a telephone interview
following Booker’s announcement. “It’s a fallacy to think
public safety is not going to be an issue here. Any thinking,
logical person can see that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 