-- Newark Firing 167 Cops as New Jersey Cities Cut Costs Amid Budget Turmoil
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-30T19:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/newark-firing-167-cops-as-new-jersey-cities-cut-costs-amid-budget-turmoil.html
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  began
firing 15 percent of his police department today, illustrating
the actions that cities in the second-wealthiest U.S.  state  are
being forced to take to confront lower aid and tax revenue.  The 167 dismissals in Newark, New Jersey’s largest city,
come as Camden Mayor  Dana Redd  won approval to cut the police
force by almost half, eight days after  CQ Press  rated her town
the second most-dangerous U.S. city. Paterson, New Jersey’s
third most-populous city, may boost the property-tax bill on a
typical home to $6,819 from $3,896, according to information
filed with the state’s Division of Local Government Services.  Those municipalities, along with more affluent communities
such as Howell in Monmouth County and Montclair in Essex County,
are cutting jobs, raising taxes and reducing services such as
libraries and pools after Governor  Chris Christie  cut state aid
by $446 million, and property owners won millions of dollars in
tax appeals on declining property values.  “I inherited a leaking bag here,” said Joseph Menza, 50,
part-time mayor of  Hillside Township , who faces a court battle
with unions challenging his plan to fire 50 of 330 workers in
the community of about 22,000 adjacent to Newark. “We’re not
going to make June, that’s pretty apparent. We’re going to run
out of money. We don’t collect it as fast as we spend it.”  Ratings Cuts  New Jersey’s local budget constraints have sparked concern
at Moody’s Investor’s Service, which has cut credit ratings on
12 New Jersey cities since Aug. 31.  Cities downgraded by Moody’s include the state capital of
Trenton; the Bergen County community of Wood-Ridge, whose mayor,
Democratic state Senator  Paul Sarlo , is chairman of the Senate
Budget and Appropriations Committee; and Seaside Heights, the
home base of MTV’s reality television show  “Jersey Shore.”   A Nov. 24 Moody’s report on its decision to downgrade the
general-obligation bond rating for New Brunswick, the home of
Rutgers University, to A2 from A1, cited a declining fund
balance, fixed costs for employee pensions and benefits, and
this year’s $2.5 million state aid cut.  New Jersey municipal finances also have been affected by
caps lawmakers have imposed on local tax-raising since 2008. The
original 4 percent limit on annual property-tax increases will
drop to 2 percent Jan. 1, under a measure Christie and the
Democratic-controlled state Legislature approved in July.  “It constrains revenue-raising capability,”  Josellyn Yousef , director of New Jersey city ratings at New York-based
Moody’s, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  No Choice  Cities such as Newark and Camden have no choice but to cut
personnel costs, which make up the majority of their budgets,
officials including Menza say. In Hillside, staff costs account
for 70 percent of spending, he said.  Paterson, the city where  Alexander Hamilton  is credited
with founding modern manufacturing, proposes to raise the local
tax rate to $1.90 per $100 of assessed property value from
$1.20, and to make government workers take 10 days off without
pay to address a $70 million gap in the $251 million budget for
the year that ends June 30.  The city of about 150,000 has refunded $6.6 million in
successful tax appeals since 2009, and faces the potential of
$10 million more in appeals losses, according to its application
for special state aid.  “We’re trying to figure out what to do,” said Russell
Forenza, Paterson’s budget officer.  Union Talks  Newark has eliminated more than 400 positions in the past
month, Julien Neals, the city’s acting business administrator,
said today at a press conference. His office is in “last-minute
talks” with union leaders to avert 150 of 400 planned firings
in various city departments scheduled to take place today, he
said after the press conference.  “You’re talking about a massive restructuring of our
city’s government and a massive shrinking of it,” Booker told
reporters today in his City Hall office. “We’ve passed as
little burden as possible onto our taxpayers.”  Alonso Vineeza, 33, turned in his gun and badge today after
having walked a foot patrol in high-crime areas since graduating
from police academy in March. He said he’ll “regroup” in
coming days and look for other police jobs. Booker and his
administration, the police union and economic factors are all to
blame for the terminations, Vineeza said.  ‘Many Villains’  “There’s many villains in this story and basically it’s up
to you to choose which caused more collateral damage,” said
Vineeza, a former state child-abuse investigator and father of
two who’s confiscated illegal guns and responded to robberies.  “Without a doubt crime will go up,” he said in an
interview. “I live in the city of Newark. We need more cops,
yet they laid off 167. It’s not feasible.”  In Camden, where about a third of residents live under the
federal poverty level, according to U.S. Census data, pension
payments on behalf of police, firefighters and city workers will
total $17 million next year, almost as much as the $21 million
the city expects to raise through property taxes.  Police cutbacks at the level the mayor has proposed “will
be the kiss of death,” John Williamson, president of the Camden
Fraternal Order of Police Lodge, said in a telephone interview.
“At this point we’re in the position where we’re certainly not
controlling crime, we’re just managing crime,” he said.  Camden won approval today from the state Civil Service
Commission to fire 180 of 373 police officers on Jan. 18.  Marc Riondino , city attorney, said the plan won’t jeopardize safety.  “Trash will still be picked up, firehouses will remain
open and we’re still going to adequately patrol the streets of
Camden,” he said. “It all comes down to refocusing our
priorities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net ;
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  