-- Newark Will `Push Forward' With Fewer Police Officers, Mayor Booker Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/newark-n-j-will-push-forward-with-fewer-police-mayor-booker-says.html
Newark  Mayor  Cory Booker  said his
decision to fire 167 police officers won’t hurt response times
or reduce the number of patrols in New Jersey’s largest city, as
he copes with the lingering effects of the U.S. recession.  The cuts were set to begin at midnight New York time and to
extend through today, Esmeralda Cameron, Booker’s spokeswoman,
said late yesterday by e-mail. In a statement, Booker said the
city would take steps to minimize adverse effects and maintain
the police presence on the street.  “These are trying times, but Newark will push forward with
strength as it always has, and will continue setting the
national standard for improvements and innovations in public
safety,” Booker, 41, said in the statement. Rising pension
costs and a 23 percent cut in state aid since 2009 combined with
the recession to open an $83 million hole in the city’s budget.  The mayor said negotiations with the police union will
continue and if concessions are made some of the fired officers
may get their jobs back. Leaders of the  Newark Fraternal Order
of Police  refused to let the union’s members vote on a $9.5
million set of cost-saving steps the city proposed, Booker said.  “While it is too late to avoid these layoffs, the door is
not closed to further negotiation, which we hope might result in
the rehiring of some or all of these dedicated officers,” the
mayor said. After the cuts, he said the city would improve
response times by overhauling its 911 system, reorganizing the
department, increasing partnerships with federal agencies,
adding crime-fighting technology and changing work shifts.  Forced Redeployments  The dismissals will force the city to put senior detectives
on street patrol in order to maintain the force’s presence, said
Walter Melvin, vice president of the union representing more
than 1,000 Newark officers.  During the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday weekend, six shootings
and five carjackings were reported in the city, Melvin said. One
shooting incident yesterday also included the burning of the
victim’s car, he said.  “The criminal element out there realized this and believed
it had already happened,” he said in a telephone interview
following Booker’s announcement. “It’s a fallacy to think
public safety is not going to be an issue here. Any thinking,
logical person can see that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 