-- NFL Will Issue Ticket Refunds in 2011 If Industry Lockout Cancels Games
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-30T19:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/nfl-will-issue-ticket-refunds-in-2011-if-industry-lockout-cancels-games.html
The National Football League said it
will issue ticket refunds or future credit for any preseason or
regular-season games canceled because of a work stoppage in
2011.  The NFL announced its policy, which applies to all general-
admission seats, in an e-mailed statement. Individual teams will
determine their own policies for club seats, suites and payments
for personal seat licenses.  “We all want football without interruption, but our fans
are entitled to know now that they would receive refunds if any
games are canceled,” NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said in the
statement.  The NFL said it announced the refund policy today because
teams will be sending information to season-ticket holders “in
the coming weeks” about the opportunity to purchase tickets for
2011.  Full refunds will be offered for all preseason and regular-
season home games, in the event of a work stoppage.  Those fans with full- and partial-season ticket plans have
the option to get refunds or a credit toward future games, the
NFL said.  Fans purchasing individual-game tickets can get their money
back or exchange the seat for a future game, as determined by
the club and subject to availability.  Interest Question  NFL spokesman  Brian McCarthy  said it’s up to individual
teams whether they would return interest on the money that
ticket holders pay in advance.  NFL owners voted unanimously in May 2008 to opt out of
their labor contract with the players at the end of this season
-- two years early. The players were satisfied with the
agreement and wanted to complete the contract.  The 32-team league says NFL stadiums are getting more
expensive to build and operate, and has asked the players to
reduce the pool of money used to calculate their salaries by $1
billion, according to the players. The  NFL Players Association 
has asked the league to prove it needs the money by opening its
books. The NFL has declined the request.  NFLPA executive director DeMaurice Smith said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on Nov. 26 that a lockout next
season is a “near certainty.”  Negotiations on a labor deal also include the amount of
money paid to rookies, extending the 16-game regular season by
two games, health coverage and drug-testing requirements,
according to the union.  “We are working hard to secure an agreement with the union
that is fair and forward-thinking to ensure our game is sound
and strong well into the future,” Goodell said. “We know we
will reach an agreement at some point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  