-- Nobel Laureate Diamond Says He's Willing to Try for Fed Appointment Again
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-30T20:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/nobel-laureate-diamond-says-he-s-willing-to-try-for-fed-appointment-again.html
Peter Diamond , the Nobel laureate
economist nominated for the Federal Reserve Board, said he’d go
along with a potential retry by the White House next year to
appoint him to the central bank.  The Obama administration would have to decide on nominating
Diamond, 70, in 2011 if the Senate fails to confirm him in a
lame-duck session ending next month. Asked in an interview in
Washington today if he would accept renomination next year,
Diamond said, “Yes.” The Senate would then have until the end
of 2012 to confirm Diamond.  Diamond’s nomination has been held up by Senate Republicans
and was returned in August to the White House, which nominated
him again in September. Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby , the
senior Republican on the Banking Committee, has questioned
Diamond’s qualifications on monetary policy and said his
nomination violates a law that no two Fed governors can be from
the same geographic region.  The White House designated Diamond as being from the
Chicago Fed district to comply with the law. In the interview,
Diamond, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology since 1966, defended his professional connections to
the region, saying it was sufficient for the provision.  Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a
Connecticut Democrat, said Nov. 16 that several Fed appointees
over the past decade, including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , may
have been disqualified if the law had been “rigidly applied”
to their nominations and that Congress didn’t intend the Fed law
to be a residency requirement.  ‘Enough of a Connection’  “Certainly, compared to the examples that Senator Dodd was
citing from past appointments, I have enough of a connection to
satisfy what the lawyers say is called for,” Diamond said after
a panel discussion at Sweden’s embassy with  Dale Mortensen , who
shared the Nobel in October with Diamond and  Christopher Pissarides .  He cited teaching for one quarter at Northwestern
University in Evanston, Illinois; seminars at Northwestern and
the University of Chicago and other visits for a few days apiece
at schools located in the Fed district including the University
of Iowa, Iowa State University, the University of Michigan and
Michigan State University.  Dodd said in a Nov. 19 statement to Bloomberg News that he
will keep working with Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Senate
Republicans to confirm Diamond this year.  ‘Slow’ Return  Earlier today, during the panel discussion, Diamond said he
expects a “slow” return to 5 percent U.S. unemployment, which
was 9.6 percent in October. “What’s going on is that the usual
mechanisms are working but they’re working very slowly perhaps
because we don’t have enough aggregate demand,” Diamond said.  In the interview, he elaborated that the amount of time to
reach that level depends on what the government does and that
more fiscal stimulus would bring down the  jobless rate  more
quickly.  “It’s going to be slow even if they step up the
stimulus,” Diamond said. He declined to say if he would have
voted for the Fed’s $600 billion monetary stimulus Nov. 3 while
also saying that “the quantitative easing is a help, but it
needs fiscal backing.”  “Given the other things happening, it’s not as powerful as
we need,” Diamond said in the interview.  Bush-Era Tax Cuts  Diamond also said during the interview that he supports a
temporary extension of middle-income  Bush-era tax cuts  and
ending the cuts for the highest earners, in line with the Obama
administration’s position. “The amount of stimulus you get out
of the tax cuts on the highest income people is very small,”
Diamond said. “The impact on the long-term debt is big. It’s
not enough bang for the buck.  In response to an audience question during the panel,
Diamond said that if the government were to enact additional
fiscal stimulus, directing it toward small businesses “would be
a good thing to do.” One way would be to make it more
profitable for banks to lend, Diamond said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  