-- North Korea Confirms Uranium Program, Says Facility Has `Peaceful Purpose'
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-11-30T03:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/north-korea-confirms-uranium-program-says-facility-has-peaceful-purpose-.html
North Korea  confirmed  it has a
uranium-enrichment facility with thousands of centrifuges,
further fueling security concerns after its deadly attack on a
South Korean island.  The facility is to provide fuel for a light-water reactor
for the “peaceful purpose of meeting electricity demand,” the
official Korean Central News Agency said today. It was the first
time North Korea acknowledged the program, revealed by Stanford
University professor  Siegfried S. Hecker , who visited the site
on Nov. 12.  The announcement comes as the U.S. and South Korea conduct
naval  drills  off the Korean peninsula’s west coast for a third
day, a move  Kim Jong Il ’s regime said is pushing the region to
the “brink of war.” South Korea yesterday canceled a planned
live-firing exercise on Yeonpyeong, the island in disputed
waters that North Korea shelled last week, killing four people.  The U.S., Japan and South Korea have all urged China to do
more to bring its ally under control. China has so far resisted
blaming North Korea for lobbing dozens of shells onto the
fishing community and military base, blowing windows out of a
school and razing houses. North Korean envoy  Choe Thae Bok , a
member of Kim’s inner circle according to reports in the Korea
Central News Agency, arrived in Beijing today, Yonhap News
reported.  Choe, chairman of the Supreme People’s Assembly, is
visiting at the invitation of his Chinese counterpart  Wu Bangguo ,
according to  Xinhua News Agency .  Emergency Meeting  Wu Dawei , China’s top negotiator for multinational talks
aimed at curbing North Korea’s nuclear program, this week
proposed an “emergency” meeting of the two Koreas, China, the
U.S., Japan and Russia in Beijing next month.  Talks alone won’t suffice, said Nicholas J.C. Snyder, a
spokesman at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. “Clear steps by North
Korea are needed to demonstrate a change of behavior.”  South Korea’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said it
would consider China’s call for talks “very cautiously.”  More than 80 percent of South Koreans said their government
should have displayed a “stronger military response,” according
to a survey by the Seoul-based  Asan Institute  for Policy Studies.
The Nov. 27 telephone poll of 1,000 people aged 19 or older had
a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  yesterday vowed to
make Kim Jong Il’s regime pay for military attacks.  A spokesman for South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff
wouldn’t say why the live-fire exercises won’t go ahead after
they were announced last night. He declined to be named, citing
military policy.  No Approval  The marine unit on Yeonpyeong along the western sea border
announced the drills without approval from higher authorities,
Associated Press reported, citing officials at the Joint Chiefs
of Staff it didn’t identify. North Korea blamed live-fire
exercises into the sea on Nov. 23 for the bombardment it
launched that day.  The western sea border, demarcated by the United Nations
after the Korean War and never accepted by the North, was the
scene of deadly naval skirmishes in 1999 and 2002. U.S. and
South Korean warships, led by the aircraft carrier USS George
Washington and involving more than 7,000 personnel, are
conducting exercises in the Yellow Sea that are south of the
disputed waters.  The South Korean artillery drills will take place at a
later date, Associated Press said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Bomi Lim at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  