-- Novartis Plans to Cut 1,400 Drug Sales Jobs in U.S.; Cost Is $85 Million
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2010-11-30T17:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/novartis-plans-to-cut-1-400-drug-sales-jobs-in-u-s-cost-is-85-million.html
Novartis AG  plans to cut 1,400 sales
jobs in the U.S. as the drugmaker prepares for patent
expirations and product introductions.  The reductions will result in a one-time cost of about $85
million, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a
statement today. The cuts don’t affect the sales forces for
cancer treatments or the Sandoz generic-drug unit, said  Anna Frable , a company spokeswoman.  Novartis Chief Executive Officer  Joseph Jimenez  told
investors this month that the company would review sales and
manufacturing to cut costs. Crosstown rival Roche Holding AG
said this month it would eliminate 4,800 jobs to offset
pressures on drug prices and setbacks in drug development.  “The future growth potential for our organization remains
strong,” said  Andy Wyss , president of Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Corp., the parent’s U.S. unit, in the statement. The reductions
“will enable us to focus our resources on key launch products
and capture opportunities in both primary care and specialty
medicines.”  The drugs sold by the East Hanover, New Jersey-based unit
are changing as patents expire and new products come to market,
according to the statement. The company’s best-selling drug,
Diovan for hypertension, starts to lose U.S. patent protection
in 2012. In September, U.S. regulators approved Gilenya, a
multiple sclerosis pill that the company says may bring in
billions of dollars annually.  Novartis fell 80 centimes, or 1.5 percent, to 53.25 Swiss
francs at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Zurich, giving the
company a market value of 140.5 billion francs ($140.7 billion).
The stock has declined 2.4 percent  this year , including
reinvested dividends, compared with a 6.3 percent return for the
 Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index .  Jimenez,  presenting  the company’s strategy to analysts and
investors on Nov. 17 in London, said cost savings will be
invested in drug development and faster-growing emerging markets
such as China, Russia, Brazil and India.  The company employed about 99,800 people at the end of last
year.  Novartis is testing 142 drugs in human trials, and plans to
have submitted eight experimental drugs for regulatory approval
by the end of this year, the company said on Nov. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Serafino  in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  