-- Obama's Rebound May Turn on Picking a Fight: Michael Waldman
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W a l d m a n
-- 2010-11-30T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/obama-s-rebound-may-turn-on-picking-a-fight-michael-waldman.html
These days, everyone has advice for
President  Barack Obama . Some urge compromise with the
Republicans. Others demand he fight back. Actually, both camps
are right -- and wrong.  To survive, revive and even prevail, Obama must do two
things at once. Sometimes, he must work with Republicans -- not
just find a tepid middle-ground, but enthusiastically link arms.
Other times he must pick sharp, partisan fights that highlight
his agenda and isolate foes. So far, Obama has proven adept at
neither. A president most comfortable in muted tones must learn
to govern in Technicolor.  In any White House, it’s no fun after a shellacking. I
worked for President  Bill Clinton  the last time the Democrats
were repudiated, in 1994. In the morose weeks after that
debacle, I wrote a memo to the gloomy president, digging into
history to see how others fared after a midterm plunge. The
results were surprising.  Many had suffered similar setbacks.  Harry Truman  lost the
Congress in his first midterm in 1946. (The Republican slogan:
“Had enough?”)  Richard Nixon  never controlled Congress in the
first place, but lost many seats in 1970 and was considered a
sure loser for reelection.  Ronald Reagan  lost 28 House seats,
was crushingly unpopular, and faced 10.8 percent unemployment.
Clinton, of course, lost both houses of Congress in a sharp
repudiation.  These chief executives found a way to reassert leadership
and win reelection. How?  Presidential Gambits  All pressed forward with issues where it was actually
easier to succeed with opposition help. For Truman, it was the
Cold War policy against the Soviet Union. For Nixon, it was
domestic environmental regulation and detente. Only Nixon could
go to China, but it helped to have Democrats cheering. Reagan
immediately embraced a bipartisan plan, created with Democratic
House Speaker  Tip O’Neill , to save Social Security.  For Clinton, the key area of cross-partisan agreement was
welfare reform. As a candidate he had urged an “end to welfare
as we know it.” But he never could have crafted reform with
mostly liberal backing. Clinton twice vetoed the plan sent to
him by the Republican Congress, but then signed a deal days
before the 1996 Democratic convention.  But then -- crucially -- every one of these presidents drew
sharp, partisan lines of conflict. As we all know, Truman
launched his whistle stop tour to denounce the “do nothing
Congress.” He called lawmakers into special session and
demanded they pass their own platform, then mocked them when
they failed. Nixon stepped up cultural assaults on behalf of his
“silent majority.”  Taking On Gingrich  Clinton vetoed the Republican budget on behalf of
“Medicare, Medicaid, education and the environment.” His
standoff with House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  during the government
shutdown boosted him nine points in the polls and propelled him
to re-election.  These were not muddled attempts to find common ground. Nor
were they blunderbuss opposition. At any moment these successful
chief executives chose clear cooperation -- or picked a fight.
Observers were rarely confused about which was which.  Does Obama see this? And can he follow through? Early omens
are mixed.  For starters, few of his own major goals will be better
accomplished with Republican help. Education reform, for
example, may thrill conservatives more than teachers unions, but
that issue rarely rises to the top tier of federal concerns.
Long-term deficit reduction or tax reform may unite Obama with
the opposition party, but neither has been a core part of his
public philosophy.  Lacking Partner  Also, he may lack even the most basic negotiating partner
among Republican leaders. The Party of No found electoral
success. Immigration reform has business backing, and might have
been a likely candidate for compromise, but it is wildly
unpopular with the nativist Tea Party.  Obama must overcome his own temperament as well. This is
politics, not psychobabble. From the time of his 2004 convention
speech, he shaped his whole political persona around the idea of
erasing the divide between conservative “red” and liberal
“blue” America. Obama has seemed uncomfortable when forced to
pick a partisan fight. At the same time, it is hard to think of
an instance when he startled us with an unexpected conservative
stance.  The calendar gives Obama little time to regroup. And it was
unfortunate that his first step was to call a negotiation
session with Congress on taxes, a plunge back into legislative
minutiae that can only blur principle.  Beat by McConnell  Earmarks may mark another missed moment. While these
spending bills are but a fraction of a sliver of the federal
budget, they have proven a magnet for corruption. Obama could
have reached out to the Tea Party. Instead, even  Mitch McConnell , the Senate Republican leader and Congress’ most
obstinate foe of reform, has leapt past him by backing an
earmark ban.  In coming months, Obama will have to find a way to seem
enthusiastic about long-term deficit reduction even as he urges
short-term action on jobs. And he will need to unveil both
personas with gusto at his State of the Union Address in
January.  So, Mr. President: on some things, join hands with
Republicans; on others, go to the mattresses. “The test of a
first-rate intelligence,”  F. Scott Fitzgerald  famously wrote,
“is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the
same time, and still retain the ability to function.” Let’s
hope Obama is as smart as advertised.  ( Michael Waldman , former director of speechwriting for
President Bill Clinton, is executive director of the Brennan
Center for Justice at New York University School of Law and the
author of “My Fellow Americans.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael.Waldman@NYU.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  