-- Obama Appoints Geithner, Lew to Negotiate with Congress on Tax Cuts
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-30T21:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/obama-appoints-geithner-lew-to-work-with-congress-on-extending-tax-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama  directed
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and budget office director
 Jack Lew  to lead negotiations with congressional Republicans to
break a stalemate on extending Bush-era tax cuts.  After meeting for almost two hours with Republican and
Democratic congressional leaders at the White House, Obama said
that both sides agree action is needed to extend tax cuts to
middle-income families before the end of the year even as they
remain divided on tax rates for the wealthiest Americans.  “There must be some sensible common ground” to resolve
differences on taxes, Obama said. He said he appointed Geithner
and Lew “to break through this logjam.”  Senator  Jon Kyl  of Arizona will represent Senate
Republicans in the talks and Representative  Dave Camp  of
Michigan, who will be Ways and Means chairman in the next
session of Congress, will represent House Republicans.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  of Montana
will represent Senate Democrats in the negotiations, Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said. Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen  will negotiate for House Democrats.  Post-Midterm Meeting  The White House session was Obama’s first meeting with
Republican and Democratic leaders since the midterm elections
that put Republicans in control of the House starting in January
and narrowed the Democratic majority in the Senate.  “The American people did not vote for gridlock,” Obama
said. “They’re demanding cooperation and they’re demanding
progress.”  The president said he expects to hold more such meetings to
help create a less partisan atmosphere in Washington and address
issues beyond the tax debate.  The benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.6 percent
at 4 p.m. in New York, paring a larger slide after Obama
announced he was assigning Geithner and Lew to lead negotiations
from the White House side. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
slumped 46.47 points to 11,006.02.  House Republican leader  John Boehner  said at the Capitol
that he expects the talks with Geithner and Lew to begin today.  Negotiators must confront six pieces of a tax puzzle to
complete their work. They face choices over extending lower
income tax rates across-the-board or just on the first $250,000
of income. They also must decide whether to keep the 15 percent
tax rate on most dividends and long-term capital gains or let
them revert to higher levels and resolve a decade-long dispute
over the appropriate level of taxation on million-dollar
estates.  Expiring Provisions  Soon-to-expire tax incentives for parents, married couples
and low-income workers also are in the mix, as is action to roll
back a $66 billion alternative minimum tax increase in place for
this year. Lawmakers also are struggling to restore dozens of
business-related tax breaks that expired at the end of 2009,
including a research credit claimed by more than 6,000
companies.  Obama and many Democrats want to  retain  tax cuts passed in
2001 and 2003 only on the first $200,000 annually earned by
individuals and the first $250,000 earned by married couples
filing jointly.  Obama has repeatedly said that the U.S. can’t  afford  to
permanently extend the lower tax rates for those with incomes
above those figures -- about 3 percent of taxpayers, or 4.5
million households.  Criticism of Priorities  Republicans want tax cuts extended permanently for all
income levels, saying that raising taxes during a fragile
economic recovery is a bad idea. Without action by Congress, all
of the Bush-era tax cuts will expire on Dec. 31, resulting in
more tax withholding from paychecks in January for millions of
Americans.  After the White House meeting, lawmakers said they were
discussing whether to go ahead with plans this week to hold
votes on a proposal to only extend the tax cuts for the first
$250,000 of income. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  earlier this
month said that vote would occur this week.  “That’s not clear whether we’ll take that vote this
week,” Representative  John Larson , the fourth-ranking Democrat
in the House, said before a meeting of House Democratic leaders.
Afterward, House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland said he
hopes the House would go ahead with the vote.  In the Senate, Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  said
he expects Senate leaders to delay a planned vote next week on
the same issue. “I would give this thing a chance to work,”
the North Dakota Democrat said, referring to the talks with Lew
and Geithner.  Opening Positions  Both sides began the formal talks by sticking to their
long-held positions. Representative  Eric Cantor  of Virginia, the
second-ranking Republican in the House, said he will urge his
party to oppose a partial extension.  “We don’t feel that there should be anyone suffering a
tax-rate increase right now while we’ve got nearly 10 percent
unemployment,” he said on Bloomberg Television.  Even before going to the White House, Senate Republican
leader  Mitch McConnell  was attacking Democrats, accusing them of
“clinging to the wrong priorities” after the election.  “Instead of preventing a tax hike, they want to focus on
immigration” and gays in the military, McConnell said.  The Democrats’ “entire legislative plan” for the next
several weeks is focused “on anything except jobs, which is
astonishing when you consider the election we just had,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
njonhnston6bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  