-- Oi Fixed-Line Phones Will `Die' as Zornig Aims to Expand Mobile, Cable TV
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-11-30T19:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/oi-fixed-line-to-die-as-zornig-aims-to-expand-mobile-cable-television.html
Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA ,
Brazil’s biggest land-line company, will add 19 percent more
mobile customers in 2011 and provide combined television and
telecommunications services as its main voice business ebbs.  “Fixed-line voice will die,” Chief Financial Officer  Alex Zornig  said today in an interview in New York. “What are we
doing so the velocity of the loss slows? Selling broadband and
now, cable TV,” with fixed-phone and mobile services in one
bill and as much as a 40 percent discount to the separate
services.  Tele Norte Leste, or Oi, plans to start providing cable TV
in six months, the time needed for its network to be ready,
Zornig said. Brazil’s National Telecommunications Agency, known
as  Anatel , last week lifted a prohibition for phone companies to
provide the service.  Portugal Telecom SPGS SA , Oi’s new business partner and a
minority shareholder, is widening its lead in its home market by
bundling television, Internet and phones. Portugal Telecom
started a TV service in 2008 to add to its broadband Internet
and phone offerings and to fend off competition.  Portugal Telecom agreed to pay as much as 8.4 billion reais
($4.9 billion) for indirect and direct stakes equivalent to 22.4
percent of Oi in July 28 to continue in the Brazilian market,
after the Portuguese company agreed to sell its stake in a
venture controlling Brazil’s largest wireless operator, Vivo
Participacoes SA, to its Spanish partner, Telefonica SA, for 7.5
billion euros ($9.8 billion).  Market Leadership  Oi will finish 2010 with 37 million mobile-phone clients,
or 21 percent of the Brazilian market, the same percentage it
had in the beginning of the year, Zornig said. It had 19 percent
of the market in October, according to Anatel. The Rio de
Janeiro-based company plans to add 7 million mobile-phone
customers in 2011, Zornig said.  “We want to grow in the markets in which we are not
leaders,” he said. “We want to be at least among the two
largest.” Oi is Brazil’s fourth-biggest wireless carrier.  America Movil SAB, the Latin American wireless carrier
controlled by  Carlos Slim , owns Claro, Brazil’s second-biggest
mobile-phone company. Brazil’s third-largest wireless carrier,
Tim Participacoes SA, is two-thirds owned by Telecom Italia SpA,
Italy’s biggest phone company.  Shares, Bovespa Index  Tele Norte Leste preferred shares  fell  1.5 percent, to
31.41 reais, at 1:22 p.m. New York time, in Sao Paulo trading,
the sixth-greatest loss in the  Bovespa  benchmark index.  Oi plans to take advantage of Portugal Telecom’s
international experience to expand in Latin America and into
Portuguese-speaking countries in Africa, Zornig said.  This would happen after Oi grows as much as it can in the
Brazilian market, following other Brazilian multinationals, such
as  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas , Latin America’s largest brewer,
and  Gerdau SA , the continent’s largest steelmaker.  “A typically Brazilian company needs to start in Latin
America, Portuguese Africa, and then take off to higher
flights,” Zornig said. “Portugal Telecom knows the wrongs and
rights. We will learn with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net 
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 