-- Oil Falls Second Day on Concern Europe Debt Crisis May Spread, Curb Demand
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-30T21:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/oil-falls-on-speculation-european-union-may-have-to-bail-out-more-members.html
Oil fell, following heating oil
lower, as concern the European Union may have to bail out more
member states pushed the euro to the lowest level in 10 weeks.  Crude dropped more than $1 a barrel in the last half hour
of floor trading, led by declines in heating oil before the
expiration of the December contract today. The cost of insuring
Portuguese and Spanish debt against default climbed to records
yesterday after Ireland accepted a bailout package.  “Oil has fallen on the possibility that the problems that
are going on in Europe will spread to Portugal and Spain and
maybe Italy and Belgium,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Oil for January delivery dropped $1.62, or 1.9 percent, to
settle at $84.11 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Prices rose 3.3 percent this month, the third consecutive
increase, and are up 6 percent this year.  Prices rebounded from the day’s low after the American
Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles decreased 1.14 million barrels to 356.6 million.
January oil fell $1.93, or 2.3 percent, to $83.80 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:32 p.m. Oil touched $83.55 a barrel at
4:04 p.m., after the settlement and before the API report.  The euro decreased 0.9 percent to $1.3014 at 3:35 p.m. in
New York after touching $1.2969, the lowest level since Sept.
15. A stronger dollar reduces the appeal of commodities as an
alternative investment.  “I’m surprised that oil hasn’t fallen further because the
euro is so low against the dollar,” said  Gerrit Zambo , a trader
at Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “People are afraid that the
EU will next have to rescue Portugal, Spain, and further on
Italy, so the debt situation of these countries is critical.”  Ireland Bailout  Spanish bonds fell yesterday by the most since the start of
the euro era as a bailout for Ireland failed to assuage
speculation that the debt crisis will spread.  Heating oil for December delivery dropped 4.12 cents, or
1.8 percent, to expire at $2.3169 a gallon on the Nymex. Futures
gained 4.4 percent in November and have risen 9.4 percent this
year. The January contract declined 5.59 cents, or 2.4 percent,
to $2.3244 a gallon.  “Heating oil was extremely overvalued,” said  Stephen Schork , president of consultant Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
Pennsylvania. “There was a pre-season rally earlier this month
which led the complex higher.”  Heating oil reached a two-year high of $2.4419 a gallon
Nov. 10, based on closing Nymex prices. That day, January
heating oil cost 24 cents more than January gasoline, a spread
that narrowed to almost 14 cents today.  Consumer Confidence  Oil pared losses earlier today on reports that U.S.
consumer confidence rose and businesses expanded more than
forecast in November and after President  Barack Obama  suggested
he’s willing to compromise on extending tax cuts.  “Crude is becoming more and more a financial asset driven
by money flows and the sentiment at the time, whether that’s
consumer confidence or something out of Europe or something out
of China,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research at IAF
Advisors in Houston.  The Conference Board’s confidence index jumped in November
to a five-month high of 54.1, exceeding the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey, from a revised 49.9 in October, figures
from the New York-based research group showed today. The
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business
barometer rose to the highest level since April.  Tax Cuts  Obama appointed Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and
 Jack Lew , the budget office director, to lead negotiations with
congressional Republicans on extending Bush-era tax cuts to
middle-income families before the end of the year.  “The economic news today was encouraging, but not enough
to send the markets higher,” said  Carl Larry , president of Oil
Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston. “We’re waiting to see the
energy statistics tomorrow and the jobless numbers on Friday.”  Supplies of distillates, which include heating oil and
diesel,  probably fell  for a 10th time last week as demand
increased, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Stockpiles dropped
1.1 million barrels in the seven days ended Nov. 26, according
to the median of 17 analyst estimates before an Energy
Department report tomorrow.  Crude supplies probably decreased 1.15 million barrels from
358.6 million. Gasoline inventories climbed 300,000 barrels, the
survey showed.  Brent Forecast  Rising fuel consumption prompted Societe Generale SA,
France’s second-biggest bank, to increase its forecast for oil
prices next year. London’s benchmark Brent crude will average
$93 a barrel, up from the previous forecast of $85, according to
a report today by  Michael Wittner , the bank’s New York-based
head of oil market research.  Brent for January settlement dropped $1.42, or 1.6 percent,
to $85.92 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Hedge funds and other speculators reduced their bets on
rising oil prices, U.S. government data released yesterday
showed.  Net-long  positions  in oil dropped by 38,654 futures and
options combined, or 22 percent, to 139,743 in the week ended
Nov. 23, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 470,144
contracts as of 3:35 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 539,097
contracts yesterday, 24 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.34 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 