-- Diamondback Hedge Fund Says U.S. Probing Research Consultants
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/holder-says-u-s-is-conducting-very-serious-investigation-of-wall-street.html
Diamondback Capital Management LLC,
one of three hedge funds raided by the FBI last week, said it
received a federal grand jury subpoena and is cooperating in a
U.S. probe that it said includes research consultants.  The firm, based in Stamford, Connecticut, said it was told
by the government it isn’t the target of the probe and that the
raid was focused on one of its portfolio managers, who was put
on leave, according to a letter to sent to investors yesterday.  “The warrant appears to be focused on a single employee (a
portfolio manager), as well as on a former employee who reported
to that employee,” Diamondback co-founders  Lawrence Sapanski 
and  Rich Schimel  said in the letter, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News. “One of the principal areas on
which the government appears to be focused is the use of
industry research consultants.”  Hedge funds Level Global Investors LP and Loch Capital
Management also had their offices raided by the FBI on Nov. 22.
Janus Capital Group Inc. and Wellington Management Co. were
among firms that received information requests last week as part
of the government’s insider-trading investigation.  Level Global, with offices in New York and Greenwich,
Connecticut, said in a letter to investors that it met with the
U.S. Attorney’s Office on Nov. 23 and that the government said
yesterday it wasn’t a target of the probe.  “Nor, in fact, has the firm been alleged to have engaged
in any misconduct or wrongdoing,” Level Global said in the
letter, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Holder Confirms  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  confirmed yesterday that
the Justice Department is conducting a criminal investigation
related to illegal trading on Wall Street.  In response to questions about the probe of insider
trading, Holder said an “investigation is ongoing” and
described it as “very serious.” Holder was questioned at a
news conference at the Justice Department in Washington.  “I don’t want to get into the details,” he said. The
investigation is being conducted by the office of U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara  in Manhattan, Holder said.  Jessie Erwin, a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office, declined
to comment on the investigation.  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for
the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s New York office, also
declined to comment.  Diamondback said yesterday that the federal grand jury
subpoena it received “is similar to those received by many
other market participants.”  ‘Fully Cooperating’  The fund said that it received a subpoena “seeking a broad
range of information in connection with our trading and research
activities” and that it is “fully cooperating” with producing
the information sought by the U.S.  Diamondback, which oversees about $5.8 billion in assets,
said several of its 135 investment professionals use industry
research consultants.  The firm has a policy and set of procedures designed to
avoid having any employee receive or misuse material nonpublic
information, according to the letter.  A day after the FBI searches,  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP got a government subpoena, said a person familiar
with the matter who declined to be identified because the matter
is private. No allegation of wrongdoing has been made against
SAC, which manages $12 billion.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a firm
spokesman, declined to comment.  Chu Arrested  Don Ching Trang Chu, an employee of expert-network firm
Primary Global Research LLC in Mountain View, California, was
arrested on Nov. 24 for allegedly providing insider information
to hedge funds. He was charged in a criminal complaint filed by
Bharara’s office.  Chu had a roster of Asia-based employees of North American
technology companies to feed information to clients, according
to court documents.  In several conversations recorded by the FBI as part of its
probe, Chu, who was born in Taiwan and became a U.S. citizen in
1987, describes his access to numerous contacts in Asia who were
willing to share financial information about their employers,
including  Broadcom Corp.   An unnamed employee of the Irvine, California-based company
“probably gave Broadcom’s revenue numbers before Broadcom’s
quarter end because that is what he does,” Chu is quoted as
saying in the complaint.  Broadcom’s Cooperation  Broadcom, the  biggest maker  of chips for television set-top
boxes, said yesterday that it has been in contact with the U.S.
government and is cooperating with an insider-trading
investigation.  None of the employees of the company referred to in the
criminal complaint against Chu are executive officers of
Broadcom, said  Bill Blanning , a company spokesman, in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  Two Broadcom employees whose names weren’t disclosed were
providing information to hedge funds, according to the complaint
against Chu. Broadcom has “strict policies” to prevent insider
information being shared, Blanning said in his e-mail.  John Kinnucan , a technology research provider in Portland,
Oregon, said he refused a request from the FBI to wear a hidden
microphone to record investor-client conversations as part of
its insider trading probe, he wrote in the New York Times.  FBI agents arrived unexpectedly at Kinnucan’s home, making
it “abundantly clear” they believed he and his clients were
“guilty,” and threatened to arrest him immediately, he said in
an article published yesterday.  Kinnucan Contacted  Kinnucan, the founder of Broadband Research, whose clients
include hedge funds, was contacted by the FBI as part of the
government’s investigation of insider trading, according to the
Times.  Kinnucan said agents arrived at his home and cited his
research, “insinuating it was improper.”  “I had to decide between committing a wrong -- agreeing to
try and entrap someone who, based on our mutual dealings, I
believe to be innocent -- or standing up to fight for what I
believe is right,” Kinnucan wrote in the Times. “I chose the
latter.”  He said the type of research he provides to clients “is
pervasive in the financial community” and that “research
providers are constantly struggling with the question of what
constitutes appropriate information.”  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 10-Mag-02625, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 