-- Madoff Investors Targeted in Trustee Suits Aiming Clawback of Phony Gains
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-01T23:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/thomas-h-lee-is-among-latest-madoff-investors-sued-by-trustee-picard.html
Thomas H. Lee  was one of hundreds of
 Bernard Madoff’s  former clients sued by a court-appointed
trustee in a bid to recover fictitious investment returns paid
out by the con man’s Ponzi scheme.  The trustee, New York attorney  Irving Picard , sued Lee, the
financier who heads Lee Equity Partners, individually for $19.7
million, and Blue Star Investors LLC in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan yesterday. Among those sued today were New York’s
former chief judge,  Sol Wachtler , and  Tim Teufel , a former Major
League Baseball player.  Picard is trying to recover money from people who withdrew
funds in excess of their original investment with Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC. The money was recorded as
profit on their accounts. Picard claims the purported returns
are “other people’s money.”  “Funds recovered through these actions will be deposited
in the BLMIS customer fund, and ultimately returned, pro rata,
to their rightful owners, the customers of BLMIS with valid
claims,” Kevin McCue, a spokesman for Picard, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Lee didn’t return a phone message seeking comment
yesterday. Wachtler, who was sued for $1.4 million and Teufel,
sued for $1.2 million, couldn’t be reached for comment.  Picard filed about 200 so-called clawback lawsuits
yesterday and more than 200 so far today, claiming fictitious
profits withdrawn during the past six years. He faces a deadline
of Dec. 11 to file any additional clawback suits.  Chais Counterclaims  Picard sued 40 defendants on Nov. 26, all of whom were
former employees of Madoff or are relatives of Madoff or his
wife,  Ruth Madoff , according to Picard.  Most of the earlier suits filed by Picard targeted Madoff
relatives, employees or feeder funds that were alleged to have
had knowledge of the fraud at Madoff’s firm.  In one of those suits, seeking to recover more than $1
billion from money manager  Stanley Chais , U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Burton Lifland  yesterday dismissed counterclaims against Picard
by Chais, who died in September at age 84.  Lifland, who is overseeing the Madoff bankruptcy, threw out
the claims, which were based on a letter Picard sent to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in March 2009 asking the firm to block Chais’s
account.  “The court cannot impose liability on the trustee for
carrying out his duties in good faith and based on his business
judgment,” Lifland wrote.  Madoff, 72, is serving 150 years in prison after pleading
guilty to orchestrating the fraud that destroyed his New York-
based firm, which collapsed in December 2008.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s financial statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to Picard. Investors lost about $20
billion in principal.  The bankruptcy case is SIPC v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 08-1789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 