-- Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Probably Cooled in September as Sales Fell
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-probably-cooled-after-sales-fell.html
Real-estate prices in 20 U.S. cities
probably rose in September at the slowest pace in eight months,
showing the latest slump in sales is destabilizing housing,
economists said before a report today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values climbed 1
percent from September 2009, the smallest year-over-year gain
since February, when the market began to recover following a
three-year drop, according to the median forecast of 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other reports may show
consumer confidence rose and businesses expanded.  The end of a government tax credit for homebuyers and
 unemployment  hovering near 10 percent have led to a decrease in
demand, delaying a recovery in the industry that precipitated
the worst recession since the 1930s. Declining home values
threaten to undermine the improvement in consumer confidence
that is helping boost spending and accelerate economic growth.  “We’re in for more downward adjustment on home prices,”
said  Neil Dutta , an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Research in New York. “People don’t want to buy a house
when they think it’s going to lose value. A return to a normal
housing market is going to be measured in years, not months.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller figures are due at 9 a.m. New York
time. Survey estimates ranged from an increase of 1.6 percent to
a decline of 3.4 percent, after a 1.7 percent gain in August.  Gaining Confidence  The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer sentiment
 gauge , due at 10 a.m., rose to 53 in November from 50.2 a month
earlier, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Estimates
ranged from 50 to 60.  At 9:45 a.m., the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc. may report its  business barometer  fell to 59.9 this month
from 60.6 in October, the Bloomberg survey showed. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth.  The Case-Shiller report may show home prices fell 0.4
percent in September  from the prior month , the third straight
decline, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The year-over-year gauges provide better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Housing demand has slumped after a tax credit worth as much
as $8,000 expired.  Sales  of existing homes, which now make up
more than 90 percent of the market, fell more than
forecast in October as foreclosure moratoriums and a lack of
credit disrupted real estate, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed last week. In July, sales ran at
the weakest pace in a decade’s worth of record-keeping by the
group.  Three-Month Average  The Case-Shiller gauge is based on a three-month average,
which means the September data are still being influenced by the
plunge in transactions in August and July.  Dwindling purchases are hurting builder shares. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder  Index , which
includes Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar Corp., has plunged 33
percent since reaching a 19-month high on May 3. The broader S&P
 500 Index  is down 1.2 percent.  The Federal Reserve announced this month it will buy
another $600 billion in Treasury securities through June in a
bid to keep borrowing costs low and spur growth. The weakness in
housing figured in their deliberations.  “Despite further declines in mortgage interest rates in
recent months, other factors continued to restrain housing
demand, including consumer pessimism about the outlook for jobs
and income, the depressed rate of household formation, and tight
underwriting standards for mortgages,” Fed policy makers said
in minutes of their Nov. 2-3 meeting released Nov. 23.  D.R. Horton Inc., the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, expects sales will remain weak in 2011, and Chief
Executive Officer  Donald Tomnitz  said plans to lift business
include “adjusting our price points” to demand.  “We expect another very challenging year for the
homebuilding industry as the fundamental drivers of demand --the
overall economy, job growth and consumer confidence -- are still
very weak,” Tomnitz said on a conference call with analysts on
Nov. 12.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  