-- Home Prices in U.S. Will `Bounce Along the Bottom,' Case Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-30T21:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/home-prices-in-u-s-will-bounce-along-the-bottom-case-says-tom-keene.html
U.S. home prices are unlikely to fall
much further in the next year even after a “discouraging”
report on values in September, said  Karl E. Case , the co-creator
of the S&P/Case-Shiller  Index .  “If I were betting even odds, I’d bet that we don’t have
much further decline, but that we bounce along the bottom,”
Case, a retired professor of economics at Wellesley College,
said today in a Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene . “If you gave me 2-to-1 odds, I’d bet
they go down.”  Home prices in September dropped 0.8 percent from August,
the biggest monthly decline since April 2009, the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of prices in 20 U.S. cities showed today. Values
rose 0.6 percent from September 2009, the smallest year-over-
year gain in eight months.  Fifteen of the 20 cities in the index showed year-over-year
declines, led by a 5.6 percent slump in Chicago. Falling home
values threaten to undermine consumer confidence and slow an
economic recovery after the worst recession since the 1930s.  The S&P Case-Shiller index measures resale values over the
most recent three months. The September slump wasn’t a surprise
because the index moved past June, when sales were inflated by
homebuyer tax credits worth as much as $8,000, Case said.  “You’d expect it to be down,” he said. “Nonetheless, it
was discouraging in the face of the fact that a lot of these
cities had done well in the previous 18 months. Whether that was
because of the credit or not, housing prices were up as much as
20 percent in some markets.”  29% Below Peak  National prices fell 1.5 percent in the third quarter from
the same period last year, and decreased 2 percent from the
previous three months. Prices are 29 percent below their peak of
July 2006.  Home prices may drop another 10 percent,  Christopher Low ,
chief economist at FTN Financial in New York, and  Luigi Zingales , professor of finance at the University of Chicago’s
Booth School of Business, said on “Surveillance Midday” today.  “It’s hard to imagine that prices can rise with this huge
overhang of foreclosures and vacancies,” Zingales said.  Prices will probably find a bottom quicker without
government support of the housing market, Low said.  “It’s probably better to get this done sooner rather than
later,” he said.  ‘Cultural Change’  Robert Shiller , the index’s other creator, said on the
program that a “catastrophic drop in confidence” makes it
unlikely demand for homes will recover soon. He declined to
predict price changes.  “There’s been a cultural change,” said Shiller, a Yale
University professor, citing a five-year decline in a confidence
 index  by the National Association of Home Builders. “It goes
beyond any short-run forecasts.”  Sales of  existing homes , which make up more than 90 percent
of the market, declined more than forecast in October amid
foreclosure moratoriums and the absence of the tax credit, the
National Association of Realtors reported last week. Sales fell
in July to the slowest pace in a decade’s worth of record-
keeping by the Chicago-based group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 