-- Home Prices in U.S. Cities Rose Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-30T15:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/home-prices-in-u-s-cities-rose-less-in-september-than-economists-forecast.html
Home prices in 20 U.S. cities rose
in September at the slowest pace in eight months, showing the
latest slump in sales is destabilizing housing.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values climbed 0.6
percent from September 2009, the smallest gain since January,
the last time prices declined year over year, the group said
today in New York. The increase was smaller than the 1 percent
 median forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The end of a government tax credit and  unemployment  near 10
percent have led to a decrease in demand, delaying a recovery in
the industry that precipitated the worst recession since the
1930s. Mounting foreclosures and declining home values threaten
to undermine the improvement in consumer confidence that is
helping boost spending and accelerate economic growth.  Housing “is on the brink of another substantial
downturn,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “Supply far
exceeds demand and the only remedy is further price declines.”  Separate reports today showed businesses in the U.S.
expanded at a faster pace than forecast in November and a
measure of consumer confidence climbed to a five-month high.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer rose to 62.5 this month, highest since
April, from 60.6 in October. Figures greater than 50 signal
expansion. The median forecast of 63 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected the gauge would fall to 59.9.  Consumer Confidence  The Conference Board’s confidence index increased to 54.1
in November, exceeding the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey, from a revised 49.9 in October. Measures of employment
and income expectations improved.  Stocks declined on concern Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent to
1,180.62 at 10:04 a.m. in New York. Treasury securities rose,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.77
percent from 2.82 percent late yesterday.  The median forecast was based on projections of 28
economists surveyed. Estimates ranged from an increase of 1.6
percent to a decline of 3.4 percent. Year-over-year records
began in 2001. Prices climbed 1.7 percent in the year ended
August.  The gauge fell 0.8 percent in September  from the prior
month  after adjusting for seasonal variations, the biggest drop
since April 2009, following an August decrease of 0.5 percent.
Unadjusted prices fell 0.7 percent from the prior month.  Price Trends  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Nationally, prices decreased 1.5 percent in the third
quarter from the same time last year and were down 2 percent
from the previous three months.  Fifteen of the 20 cities in the S&P/Case-Shiller index
showed a year-over-year decline, led by a 5.6 percent drop in
Chicago. San Francisco showed the biggest year-over-year
increase, with prices rising 5.5 percent.  Compared with the prior month, 18 of the 20 areas covered
showed a decrease on an unadjusted basis, led by Cleveland. The
only two showing month-over-month increases were Washington and
Las Vegas.  ‘Weak Report’  “Another weak report,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the
index committee at S&P, said in a statement. “The national
economy is certainly the number one issue for housing.
Additionally, there is a large supply of houses on the market
and further, hidden, supply due to delinquent mortgages, pending
foreclosures or vacant homes.”  Housing demand has slumped after a tax credit worth as much
as $8,000 expired in June.  Sales  of existing homes, which now
make up more than 90 percent of the market, fell more than
forecast in October as foreclosure moratoriums and a lack of
credit disrupted real estate, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed last week. In July, sales ran at
the weakest pace in a decade’s worth of record-keeping by the
group.  The Case-Shiller gauge is based on a three-month average,
which means the September data are still being influenced by the
plunge in transactions in August and July.  The Federal Reserve announced this month it will buy
another $600 billion in Treasury securities through June in a
bid to keep borrowing costs low and spur growth. The weakness in
housing figured in their deliberations.  Interest Rates  “Despite further declines in mortgage interest rates in
recent months, other factors continued to restrain housing
demand, including consumer pessimism about the outlook for jobs
and income, the depressed rate of household formation, and tight
underwriting standards for mortgages,” Fed policy makers said
in minutes of their Nov. 2-3 meeting released Nov. 23.  D.R. Horton Inc., the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, expects sales will remain weak in 2011, and Chief
Executive Officer  Donald Tomnitz  said plans to lift business
include “adjusting our price points” to demand.  “We expect another very challenging year for the
homebuilding industry as the fundamental drivers of demand --the
overall economy, job growth and consumer confidence -- are still
very weak,” Tomnitz said on a conference call with analysts on
Nov. 12.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  