-- One-Dollar Bribes for India Licenses Contribute to World's Deadliest Roads
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-11-30T23:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/one-dollar-bribes-for-india-licenses-contribute-to-world-s-deadliest-roads.html
A pack of about 25 men stand outside
the  Mumbai Road Transport Office , waiting for driver’s license
applicants to show up. Then they swarm, offering shortcuts
through the bureaucracy for 3,000 rupees ($65).  “What do you want -- a driver’s license or learner’s
permit without a test? It will happen,” said a man identifying
himself only as Rafiq because he was breaking the law. He pays
$1 bribes to officials, doctors and insurance agents to speed up
license approvals, he said.  Corruption, disregard for traffic laws, congested roads and
a lack of car safety features all contribute to India having the
world’s deadliest roads.  Crashes  that killed 119,860 people in
2008 -- an average of 327 a day -- cost the nation about 3
percent of its  gross domestic product  every year, according to
government  data .  “In India, you can get a driver’s license as easily as a
chai,” Delphine Muhlbacher, president of the Headlight India
safety advocacy group, said, referring to a local tea drink.
“In this context, driving licenses can sometimes turn into
licenses to kill.”  Record Vehicle Sales  The issue is compounded by auto  sales  heading for their
best year. Sales of passenger vehicles in October rose 38 percent
from a year earlier, prompting automakers to say they may
exceed a forecast of selling 2.4 million autos in the fiscal
year ending March 31.  Carmakers in India are benefiting from a $1.3 trillion
 economy  that expanded 8.9 percent in the three months through
September from a year earlier. Salaries may grow an average of
11 percent this year, the fastest rate in the Asia-Pacific
region, said human resources adviser  Aon Hewitt LLC , of
Lincolnshire, Illinois.  India surpassed China in road deaths in 2008, based on data
from both governments. China recorded 67,759 deaths last year,
down 7.8 percent from a year earlier, the  Ministry of Public
Security  said.  China had 186 million vehicles on its roads at the end of
last year, and automakers in the world’s largest market may sell
17 million vehicles this year, the government said.  ‘Absolute Lawlessness’  India drivers share roads with cows, pedestrians, bicycles
and scooters, with pedestrians representing between 50 percent
and 70 percent of the death toll, said  Dinesh Mohan , a professor
at the Indian Institute of Technology’s  Transport Research &
Injury Prevention Programme  in New Delhi.  “There is absolute lawlessness on the streets,” said
Satyendra Garg, New Delhi’s joint police commissioner for
traffic. “Unless there is a policeman at every intersection,
people don’t obey any traffic rules.”  Parliament’s transportation committee debated a bill this
year creating an agency similar to the  U.S. National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration . The committee said in August the
bill should be withdrawn because it wasn’t comprehensive enough,
created duplication among agencies and didn’t eliminate “the
menace of corruption.”  The proposed agency also would set minimum vehicle-safety
standards. Seat belts are the only mandatory equipment, and the
increase in car buying hasn’t boosted demand for airbags or
anti-lock brakes, automakers said.  Maruti Suzuki ,  Toyota   “It will take time for all the manufacturers to add safety
features to their cars,” said C.V. Raman, chief general manager
of engineering for  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the nation’s
largest manufacturer with about half the market.  “We give customers a choice whether they want a fully
loaded car with all the safety features, or a car without those
features at a lower cost.”  A WagonR hatchback with airbags and anti-lock brakes
costs 27 percent more in Mumbai than one without,  according 
to Maruti Suzuki’s website.  Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s largest automaker, is
targeting Maruti Suzuki’s dominance with the Etios compact
debuting this month.  “We do have laws,” said  Vikram Kirloskar , vice chairman
of Toyota’s Indian unit. “These are not enforced very well. We
need honest enforcement.”  The Road Transport Office in Mumbai officially charges 200
rupees for a permanent license and 30 rupees for a learner’s
permit valid for 30 days.  Bribery Investigation  Outside the gates, Rafiq said “agents” like himself spend
50 rupees bribing employees to ensure customers get licenses
without exams and without waiting for paperwork. Some agents
have 20-30 employees on a monthly payroll, he said.  The bribes help streamline a process typically taking a
full day with visits to numerous counters down to a few hours,
Rafiq said. He earns 500-1,000 rupees a day after his payoffs.  “There is a lot of competition here,” he said. “In a
government  office , where do you find that you don’t have to pay
a bribe?”  He then trotted over to a man getting out of a taxi. After
a few minutes of discussion, they entered the office together.  Deputy Road Transport Officer K. Bansod declined to comment
on Rafiq’s claims or the issue of bribery.  The payoffs are common knowledge, according to Niket
Kaushik, the head of Mumbai’s  anti-corruption bureau . In a
separate case, the bureau accuses top RTO officials in
Maharashtra state, encompassing Mumbai, of taking bribes of up
to 40,000 rupees to undervalue vehicles so owners would pay
lower taxes.  India was 87th on Transparency International’s 2010
 Corruption Perceptions Index  measuring the frequency and size of
bribes to government and political officials. The U.S. was 22nd
and China 78th. A larger number equates with a greater
perception of corruption in the public sector.  “We keep on having cases against RTO officers and their
staff,” Kaushik said. “This is an issue that even their
senior officers are aware of, and they have to come up with a
solution to this problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 