-- Hong Kong’s Stocks Decline on Europe Debt, Chinese Rate Concern
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-11-30T09:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/hong-kong-stocks-fluctuate-on-u-s-spending-europe-concerns.html
Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  fell, in
its first monthly decline in three, as the threat that Europe’s
debt crisis will spread and expectations China will raise
interest rates overshadowed optimism about U.S. spending.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. , which got 85 percent of its fiscal
2009 revenue from Europe, dropped 2.3 percent, while HSBC
Holdings Plc, Europe’s No. 1 bank by market value, slid 1.4
percent. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., China’s largest lender
to farmers, declined 1 percent.  Li & Fung Ltd. , the biggest
supplier to retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., advanced
1.4 percent.  The  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.7 percent to 23,007.99 at the
close, dropping 0.4 percent this month, its first monthly
decline since August. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of
so-called H shares of Chinese companies sank 0.6 percent to
12,817.59.  “The possibility of China raising interest rates in the
short term seems much more possible, and that’s triggering the
selling pressure,” said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research
director at Cinda International Holdings Ltd. “Concerns about
the European debt crisis are continuing to deteriorate
confidence in the market, although it won’t trigger a sell-
off.”  Exporters to Europe declined as Ireland’s bailout failed to
ease investor concern that Europe’s debt crisis may spread.
Esprit sank 2.3 percent to HK$37.55, and HSBC dropped 1.4
percent to HK$78.95, the biggest drag on the Hang Seng Index.
 Cosco Pacific Ltd. , which operates container facilities at
Greece’s Piraeus port, retreated 1.4 percent to HK$12.30.  European Turmoil  European governments’ 85 billion-euro ($111 billion)
bailout package for Ireland failed to quell the market turmoil
menacing the euro as stocks, bonds and the currency declined.  Ireland, swamped by the bursting of a decade-long real-
estate bubble and unemployment approaching 14 percent, became
the second country to tap European assistance this year,
following Greece.  The euro yesterday weakened against 15 of its 16 major
counterparts, while the cost of insuring the debt of Spain and
Portugal against default soared to a record.  L’Occitane International SA , the French maker of skin-care
products, perfumes and soaps, tumbled 6.1 percent to HK$20.95
even after reporting a 19 percent increase in first-half profit
from a year earlier. HSBC Holdings Plc cut its rating on the
stock to “neutral” from “overweight.”  Banks and developers declined on speculation China’s
government will raise interest rates further to curb inflation.  Banks Fall  Agricultural Bank lost 1 percent to HK$4.05, while China
Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s No. 2 lender by market
value, fell 1 percent to HK$7.01. Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest lender, fell as much as 1.5
percent before gaining 2 percent in the last minutes of trading.
ICBC was included in the MSCI Hong Kong Index at the close of
trading today, according to a report from MSCI.  China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer,
sank 1.4 percent to HK$13.92, and Guangzhou R&F Properties Co.,
the biggest real-estate company in the southern Chinese city,
slid 0.4 percent to HK$10.32.  China’s recent increases in the reserve requirement ratio
for banks won’t be enough to reverse excessive liquidity in the
system, Zhong Jiyin, an economist with the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences, wrote in a commentary in the China Daily today.
China needs to raise interest rates by another 200 basis points,
or 2 percentage points, to curb inflation given existing excess
liquidity, Zhong wrote.  Exporters Rise  The  Hang Seng Index  has surged 5.9 percent this year
through yesterday on expectations that growth in corporate
earnings will overcome concerns about China’s steps to curb
rising property prices and Europe’s debt crisis. Shares in the
gauge trade at an average 14.5 times  estimated earnings ,
compared with about 17.2 times at the start of the year.  Among stocks that rose, Li & Fung jumped 1.4 percent to
HK$48.40, extending yesterday’s gains after the U.S.-based
National Retail Federation said in a statement on Nov. 28 that
the average shopper in the U.S. spent 6.4 percent more over
Thanksgiving weekend than last year.  Techtronic Industries Co. , maker of Hoover vacuum cleaners
and Ryobi power tools that got 76 percent of its fiscal 2009
revenue from North America, rose 2.6 percent to HK$8.44, while
 Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd. , which makes shoes for Nike
Inc., increased 1.1 percent to HK$28.05.  Luk Fook Holdings (International) Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based
jewelry retailer, jumped 3.5 percent to HK$26.30 after saying
profit for the six month to Sept. 30 climbed 70 percent from a
year earlier as tourists from mainland China spent more in its
Hong Kong shops.  SJM Holdings Ltd. , Asia’s biggest listed casino operator,
surged near the close of trading, climbing 11 percent to
HK$12.82. The company was also included in the MSCI Hong Kong
Index after markets shut.  Eight stocks fell for each three that gained on the 45-
member Hang Seng Index. Futures on the gauge declined 0.8
percent to 23,028.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 