-- Beth Mooney's Rise to KeyCorp CEO Rooted in Texas Standoff
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-11-30T21:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/mooney-s-30-year-climb-to-keycorp-ceo-rooted-in-texas-standoff.html
Beth Mooney  arrived at Republic Bank
in Dallas unannounced and unemployed in 1979, and cajoled the
head of management training for three hours until he agreed to
hire her.  “He did not really see a fit for me,” Mooney, 55, said in
a telephone interview. “I just nicely and basically refused to
leave until he offered me a job.”  In May, Mooney will take over as chief executive officer of
Cleveland-based KeyCorp, becoming the first woman to lead one of
the 20 biggest independent U.S. banks. The Michigan native, who
joined KeyCorp in 2006 to head its community-banking unit, is
credited with helping to boost deposits by adding and
overhauling branches during the financial crisis.  The lender, with $94 billion in assets and more than 1,000
branches in 14 states, is Ohio’s second-biggest bank after
Cincinnati-based  Fifth Third Bancorp . KeyCorp, which has yet to
repay $2.5 billion in U.S. bailout funds, became profitable in
the second quarter after eight straight losses.  “She inherited a tough hand, entering a tough period, and
has done a good job,” said  Jason Goldberg , a senior analyst at
Barclays Capital Inc. in New York. “She has really led the
rejuvenation of their retail effort.”  KeyCorp fell 17 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $7.53 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
advanced 36 percent this year.  For Mooney, the Nov. 18 announcement that she had become
president and chief operating officer and will succeed CEO  Henry L. Meyer , who’s retiring, fulfilled a long-held ambition.  Joins KeyCorp  “This is absolutely something she’s had her sights set
on,” said  Dowd Ritter , the former CEO of Birmingham, Alabama-
based  Regions Financial Corp. , where Mooney was chief financial
officer when the company was known as AmSouth Bancorp. “It has
come from a lot of hard work over a career that has been headed
this way from the start.”  Ritter said he couldn’t change Mooney’s mind when she
called in 2006 to say she had accepted an offer to become vice
chairwoman in charge of community banking for KeyCorp.  The new job “was an opportunity to build a strategy and
execute it,” Mooney said. “I felt like I would personally grow
from doing it as well as further my career aspirations of
potentially running an organization one day.”  Part of Mooney’s success stems from immersing herself in
civic life, according to  Jacqueline Woods , a friend and former
Ohio president of SBC Communications Inc., now  AT&T Inc .  “There’s people who get involved in just doing a lot of
stuff and they sort of show up, but they don’t really do any
work or they don’t really know how to help,” Woods said. “She
did the digging.”  Helps Orchestra, Clinic  Mooney, as a  trustee  and treasurer of Cleveland’s Musical
Arts Association, helped the city’s orchestra revamp its
business model as it struggled to finance performances and
travel, Woods said.  “They’re lucky to have her,” said  Toby Cosgrove , CEO of
the Cleveland Clinic, where Mooney leads a committee focused on
the patient experience. “She’s brought the same sort of rigors
to that as she has to her customer focus at the bank.”  Mooney also serves as trustee of the United Way of Greater
Cleveland and board chairman of Neighborhood Progress Inc., a
nonprofit that’s working to counter the effects of foreclosures
in six city neighborhoods, according to its  website .  In Counsel with Women, an invitation-only group of 139
female executives from northeast Ohio, is celebrating the
achievement by one of its own.  “The members of In Counsel are abuzz about this news,”
said the nonprofit’s chairwoman,  Linda Bluso , partner in charge
of law firm Brouse McDowell’s Cleveland office.  Triumph With Responsibility  Her rise to the top of a profession dominated by men
created “more than a crack” in the glass ceiling and
represents a triumph for women that also comes with a
responsibility, Mooney said.  “I’m grateful for those who blazed the trail before me,
but I’m also going to be conscious of serving as an example for
those who want to come after me, and I take that balance
seriously,” she said.  In 2000, Mooney was CEO of Ohio operations for Bank One
Corp., now a unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , when AmSouth hired
her to head its Tennessee bank. She transferred from Nashville
to Birmingham four years later as CFO.  “Not only did she acclimate herself very quickly into her
job and the things you would expect, but she was in the key
community leadership roles instantly,” Ritter said.  Mooney was born Beth Elaine Streeter, the youngest of three
siblings, and raised in Midland, Michigan, the home of  Dow
Chemical Co. , where her father was a chemist. The family moved
three times in as many years, settling in Texas for her final
year of high school.  ‘Kept Mum’  Streeter attended the  University of Texas , largely because
of “its illustrious football team,” graduating with a history
degree in 1977. She was married and took the name Mooney, which
she decided to keep after divorcing about six years later.  “I was mindful of not changing my name because for a large
bank headquartered in Dallas to be a vice president of the bank
as a young woman in her late 20s was still a pretty big deal,”
she said. “So I just kind of kept mum about it.”  After graduating from Texas summa cum laude, Mooney said
she got a job as a secretary in the real estate department of
First City National Bank of Houston.  ‘Game-Changer’  “I didn’t have any particular skills that resonated with
people,” she said. “So when I was interviewing and they asked
me if I could type, and I thought it would lead me to a job, I
said yes.”  A year later, Mooney talked her way into the job at
Republic Bank and promised to attend graduate school at night to
pursue an MBA, which she received in 1983 from Southern
Methodist University. Keith Schmidt, who ran the management
training program, gave her a chance because he had never met
someone who wanted something so badly, Mooney said.  “I won’t sleep nights if I refuse you this opportunity,”
she recalled him saying. “I’m giving you the opportunity to
succeed or fail, and it’s not clear to me which it will be.”  Having settled that uncertainty, Mooney said she regrets
not tracking down Schmidt to thank him before he died.  “He could have thrown me out,” she said. “It was a game-
changer for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  