-- Loonie Falls to One-Month Low Against Greenback as Economic Growth Slows
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-30T22:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/loonie-falls-to-one-month-low-against-greenback-as-economic-growth-slows.html
Canada’s dollar fell to the lowest
level in a month versus the greenback after a government report
showed the nation’s economy expanded at a slower pace in the
third quarter than economists forecast.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is also known, dropped
against the yen as the debt crisis in Europe and speculation
China will increase interest rates discouraged demand for assets
related to economic growth. A gain in Canadian government bonds
pushed the  yield  on 10-year debt to a two-week low.  “Today’s weaker-than-expected Canadian GDP numbers
magnified the risk-aversion theme and have triggered some
follow-through selling of the Canadian dollar,”  George Davis ,
chief technical analyst at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit in Toronto, wrote via e-mail.  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.8 percent to C$1.0264
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0181 yesterday,
after touching C$1.0287, the weakest level since Oct. 28. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.43 U.S. cents. The loonie is down 0.7
percent in November after touching levels stronger than parity
with the greenback Nov. 5-11.  Canada’s output growth slowed from July through September
more than economists predicted as a loonie approaching parity
restrained exports and boosted imports, giving the Bank of
Canada more reason to keep interest rates unchanged.  Gross domestic product  in the world’s 10th biggest economy
advanced at a 1 percent annualized third-quarter pace after
revised gains of 2.3 percent and 5.6 percent in the previous two
quarters. The median forecast of 26 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 1.5 percent increase.  Government Bonds  Canada’s 10-year bond  yield  fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 3.06 percent after touching 3.04
percent, the lowest since Nov. 15. The price of the 3.5 percent
security maturing in June 2020 rose 22 cents to C$103.60.  Government bonds have lost 1 percent this month, according
to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, compared with a 0.8
percent decline through yesterday for their U.S. counterparts.  The loonie touched the highest level since September
against the euro today and is the second-best performer this
month among the greenback’s major counterparts on speculation
the North American economy will recover faster than Europe’s.  “The Canadian dollar will continue to outperform on the
crosses in line with U.S. dollar strength,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a
currency strategist in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital unit, wrote via e-mail. European debt concern “is
driving things,” though speculation China may tighten monetary
policy to cool its economy is weighing on that country’s
equities, according to Tihanyi.  Loonie Versus Euro  The loonie gained 0.3 percent to C$1.3324 against the euro
after rallying to C$1.3260, the strongest level since Sept. 14.
The Canadian dollar depreciated 1.5 percent to 81.53 yen as
investors sought refuge.  The Canadian currency tends to outperform in crosses when
the greenback is “broadly stronger” and underperform on days
of “broad U.S. dollar weakness,” according to Tihanyi,
referring to currency pairs not involving the greenback.  “With the U.S. dollar stabilization on better data and a
less pessimistic monetary outlook, the Canadian dollar has found
reason to stabilize,” Tihanyi and  Camilla Sutton , Scotia
Capital’s chief currency strategist, wrote in a Nov. 26 research
report.  On days when the trade-weighted U.S. dollar rose at least
0.6 percent, the Canadian dollar performed better versus other
major currencies during the past two months than it has since
January 2007, the report said. The reverse is also true, with
the loonie the worst-performing major currency on days when the
trade-weighted U.S. dollar lost at least 0.8 percent, the Scotia
Capital report showed.  Negative Surprise  The pattern doesn’t hold on days when Canadian economic
data show a negative surprise, as it did today, Tihanyi said.  The best performer this month against the U.S. dollar among
the most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg is the Taiwan
dollar, having gained 0.5 percent to 30.481. All of the other
major counterparts including the loonie have fallen in November.  The Conference Board’s confidence index for the U.S.
increased this month to 54.1, exceeding the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey, from a revised 49.9 in October, figures
from the New York-based research group showed today. Measures of
employment and income expectations improved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  