-- Orange Juice Signals Further Declines, Infinity Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-11-30T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/orange-juice-signals-decline-infinity-says-technical-analysis.html
Orange-juice futures may extend this
month’s slide as prices slip near the lower of two Bollinger
bands, according to a technical analysis by Medford, Oregon-
based brokerage Infinity Trading Corp.  The Bollinger chart shows orange juice for January delivery
fell to $1.493 a pound yesterday on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, the lowest price since Oct. 26. That was within 1.13 cents
of the lower Bollinger band of $1.4817. A drop below that price
would signal a slide to $1.409, the low reached Oct. 14,
Infinity President  Fain Shaffer  said.  Orange juice has “come down to the bottom of the 20-day
Bollinger band” Shaffer said. Prices already are down 4.8
percent in November, heading for the biggest monthly decline
since March.  Mounting concern that adverse weather damaged crops in
Brazil and Florida, the world’s largest orange growers, helped
send futures to a three-year high of $1.657 on Sept. 22. Prices
are up 16 percent this year.  November is “just kind of a slow period,” Shaffer said.
There’s not much to affect the crop between the end of hurricane
season and the possibility of frost damage, starting in mid-
December, he said.  Hurricane season, a threat to orange groves in Florida,
began June 1 and ends today with no damage to the state’s crop,
according to the  National Hurricane Center  in Miami. The U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates Florida will produce 9.3
percent more oranges than last season, when storms and freezes
reduced fruit output.  Bollinger bands are designed to alert investors when a
security rises too high or falls too low by comparing its price
to the average level over the past 20 days. The upper and lower
bands provide a range that is two standard deviations away from
the simple moving average, typically capturing 95 percent of
market actions. The system of analysis was created in the 1980s
by  John Bollinger .  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 