-- Tottenham Lining Up Move for City's Adebayor, Sun Reports: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-30T12:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/tottenham-lining-up-move-for-city-s-adebayor-sun-reports-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Adebayor Swoop  Tottenham is ready to move for Manchester City striker
 Emmanuel Adebayor , the  Sun said .  Spurs want to take the former Arsenal player, who’s fallen
out of favor at City, on loan in January and would like to buy
him at the end of the season, the Sun said.  Adebayor, 26, earns 160,000 pounds ($248,000) per week,
double what anyone earns with Spurs, the Sun said. He’s played
only eight Premier League games this season, with four of his
five goals coming in the Europa League.  Keane Bid  Aston Villa plans on making a 6 million-pound bid for
Tottenham striker  Robbie Keane  in January, the  Daily Mail  said.  Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  wants to bring in a new
striker in January and will have to offload players to balance
the books, the Mail said. Spurs’ high valuation of Keane and his
75,000 pounds-per-week salary could hinder any move, but Villa
hopes Tottenham is willing to negotiate, the Mail said.  Elmander Interest  Liverpool manager  Roy Hodgson  is interested in signing
 Johan Elmander , but will have to come up with 5 million pounds
to buy the Bolton striker, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Elmander’s contract, which pays him 50,000 pounds per week,
expires after the season and he turned down a one-year extension
last week, the Mirror said. The Swede is tied for fourth in the
Premier League with eight goals this season.  Pep’s United Desire  Barcelona manager  Pep Guardiola  will resist any approach
from Chelsea because he wants to work with  Alex Ferguson  at
Manchester United, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Guardiola, in the final year of his contract, has been
linked in U.K. media reports with Chelsea as a replacement for
 Carlo Ancelotti . He’s told friends he wants to take over at
United when Ferguson retires, the Mirror said.  His Barcelona team beat Real Madrid 5-0 last night to go
top in Spain.  Bidding War  Chelsea and Manchester City are gearing up for a bidding
war over Benfica defender David Luiz, the  Sun said .  Benfica needs to raise money after its elimination from the
Champions League and the 23-year-old Luiz has been rated at 25
million pounds, the Sun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 