-- Toyota Adds Etios to Battle GM, Hyundai in Emerging-Market Race
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-11-30T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/toyota-adds-etios-to-battle-gm-hyundai-in-emerging-market-race.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  placed such
importance on the Indian-built Etios compact that it was the
only new car the company didn’t delay amid the global financial
crisis. President  Akio Toyoda  needs it to escape a sales ranking
of seventh in Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy.  “Toyota has been very slow in getting its act together in
India,” said Darius Lam, a Bangkok-based analyst at researcher
 J.D. Power & Associates . “It’s hard to overstate the importance
of Etios to Toyota’s future success in India.”  Toyoda, 54, will debut the car today in Bangalore, the
first time he’s attended an overseas car presentation as chief
executive. Toyota, with market share of 2.8 percent in India
during the first 10 months of 2010, needs to win customers from
market leader Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., Hyundai Motor Co. and
 General Motors Co.  as it seeks 10 percent of the market in five
to seven years.  “India is a tough market to break through for a late comer
like Toyota,” said  Yoshihiro Okumura , who helps manage the
equivalent of $365 million at Chiba-Gin Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo. “The critical strategy from here is how it plans to
boost sales and set up dealers.”  The Etios goes on sale today in the world’s second-most
populous nation today priced around the same level as  Maruti
Suzuki’s  405,000 rupee ($8,800) to 731,000 rupee Swift models
and will be Toyota’s cheapest offering in India, the company has
said. Sold as a small sedan, with a hatchback to follow in March,
and built at a plant in Bidadi, near Bangalore, the Etios will
later be added in China, Brazil and Thailand.  ‘Good Milestone’  “This is a good milestone for Toyota in India,” said
 Ashvin Chotai , London-based managing director of Intelligence
Automotive Asia, an industry consultant. “The segment that the
Etios hatch is being targeted at is seeing a lot of competition
from all foreign players.”  Toyota sold 62,000 models in India through October,
compared with Maruti Suzuki’s 874,000 deliveries and Hyundai’s
299,000 vehicles. Maruti Suzuki controls 39 percent of India’s
light-vehicle market, while Hyundai ranks third with 13 percent,
according to J.D. Power.  Shares in Toyota fell 2.4 percent to close at 3,220 yen in
Tokyo yesterday. The stock has fallen 17 percent in 2010.  The Etios may also help the automaker, based in Toyota
City, Japan, narrow a sales gap with GM and Germany’s  Volkswagen
AG  in China, the world’s biggest auto market.  China Sales  Sales of the Toyota brand in China grew 17 percent to
644,000 this year through October, compared with a 36 percent
gain to 1.98 million units for market leader General Motors Co.
Volkswagen AG delivered 1.65 million vehicles in the period. The
Japanese company hasn’t yet announced a date for the Etios
introduction in China.  Toyota’s cheapest model in China is currently the Vios,
which is 23 percent more expensive than  BYD Co.’s  F3 compact.
The F3 is the country’s most popular car, priced at 70,800 yuan
($10,620).  Toyota designed the Etios specifically for emerging-market
customers, betting the less-expensive model can win new buyers
without tarnishing its reputation for reliable cars. Until now,
the Innova minivan was Toyota’s cheapest vehicle in India,
starting at 826,433 rupees in Mumbai. Neither model comes with
airbags as standard.  The automaker is lowering costs for its new model, whose
name is derived from the Greek word “ethos”, by increasing the
amount of parts purchased in India. Engine and transmission
production will also start in the nation in 2012, according to
Toyota Executive Vice President  Yukitoshi Funo .  ‘Do or Die’  “Bringing procurement cost to a very competitive level is
a do or die challenge for our procurement and production
teams,” Funo said in an interview in October.  While cheaper than other Toyotas, the Etios arrives as
 Nissan Motor Co.  plans to sell a $3,000 car in India in 2012
supplied by Bajaj Auto Ltd., the country’s second-largest
motorcycle maker.  Tata Motor Ltd.’s  Nano, the world’s cheapest
car, is even cheaper and priced at 131,331 rupees.  The success of India-built Etios cars may depend on exports,
following a similar path to Nissan’s Chennai-built Micra, said
Chotai.  “Nissan has been able to ramp up production mainly with
exports,” Chotai said. “A lot depends on a healthy balance
between exports and local sales.”  Even so, Toyota may benefit from adding a car that competes
with the best-selling models in the nation.  “The company has spent the past five years making sure it
delivers exactly what Indian car buyers expect,” J.D. Power’s
Lam said. “The Etios finally allows Toyota to compete in the
heart of the Indian light vehicle market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  