-- Toyota Acceleration Review Still Tying Up Loose Ends, Auto Regulator Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-11-30T20:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/toyota-acceleration-review-still-tying-up-loose-ends-auto-regulator-says.html
A review of unintended acceleration
incidents in  Toyota Motor Corp.  vehicles by two U.S. agencies
may not be released this fall in the U.S., as the top auto-
safety regulator said he’d wanted.  “We want to get it right,” National Highway Traffic
Safety Administrator  David Strickland  told reporters today in
Washington. “I’m not going to get hung up on a date if we need
to tie up loose ends.”  NASA, the U.S. space agency, began a review eight months
ago of reports of unintended acceleration in Toyota vehicles.
The world’s  largest automaker , based in Toyota City, Japan,
recalled more than 8 million cars and trucks worldwide for
defects in the largest such move by an automaker. It underwent a
series of U.S. congressional hearings on how the flaws occurred.  The U.S. Transportation Department, which includes NHTSA,
on March 30 said Toyota accelerator pedals and electronic
vehicle controls would be examined by NASA engineers as it
expanded its probe into causes of unintended acceleration.  “We haven’t been informed of any schedule by NHTSA. The
timing of the report is entirely up to them,”  John Hanson , a
spokesman for Toyota’s U.S. unit, said in a telephone interview
from Torrance, California.  Separate Review  The National Research Council, part of the congressionally
chartered National Academy of Sciences, is conducting a separate
review that NHTSA said in March would be completed in about 18
months. U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said at the
time the NASA probe would be completed “probably sooner” than
the research council review.  NASA is studying whether electromagnetic interference may
cause unintended acceleration, which may be linked to 89 deaths
in 71 crashes since 2000, according to the auto-safety agency.
NASA investigators are using Chrysler Group LLC’s test facility
in Auburn Hills, Michigan, for its vehicle testing work,
according an Aug. 10 NHTSA report to U.S. lawmakers.  Toyota expects the government reviews to support its own
findings that electronics didn’t cause unintended acceleration,
Hanson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 