-- Panasonic Begins Testing of Portable Video-Game Player `Jungle' in U.S.
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 2010-11-30T04:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/panasonic-begins-testing-of-portable-video-game-player-jungle-in-u-s-.html
Panasonic Corp.  began testing of a
handheld video-game player in the U.S., as the Japanese
electronics maker aims to return to the market after more than a
decade to challenge  Sony Corp.  and  Nintendo Co.   The company’s U.S.-based unit invited users in the country
to test the player, code-named “Jungle,” Panasonic Cloud
Entertainment Company said in an e-mail to registered customers
today. Panasonic’s Tokyo-based spokesman  Akira Kadota  confirmed
the e-mail, without providing details about when the device will
be unveiled and its price.  The Osaka, Japan-based company, which together with  Sega
Sammy Holdings Inc.  and  Atari SA , ceded the console market to
Sony and Nintendo, is looking to return to the video game
industry estimated to reach $20 billion in sales in the U.S.
this year. Besides its traditional rivals, Panasonic also faces
competition from games played using smartphones and tablet
computers, such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and iPad.  “We know other companies out there have traditional hand-
held gaming covered,” Panasonic said in the e-mail. “We’re
doing something very different.”  Panasonic’s clamshell device will feature a touchpad and
keyboard, TechCrunch  reported  on Oct. 4. The player will
specialize in online gaming, the blog reported.  Panasonic entered the video-game market in October 1993
with a $700 3DO video game console, a month before Atari Corp.’s
$249 Jaguar player. The last 3DO model went on sale in the
autumn of 1994, after which the business was discontinued, Naoto
Kishihara, a Panasonic spokesman, said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo
at   palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 