-- Patriots Are Favored by 3 1/2 Points Over Jets Due to Home-Field Advantage
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/patriots-favored-for-narrow-win-over-jets-courtesy-of-homefield-advantage.html
With the New England Patriots
unbeaten at home and the New York Jets perfect on the road this
season, something has to give when the teams meet in six days to
determine the leader of their division.  Since both teams are tied for the National Football
League’s best record at 9-2, homefield advantage is about
the only reason Las Vegas oddsmakers make the Patriots the 3
1/2-point favorites for the Dec. 6 game at Gillette Stadium in
Foxboro, Massachusetts. Three points is the average advantage
given to a home team in the NFL.  “It’s basically an evenly matched game,” said Sean Van
Patten, an oddsmaker at Las Vegas Sports Consultants, which
advises Nevada sports books on gambling lines.  The Jets are 5-0 away from home this season, the best road
record in the league, and have won eight straight regular-season
road games overall. The last time coach  Rex Ryan ’s team
lost in the regular season as the visiting team was more than a
year ago -- in New England.  While the Jets are the NFL’s only team not to lose on the
road this season, the Patriots are even better at home. New
England has won 14 straight regular-season games at Gillette
Stadium. Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  has won 25 consecutive
home games dating back to 2006, tying the NFL record for most
consecutive home wins by a quarterback set by  Brett Favre  in
Green Bay from 1995-98.  The last time Brady lost at home during the regular season
was on  Nov. 12, 2006  -- against the Jets.  ‘It’s Huge’  “This is really when you find out what the heart of each
team is,” Brady, who missed all but one game in 2008 because of
a knee injury, said yesterday during his weekly radio appearance
on WEEI in Boston. “It’s huge.”  This is the latest in a season the teams have been tied and
played a game to determine first place in the American Football
Conference’s East Division. The last time they faced each other
with so much at stake was in December 2004, when the Patriots
were 12-2 and won 23-7 on the road against a Jets team that had
a 10-4 record.  The Patriots went on to win the AFC East title, one of
their six in the past seven seasons.  “They’ve been on top of this division for a long time and
they’re not going to go away quietly,” Jets linebacker  Bart Scott  told reporters yesterday.  Brady, the NFL’s Most Valuable Player in 2007, is tied for
the league lead with 23 touchdown passes this season while
throwing only four interceptions. He’s helped the Patriots win
eight of their past nine games since a 28-14 Week 2 loss to the
Jets in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  Jets Shutout  In that game, Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez  threw two of
his three touchdown passes in the second half as New York
outscored New England 18-0.  The Jets have also won eight of nine games since then,
including one stretch in which they came through twice in
overtime and had three other victories decided with less than
1:30 to play.  “They’re solid in all phases and in the games where they
have had to make plays at the end, they’ve done it,” Patriots
coach  Bill Belichick  said yesterday during a news conference.
“The common thread is that Sanchez has made plays.”  Belichick has always put more of an emphasis on games
played after Thanksgiving. That’s when both teams last played,
with the Patriots beating the Detroit Lions 45-24 and the Jets
capping the holiday games with a 26-10 win over the Cincinnati
Bengals.  The Patriots and Jets will come into their Monday night
matchup after having 10 days off.  “We’re confident going anywhere to play, they’re certainly
confident playing at home,” Ryan told reporters yesterday.
“It’s going to be, in my opinion, the best two teams in
football squaring off against each other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  