-- Peak Ridge Seeks $30 Million in Morgan Stanley Case
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-12-01T00:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/peak-ridge-seeks-30-million-in-morgan-stanley-natural-gas-broking-case.html
(Corrects name of fund in first paragraph.)  Peak Ridge Master SPC Ltd., a
commodity hedge fund, is seeking at least $30 million in damages
stemming from Morgan Stanley’s role as the futures broker for
the fund.  The claim was filed yesterday in Manhattan federal court in
response to a lawsuit by the bank.  Morgan Stanley  said in a
complaint filed earlier this month that it suffered a $40.6
million loss after being forced to take over the fund’s natural
gas trades in June.  Morgan Stanley alleged that the Peak Ridge, based in
Hamilton, Bermuda, lost $9.8 million on natural gas trades on
June 4, forcing the bank to require additional cash to back the
trades, known as margin. When Peak Ridge failed to meet its
margin call, the New York-based bank took over its accounts on
June 11, according to the court filing. Over the next two weeks,
Morgan Stanley sold off the positions and “incurred substantial
losses,” the bank claimed.  In its counterclaim, Peak Ridge alleged that Morgan Stanley
“wrongfully seized” the fund’s account after “arbitrarily and
capriciously” imposing new margin requirements. Peak Ridge also
said Morgan Stanley didn’t make a margin call, and that the fund
wasn’t in default.  The fund also claimed that the bank turned to its
proprietary trading team to liquidate its positions, relying on
an “inexperienced” trader. Morgan Stanley “grossly
mishandled” the trades, losing $32 million, Peak Ridge alleged
in court papers.  Michael McNally , chief executive officer of Boston-based
Peak Ridge Capital Group LLC, which is associated with the hedge
fund, declined to comment.  “Morgan Stanley stands behind its initial lawsuit against
Peak Ridge and we intend aggressively to pursue our case,” Mark
Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mail.  The case is Morgan Stanley v. Peak Ridge Master SPC Ltd.,
10-08405, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at   aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  