-- Risk `Low' From Ending Gay Ban in Military, Defense Department Study Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-12-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/pentagon-study-sees-low-risk-of-ending-military-s-ban-on-gays.html
Ending the U.S. military’s ban on
openly gay and lesbian service members would present a “low”
risk to overall military effectiveness, according to a Pentagon
study.  “While repeal will likely in the short-term bring about
some limited and isolated disruption to unit cohesion and
retention, we do not believe the disruption will be widespread
and long-lasting,” said a 17-page summary of the study, which
was led by Army General  Carter Ham  and  Jeh Johnson , the Defense
Department’s general counsel.  “We are convinced that the U.S. military can adjust and
accommodate this change just as it has others in history,” said
the summary, released yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  said the study shows the U.S. can
end the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy “in a responsible
manner that ensures our military strength and national
security,” and called on the Senate to approve a repeal
proposal that passed the U.S. House earlier this year.  A survey of service members that underpins the Pentagon
report shows that 50 percent to 55 percent said repealing the
policy would have a mixed effect or no effect at all, and 15
percent to 20 percent said it would have a positive impact.  Thirty percent of survey respondents overall said ending
the ban would have a negative effect, an opinion shared by 40
percent to 60 percent of respondents from the Marine Corps and
largely all-male combat units. That “higher level of discontent
and discomfort” continues to be “a source of concern” to top
military leaders, Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said.  Risk is ‘Low’  The survey “consistently revealed a widespread attitude
among a solid majority of service members that repeal will not
have a negative impact on their ability to conduct their
military missions,” the report summary said, concluding that
“the risk of repeal to military effectiveness is low.”  The Pentagon report moves the fight to Capitol Hill, where
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has said he will seek a vote
on repealing the ban during the current lame-duck session of
Congress. “I hope that all of my colleagues will listen to our
military leaders” who have “made a compelling case that
repealing this policy will improve our military’s readiness,”
Reid said in a statement.  Arizona Senator  John McCain , the ranking Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, is “currently in the process
of carefully reviewing the Pentagon’s report,” spokeswoman
 Brooke Buchanan  said in an e-mail.  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  said “it is my hope that this
report encourages the Senate to move forward” with repeal.  ‘Highly Irresponsible’  Representative  Joe Wilson , of South Carolina, the top
Republican on the House’s military personnel subcommittee, said
that “using the last days of a lame-duck Congress to hastily
repeal ‘don’t ask don’t tell’ would be highly irresponsible.”  At a Pentagon news conference, Gates urged the Senate to
approve the House measure, which gives the military services
time to put together new rules and would end the policy only
after Obama and military leaders certify that the change won’t
hurt military effectiveness.  Gates said the report shows that repeal of the don’t ask,
don’t tell rule wouldn’t be “the wrenching, traumatic change
that many have feared and predicted.”  Federal Courts  Step-by-step procedures to end the ban through legislation
present a lower risk to military effectiveness than the
possibility that a court may order an immediate end to the
policy, Gates said. A federal trial judge in September declared
the ban unconstitutional. The Supreme Court earlier this month
allowed the law to remain in effect during appeals.  Obama pledged in his January 2010 State of the Union
address to end the don’t ask, don’t tell policy.  Gates commissioned the review to gauge the challenges of
implementing a personnel policy that lets gays and lesbians
serve openly and to make recommendations to the Obama
administration and Congress.  “For the first time, the chiefs and I have more than just
anecdotal evidence and hearsay to inform the advice we give our
civilian leaders,” Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral
 Michael Mullen  said in a statement.  “This is without question a complex social and cultural
issue,” Mullen said. “But at the end of the day, whatever the
decision of our elected leaders may be, we in uniform have an
obligation to follow orders.”  Senate Hearing  The Senate Armed Services Committee has scheduled hearings
on Dec. 2 and Dec. 3 to take testimony from Gates, Mullen, and
the top officers of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps.  Democratic leaders will have to win support from at least
two Republicans to reach the 60 votes needed to bring the
measure to the floor for final consideration. The House in May
voted 234-194 to approve legislation that would repeal the
policy.  The 1993 don’t ask, don’t tell compromise enacted under
former President  Bill Clinton  in the fiscal 1994 defense bill
allows gay men and lesbians to serve in the military only if
they don’t reveal their sexual orientation and it isn’t
otherwise disclosed.  The Pentagon study was based on a 103-question survey
developed by a professional research company and sent to 400,000
active duty and reserve service-members. More than 115,000
responses were received, Gates wrote earlier to McCain.  The working group also surveyed 150,000 military spouses,
receiving over 44,000 surveys and visited 50 military
installations, Gates wrote.  Poll Results  In a poll released Nov. 29, 58 percent of U.S. adults
favored letting gays and lesbians serve openly in the military,
with 27 percent opposed, according to a Nov. 4-7 survey of 1,255
people by the Washington-based Pew Research Center for the
People and the Press.  A spokesman for Outserve, an informal association of gay
and lesbian service members, said the idea of gays openly
serving in the military is no longer a matter of controversy for
younger soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines.  Concerns about repeal will turn out to be overblown, like
warnings about the so-called millennium bug software glitch that
was supposed to shut down the world’s computers in 2000, said
the spokesman, who asked not to be identified because he is
still on active duty.  Stereotypes  Outserve claims to have more than 1,200 active-duty service
members in 27 chapters, including groups in Iraq and
Afghanistan, and claims 110 chapters in Southern California and
80 in Germany, the spokesman said.  The report said that “in the course of our assessment, it
became apparent to us that aside from the moral and religious
objections to homosexuality, much of the concern about ‘open’
service is driven by misperceptions and stereotypes about what
it would mean if service members were allowed to be open about
their sexual orientations.”  The military discharged 259 men and 169 women last year
under the law. As many as 66,000 gay men and women may be
serving in the U.S. military, about 2.2 percent of all
personnel, including 13,000 on active duty, according to a study
by the  Williams Institute  of the University of California at Los
Angeles School of Law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 