-- Perdue Farms Sued for `Humanely Raised' Poultry Label
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-30T21:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/perdue-farms-sued-over-humanely-raised-labeling-on-poultry.html
The  Humane Society of the U.S.  said
one of its members sued Perdue Farms Inc. in New Jersey state
court and accused the poultry producer of falsely advertising
that chickens were raised humanely.  Nadine Hemy, who is seeking class-action, or group status
in the lawsuit, alleges that the Salisbury, Maryland-based
company is illegally marketing Perdue and Harvestland products
with labels that say “humanely raised.” Perdue denied the
allegation.  Perdue described its fresh and frozen chicken as having
been raised humanely in order to profit from rising consumer
awareness of the treatment of animals reared for meat
production, Hemy said in the complaint filed yesterday in state
court in Freehold, New Jersey.  Peter Brandt, an attorney for the society, said in a
telephone interview that while the advocacy group is not a party
in the lawsuit, its attorneys are assisting Hemy and her legal
counsel with the case.  The animal-rights group is attempting to define humane
treatment of chickens with “its own narrow, arbitrary
standards,”  Perdue  said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg
News by Luis A. Luna, the company’s vice president of corporate
communications.  ‘Family Farms’  “Our chickens are raised cage-free on family farms in
temperature-controlled housing with a continuous flow of fresh
air, and they remain free to move about, with constant access to
food and water,” the company said. The animals are sheltered
from the elements, predators and disease, it said.  Review programs by the U.S. Department of Agriculture show
that the company is “exceeding the industry standards,” Perdue
said. The company uses video monitoring at processing plants to
ensure that humane standards are followed, according to the
statement.  Tyson Foods Inc.  is the largest U.S. chicken processor
based on 2009 production, followed by JBS SA’s Pilgrim’s Pride
and closely held Perdue Inc., according to  WATT PoultryUSA , an
industry publication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 