-- Polish Economy Grows Fastest in Two Years, Setting Stage for Rate Increase
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-11-30T11:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/poland-s-economy-grows-fastest-in-two-years-as-private-investment-picks-up.html
Poland’s economy grew at the fastest
pace in two years in the third quarter as consumer demand
boosted investments, setting the stage for rate tightening.  Gross domestic product  expanded an annual 4.2 percent in
the three months ending in September, the quickest since the
third quarter of 2008, the Warsaw-based  Central Statistical
Office  reported. The GDP figure exceeded the 3.6 percent median
estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey. GDP rose 3.5
percent in the second quarter.  Poland’s economy, the largest in the European Union’s
eastern flank, is set to outperform the rest of the bloc for a
third year. Industrial output has grown more than 10 percent on
average each month this year, boosting employment and retail
sales. The central bank forecasts GDP to advance 3.5 percent in
2010 and 4.3 percent in 2011.  “I’m inclined to believe that the data would support an
increase in interest rates, which should be taken into
consideration as early as December,”  Jan Winiecki , a member of
the central bank’s Monetary Policy Council, said in an interview
with  TVN CNBC . “The Council should consider whether the pace of
domestic expansion can be a stimulus to price growth.”  The zloty strengthened 1.3 percent on the day to 4.0556 per
euro at 11 a.m. in Warsaw, reversing a 3.4 percent slide against
the single currency since the beginning of November.  ‘Black Cat’  “We’re finally dealing with stable economic growth,
because private investments have joined consumption as a
driver,”  Jaroslaw Janecki , chief economist at Societe Generale
in Warsaw, said by phone. “These data bring us closer to a
decision to increase interest rates.”  Hungary became the first country among the EU’s eastern
members to raise its benchmark interest rate yesterday in a
“near-unanimous” vote, central bank President  Andras Simor 
said.  Winiecki told Radio PiN earlier today there was “no link”
between the Hungarian rate decision and that facing Polish
policy makers. Still, he told TVN CNBC after the GDP figures
were released that December rate meetings shouldn’t be treated
as “a black cat that keeps us from taking a decision when it
crosses our path.”  Expectations Steady  Investors’ rate-increase expectations in Poland remained
steady as the three-month forward-rate agreement today was 0.38
percentage point higher than the benchmark three-month Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate, unchanged from yesterday. That indicates
investors expect the central bank to increase domestic borrowing
costs by at least a quarter point within three months.  Private consumption jumped 3.5 percent, compared with a 3
percent annual rise in the second quarter. Fixed investment
increased 0.4 percent after falling 1.7 percent in the earlier
quarter, the statistical office said.  “The data convey an inflationary message,”  Ernest Pytlarczyk , chief economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw, wrote in an
e-mailed comment that pointed out consumption growth was
outstripping investment.  Polish policy makers may nevertheless “prefer to stick to
a wait-and-see approach” as they focus on “the fragility of
investment” and “mounting global risks,” Pytlarczyk said.  -- Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw contributed to this story.
Editors:  David McQuaid ,  Alan Crosby   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  