-- Portugal May Be Cut by S&P on Lack of Progress in Boosting Economic Growth
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-12-01T08:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/portugal-sovereign-debt-ratings-may-be-cut-by-s-p-on-concerns-about-growth.html
Portugal may have its credit rating
cut by Standard & Poor’s on concern the country may have to seek
a bailout as the contagion from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
spreads through the region.  Risks to creditworthiness “stem from uncertainty about the
government’s possible recourse to official funding,” said S&P
late yesterday in a note. The New York-based rating company,
which has an A- rating on Portugal, said it’s concerned about
the European Union’s plan to introduce a permanent crisis
mechanism, which could make private creditors “subordinated to
public creditors.”  The report highlights concern that European leaders are not
doing enough to stem a credit crisis that’s forced Greece and
Ireland to seek international bailouts this year. Credit-default
swaps protecting from losses on Portuguese debt jumped 4.5 basis
points to 542.9 yesterday and the extra yield that investors
demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds over German bunds rose to a
record on Nov. 29.  “The bailout of Ireland made it obvious that the EU had no
interest in a shock-and-awe approach to this, and so will plod
through the crisis dealing with one country at a time,” said
 Douglas Borthwick , head of foreign-exchange trading at Stamford,
Connecticut-based Faros Trading LLC. “The market will continue
to go after each individual country until the EU steps forward
with a credible way of dealing with the credit issues and
questions held by the market.”  S&P said it placed Portugal’s A- long-term and A-2 short-
term foreign and local currency sovereign credit ratings on
“CreditWatch” with “negative implications.” S&P expects the
country to stay investment grade even if it’s downgraded.  Flexibility  The lowered growth projection reflects Portugal’s inability
to reduce its current-account deficit, S&P said.  “Policies the government has pursued have done little to
boost labor flexibility and productivity,” the S&P report said.
“As a consequence of the Portuguese economy’s structural
rigidities and the volatile external conditions, we project that
the economy will contract by at least 2 percent in 2011 in real
terms.”  In today’s report, S&P said a further downgrade could have
“a negative impact on the creditworthiness of the five
Portuguese banks and two related subsidiaries” that it rates.  Italian and Spanish government bonds fell yesterday, and
credit-default swaps protecting from losses on those countries’
debts rose to records.  Moody’s Cut  Portugal was lowered to A- from A+ in April by S&P. Moody’s
Investors Service, which has an A1 rating for Portugal, said on
Oct. 18 that the government was responding “adequately” to
market pressures to lower the deficit, though the country’s
long-term economic prospects are a cause for concern.  Bonds have dropped across Europe on concerns about German
plans to make investors foot the bill of any future bailouts.
While the plans were watered down by finance ministers last
week, S&P said the so-called European Stability Mechanism could
still threaten Portugal’s credit rating.  “As a result, debt that European Monetary Union member
states issue might not rank pari passu with debt that the ESM
issues,” said S&P. It’s concerned about the “consequences”
that a bailout could have “for the position of private-sector
creditors vis-a-vis official creditors after 2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  