-- `Real Bad' Cash Jam May Force Michigan Towns to Borrow or Default By March
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2010-11-30T16:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/property-tax-collection-plunge-may-make-michigan-towns-borrow-or-default.html
Cities and towns across Michigan
have had property-tax collections plunge as much as 20 percent
in the past year, the steepest drop since a 1994 state tax
rewrite, forcing scores of communities to choose by March
whether to borrow to pay bills or risk default on bonds.  The municipalities rely on property taxes for as much as 60
percent of their revenue, according to the Michigan Municipal
League. State support that typically makes up an additional 20
percent to 35 percent of city budgets has been slashed by almost
a third in the past year, during the longest recession since the
1930s.  The end of a three-year federal stimulus that sent $3.1
billion to Michigan -- a sum roughly equal to two annual budgets
for Detroit -- will force “fundamental decisions,” according
to a memorandum from the Michigan Senate Fiscal Agency.  “This gets real bad in about 90 to 150 days,” said  Robert Daddow , deputy executive of Oakland County, which is adjacent to
Detroit’s Wayne County and has a per-capita income 147 percent
of the state average, according to Moody’s Investors Service.
“The question becomes whether they can secure enough cash from
banks and whether banks are willing to lend in a credit-crunch
situation.”  The value of taxable housing in  Oakland County , which is
home to the headquarters of Chrysler Group LLC, fell about 12
percent this year, Moody’s said in a Nov. 23 report. It will
drop 10 percent further in 2011 and 5 percent more in 2012,
Moody’s said.  Challenged Region  “Declining housing values and a growing unemployment rate
within the county demonstrates the county’s exposure to the
challenges in this region,” Moody’s said.  State  unemployment  in October was 12.8 percent; it has been
as high as 14.5 percent in December 2009 as the auto industry
contracted.  The state in October trailed only California and Florida in
its number of foreclosure filings, according to RealtyTrac Inc.,
an Irvine, California-based data firm. A total of 19,288
properties in the state, one in 235 households, got a default or
auction filing or were seized by banks last month, the company
said. The rate was up 17 percent from a year earlier.  “It’ll take us a decade or more for cities to be
collecting what they were a decade earlier,” Summer Minnick,
director of state affairs for the Ann Arbor, Michigan-based
Municipal League, said in a telephone interview. Some have
seen property-tax revenue drop by a fifth, she said.   “Right now, we have several communities on the brink of
severe problems,” she said.  At the Edge  The recession has pushed many U.S. communities to the edge
of Chapter 9 bankruptcy, or, in the case of Vallejo, California,
into it. Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, averted a bond default only
because the state accelerated an aid payment.  Under state law, Michigan has the final say on whether a
municipality can enter bankruptcy. None ever has, according to
the state Treasury Department. Detroit said in March it was
considering moving toward a filing.  Hamtramck , where General
Motors Co. manufactures the Chevrolet Volt, has also pressed
state officials for a bankruptcy, saying that Detroit, which
largely surrounds it, owes it money.  Bond Request  Southfield, an Oakland County city with what Moody’s in
2008 called a “satisfactory financial position,” estimates
 $19.9 million  from its general operating-tax levy this fiscal
year, a 16.7 percent drop from three years ago, when it budgeted
for  $23.9 million . Its administrator and treasurer asked the
state Legislature in September for permission to sell $50
million in bonds to cover operational costs.  A Southfield general-obligation bond maturing on July 1,
2023, was valued on Nov. 29 at 100.736 cents on the dollar to
yield 4.195 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The security was insured by Financial Guaranty Insurance Corp.,
whose parent, FGIC Corp., sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection in August after suffering losses from the drop in the
U.S. housing market. The bond-insurance unit wasn’t part of the
filing.  Brad Reynolds , chief investment strategist for LJPR LLC in
Troy, Michigan, is “keeping an eye” on the cash crunch, he said
today.  “I see a lot of red flags, but hear very few fire alarms,”
said Reynolds, whose firm holds about $100 million in municipal
bonds, 90 percent of them from Michigan issuers.  Under a 1990 law, a Michigan governor can declare a
financial emergency for a city and install a manager to run its
business. Of the seven such  declarations , four have occurred
since December 2008.  Facing Collapse  “Hundreds of jurisdictions” in the state may face
financial collapse in the next three to five years,  Rick Snyder ,
Michigan’s newly elected Republican governor, said Nov. 19.  Nationwide, the value of defaulted municipal securities
fell to $2.48 billion through October, compared with $7.28
billion in 2009 and a record $8.15 billion in 2008, according to
 Richard Lehmann , publisher of Distressed Debt Securities
Newsletter.  Lehmann told Bloomberg News last week there may be a “new
wave” of defaults in 2011 as federal economic-stimulus aid
declines and budget pressures mount.  The number of local governments on Michigan’s three-year-
old financial watch list, which measures stresses by debt, tax
collections, cash flow and population changes, totaled 68 in
2008, the most recent accounting.  Rich and Poor  Cities on the state Treasury Department’s list include the
industrial centers of Detroit, River Rouge, Jackson and Benton
Harbor. Suburbs are also in danger, Minnick said.  “These are upscale suburban bedroom communities that had
new homes and tremendous price spikes,” Minnick said. “Some
are communities you would not have expected.”  The Michigan Legislature has cut revenue-sharing payments
to localities by almost one-third in the past year and by $4
billion in the past 10 years, the Municipal League said.  The financial strain on cities is compounded by voter-
approved constitutional limits on the growth of property taxes,
which restrain annual increases to 5 percent or the rate of
inflation, whichever is less.  Falling property-tax collections will create gaps starting
next year in the “hundreds of millions of dollars” for cities
and townships, said Eric Scorsone, senior economist for the
 Michigan Senate Fiscal Agency .  Michigan counties reimburse local governments for unpaid
property taxes and charge fees and interest as the county
attempts to collect delinquent amounts for three years, Scorsone
said. If the county cannot collect, the city or township can be
billed for the uncollectable tax value.  Blindsided  Scorsone said the financial liability is “certainly going
to be a big number and it’s going to hit a lot of places that
aren’t aware of the problem.”  “A lot of governments are going to get squeezed pretty
hard,” Scorsone said.  The fall in property-tax collections comes even as Michigan
is beginning to emerge from a long economic slump. The
University of Michigan on Nov. 19 forecast a net increase in
jobs in 2011, the first gain in more than a decade. The state’s
economic activity in September reached its highest level since
June 2008, driven by resurgent manufacturing, according to a
Comerica Bank report.  Dangerous Mix  Meanwhile, the combination of foreclosures, falling tax
revenue and unfunded municipal pension liabilities is becoming
unmanageable, said  Charles Moore , senior managing director at
Conway MacKenzie Inc., which works with municipalities on
financial restructuring.  “I think there’s a very high likelihood we’ll see defaults
in 2011 and I expect it will only increase in 2012 and 2013,”
said Moore, who is based in Birmingham, Michigan.  Communities are trying to persuade the Legislature to
refinance their bond debt that was initially sold on the
assumption that property values -- and property taxes -- would
continue to increase at pre-2008 levels, Minnick said.  “I hope we can do the refinancing so we can prevent
defaults. I don’t know if, at the end of the day, that will be
enough,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  