-- Prostate Cancer Patients Have Better Life Quality If Treatment Is Delayed
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-11-30T22:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/prostate-cancer-men-get-better-life-quality-delaying-surgery-radiation.html
Men diagnosed with low-risk prostate
cancer that chose to forgo treatment while staying under doctor
supervision had six months more quality life than those who had
surgery or radiation therapy, a Harvard University study found.  Scientists used a computer model to determine life
expectancy adjusted for quality of life, given  treatment  side
effects like incontinence and erectile dysfunction. They found
men only monitored by their doctors had 11 years of quality
life, compared with 10.5 quality years after radiation therapy
and 10.2 years after surgery. The authors assumed that men 65 or
older getting monitored waiting had a life expectancy of 80.6
years compared with 80.9 years for those getting early radiation
or surgery.  Most of the 192,000 U.S. men diagnosed each year with
prostate cancer choose treatment, though 60 percent of them may
not require it, the researchers said. Today’s study, in the
 Journal  of the American Medical Association, shows active
monitoring is a reasonable alternative to treatment, said lead
study author  Julia Hayes .  “This study isn’t designed to tell people what is best,”
said Hayes, a doctor at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and an
instructor in medicine at Harvard Medical School in Boston, in a
telephone interview today. “It is designed on an individual
level to provide a starting point for discussion between the
physician and the patient. Sixty percent of men who are screened
and diagnosed are over-treated. Those men would be reasonable
candidates for active surveillance if they and their doctor are
comfortable with that approach.”  Common Malignancy  Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy other than
skin cancer to occur in U.S. men, and is the second-leading
cause of cancer death, behind lung tumors, according to the
Atlanta-based  American Cancer Society . More than 192,280 new
cases of prostate cancer occurred in U.S. men last year, killing
27,360, the cancer society said.  Surgery, radiation, hormone therapy and chemotherapy are
 common procedures  for prostate cancer. Treatment may be painful
and sometimes leads to lifelong urinary incontinence and
impotence.  “Increasingly we’re detecting smaller and slower growing
tumors. In doing so, men are challenged with what’s going to be
the best treatment,” said  Ian Thompson , who wrote an
accompanying editorial. “What this study shows is for men with
these slower growing tumors, one of the very reasonable options
is simply to watch the cancer. The concept is almost foreign to
most people.”  Slower Growing  Thompson, an executive director of the Cancer Therapy and
Research Center at the University of Texas Health Science Center
San Antonio, said that prostate cancer is different from other
cancers because in many cases it is slower growing. Many men
with prostate cancer die from other causes, not the cancer. And
the treatment, with the side effects, can reduce what a man
considers his own quality of life.  If one man already suffers from erectile dysfunction, then
treatment may not have any additional negative consequences on
his health. For someone without sexual problems, the side
effects of treatment could seriously affect the man’s quality of
life, he said.  The researchers in the study used data from previous
studies and literature review to create hypothetical groups of
65-year-old men who were newly diagnosed with having low-risk
prostate cancer. The men were treated with radiation or surgery
or monitored by doctors, including receiving follow-up blood
tests every three to six months, a physical exam every six
months and periodic biopsies of the tumor tissue to make sure
their cancer didn’t grow.  Treatment Options  Models like this are used to help determine treatment
options when randomized studies of surveillance versus treatment
are unavailable, Hayes said.  Today’s study was funded in part by the National Institutes
of Health, the U.S. Department of Defense, the Prostate Cancer
Foundation and the Blue Shield of California Foundation.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  