-- Puerto Rico to Meet Goldman and Morgan Stanley Groups on Toll-Road Lease
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-11-30T19:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/puerto-rico-to-meet-goldman-and-morgan-stanley-groups-on-toll-road-lease.html
Puerto Rico will begin one-on-one
meetings with four investor groups, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  and  Morgan Stanley , interested in leasing two toll
roads under its plan to close a budget deficit that led to a
credit rating lower than any state.  The U.S. territory  chose the four bidders  in September and
expects their final proposals by March 7, said  David Alvarez ,
executive director of the Public-Private Partnerships Authority.
It sent a draft concession agreement and request for proposals
to the groups on Nov. 19, he said. The transaction should close
by mid-June after the meetings that begin tomorrow in New York,
he said.  “We have taken another critical step,” Alvarez said in a
telephone interview today. “Now we can tell the investor
community that we have an official procurement going on.”  Puerto Rico overhauled rules for  public-private
partnerships  in June 2009 so they don’t need legislative
approval. The upfront payments from leases with private
companies to run services like roads will help close a budget
deficit that was $3.3 billion when  Luis Fortuno , the first
Republican elected governor in 40 years, took office in January
2009.  “Money that’s looking for a jurisdiction in which to place
itself can think of Puerto Rico as a home,” Jose Perez-Riera,
secretary of economic development and commerce, said on the
telephone call with Alvarez.  Bidding Groups  The approved bidders for the roads are: Spain’s  Abertis
Infraestructuras SA  and Goldman Sachs’s Infrastructure Partners
II unit; Brazil’s  Cia. de Concessoes Rodoviarias ; Spain’s
 Itinere Infraestructuras SA  and Citigroup Inc.’s Infrastructure
Investors unit; and Spain’s  Obrascon Huarte Lain SA  and Morgan
Stanley Infrastructure Inc.  The toll roads generate about $90 million in annual
revenue, Alvarez said. Puerto Rico will get a lump sum from the
selected group, which will be entitled to the toll revenue and
be responsible for maintenance for 40 to 50 years, he said.  The lump sum will be used in part to buy back bonds sold to
finance the roads, lowering debt-service for the government. The
bonds’ cost will set a minimum price for the bids on the road
lease, he said. Puerto Rico has identified the bonds it plans to
buy and will inform the bidders of the price after getting
approval from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, Alvarez said.  “This is a landmark transaction” for public-private
partnerships in the U.S., he said. “We are complying with all
the bondholding covenants under the different bond
resolutions.”  Busiest Highway  The deal will cover the Jose de Diego expressway, Puerto
Rico’s busiest highway, which runs 52 miles (84 kilometers) from
San Juan to Arecibo, according to the authority’s website, and
PR-5, a San Juan highway that intersects the larger road.  In fiscal 2010, the Diego expressway brought in an
estimated $85.7 million in revenue and PR-5 earned $4.3 million,
according to  a June study  from the authority. The report says
the deal will be the first phase in a four-part plan to lease
roads.  Messages left for a Goldman spokeswoman,  Andrea Raphael ,
and the chief investment officer of Concessoes Rodoviarias,
 Arthur Piotto , were not immediately returned.  Danielle Romero- Apsilos , a Citigroup spokeswoman, and a Morgan Stanley
spokeswoman,  Erica Platt , declined to comment.  Alvarez’s partnership authority is moving ahead with other
projects, he said. It’s renovating 100 schools using $756
million from a sale of Qualified School Construction Bonds. Work
on two schools is underway and is expected to commence on 14
more by the end of the year, he said. Approval for construction
of 12 new schools will likely come by mid-December, Alvarez
said.  Airport Lease  The authority is also pursuing a lease for Luis Munoz Marin
International Airport in San Juan to a private operator, said
Alvarez. The authority is likely to get approval from the
necessary 65 percent of the airlines that serve Puerto Rico,
including  AMR Inc. ’s American Airlines and  Delta Air Lines Inc. ,
by the end of the year, he said.  Standard & Poor’s raised its outlook on Puerto Rico’s
general-obligation bonds yesterday from stable to positive,
saying spending cuts and revenue-generating measures could help
balance the budget within two years. S&P rates the debt at BBB-,
the lowest investment grade.  Puerto Rico  reported  yesterday that its economic-activity
index contracted by the smallest amount in October since April
2008. Gasoline consumption for the fiscal year that began in
July, an indicator of traffic on the island’s roads, was up 1.9
percent from the same period last year, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 