-- Qatar Talks With Total, Shell on Petrochemical Project
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2010-11-30T09:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/qatar-talks-with-total-shell-on-petrochemical-project-update1-.html
Qatar, the world’s largest exporter
of liquefied natural gas, is in talks with  Total SA  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc  about possible construction of a petrochemical
complex as the country seeks more ways of using its own gas.  “We are discussing it with several” companies, Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah said in Doha today. “We will take the best
offer,” he said, declining to give the value for a potential
project.  Qatar is using its natural gas reserves, the world’s third
largest, to run petrochemical, aluminum and fertilizer factories
as it diversifies its economy away from exporting liquefied
natural gas and crude oil. The Persian Gulf emirate aims to
raise its annual production of petrochemicals to 28 million
metric tons by 2014, al-Attiyah said in May.  Total has designs ready for a new petrochemical complex in
Qatar if a $6 billion project announced by  Exxon Mobil Corp .
early this year is canceled, two people with knowledge of the
matter said last week. Al-Attiyah didn’t comment specifically on
Exxon’s project today.  Exxon is “still talking” with Qatar about the venture,
Thomas Walters, president of ExxonMobil Gas & Power Marketing
Co., said in Doha today. He added that he is responsible for the
company’s upstream operations and is not directly involved in
talks about the proposed petrochemical facility.  Biggest Project  State-controlled Qatar Petroleum signed an agreement with
Exxon in January to build a petrochemical complex that would be
the emirate’s biggest single energy-related project since
Shell’s Pearl gas-to-liquids plant was announced in 2006. Qatar
may choose a different partner, a Qatar Petroleum official said
in August.  Exxon’s planned facility was to include a 1.6 million-ton-
a-year steam cracker, two 650,000-ton polyethylene plants and a
700,000-ton ethylene glycol unit. Construction was to be
completed by 2015, the companies said in January.  Total owns stakes in four Qatari facilities that liquefy
gas and is a shareholder in Qatar Petrochemical Co. and Qatofin
Co.’s linear low-density polyethylene plant.  Shell’s $19 billion Pearl gas-to-liquids plant may be fully
operational in the first quarter of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in  Abu Dhabi  at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  