-- QSR Slumps Most in 32 Months After Rejecting Carlyle's $614 Million Offer
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-30T01:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/qsr-brands-slumps-in-kuala-lumpur-after-carlyle-s-takeover-bid-is-rejected.html
QSR Brands Bhd. , the Southeast Asian
fast-food chain operator, fell the most in more than two years
in Kuala Lumpur trading after its biggest shareholder  Kulim
(Malaysia) Bhd . rejected two 1.94 billion ringgit ($614 million)
takeover bids, including one from Carlyle Group.  “As QSR and subsidiaries are currently experiencing robust
growth, the board believes that more value can be realized in
the long term and therefore the companies should be retained
within the group,” Kulim, QSR’s biggest shareholder, said in a
statement late yesterday.  Carlyle, the Washington-based private equity firm, offered
6.70 ringgit a share for all of QSR on Nov. 25, 19 percent more
than its previous closing price that day. QSR yesterday rejected
an improved rival bid of the same value by a company led by
Malaysian businessman Halim Saad, KUB Malaysia Bhd., and a unit
of CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the London-based buyout firm.  “We believe this statement indicates that Kulim was never
in the market to sell QSR in the first place and that the offers
to acquire QSR were completely unsolicited,” said  Hoe Lee Leng ,
an analyst with RHB Research Institute Sdn. in a report today.  A takeover of Kuala Lumpur-based QSR would have given the
new owner control of  KFC Holdings (Malaysia) Bhd. , the nation’s
biggest fast-food operator, as well as the Pizza Hut chain of
restaurants in Malaysia and Singapore. Kulim owns 55.1 percent
of QSR, which in turn holds 50.6 percent of KFC, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  KFC, Pizza Hut  QSR dropped 9.7 percent to 5.65 ringgit at 9:10 a.m. local
time, set for its biggest decline since March 10, 2008. The
stock has surged 71 percent this year, outpacing the benchmark
 FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index’s  18 percent gain. Kulim fell 2.8
percent to 11.74 ringgit, while KFC shed 2.3 percent to 3.85
ringgit.  Listed in April 2004, QSR operates more than 530 KFC
restaurants in Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei and Cambodia, and
about 230 Pizza Hut outlets in Malaysia and Singapore, according
to its  website .  Kulim said its board rejected Carlyle’s offer because the
businesses of QSR and its subsidiaries are part of the group’s
“key entities.”  Idaman Saga Sdn., a company part-owned by businessman
Halim, made the first move for QSR on Nov. 22, offering 5.60
ringgit a share. Idaman later teamed up with KUB and CVC to
raise its bid to match Carlyle’s Nov. 25 offer. QSR issued a
separate statement yesterday rejecting the group’s revised
offer, without giving a reason.  “While there is a possibility that these bidding parties
may raise their bids, we think that acceptance by Kulim would
still be remote,” said  Vincent Khoo , an analyst at UOB Kay Hian
Group said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc in Hong Kong at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 