-- Rangel Censure Vote Moves Forward as House Committee Submits Ethics Report
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-11-30T21:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/rangel-censure-vote-moves-forward-as-house-committee-submits-ethics-report.html
The U.S. House ethics committee
submitted its report on Representative  Charles Rangel  of New
York to the full chamber today, paving the way for a vote by
lawmakers on whether to censure him for ethical violations.  The ethics panel, comprising five Democrats and five
Republicans, voted Nov. 18 to recommend that Rangel be censured.
The committee also recommended that Rangel, a Democrat re-
elected earlier this month to his 21st term, pay back taxes on
rental income he earned from a villa in the Dominican Republic.  A House vote is expected this week.  An ethics subcommittee found that Rangel committed 11
violations of House rules by using congressional stationery and
staff to seek donations for an  academic center  named for him at
City College of New York, filing erroneous financial-disclosure
statements, failing to pay taxes for 17 years on rental income,
and using a rent-controlled apartment as a campaign office.  The report by the full committee said the violations were
committed “on a continuous and prolonged basis” and warranted
“a strong congressional response rebuking his behavior.”  If the House approves, Rangel, 80, would become the first
of its members to be censured since Representatives Gerry
Studds, a Massachusetts Democrat, and  Daniel Crane , an Illinois
Republican, were censured in 1983 for sexual misconduct with
House pages.  Censure Procedure  Under censure, Rangel would stand on the House floor as
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, reads the
resolution outlining his transgressions.  Some lawmakers say Rangel should receive a reprimand, a
less-severe penalty. Majority Whip  James Clyburn  of South
Carolina, the House’s third-ranking Democrat and a member with
Rangel of the Congressional Black Caucus, said he opposed
censuring his colleague.  “A reprimand would be more appropriate,” he told
reporters today.  Rangel apologized to the committee on Nov. 18, even as he
argued that he did “nothing corrupt” and didn’t profit from
his actions. The panel’s chief counsel, Blair Chisam, told the
subcommittee earlier this month that he didn’t believe Rangel
“took steps to enrich himself.”  Rangel gave up the chairmanship of the House  Ways and Means
Committee  in March after the ethics panel said he broke House
rules by accepting corporate-sponsored travel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 