-- Rate Swaps Climb Most in Three Years on Inflation, Inflows: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-30T18:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/rate-swaps-climb-most-in-three-years-on-inflation-inflows-china-credit.html
China’s interest-rate  swaps  jumped
the most in three years last month on speculation the central
bank will raise borrowing costs further to rein in the fastest
inflation since 2008 as foreign capital surges into the nation.  Two-year contracts that exchange the central bank’s  one-
year deposit rate  for a fixed payment climbed 58 basis points to
3.4 percent, the biggest monthly advance since April 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past two
months Standard Chartered Plc and Credit Agricole SA doubled
projections for the number of increases in the deposit rate by
mid-2011 to four.  The People’s Bank of China raised lenders’ reserve
requirements for the fifth time this year on Nov. 19, a month
after increasing its benchmark interest rate for the first time
since 2007.  Consumer prices  in October were 4.4 percent higher
than a year earlier, while Chinese banks’ yuan positions
stemming from sales of foreign-exchange surged the most in 30
months, official figures show.  “This round of inflation has been mainly caused by surging
food prices, and hot-money inflows may fuel expectations for
further price growth,” said  Simon Song , a China rates
strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Shanghai. “The swap rates
imply at least three rate increases in one year’s time.”  Buyers of China’s two-year swaps receive the deposit rate
for one year, after which the floating payment is reset for the
second year. Because the floating rate under the swap is now at
2.5 percent, a 3.4 percent level indicates the deposit rate will
be about 4.3 percent in December 2011. The swap rate reached
3.44 percent on Nov. 26, the highest level since October 2008.  Rate Increases  Inflation  may have accelerated to 4.8 percent in November,
analysts at China International Capital Corp. said in a report
this week. The rate may average 5.5 percent in 2011, up from an
estimated 3.2 percent this year, Standard Chartered analysts led
by  Stephen Green  wrote in a Nov. 18 report.  The  yield  on China’s benchmark 10-year bonds increased 3.1
basis points last month to 4.01 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s climbed 64 basis points to 12.54
percent, and  India ’s fell 15 basis points to 7.99 percent. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The People’s Bank of China raised its benchmark one-year
lending rate by a quarter-percentage point on Oct. 19 to 5.56
percent and the deposit rate by the same amount, to 2.5 percent.
Standard Chartered forecast one more increase for this year, and
three in the first half of 2011. The U.K. lender also predicted
Chinese banks’ reserve-requirement ratios will be boosted by 50
basis points as many as five times.  Yuan Appreciation  China’s central bank should make clear that it’s shifting
to a “prudent” monetary policy and allow further yuan
appreciation to combat inflation,  Sheng Songcheng , head of the
monetary authority’s statistics department, wrote in a
commentary in yesterday’s Financial News.  The need for tightening is building as China’s promotion of
the yuan as an alternative to the dollar in international trade
and finance, coupled with forecasts for appreciation, fans
overseas demand for the currency and spurs inflows. The yuan has
strengthened 2.4 percent to 6.6670 per dollar since a two-year
peg ended on June 19, and 12-month non-deliverable forwards
reflect bets for a 1.8 gain in the coming year.  The central bank bought 519 billion yuan of foreign
exchange from local lenders in October, 79 percent more than the
previous month and the most since April 2008, according to data
released Nov. 26. Bill sales may be increased to soak up
inflows,  Ma Delun , a deputy governor, said at a Nov. 29
briefing.  Deposits, Trade  Yuan  deposits  in Hong Kong jumped by a record 67.8 billion
yuan ($10 billion) in October to 217.1 billion yuan, the city’s
monetary authority said yesterday. International trade
transactions settled in yuan totaled a record 126.5 billion yuan
in the third quarter, 160 percent more than in the previous
three months, official figures show. China’s finance ministry
said yesterday a sale of 5 billion yuan of its debt in Hong Kong
attracted orders for 10 times the amount offered.  “Yuan appreciation and interest-rate increases will lure
more foreign capital into China, which will make reserve ratio
increases unavoidable,” said  Jiang Chao , a Shanghai-based
analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co., the nation’s largest
brokerage by revenue. He forecast borrowing costs will be raised
three more times by mid-2011.  One-year interest-rate  swaps  based on the floating seven-
day repurchase  rate  jumped a record 83 basis points last month
to 3.18 percent. That’s the biggest increase in Bloomberg data
going back to May 2006.  ‘Tightening Mode’  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, surged 1.28 percentage points last month, the
most since Bloomberg started tracking the daily fixing from the
National Interbank Funding Center in 2003. The rate jumped 63
basis points yesterday to 3.31 percent, the highest level since
October 2008.  “Definitely we are in a liquidity tightening mode,” said
 Pin Ru Tan , a Singapore-based strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc. “Swaps are being driven by expectations about
hikes in both interest rates and the reserve-requirement ratio.
There isn’t much room for the swaps to rise further.”  Chinese government dollar bond risk rose in November,
credit-default swaps show. Five-year contracts on the nation’s
debt gained 11 basis points to 71, according to CMA prices. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  -- Belinda Cao ,  Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry ,
 Dennis Fitzgerald   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  