-- Real Reversing Biggest Slump Since May on Outlook for Rates: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-11-30T19:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/real-reversing-biggest-slump-since-may-on-outlook-for-rates-brazil-credit.html
The Brazilian real’s biggest slide
since May is unlikely to last as Standard Chartered Bank and
Wells Fargo & Co. say the prospect of higher  interest rates  will
help bolster the currency in December.  The real dropped 1 percent in November, the most since
sinking 4.5 percent in May, to 1.7151 per U.S. dollar as concern
the debt crisis in Europe is spreading prompted investors to
shun emerging-market assets. The slump pared the real’s advance
this year to 1.7 percent, less than the gains for currencies in
Colombia, Mexico, Chile and Peru, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Standard Chartered, the most accurate real forecaster in
the third quarter, and Wells Fargo predict the currency may gain
1.1 percent against the dollar to end the year at 1.7 as the
central bank prepares to raise borrowing costs to curb
inflation. Yields on rate futures suggest traders expect central
bank officials will begin boosting the benchmark rate as soon as
the next meeting on Dec. 8 and bring it to about 12.5 percent by
the end of 2011 from 10.75 percent.  “There are expectations of hiking,” said  Douglas Smith ,
chief economist for the Americas for Standard Chartered in New
York. “People will rush right in. Things are getting more
attractive.”  Inflation  The real will rebound next month as  Alexandre Tombini ,
President-elect  Dilma Rousseff ’s pick to head the central bank,
seeks to slow annual consumer price increases that reached a
five-month high of 5.2 percent, according to  Aryam Vazquez , an
economist with Wells Fargo in New York. Tombini, 46, who served
as a central bank board member since 2005, will replace  Henrique Meirelles , 65.  The Brazilian currency is trading at “reasonable” levels
but if necessary the government will take additional steps to
stem the currency appreciation, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said today in an interview in Brasilia.  “I won’t say the result is satisfactory, but it is
reasonable,” Mantega said. “The currency war has reached a
truce now because of the worsening of Europe’s problems. If
needed, Brazil will do more.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 5
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 197 at 2:37 p.m. New
York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2012 fell 6 basis points to 11.99 percent.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years was little changed at 117 yesterday, according to
CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Benchmark Rate  Central bankers have held the benchmark rate unchanged
since July after boosting it 200 basis points over a four-month
period to cool the fastest expansion in more than two decades.
Latin America’s biggest economy will  expand  7.6 percent this
year after shrinking 0.2 percent in 2009, according to the
median forecast in a central bank survey of economists published
Nov. 29.  By contrast, the U.S. economy, the world’s largest, will
expand 2.7 percent this year, according to a Bloomberg survey of
62 economists.  Foreign investors, seeking an alternative to near-zero
interest rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan, have poured money
into Brazil’s fixed-income market, helping spark a two-year, 36
percent rally in the real.  ‘Global Recovery’  “The shape of the global recovery and tepid growth
concerns will make the real more attractive, especially with the
central bank expected to raise the rates in 2011,” said Wells
Fargo’s  Vazquez . “All these factors will remain supportive.”  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva tripled a tax on
foreign investors’ purchases of fixed-income assets in October
after the real’s rally helped push the country’s 12-month
current-account deficit to a record $48 billion.  Rousseff, who kept Mantega at his post, said last week she
will continue her predecessor’s economic policies.  The real’s decline this month “has to do with the
intervention itself and the perception that it could continue as
Mantega will remain in the post,”  Zeina Latif , a senior
economist at RBS Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “He was the person responsible for the
intervention of the government in the foreign-exchange market.”  RBS forecasts the real will end the year at 1.70.  Ireland  The real also slumped in November as Ireland became the
second European country to seek financial assistance this year
after securing an 85 billion-euro ($110.6 billion) aid package.
Greece received a bailout six months ago.  “Don’t think it’s a Brazil-specific story,” said Standard
Chartered’s Smith. “Markets are volatile all over.”  The real rose 0.3 percent today.  The currency will end the year at 1.7, according to the
median forecast of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We’re not noticing a big change in investors rethinking
putting money into Brazil,”  Paul Biszko , an emerging-markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “That’s not something that we expect
anytime soon. We expect the factors supporting a stronger
currency to remain in place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  