-- Treasury Two-year Notes Rise as Irish Crisis Fuels Demand for Safe Assets
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-11-30T22:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/treasuries-rise-for-third-day-on-concern-european-debt-crisis-will-spread.html
Treasury two-year notes  rose  as
speculation Ireland’s funding crisis may spread to Portugal and
Spain increased demand for the relative safety of U.S.
government debt.  Thirty-year bond yields pared declines after  reaching  the
lowest in three weeks as the Federal Reserve bought more U.S.
securities as part of its $600 billion plan to bolster the
economy. Industry reports showed consumer confidence rose and
Midwest regional businesses expanded. The dollar reached a 10-
week high versus the euro as Portuguese, Italian and Spanish
government bonds slumped, encouraging demand for a refuge.  “The longer end has come off some as we’ve had a good
rally the last few days and with economic news better, and
month-end buying out of the way, investors are becoming more
defensive when it comes to duration,” said  Thomas Tucci , head
of U.S. government bond trading at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Capital Markets unit in New York, one of 18 firms that trade
directly with the Fed. “The economic news, while not great, is
not as weak as it’s been. So we are seeing people take
profits.”  Two-year note yields fell six basis points to 0.46 percent
at 5:10 p.m. in New York, touching the lowest since Nov. 23,
according to BGCantor Market Data. Benchmark 10-year yields
declined two basis points to 2.8, after falling as much as seven
basis points, paring the monthly increase to 14 basis points.  Thirty-year bond yields fell three basis points to 4.11
percent, after touching the lowest since Nov. 5. The decline
reduced the so-called long bond’s monthly yield increase to 13
basis points.  Fed Plans  The difference between the rate to exchange floating- for
fixed-interest payments for two years and the comparable-
maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap spread,
increased 3.98 basis points to 28.13 basis points, the most
since July. Swap spreads are used as a gauge of investor
perceptions of credit risk. They serve as benchmarks for
investors in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and
auto-loan securities.  The Fed bought $6.8 billion of notes due from 2014 to 2016
after scooping up $9.4 billion of debt yesterday. The central
bank is buying Treasuries every day this week.  Ireland on Nov. 28 became the second country to tap
European assistance, following Greece. The Irish rescue package
is worth 85 billion euros ($112 billion).  “The market was nonplussed by the bailout effort for
Ireland,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income capital
markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in Memphis,
Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients. “Investors are worried
that there is more to come.”  Price of Insurance  The cost of insuring the debt of Italy, Spain, Portugal
and Ireland surged to records. Contracts on Italy rose 14 basis
points to 260, Spain increased 13.5 basis points to 365.5 and
Portugal was 17.5 higher at 557 and Ireland was up 11 at 615.
Swaps on Belgium rose 10 basis points to a record 193 and Greece
was up 14 basis points at 983.  The swaps protect debt against default, and traders use
them to speculate on credit quality. An increase suggests
deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness and a drop shows
improvement. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Treasury
notes instead of similar-maturity benchmark German bunds has
narrowed to 9.8 basis points, after the spread reached an as
much as 90 basis points in April, the most since 2006.  Continental Tales  “Europe is the whole story,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief
economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. “Any
move that pushes the 10-year note closer to 3 percent will be
met by interest, and getting back to 2.5 percent is not out of
the question.”  Businesses in the U.S. expanded at a faster pace than
forecast in November, the Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago Inc. said. Its business barometer rose to 62.5 this
month, highest since April, from 60.6 in October. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion.  The median forecast of 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the gauge would fall to 59.9.  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in November to the
highest level in five months, a signal the biggest part of the
economy may pick up strength.  “U.S. data suggests the recovery is continuing, though at
a moderate pace,” Greenhaus said.  Treasuries Outlook  Treasuries will gain for the rest of 2010 and decline in
2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings. The 10-year yield will be 2.62 percent on Dec. 31
and 3.23 percent at the end of next year, the survey shows.  Treasuries are still heading for their biggest monthly loss
since March amid signs the U.S. economy is improving. The Labor
Department may report on Dec. 3 that American employers added
jobs for a second month in November while the jobless rate held
at 9.6 percent, according to the surveys.  Treasuries have lost investors a 0.85 percent in November,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data, compared with a
0.38 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Still
Treasuries have returned 7.7 percent this year, the indexes
show, outperforming the 5.69 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 