-- Treasuries Set for Biggest Monthly Loss Since March Before Confidence Data
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-30T00:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/treasuries-set-for-biggest-monthly-loss-since-march-before-confidence-data.html
Treasuries headed for their steepest
monthly loss since March before an industry report that analysts
said will show consumer confidence rose, adding to evidence the
economy is improving heading into 2011.  U.S. government securities handed investors a 0.8 percent
loss this month as of yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show. Notes also fell as the Federal Reserve implemented
an unprecedented plan to pump $600 billion into the economy,
known as quantitative easing. Investors should stay away from
Treasuries, said  Roger Bridges  at Tyndall Investment Management
Ltd. in Sydney.  “I’d avoid them like the plague,” said Bridges, who
oversees the equivalent of $11.5 billion as head of debt at the
unit of Australia’s largest insurer. “The economy’s doing quite
well. It makes you ask, was the QE needed?”  The benchmark 10-year note yielded 2.82 percent as of 9:53
a.m. in Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 traded at 98 11/32.  The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer sentiment
 gauge  rose to 53 in November from 50.2 the previous month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Treasuries advanced yesterday on speculation an 85 billion
euro ($111.6 billion) rescue for Ireland will fail to contain
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, increasing demand for the
relative safety of U.S. government debt.  Ireland became the second country to tap European
assistance, following Greece.  “The concern is what’s next,” said  Christian Cooper , head
of U.S. dollar derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies
Group Inc., one of the 18 primary dealers that trade with the
Fed. “At what point do we legitimately begin to question the
extent the European Central Bank can be an effective backstop
and what unknowns remain out there?”  The Fed bought $9.4 billion of Treasuries yesterday as part
of its plan to spur the economy. The central bank is scheduled
to purchase $6 billion to $8 billion of debt maturing from 2014
to 2016 today, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 