-- Regional Fed Directors Saw `Considerable Slack' in Economy Ahead of QE2
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-30T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/regional-fed-directors-saw-considerable-slack-ahead-of-qe2.html
Directors at  Federal Reserve 
district banks saw “considerable slack” in the U.S. economy
and tame inflation in the weeks before the central bank’s Nov. 3
decision to expand record monetary stimulus.  Ten of the Fed’s 12 regional banks in October recommended
leaving the rate charged on direct loans to commercial banks
unchanged. For the fourth straight period, two Fed banks, Dallas
and Kansas City, requested an increase in the  discount rate  by a
quarter-point to 1 percent, said the minutes of Board of
Governors meetings, released today in Washington.  “Federal Reserve Bank directors generally viewed the pace
of economic recovery as slow, with  unemployment rates  too high
and underlying inflation subdued,” the report said. “Labor
markets remained weak,” and while some commodity prices had
risen, “with considerable slack seen in labor and product
markets, inflation was expected to remain quite low.”  The directors’ comments and requests preceded the Nov. 2-3
meeting of the Fed’s Open Market Committee, where governors and
regional presidents voted 10-1 to buy $600 billion of Treasuries
through June in a bid to boost growth and lower unemployment
persisting near a 26-year high. Today’s report didn’t discuss
the asset purchases.  The decision has been dubbed QE2 by investors and
economists for the second round of quantitative easing, a term
for monetary policies that change the quantity of bank reserves.  The FOMC said in its Nov. 3 statement that the jobless rate
was too high and inflation too low relative to levels that
policy makers deem consistent with the central bank’s
legislative mandate for maximum employment and stable prices.  Hoenig’s Dissent  Discount-rate changes are requested by boards of directors
at the 12 regional Fed banks, and each president can recommend a
vote. Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  dissented from the
Nov. 3 FOMC decision, and Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher 
said Nov. 8 the action may be the “wrong medicine” for the
economy’s ailments.  The directors’ requests are subject to final review and
determination by the  Fed Board  in Washington. Central bank
governors review requests about every two weeks.  The Fed’s Washington-based Board of Governors expressed
“no sentiment” for changing the discount rate and kept it at
0.75 percent on Nov. 1, in line with requests from the other 10
Fed regional bank boards.  The Fed raised the rate by a quarter-point in February as
part of its measures to exit emergency stimulus and lending
programs; in August, the Fed stepped up consideration of more
easing of monetary policy.  Target Rate  The rate is currently 50 basis points above the Fed funds
rate, which has been kept at zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008. Prior to August 2007, the Fed kept the rate, also known as
the primary credit rate, 1 percentage point above the target for
the  benchmark  federal funds rate.  Among directors backing an increase in the discount rate,
“it was emphasized that an increase in this spread would not
represent a change in monetary policy, but rather a move toward
normalization” of the rate, the minutes said.  As of Nov. 24, banks were borrowing $1 billion from the
Fed’s discount window, down from a record $110.7 billion at the
height of the financial crisis in October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  