-- Reid’s Push on Immigration Bill Lures Few Republicans
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-11-30T21:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/reid-s-push-on-immigration-bill-finds-little-republican-support.html
A drive by Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  to retool U.S. immigration policy this year is
running into resistance from Republicans essential for passage.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said today he will attempt to
bring to the floor this week a stand-alone measure that would
permit legal status for some undocumented immigrants brought to
the U.S. as children.  The legislation’s advocates, including Washington-based
 America’s Voice , say it will likely need the support of a half-
dozen Republican senators to pass during the lame-duck session.  Many targeted for support -- including retiring Republicans
 George Voinovich  of Ohio and  George LeMieux  of Florida -- say
they won’t go along.  “Granting legal status should only be done as part of
comprehensive reform to ensure that we finally address our
broken immigration system,” said Senator  Judd Gregg  of New
Hampshire, who also is retiring. He opposes voting on the
measure “at this time and in this manner.”  DREAM Act  The bill, called the DREAM Act, would allow people who came
to the U.S. before age 16 and remained for at least five years
to gain legal residency after going to college or serving in the
military. The legislation was proposed by Senator  Richard Durbin 
of Illinois, the second-ranking Democratic leader, and
Republican Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana. Republicans blocked
an effort to attach it to an unrelated $726 billion defense
authorization bill in September.  Advocates say they see little chance of getting the
legislation through Congress next year, when Republicans will
take control of the House and boost their number in the 100-seat
Senate to 47. Republicans picked up at least 63 House seats and
six Senate seats in the November elections.  “The reason we’re putting so much energy into the DREAM
Act during the lame-duck session is that prospects are going to
be dim in the new Congress,” said  Frank Sharry , executive
director of America’s Voice, which backs a comprehensive
overhaul of immigration law.  While there are enough Democratic supporters in the House
to pass the legislation this year, the party would need help
from Republicans to win Senate approval.  Democrats control 58 seats in the Senate, and they need 60
votes to override opponents’ delaying tactics and bring the
measure to the floor for approval.  Democratic Opposition  Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska Democrat, has said he would
vote with most Republicans to block the measure, and a handful
of other Democrats may join him.  Probably five to seven Senate Republicans would be needed
to push the measure through, Sharry said. Groups that see the
DREAM Act as a first step toward more comprehensive changes to
immigration laws are putting pressure on Republicans who showed
support in the past and on those who are retiring, he said.  Senator  Robert Bennett  of Utah, who lost a re-election bid
earlier this year, is the only Republican besides Lugar who has
said he’ll support the measure as a stand-alone bill. Some
others who voted for it in the past, including  Orrin Hatch  of
Utah and  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas, say they won’t back it
now.  “Senator Hutchison cannot support the DREAM Act
legislation in its present form because it is too broad and not
limited enough,” said her press secretary, Courtney Sanders.  ‘Secure Our Borders’  LeMieux, in a statement, said, “While I am sympathetic to
the students impacted by current law, I cannot support
consideration of the DREAM Act until we have taken substantial
and effective measures to secure our borders.”  Voinovich said in an interview that the measure is “doing
it halfway,” and that Congress should consider a comprehensive
measure addressing worker visas and border security after he
leaves in January.  Another retiring Republican who opposes the bill is Senator
 Kit Bond  of Missouri.  Those Republicans who the bill’s advocates are continuing
to focus on include Senators  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska and  Susan Collins  and  Olympia Snowe , both of Maine. Campus Progress, a
youth group within the Washington-based  Center for American
Progress , said this week it will air TV ads in Maine and
Washington, D.C., urging passage of the legislation.  Latino voters were key in helping Reid keep his Nevada
Senate seat. Election-night polls by Latino Decisions, a
nonpartisan research group, showed that 10 percent of the votes
cast in his Senate race were by Latinos and that of those, 90
percent backed Reid.  His spokeswoman,  Regan Lachapelle , said Reid hopes more
Republicans will come on board.  “Our hope is that Republicans will choose the interests of
our country ahead of politics and will join us in supporting the
DREAM Act when it comes to the floor in the coming weeks,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  