-- Trichet Says EU Determination to Shore Up Euro Region Being Underestimate
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-11-30T18:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/trichet-says-eu-determination-to-shore-up-euro-region-being-underestimated.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled investors are underestimating
policy makers’ determination to shore up the euro region’s
stability as contagion spreads through the bloc’s bond markets.  “I don’t believe that financial stability in the euro zone
could really be called into question,” Trichet told lawmakers
in Brussels today. Observers “are tending to underestimate the
determination of governments.”  European leaders are struggling to contain a worsening
sovereign debt crisis that forced Ireland last week to follow
Greece and ask for an international bailout. While European
Union governments on Nov. 28 agreed to give Ireland an 85
billion-euro ($110 billion) rescue package,  Spanish  and Italian
bonds have dropped on concern they may also need to need help as
they try to get budgets under control.  The selloff is reminiscent of the declines that preceded
the EU’s decision in May to set up a 750 billion-euro bailout
fund to rescue the euro. On the same day, the ECB took the
unprecedented step of agreeing to buy government bonds.  The euro today slipped 0.7 percent to $1.3037. The
difference in yield between Italian 10-year bonds and German
bunds widened to as much as 212 basis points. The Spanish-German
yield spread rose 25 basis points to 291 basis points and the
yield premium for Belgian 10-year bonds reached 139 basis
points, the most since at least 1983.  Demanding Environment  “We have to reinforce the authority of the public
authority,” Trichet said. “It is on the authority of the
public authority that we can continue the resistance to an
environment which is very demanding and will continue to be
demanding for a period of time.”  Trichet today declined to comment on the ECB’s next policy
decision before its 22-member Governing Council finishes its
monthly rate meeting on Dec. 2.  The ECB’s bond program is “ongoing” and “we will see
what we decide,” Trichet said. The ECB today bought larger
amounts of Irish government bonds than it typically does,
according to two people with knowledge of the transactions.  Earlier, IMF First Deputy Managing Director  John Lipsky 
said that the euro has a “solid” value and that any notion
that the currency is under threat is exaggerated.  “The value is solid and it seems broadly appropriate,”
Lipsky said in an interview in Dubai today at the World Economic
Forum Summit on the Global Agenda. “Sure, there are near-term
concerns of one type or another,” though “the notion that the
euro is under threat is wildly exaggerated given what’s
happening in markets.”  Worsening Crisis  Trichet called on European policy makers to improve
communications as the crisis worsens. Trichet last month
criticized German plans for investors to help foot the bill of
future bailouts, a proposal that sparked a wave of selling
across bond markets. The proposal was watered down at a meeting
of finance ministers on Nov. 28, which Trichet welcomed as a
“useful clarification.”  “We need to get back to a more precise concept of
communication,” he said. “We need clarity. Clarity, clarity.
Verbal discipline is of the essence.”  As speculation mounts about further steps that policy
makers can take to fight the crisis, Trichet said the
introduction of eurobonds can’t be ruled out, while at the time
withholding ECB support for such a step.  “You should never say never but it’s not something we have
thought was necessarily appropriate,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  