-- RIM Climbs as Analysts Forecast Growing Demand for PlayBook
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-30T23:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/rim-climbs-as-analysts-forecast-growing-demand-for-playbook.html
Research In Motion Ltd. , whose
shares have surged since it unveiled a tablet computer to
compete with the iPad, climbed again as analysts forecast
growing demand for the BlackBerry PlayBook.  The PlayBook has a chance to compete with tablets such as
 Apple Inc. ’s iPad because of its QNX operating system,  Peter Misek , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York, said in a
note today. The software offers stronger security and faster Web
browsing than rival products, he said.  “We now have confidence QNX will be a viable platform for
carriers and developers,” said Misek, who raised his rating to
“buy” from “hold” and lifted his price target to $80 from $55.
He also predicted RIM will debut a larger PlayBook, with a 10-
inch screen, next year to complement the first 7-inch model.  Separately, analyst  Jeffrey Fidacaro  of Susquehanna
Financial Group forecast RIM will sell 8 million PlayBooks in
the next fiscal year. He said investors appear to be assuming
sales of 10 million units, a figure he said is optimistic.  RIM rose $2.84, or 4.8 percent, to $61.83 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have
dropped 8.5 percent this year.  RIM shares have risen as the company has provided details
about the PlayBook, including a 12 percent gain in two days last
month after Co-Chief Executive Officer  Mike Lazaridis 
demonstrated the PlayBook in action. The stock has climbed 28
percent since the device was unveiled Sept. 27.  In the tablet market, RIM is chasing Apple, which sold 4.19
million iPads last quarter. Still, tablet makers in general may
benefit as the devices replace about 10 percent of the personal
computers sold by 2014, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  Corporate Customers  RIM is winning customers for the tablet ahead of its debut,
set for the first quarter. Toronto-based insurer Sun Life
Financial Inc. has agreed to buy as many as 1,000 PlayBooks, and
the Canadian banking unit of ING Groep NV says it will also
purchase the device.  Fidacaro said in his research note that the sharp rise in
RIM’s stock suggests investors assume PlayBook sales will reach
the 10 million figure. That may be difficult given the growing
number of tablets, from  Apple Inc. ’s iPad to Samsung Electronics
Co.’s Galaxy Tab, and RIM’s narrow focus.  Selling so many units “may be challenging for RIM to
achieve, particularly as the PlayBook is positioned as a
‘professional device’ and initially as a companion linked to a
BlackBerry,” said Fidacaro, who has a “negative” rating on
the stock.  Smartphone Losses  Misek, who estimates RIM will sell 1.3 million PlayBooks in
the next fiscal year, said the company’s QNX software should
help in the tablet and smartphone markets. He said the operating
system may be integrated into BlackBerry phones much faster than
investors expect, beginning early next year.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, is losing share in its
smartphone business to Apple and phones that run  Google Inc. ’s
Android software. RIM’s global market share dropped to 15
percent in the third quarter from 20 percent a year earlier,
according to researcher IDC.  RIM plans to report fiscal third-quarter results on Dec. 16
and said in September it expects revenue to be $5.3 billion to
$5.55 billion and profit per share will range from $1.62 to
$1.70. Analysts are expecting results at the low end of those
ranges, with an average estimate of $5.38 billion in sales and
per-share profit of $1.63 billion, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Investors will be watching for indications of how the
BlackBerry Torch sold last quarter after going on sale in
August. The phone, which features a touch screen and slide-out
keyboard and is built on RIM’s new operating system, is designed
to go head-to-head with the iPhone and Android touch-screen
devices like the Droid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  