-- RIM Tablet Sales Expectations May Be Too Optimistic, Susquehanna Says
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-30T16:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/rim-tablet-sales-expectations-may-be-too-optimistic-susquehanna-says.html
Research In Motion Ltd. , the mobile-
phone maker whose shares have surged since it unveiled a tablet
computer to compete with the iPad, may sell fewer of the devices
than investors project, said Susquehanna Financial Group.  Investors appear to be assuming RIM will sell about 10
million BlackBerry PlayBooks in the next fiscal year,  Jeffrey Fidacaro , an analyst with Susquehanna in New York, wrote in a
note today. That may be difficult given the growing number of
tablets, from  Apple Inc. ’s iPad to Samsung Electronics Co.’s
Galaxy Tab, and RIM’s narrow focus.  Selling 10 million units “may be challenging for RIM to
achieve, particularly as the PlayBook is positioned as a
‘professional device’ and initially as a companion linked to a
BlackBerry,” said Fidacaro, who has a “negative” rating on
the stock.  RIM shares have risen repeatedly as the company has
provided details about the device, including an 12 percent rise
in two days last month after Co-Chief Executive Officer  Mike Lazaridis  demonstrated the PlayBook in action. RIM is also
winning customers for the tablet ahead of its first-quarter
debut. Toronto-based insurer Sun Life Financial Inc. has agreed
to buy as many as 1,000 PlayBooks, and the Canadian banking unit
of ING Groep NV says it will also purchase the device.  RIM rose $3.19, or 5.4 percent, to $62.18 at 11:18 a.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The stock had dropped
13 percent this year before today.  Smartphone Losses  The rise in RIM’s stock suggests investors are betting RIM
can sell 10 million tablets in the fiscal year starting in
February or 8 million tablets at a higher profit margin than it
currently has, Fidacaro wrote. He is forecasting the company
will sell 8 million PlayBooks at an average price of $459.  Apple, which leads the tablet market, sold 4.19 million
iPads last quarter.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, continues to lose share in
its smartphone business to Apple and phones that run  Google
Inc. ’s Android software. RIM’s global market share dropped to 15
percent in the third quarter from 20 percent a year earlier,
according to researcher IDC.  RIM plans to report fiscal third-quarter results on Dec. 16
and said in September it expects revenue to be $5.3 billion to
$5.55 billion and profit per share will range from $1.62 to
$1.70. Analysts are expecting results at the low end of those
ranges, with an average estimate of $5.38 billion in sales and
per-share profit of $1.63 billion, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Investors will be watching for indications of how the
BlackBerry Torch sold last quarter after going on sale in
August. The phone, which features a touch screen and slide-out
keyboard and is built on RIM’s new operating system, is designed
to go head-to-head with the iPhone and Android touch-screen
devices like the Droid.  Peter Misek , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York,
today raised his rating on RIM to “buy” from “hold”, citing
the strength of international sales growth and the quality of
its new operating system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  