-- Royce Gets Backing From Republican Group for Finance Chairman
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-11-30T23:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/royce-gets-backing-from-republican-group-for-finance-chairman.html
Representative  Ed Royce , a candidate
to lead the House Financial Services Committee when Republicans
take power in January, received an endorsement from one of the
most influential conservative groups in Washington.  Royce, of California, has “the leadership qualities grass
roots conservatives are looking for as part of the new
Republican majority,”  David A. Keene , the chairman of the
American Conservative Union, wrote in a letter to the members of
the committee that will select the next chairman.  Members of the Republican Party tout -- and guard -- their
 ratings  from the ACU on the campaign trail. In 2009 the ACU, the
self-proclaimed “conservative voice of America,” according to
its website, rated members on 25 separate votes, handing out 100
percent ratings to those members of Congress that voted the
ACU’s way on each. Representative  Spencer Bachus  of Alabama,
currently the top Republican on the panel, holds a 92 percent
career rating from the organization, according to the website.
Royce maintains a 98 percent rating.  The conservative group’s endorsement comes the day Bachus
and Royce made their presentations to the Republican Steering
Committee, a group composed of Republican lawmakers in
leadership. The choice of those members is typically backed by
the full Republican caucus. Their vote could come as soon as
next week.  The winner will replace Representative  Barney Frank , the
Massachusetts Democrat who will move into the minority when the
next Congress convenes in January. Keene called Frank a
“formidable force” on the panel, “even when in the
minority.”  Bachus, who has remained quiet since the Nov. 2 election
when Republicans were swept into power on the back of winning
more than 60 new seats, has secured the support of the seven
senior members of the committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  