-- Rubber Futures, Set for Fifth Monthly Gain, Advance on Yen, Thai Supply
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-30T07:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/rubber-futures-set-for-fifth-monthly-gain-advance-on-yen-thai-supply.html
Rubber, set for a fifth monthly gain,
climbed as a weakening Japanese currency and limited supply in
Thailand, the largest shipper, improved the appeal of the
commodity used to make tires and gloves.  May-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange rose as
much as 2.6 percent to 366.4 yen per kilogram ($4,353 a metric
ton) before settling at 360.2 yen. The most-active contract,
which reached a 30-year high of 383 yen on Nov. 11, surged 10.2
percent this month, the biggest advance since December.  The dollar is poised for its first monthly gain since April
against the yen on speculation the U.S. economic recovery is
picking up and as tension on the Korean peninsula intensifies.
Wet weather in southern Thailand continues to cut supply,
boosting prices, according to the  Rubber Research Institute of
Thailand . The south accounts for about 80 percent of production.  “The weakening tone of the yen and higher crude oil prices
continue to support rubber,” said Varut Rungkhum, analyst at
commodity broker Agro Wealth Ltd. “Persistent rainfall is
likely to worsen the low supply situation in Thailand,” he said
by phone today from Bangkok.  Supply from the  Association of Natural Rubber Producing
Countries , which accounts for about 92 percent of global output,
may drop 3.8 percent in the three months to Dec. 31 as rains
have disrupted tapping in Thailand, the group said on Nov. 25.  Output from Thailand is estimated to tumble by 28 percent
during October-to-December period, which will lower production
this year by 1.4 percent to 3.12 million tons, the group said.  The  cash price  of natural rubber in Thailand was unchanged
at 131.55 baht ($4.35) per kilogram today. Auctioned prices of
ribbed smoked sheets rose 0.4 percent to 123.45 baht, boosted by
a weakening yen and a supply shortage, the  Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand  said today on its website.  Limited Gains  Futures in Shanghai fell as much as 3.8 percent to 29,500
yuan ($4,425) a ton before closing 0.8 percent higher at 30,880
yuan. The contract, which reached a record on Nov. 11, is set
for the fifth monthly advance.  Gains were limited on concern that the European debt crisis
will spread and speculation that China will raise interest rates,
Navarat Kaewpratarn, senior marketing official at Future Agri
Trade Co. said by phone from Bangkok.  European governments’ 85 billion-euro ($111 billion)
bailout package for Ireland failed to quell market turmoil,
menacing the euro as stocks, bonds and the currency declined.  China’s recent increases in the reserve requirement ratio
for banks won’t be enough to reverse excessive liquidity in the
system, Zhong Jiyin, an economist with the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences, wrote in a commentary in the China Daily today.
China needs to raise interest rates by another 200 basis points,
or 2 percentage points, to curb inflation given existing excess
liquidity, Zhong wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  