-- Ruble Eurobond Debut in Jeopardy on Depreciation: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-11-30T21:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ruble-eurobond-debut-hit-by-biggest-depreciation-since-may-russia-credit.html
Russia is considering delaying its
first sale of ruble bonds to international investors as the
currency’s biggest monthly decline since May and Europe’s
worsening debt crisis weaken investor demand.  Russian officials who have been meeting with bondholders
this week to sell as much as $3 billion of the ruble-denominated
notes with a maturity of up to five years may postpone the sale
until 2011, Deputy Finance Minister Dmitry Pankin said at a
conference in London yesterday. Pankin ruled out paying more
than the yield on domestic ruble bonds, known as OFZs, according
to Interfax. The yield on 2015 OFZs reached the highest level
since they were first sold in July at 7.34 percent on Nov. 29.  Ruble bonds are tumbling as concern Portugal and Spain may
be next in line for bailouts after Ireland drives investors from
assets they consider to be the riskiest. Slower economic growth
in Russia and higher inflation than Brazil and China is limiting
flows from emerging-market investors. Russian bond funds took in
less money last month than those for the other major developing
economies known along with India as the BRICs, according to data
compiled by Boston-based research firm EPFR Global.  “Everything is crashing because of Europe so there’s no
logic to placing a deal now, they would have to pay a very high
premium,” Sebastien De Prinsac, the co-head of international
debt sales at OAO Gazprombank, the lending arm of Russia’s gas
export monopoly, said by phone in Moscow yesterday. “To
international investors the most important part of the deal is
currency exposure, but if the ruble is going down, you’re
screwed.”  Philippines, Chile  The ruble slid 2.2 percent against the dollar in November,
the most since a 5.8 percent slump in May when Greece accepted a
110 billion-euro ($143 billion) bailout to prevent the
government from defaulting on its debt. The decline outpaced the
1.6 percent drop in the Brazilian real last month.  The sale of ruble bonds would be Russia’s second
international debt issue this year, after returning to the
dollar bond market in April for the first time since 1998, and
the first issue in Russia’s currency. President Dmitry Medvedev
said in June he wants to boost the ruble’s place in central bank
reserves.  The Philippines, Chile and Colombia have raised $2.8
billion this year in international sales of locally denominated
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Russia prepared
its ruble Eurobond as JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s GBI-EM Global
Diversified Index of emerging-market domestic bonds rallied 16
percent for this year to the end of September.  Belarus Deal  Since then, Ireland has accepted an 85-billion euro aid
package for its ailing banks, driving yields on 10-year
government debt of Spain and Portugal to the highest in at least
a decade as investors speculate the euro region’s other heavily
indebted countries will also require assistance.  Local debt in developing countries tumbled 4.9 percent in
November, the biggest monthly decline since February 2009, the
JPMorgan index shows. Belarus postponed “indefinitely” its
debut sale of Russian ruble bonds on Nov. 24 and the Russian
Finance Ministry delayed the sale of 25.7 billion rubles ($816
million) of OFZs scheduled at auctions today until Dec. 22,
according to a statement issued Nov. 23.  The world’s biggest energy exporter has a borrowing target
of about 700 billion rubles for 2010, as it strives to close the
budget gap it forecasts at 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product.  Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin told reporters in Moscow
yesterday the issue would be reconsidered “if we don’t like the
terms.”  Extra Yield  Ruble Eurobonds aren’t the main focus of Russia’s debt
strategy, which will concentrate on fewer and bigger sales of
OFZs to bolster trading, Pankin said at a conference in London
yesterday. “Our strategy will be first of all to explore all of
the local ruble-denominated market, not to borrow
internationally,” he said.  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 declined for the first
time since May this month, pushing the yield 59 basis points
higher to 5.1 percent. The yield on the 8.5 percent OFZs due in
November 2021 climbed to 312 basis points above the government’s
5 percent dollar bonds maturing in 2020 on Nov. 4, the biggest
gap since the international securities were sold in April,
Bloomberg data show. The spread was 235 basis points yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries increased 11 basis points to 257
yesterday, the highest level since July, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI+ Index. The difference compares with 165 basis points for
debt of similarly rated Mexico and 199 basis points for Brazil.  ‘Bargain Levels’  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps added 5 basis points to
176, the highest level since Aug. 31, according to CMA prices.
The contracts, which pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost 22 basis points more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Turkey’s advantage was the biggest in 11 months yesterday.
Russia swaps cost as much as 40 points less than Turkey on April
20.  Russia’s Finance Ministry may delay the ruble Eurobond sale
if it can’t issue at “bargain levels,” said Kieran Curtis, who
helps manage $2 billion of emerging-market debt at Aviva
Investors in London, a unit of Britain’s second-largest insurer.
Ruble bonds are a “good alternative to other bonds in the
region,” he said.  Russia has higher yields than Hungary, where the central
bank is clashing with the government over raising interest
rates, Curtis said by e-mail.  Ruble Management  The Russian central bank’s management of the currency to
stabilize the exchange rate against a target dollar-euro basket
also adds to the appeal of ruble-denominated debt over other
emerging European fixed-income assets, Curtis said.  The ruble weakened 0.5 percent to 31.5275 per dollar by the
close of trading yesterday, its weakest level against the
greenback since June 11. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs,
which provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
currency movements, showed the ruble yesterday at 31.7625 per
dollar in three months.  Dollar-ruble one-month volatility, a measure of swings in
the exchange rate, was at 7.94 percent yesterday, compared with
22 percent for the dollar versus the Polish zloty and 18 percent
for Hungary’s forint, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The
zloty and forint are free floating currencies.  Capital Flight  Investors pulling money out of Russia spurred the central
bank to more than double its estimate for net capital outflows
this year to $22 billion on Nov. 16.  China’s economy grew three times as fast as Russia’s 2.7
percent pace in the third quarter, while Brazil and India’s
expansion rates in the second quarter were almost double
Russia’s 5.2 percent. Russian inflation will exceed the official
forecast of 8 percent, Deputy Economy Minister Andrei Klepach
told reporters at a conference in London this week.  With annual inflation already at 7.5 percent in October,
the prospect of returns at a similar level are “not very
exciting,” Paul McNamara, who helps manage $4.5 billion of
emerging-market debt at Augustus Asset Managers Ltd., said by e-
mail yesterday from London. “There’s a diversification bid but
that’s the only reason I can think of why anyone would buy”
ruble Eurobonds, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma O’Brien in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  