-- Rupee Forecasts Cut After Worst Monthly Performance in Asia: India Credit
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-12-01T09:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/rupee-forecasts-cut-after-worst-monthly-performance-in-asia-india-credit.html
Strategists are cutting forecasts for
gains in India’s rupee, Asia’s worst-performing currency last
month, as capital flows to emerging markets slow because of the
worsening debt crisis in Europe.  The Indian currency slid 3.3 percent, the most since May,
and touched a 10-week low of 46.125 yesterday, prompting banks
including Wells Fargo & Co., Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. and
Credit Agricole SA to concede their predictions were too bullish.
The median estimate of 17 analysts for the currency’s 2011 year-
end exchange rate fell 2.3 percent to 43.5 per dollar last month,
an appreciation of more than 5 percent.  Global funds pulled money from Indian shares last week for
the first time since May on concern Europe’s debt crisis is
spreading, threatening Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts
to offset Asia’s worst  current-account  deficit by attracting
investment. Currencies from Taiwan and China, which have trade
surpluses and combined foreign-exchange reserves of more than $3
trillion, were Asia’s best-performers in November.  “When the external environment is bad, countries like
India with low liquidity would get sold off first,”  Kenichiro Ikezawa , a fund manager at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which
manages about $55 billion, said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday. “The rupee will underperform compared with other
regional currencies next year.”  Forecasts Cut  Ireland’s bailout by the European Union, the second for a
euro nation after Greece’s in May, failed to stem a selloff
across euro-region bond markets this week. The costs to insure
Portuguese debt against default jumped to a record yesterday and
Spanish bonds extended declines.  Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, cut its end-2011
prediction for the rupee to 41 per dollar from 40.50 last month.
OCBC, Singapore’s third-largest bank, reduced its outlook to 44
from 43.45. Paris-based Credit Agricole, France’s second-biggest
lender, lowered its 2010 year-end estimate to 44.70 from 44.00.  The rupee was the worst performer in November among the 10
most-traded currencies in Asia excluding Japan, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s yuan was little changed in
the period at 6.667 a dollar, while Taiwan’s currency slipped
0.2 percent to NT$30.85.  “Global risk aversion is more destabilizing for the rupee
because, unlike other Asian countries, India needs capital flows
to fund the current-account deficit,”  Mitul Kotecha , the Hong
Kong-based head of global currency strategy at Credit Agricole,
said in a Nov. 29 interview.  Money managers based abroad  sold  Indian equities worth an
average $13 million each day of the week ended Nov. 26, data
from the Securities and Exchange Board of India show. The Bombay
Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  lost 2.6 percent in November,
the biggest slump since May.  Option Signals  Foreign  holdings  of rupee debt fell by $211 million last
week, the most in a month, to $17.4 billion, SEBI data show. The
declines drove up the yield on India’s three-year government
 notes  by 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, last month
to 7.71 percent. Similar-maturity securities yield 3.34 percent
in China, 7 percent in Russia and 12.9 percent in Brazil.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, rose 14 basis points to 177 last month, according to CMA
prices.  Less Optimistic  Options contracts signal investors are turning less
optimistic on the rupee. The premium paid for options offering
protection against possible declines in the currency in a month
rebounded to 260 basis points last week from a 16-month low of
31 on Sept. 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The so-called risk-reversal rate exceeded the level of 200
for Russia’s ruble and is below 398 basis points for Brazil’s
real. The measure for China was a positive 10 basis points,
meaning investors are more bearish on the dollar than on the
yuan.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy grew 8.9 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, matching the revised pace of growth the
previous quarter and beating economist forecasts, government
figures showed yesterday. India’s  economic growth  will help the
rupee recover recent losses and advance to 42 in the next 12
months, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “The rupee’s performance is influenced more by flows into
the equities market and with the current risk-aversion situation,
it turned quite bearish,”  Koji Fukaya , chief currency
strategist in Tokyo at Credit Suisse, said in an interview
yesterday. “In the long-run, we expect the global economy to be
steady and Indian economy to remain strong, encouraging inflows
and supporting the rupee.”  Reserves Decline  India’s foreign-exchange  reserves  have fallen $2.2 billion
from a 27-month high of $300.2 billion reached in the week ended
Nov. 5, central bank data show. The nation’s current-account
deficit widened to a record $13.7 billion in the three months
ended June 30, according to the latest central bank data.  “The rupee has been supported by flows but it will still
be guided by fundamentals such as the current-account gap,”
said  Indranil Pan , chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.
in Mumbai. “Given that the deficit is widening, there is little
chance that the rupee can sustain its appreciating bias solely
on the basis of equity flows.”  Rising energy prices may further widen the deficit.
Government data show monthly  oil shipments  to India averaged
$8.2 billion this year, up from $6.2 billion in 2009, as the
commodity gained 8 percent.  “We’re not sure if the currency outlook is so favorable
given India’s current-account deficit, which would deteriorate
on higher oil prices and weaker global demand,”  Agnes Belaisch ,
head of emerging market fixed-income strategy in London at
Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $100 billion,
said in an interview yesterday. Even so, she added, Singh’s
drive to attract foreign investment “is undeniably supportive
of the rupee.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at   yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  