-- Russia Dismisses Report That It Moved Nuclear Weapons Near to NATO Borders
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-11-30T09:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/russia-dismisses-report-that-it-moved-nuclear-weapons-near-to-nato-borders.html
A senior Russian lawmaker dismissed
a report that Russia has moved short-range tactical nuclear
warheads closer to the borders of North Atlantic Treaty
Organization member states.  “We have relations of trust now with our American partners
and don’t take any steps without informing our partners and
consulting with them,”  Mikhail Margelov , head of the upper
house of parliament’s foreign affairs committee, said today in a
phone interview.  The Wall Street Journal today cited unidentified U.S.
officials as saying that Russia moved the weapons as recently as
this spring, coinciding with the deployment of U.S. Patriot
missiles in Poland, near Russia’s Baltic exclave Kaliningrad.  The report may be aimed at torpedoing ratification of the
new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with Russia, which has run
into Republican opposition, said  Pavel Felgenhauer , a Moscow-
based defense analyst.  “Some people in the U.S. don’t want START to be
ratified,” Felgenhauer said by phone. “The treaty has become a
partisan issue.”  Russia’s Defense Ministry declined to comment on the Wall
Street Journal report. “We don’t confirm or deny rumors,” said
Yury Ivanov, a spokesman for the ministry in Moscow.  Russia has plans to modernize its tactical missile units,
including those in Kaliningrad, with Iskander missiles, and “of
course this is well-known to the Pentagon,” Felgenhauer said.
The Iskander, first tested in 1995, has a range of as much as
400 kilometers (250 miles), according to Jane’s Information
Group, which publishes information on global defense resources.  Russian Upgrade  President  Dmitry Medvedev  in November 2008 said he would
deploy nuclear-capable Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad to
“neutralize” a planned U.S. missile defense system in Poland
and the Czech Republic.  This threat, along with Medvedev’s pledge to drop the
deployment after the U.S. scrapped a proposed missile shield,
are “meaningless” because Russia must eventually station
Iskanders in Kaliningrad, Felgenhauer said.  President  Barack Obama  in September 2009 canceled former
President  George W. Bush ’s proposed missile-shield in favor of a
more flexible system that opened the door to revisit Russian
proposals for a joint system.  Even so, the U.S. deployed Patriot missile batteries and
their crews to northern Poland in May for what the U.S. Army
described as a two-year training mission. Russia’s Foreign
Ministry said at the time that the deployment wouldn’t improve
security or help build relations in the region.  START Opposition  President  Barack Obama  said Nov. 20 the Strategic Arms
Reduction Treaty, which he and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
signed in April, was “fundamental” to U.S. security as he
urged the Senate to ratify it.  Medvedev said the same day it would be “very unpleasant”
if the Senate failed to approve the treaty, adding that he hoped
legislators will demonstrate a “responsible” approach.  “The work of many people aimed at the general relaxation
of tension, on resetting relations both between Russia and the
United States, but also between Russia and NATO -- all of that
would be in vain,” Medvedev told reporters at the NATO summit
Nov. 20 in Lisbon.  Russia agreed at the summit to take part in a NATO missile-
defense system, promising to expand cooperation between the
former Cold War adversaries.  Ratification of the treaty stalled in the Senate after the
Republican gains in the Nov. 2 elections, which will make it
more difficult to reach the required two-thirds vote after the
new lawmakers take office in January.  Obama has asked the Senate to ratify the treaty this year.
Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-ranking Republican
and one of his party’s leading voices on nuclear-weapons policy,
said Sept. 16 that pressing business wouldn’t allow full
consideration before year’s end of “the complex and unresolved
issues related to START.”  The treaty limits each side’s strategic warheads to no more
than 1,550, down from the 2,200 allowed previously, and sets a
maximum of 800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  