-- Ma’aden, Alcoa Venture Signs $1.9 Billion in Loans
-- B y   I n a l   E r s a n   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-11-30T11:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/saudi-maaden-signs-7-1-billion-riyal-finance-deals-for-alcoa-jv.html
A joint venture between  Saudi
Arabian Mining Co. , a state-controlled metals producer, and
Alcoa Inc. signed finance contracts valued at 7.1 billion riyals
($1.9 billion) to help pay for an aluminum project in the
kingdom.  The loans from 16 unidentified local and international
banks will pay for part of the first phase of the project, Saudi
Arabian Mining, known as Ma’aden, said in a statement on the
 Saudi bourse  website today. The Saudi Public Investment Fund and
the Saudi Industrial Development Fund will also provide $2.6
billion in financing for the first phase.  Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest state-owned oil company,
and  Saudi Basic Industries Corp.  also signed financing deals
this year to help expand refining capacity and petrochemical
production. The aim is to diversify away from exports of raw
crude and to manufacture higher-margin products. Aramco said
Nov. 27 that it renewed a $4 billion revolving credit facility
with Saudi and international banks.  The companies “are doing this mainly to finance their
upcoming expansions,”  Syed Taimure Akhtar , a senior financial
analyst at  Global Investment House KSCC , said. Ma’aden was rated
a “Buy” in October at Global with a target price of 25.10
riyals a share.  Stake Changes  Ma’aden  signed in December a contract with Alcoa to build a
$10.8 billion industrial complex to supply Saudi Arabia and
global markets. In April, Ma’aden said it increased its stake in
the project to 74.9 percent from 60 percent, while New York-
based Alcoa’s stake decreased to 25.1 percent.  The Riyadh-based company said in June that its board
approved $4.5 billion in financing for the first phase of the
aluminum project. This represented 60 percent of the first
phase, with a total cost of $7.5 billion. The facility is due to
start production at the end of 2013.  The financing for the smelter and rolling mill was achieved
“on very attractive terms” with “significant over-
subscription,” Ken Wisnoski, Alcoa’s president of Global
Primary Products Growth, said in a separate e-mailed statement.
It didn’t provide the terms for the loans.  The venture project includes a bauxite mine in Qassim, a
province in northeast Saudi Arabia, with a production capacity
of 4 million metric tons. The material will be shipped by rail
to a 1.8 million metric ton-a-year alumina refinery and a
740,000 metric ton-a-year aluminum smelter in Ras al-Zour, on
the Persia Gulf.  The financing process for the second phase of the project,
including a mine and refinery, will start “shortly,” according
to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  