-- SEC Sues Ex-Deloitte Tax Partner, Wife for Insider Trading Tied to Mergers
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-11-30T21:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/sec-sues-ex-deloitte-partner-wife-for-role-in-inside-trading.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued a former Deloitte Tax LLP partner and his wife
for passing confidential information on mergers and acquisitions
to family members, who allegedly reaped millions of dollars
trading on the tips.  Arnold McClellan, 51, and his wife Annabel McClellan, told
family members of at least seven confidential buyouts between
2006 and 2008 planned by Deloitte’s clients, the SEC said in a
lawsuit filed in California federal court today. Their relatives
made about $3 million in profits, the lawsuit said.  McClellan, who headed one of Deloitte’s regional mergers
and acquisitions teams, passed information to his brother-in-law
about 2007 buyouts of companies including Kronos Inc. and
aQuantive Inc. and the 2008 purchase of Getty Images Inc., the
SEC said. The brother-in-law,  James Sanders , co-owner of London
derivatives broker Blue Index Ltd., was charged along with two
colleagues by the U.K. Financial Services Authority last week
for trading on the tips.  “The McClellans might have thought that they could conceal
their illegal scheme by having close relatives make illegal
trades offshore,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said
in a statement. “They were wrong.”  McClellan Denies Charges  Arnold McClellan “denies the claims and will vigorously
contest them,”  Elliot Peters , his attorney at Keker & Van Nest,
said in a statement. “He did not trade on insider information,
and there will be no evidence that he passed along any
confidential information to anyone.”  Nanci Clarence , Annabel McClellan’s lawyer, said her client
denies the allegations. McClellan didn’t possess, pass or trade
on inside information, Clarence said in an interview.  Sanders denied the FSA’s allegations, Kevin Robinson, his
lawyer at Irwin Mitchell LLP, said Nov. 25.  Sanders consistently placed trades in companies that were
acquisition targets of McClellan’s clients shortly after
McClellan learned of important events that could impact the
deals, the SEC said. By 2007, Sanders was taking “large
positions” based on the tips and shared the information with
colleagues and clients of his firm, according to the lawsuit.  In January 2007, McClellan signed a confidentiality
agreement with a client seeking to purchase Kronos, the SEC
said. Within the next two days, Sanders began trading
derivatives related to the company’s shares and then increased
his position after McClellan stayed overnight at his London home
a week later, according to the lawsuit.  $3 Million in Gains  In May 2007, Sanders bought derivative investments in
aQuantive a day after McClellan started working on Microsoft
Corp.’s acquisition of the company, the SEC said. Later that
year, Sanders placed his first trade in Getty Images the day
Annabel McClellan arrived to visit him in London, according to
the lawsuit. Sanders made more than $3 million from trading in
advance of McClellan’s clients’ deals, the SEC said.  Annabel McClellan tipped Sanders as part of an agreement to
share proceeds from the trades, the complaint said. The SEC is
seeking disgorgement of ill-gotten profits and unspecified
fines.  “We are shocked and saddened by these allegations against
our former tax partner and members of his family. If the
allegations prove to be true, they would represent serious
violations of our strict and regularly communicated
confidentiality policies,” Deloitte spokesman Jonathan Gandal
said in an e-mailed statement.  Gandal said that McClellan was removed from work with
clients in August 2009 when the focus of the investigation
became apparent, and he left the firm in June.  “The SEC does not allege any wrongdoing by Deloitte in
this unfortunate matter,” Gandal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: at 
1985 or
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 