-- U.S. Senate Rejects Proposed Three-Year Ban on Lawmakers' Budget Earmarks
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-11-30T17:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/senate-rejects-three-year-ban-on-lawmakers-budget-earmarks-.html
The U.S. Senate rejected a proposed
moratorium on budget “earmarks” for lawmakers’ pet projects as
Democrats and eight Republicans balked at efforts to further
crack down on the practice.  The chamber  voted  56-39 to reject a proposal that would
have gone beyond a non-binding moratorium Republicans adopted
for their party earlier this month. Today’s proposal would have
allowed any lawmaker, for three years, to halt legislation
determined to include spending or tax earmarks.  Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman  Daniel Inouye , a
Hawaii Democrat, said giving up earmarks, which direct federal
agencies how to spend part of their budgets, would hand spending
decisions over to the Obama administration.  “The people of Hawaii did not elect me to serve as a
rubber stamp for any administration,” said Inouye. “I find it
puzzling that some Republicans would want to grant all authority
over spending to any president, but especially a Democratic
president and, make no mistake, that is exactly what this
amendment would do.”  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who sponsored
the  ban , said the “stinky little secret” is that lawmakers
dole out earmarks to contributors to their re-election
campaigns.  “That is not something this body should embrace, tolerate
or stand for,” said Coburn. “The American people expect us to
be transparent, above board, doing the best, right thing for the
country as a whole.”  Eight Republicans  Today’s vote sets up a clash on budget bills with House
Republicans, who under pressure from Tea Party activists voted
on Nov. 18 to extend their moratorium on earmarks for two years.  Among the Republicans voting against the Senate ban was
 Thad Cochran  of Mississippi, the ranking member of the
Appropriations Committee.  Several Republicans including South Carolina’s  Lindsey Graham ,  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska and  James Inhofe  of Oklahoma
said they don’t intend to abide by their party’s moratorium on
earmarks. Inhofe called the policy “unconscionable” and said
it amounted to “giving Obama our constitutional authority to do
the spending.”  Seven Democrats voted for the ban, including Missouri’s
 Claire McCaskill  and  Bill Nelson  of Florida, who will face re-
election in 2012. The 39 votes for the ban was an increase over
the 29 votes earlier this year for a bid by South Carolina
Republican  Jim DeMint  to ban the projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  