-- Shanda Forecasts Higher Fourth-Quarter Sales on New Online Games, Upgrades
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-11-30T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/shanda-games-forecasts-increase-in-fourth-quarter-sales-beating-estimates.html
Shanda Games Ltd. , China’s second-
biggest operator of online games, forecast fourth-quarter sales
that exceeded analysts’ estimates after the company introduced
new titles and upgrades to attract players.  Revenue in the three months to Dec. 31 may be 3 percent to
5 percent higher than the 1.1 billion yuan ($165 million) posted
in the third quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Alan Tan  said in a
conference call today. Shanda is expected to report 1.1 billion
yuan in fourth-quarter sales, according to the average of nine
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Shanda is seeking to regain market share lost to  Tencent
Holdings Ltd.  and  NetEase.com Inc.  with new games such as
“Dragon Nest." Third-quarter profit fell a steeper-than-
estimated 21 percent from a year earlier to 289 million yuan,
Shanda reported yesterday.  The introduction of ‘‘Dragon Nest’’ in July has generated
"better-than-expected" interest from customers, Tan said. The
company plans to roll out new games including ‘‘Bubble Fighter’’
and ‘‘Legend of Immortals’’ in the next few quarters, he said.  Demand for older titles has ‘‘stabilized’’ after the
company introduced expansion packs, he said.  Third-quarter net income fell to 289 million yuan from
366.6 million yuan a year earlier, the company said in a
statement yesterday. That missed the 328.3 million yuan average
of seven analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell to
1.1 billion yuan from 1.27 billion yuan.  Shanda’s American depositary receipts rose 0.5 percent to
$5.69 in New York trading yesterday before the announcement. The
stock has declined 44 percent this year.  Parent  Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. ’s third-
quarter profit fell 77 percent to 99.3 million yuan, according
to a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at   wlee37@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  and. 