-- Sheryl Crow, Online Donors Boosted Charitable Giving in 2010
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-11-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/sheryl-crow-online-donors-boosted-charitable-giving-in-2010.html
Maybe it was  Sheryl Crow  headlining
the entertainment, or the braised short ribs on the menu.  Whatever the reason (and perhaps the economy even had
something to do with it), all 1,400 tickets to the annual  Samuel
Waxman Cancer Research Foundation  gala on Nov. 18 were sold in
advance, mostly to bankers from the likes of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  Indeed, the nonprofit, which funds cutting-edge research,
moved the $1,000-per-person affair from the Lexington Armory to
the much bigger  69th Regiment Armory  in Manhattan.  The supporters included dozens of finance executives from
 Bank of America Corp. , Soros Fund Management LLC and  Fortress
Investment Group . The first-class party raised about $3.4
million, a record for the group. In addition, over $1 million
has been raised from the live, silent and online auction so far,
with the online auction running through Thursday.  “What this says is that people are still committed to
philanthropy,” Waxman Foundation Executive Director Gwen Darien
said in a telephone interview. “Despite the fact that it’s a
tough economy out there, they believe in the importance of
giving.”  Many U.S. nonprofits receive a significant portion of their
donations during the Thanksgiving and December holiday seasons,
when gift-giving surges and donors make contributions by the end
of the year to get  tax write-offs .  Increased Giving  Charitable giving during this holiday season is expected to
grow. A joint survey of 5,000 nonprofits released yesterday by
the  Nonprofit Research Collaborative  said 36 percent of
charities reported an increase in giving during the first nine
months of 2010 compared with 23 percent during the same period
in 2009. About 37 percent reported a decrease in giving so far
in 2010, compared to 51 percent a year ago.  A survey released today by the Austin, Texas-based online
software maker  Convio Inc . shows that 74 percent of adults said
they plan to donate to charity in November and December.  Online donations during the holidays are expected to reach
more than $6 billion, 30 percent more than last December, the
Convio study predicted. Donors who have an online relationship
with a nonprofit said they will give about $100 more than the
average of $378 this season.  The Arlington, Virginia-based  Edge Research  polled 1,148
people for Convio between Oct. 20 and Nov. 8.  “Giving in the holiday season is a very important part of
the American lifestyle,”  Gene Austin , Convio’s chief executive
officer, said in a phone interview. “Now more than ever,
nonprofits are using many different channels to get their word
out and raise money.”  Greater Need  The Collaborative’s survey found that while giving is up,
47 percent of nonprofits increased their budgets to accommodate
greater need for their services.  New York’s  City Harvest , which collects 23 million pounds
of food for the needy, had to boost its budget estimates this
year by 14 percent to $15.8 million to meet increased demand,
Jilly Stephens, the nonprofit’s executive director, said by
phone.  “The needs of the hungry are still very high and we have
to respond to that,” Stephens said, “so of course that drives
up our costs.”  Austin said another positive finding of the Convio survey
is that Generation X donors in their 30s and 40s are the most
generous segment of the population. They will give an average of
$348 this holiday season, compared to $251 that Baby Boomer
donors promised.  Education Fund  Jacob Lief, founder and president of the South Africa-based
 Ubuntu Education Fund , which provides schooling and health
assistance to 24,000 children in that South African district’s
Eastern Cape Province, said young hedge fund and banking
executives are among his newest donors. One patron in his 30s
bought a $50,000 table on impulse for Ubuntu’s Nov. 11 gala at
New York’s Hammerstein Ballroom. The event, co-hosted by hedge
fund titan  Stanley F. Druckenmiller  and Goldman Sachs chief
financial officer  David Viniar , raised a record $2 million from
700 attendees.  “After attending the event, the young hedge fund manager
gave us another $50,000,” said Lief, who declined to name the
donor. “Another who runs a trading group in London said he
wants to organize a charity trading day for Ubuntu. People with
the means are saying, ‘Yes, times are tough, but I have the
means to give, and my giving should go up, not down.’”  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 