-- Slim’s America Movil Seeks Europe Entry Via Serbia
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-11-30T21:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/slim-s-america-movil-seeks-europe-entry-via-serbia-to-grow-beyond-americas.html
America Movil SAB , Latin America’s
largest wireless carrier, is seeking approval to bid on a 51
percent stake in Serbia’s national phone company Telekom Srbija
AD in a new attempt to expand into Europe.  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , has
registered for bidding materials in the sale, an official whose
name can’t be used because of company policy said today in a
phone interview. Telekom Srbija is scheduled to complete a stake
sale in the first quarter, with a sale arranger valuing the
company at 2.43 billion euros ($3.16 billion).  The move represents Mexico City-based America Movil’s first
public attempt in three years to move outside its traditional
base of Latin America, the Caribbean and the U.S. The company
ran into government opposition in a 2007 attempt to gain a stake
in Telecom Italia SpA and pulled out of a 2005 auction of
wireless licenses in Spain because it disagreed with the terms.  Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Hajj  told investors in a
meeting in Mexico City this month that the company may explore
acquisition opportunities outside of Latin America because it
doesn’t have many options left in the region, where it operates
in countries including Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and Chile.  “In the next year, acquisitions are always a possibility,
but there’s nothing concrete in the near future,” Chief
Financial Officer  Carlos Garcia Moreno  said last week in an
interview.  America Movil fell 5 centavos to 35.28 pesos at 4:10 p.m.
New York time in Mexico City  trading . The shares have gained
15 percent this year.  Deutsche Telekom AG, Telekom Austria AG and France Telecom
SA also bought the government’s tender documents for the Telekom
Srbija stake, Telecommunications Minister  Jasna Matic  said this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  