-- South African Stocks Slump to One-Month Low on Europe Debt, Chinese Rates
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-30T16:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/south-african-stocks-fall-to-one-month-low-on-european-debt-chinese-rates.html
South Africa’s broadest stock index
fell to the lowest in more than a month as concern Chinese
interest-rate increases and the European debt crisis would slow
global growth, curbing demand for higher-yielding assets.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index  retreated for a third
day, falling 449.84, or 1.5 percent, to 30,266.40 at the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, the lowest since Oct. 28. That took its
decline in November to 0.5 percent, the first drop in three
months. The gauge was among the 10 worst performers of 87
indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Emerging-market stocks headed for the  steepest monthly
decrease  in two years on concern Portugal and Spain may suffer
the fate of Ireland, which had to ask for an 85 billion-euro
($111 billion) rescue package to help bail out its banks. The
Shanghai Composite gauge posted its first monthly drop since
June after Zhong Jiyin, an economist with the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences, wrote in a commentary in the China Daily today
that the government needs to increase borrowing costs by another
200 basis points to curb inflation.  “The negative global situation has been a big influence
because it’s caused a complete repricing of risk,”  Rudi van der Merwe , chief investment officer at Standard Private Bank Equity
Advisory Services, said in a telephone interview from
Johannesburg. “The South African market has been a big
beneficiary of liquidity flows into emerging markets this year
but now it’s selling off quite sharply because it’s seen as
being relatively expensive.”  Anglo, Billiton Drop  Anglo American Plc , the mining company that comprises
almost 10 percent of the index, led decreases, retreating 1.6
percent, to 309.99 rand.  BHP Billiton Plc , the world’s biggest
mining company, declined 0.9 percent, to 250.69 rand.  Sasol Ltd. , the world’s biggest maker of motor fuel from
coal, fell to the lowest since Oct. 27 as oil dropped from a
two-week high.  Today’s move pared the measure’s gain since the start of
the year to 9.4 percent, extending last year’s 29 percent rally
as near-zero interest rates in developed nations prompted
investors to seek higher-yielding assets in emerging markets.  Foreign investors have been net buyers of 31.4 billion rand
($4.4 billion) of South African stocks this year, according to
JSE Ltd., which manages the country’s exchanges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  