-- South Korea Inflation Slows to 3.3%, Offering Scope to Extend Rate Pause
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-11-30T23:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/south-korea-s-inflation-decelerates-from-fastest-pace-since-february-2009.html
South Korea’s consumer price growth
slowed to within the central bank’s target range, easing
pressure for a third interest-rate increase before year-end.  The consumer price  index  rose 3.3 percent in November from
a year earlier, after increasing 4.1 percent in October,
Statistics Korea said in Gwacheon today. The median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists was for a 3.7 percent
gain. Prices fell 0.6 percent from October.  South Korea is trying to stem price pressures while
avoiding exchange-rate gains that can threaten exports. The Bank
of Korea raised the benchmark interest rate by a quarter
percentage point to 2.5 percent last month and dropped a pledge
to keep monetary policy “accommodative.”  “Inflation probably stabilized a bit, but the BOK still
needs to monitor it closely as it remains high,”  Park Sang Hyun ,
an economist at HI Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, said
before the release. “The BOK will likely keep rates on hold
until February or March next year due to rising uncertainties
over North Korean tensions, Europe’s debt crisis and China’s
monetary tightening.”  The won fell 0.6 percent to 1,159.25 at the 3 p.m. close in
Seoul yesterday. The benchmark Kospi stock index climbed 0.5
percent. The currency touched 1,172.50, the weakest level since
Sept. 9, after North Korea shelled a South Korean island last
week, killing four people and stoking tension on the peninsula.  Currency Gains  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s government on Nov. 18 supported
the revival of a tax on foreigners investing in the nation’s
bonds to curb fund inflows that helped to drive up the currency
before the conflict with the North.  Growth in Asia’s fourth-largest economy halved to 0.7
percent in the three months to September from the previous
quarter as the won rose the most in Asia and goods shipments
cooled.  Core prices, which exclude oil and food, rose 1.8 percent
in November from a year earlier after a 1.9 percent gain in
October. Prices for agricultural, dairy and fisheries goods
increased 17.9 percent, today’s report showed. Oil products
climbed 5 percent.  The expected inflation rate over the next year declined to
3.2 percent in November from 3.4 percent in October, according
to a survey by the central bank last week. The  Bank of Korea 
targets consumer price inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent on
average through 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  