-- South Africa Posts Trade Deficit in October as Strong Rand Boosts Imports
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-11-30T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/south-africa-posts-trade-deficit-in-october-as-strong-rand-boosts-imports.html
South Africa posted a trade deficit
of 3.2 billion rand ($449 million) in October, reversing its
surplus the month before, as lower interest rates and a stronger
rand helped spur imports.  The shortfall compared with a 3.6 billion rand surplus in
September, the  South African Revenue Service  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The median estimate of nine economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a deficit of 2 billion rand.  South Africa’s Reserve Bank has cut its benchmark interest
 rate  three times this year, most recently by half a point to 5.5
percent on Nov. 18, spurring consumer spending in Africa’s
biggest  economy . At the same time, the rand’s 7.3 percent gain
against the dollar in the past six months has fueled demand for
televisions, microwave ovens and other imported items.  The increase in “demand-driven goods is indicative of
companies building up inventories,” Andrew Fisher, an executive
at the revenue service, said by phone today.  Imports increased 7 percent to 53 billion rand in October
from the previous month, with shipments of machinery and
electrical appliances climbing 14 percent and vehicle imports
increasing 32 percent, the revenue service said.  Exports dropped 6.3 percent to 49.8 billion rand over the
same period. Iron-ore exports slumped 25 percent, while
shipments of chemical products declined 18 percent, the revenue
service said.  In the first 10 months of the year, the trade deficit
narrowed to 13.2 billion rand from 26.7 billion rand in the same
period last year, the report said.  South African trade figures are often volatile, reflecting
the timing of shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 