-- South African Central Bank Governor Says Prospect of Rate Cuts `Limited'
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-11-30T18:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/south-african-central-bank-governor-says-prospect1-of-rate-cuts-limited-.html
South Africa’s central bank
sees more “definite” signs of a recovery in consumer spending
and the prospect of further interest-rate cuts is “limited,”
Governor  Gill Marcus  said.  While the bank previously signaled that interest rates
would probably stay on hold, “heightened uncertainty” means
conditions changed rapidly, allowing the bank to lower rates
earlier this month, Marcus said in a speech in Johannesburg
today, according to a copy posted on the bank’s website.  The Reserve Bank on Nov. 18 cut its benchmark interest  rate 
by half a percentage point to 5.5 percent, the third reduction
this year, to help spur growth in Africa’s biggest  economy . The
rand’s 8 percent gain against the dollar in the past six
months has kept  inflation  within the bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target range, allowing Marcus to reduce borrowing costs.  “As we signaled in our most recent meeting, the room for
further rate cuts is limited by the fact that we are now seeing
more definite signs of a sustained recovery in household
consumption expenditure and domestic credit extension,” he
said.  Retail sales  rose an annual 6.1 percent in September from
4.6 percent in the previous month, the statistics office said on
Nov. 17.  Bank’s Independence  Marcus said the central bank’s independence isn’t being
undermined by the government’s new growth strategy, which calls
for loose monetary policy.  The growth plan, outlined by Economic Development Minister
 Ebrahim Patel  on Nov. 23, calls on the central bank to continue
targeting “low and stable inflation” while doing more to
combat the rand’s strength.  “Our interpretation of this is that the proposals
recognize that the bank’s mandate remains the achievement of low
and stable inflation,” Marcus said. “In a low inflation
environment, nominal and possibly real interest rates will be
lower, and the real exchange rate will be more competitive
because our prices and wages will not be increasing relative to
those of our competitor countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  