-- Spain Banks Face Funding Hurdle Amid Bailout Threat
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-11-30T17:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/spain-s-banks-face-111-billion-funding-hurdle-in-2011-amid-bailout-threat.html
Spain’s  banks  may struggle to
refinance about 85 billion euros ($111 billion) in debt next
year as costs surge on concern continental Europe’s fourth-
biggest economy may need an Irish-style bailout.  “There’s a universal dumping of Spain going on,” said
 Andrea Williams , who helps manage about 623 million pounds ($968
million), including shares in  Banco Santander  SA, at Royal
London Asset Management. “The fear is that Portugal, Spain and
Italy are now in line after what happened in Ireland.”  Anxiety over Spain’s ability to bring down the euro-
region’s third-highest budget deficit after Europe handed
Ireland an 85 billion-euro aid package has driven up financing
costs for the country’s lenders already battered by rising bad
loans and falling revenue. The average yield investors demand to
hold euro-denominated Spanish bank bonds, relative to government
debt, rose 141 basis points to 385 basis points in November --
the biggest monthly jump on record, according to data compiled
by Bank of America Corp.  As the cost of insuring the country’s debt against default
rose to its highest level, Spanish lenders now pay the biggest
premium ever on their debt relative to other banks in Europe.
Spreads on Spanish bank bonds in euros rose to a record 166
basis points more than the average for all lender debt
denominated in the currency, up from a gap of 63 basis points on
Oct. 31, according to Bank of America data.  ‘Big Elephant’  The risk for Europe is that Spain’s economy is twice as big
as that of Greece, Ireland and Portugal combined, meaning the
euro region’s 750 billion-euro bailout fund may not be big
enough if the country resorts to aid. Spain’s 10-year government
bonds slid yesterday by the most since the euro’s debut. The
extra yield investors demand to hold the securities instead of
benchmark German bunds widened to euro-era records.  “The big elephant in the room is not Portugal but, of
course, it’s Spain,”  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University
professor who predicted the global financial crisis, said at a
conference in Prague yesterday. “There is not enough official
money to bail out Spain if trouble occurs.”  The European Central Bank may have to step up purchases of
Spanish government bonds and backstop its banking system if the
country runs into financing difficulties,  Willem Buiter ,
Citigroup Inc.’s chief economist, said in a note to investors
yesterday. “Once Spain needs assistance, the support of the ECB
will be critical,” Buiter wrote.  Bond Sales Fall  Spanish financial companies sold 300 million euros of bonds
in Europe this month, excluding debt with government guarantees,
compared with 2.37 billion euros in the same period a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spain says the government’s finances and the country’s
banks are sound. The lenders are “fundamentally healthy,”  Jose Luis Malo de Molina , chief economist of the Bank of Spain, said
in a news conference in Madrid yesterday. “The Spanish
financial system does not have a problem of deep frailty such as
the Irish economy has.”  The country’s lenders have about 30 percent of their
medium- and long-term debt maturing by December 2012, according
to the Bank of Spain’s October  financial stability report . The
report says the fact that 50 percent of maturities fall after
2013 “softens” the refinancing needs of the lenders, even as
it advises them to rely more on debt with longer maturities.  Cajas at Risk  “Asking the Spanish banks how they are going to meet these
refinancing needs is absolutely a fair question for them,”
 Claire Kane , a banking analyst at MF Global in London, said in a
phone interview.  Four months after the Bank of Spain said publication of
stress tests of Spanish lenders “confirm the soundness” of the
country’s banking system, investors are again driving up their
financing costs. Investor concerns are most likely to focus on
the needs of Spain’s savings banks, said  Daragh Quinn , an
analyst at Nomura International in Madrid.  Savings banks, immersed in a restructuring process that
will see their number shrink by almost two-thirds as the central
bank coaxes them into cost-saving mergers, have about 30 billion
euros of debt coming due next year, according to Bloomberg data.  The cost of insuring the five-year senior debt of Caja de
Ahorros del Mediterraneo, an Alicante-based savings bank, is
about 700 basis points compared with about 241 basis points for
Santander, Spain’s biggest lender, which earns about 25 percent
of profit from its home country as it boosts income from
countries such as Brazil and the U.K.  Santander, BBVA  “The government and European policy makers must be looking
at what they would need to do if the cajas were unable to
refinance next year,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “It’s at that point the
situation would start to look like that which Ireland has
suffered.”  Even in the toughest scenario, it’s unlikely funding would
be cut off for the strongest Spanish lenders such as Santander,
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA  or La Caixa, Quinn said.  Spanish lenders can pick among different strategies for
bridging a prolonged period of being shut out from the debt
markets, said  John Raymond , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in
London. Those include tapping funding from the European Central
Bank, stepping up the already stiff competition for retail
deposits or scaling back lending, he said.  ECB Loans Decline  Spanish banks had loans from the ECB of 67.9 billion euros
in October, a 30 percent drop from the previous month. Spanish
ECB loans as a proportion of banking assets stand at about 2
percent, compared with about 7.8 percent for Ireland.  Santander, which has 27 billion euros in debt maturing next
year, said it added 94 billion euros in customer deposits this
year and also has as much as 100 billion euros in collateral it
can use to tap funds from central banks.  A spokeswoman from Santander, who asked not to be named in
line with company policy, declined to comment. The lender’s
shares fell as much as 3 percent in Madrid trading today before
closing at 7.30 euros, a drop of 0.4 percent, which extended
declines this year to 36 percent.  “If Santander were to go to the ECB for 50 billion euros
then we really would be in crisis territory,” said Kane. She
said that was highly unlikely because Santander can also sell
debt through its non-Spanish subsidiaries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  