-- State Street to Eliminate 1,400 Jobs as Low Interest Rates Squeeze Revenue
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-11-30T23:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/state-street-to-cut-1-400-jobs-as-low-rates-squeeze-revenue.html
State Street Corp ., the third-
largest custody bank, said it will cut 1,400 jobs, or about 5
percent of its workforce, to reduce costs as interest rates near
zero erode profit.  The measures are part of an effort to save as much as $625
million a year by the end of 2014, the Boston-based company said
today in a statement. State Street said it will book
restructuring expenses of as much as $450 million before taxes
over four years.  Chief Executive Officer  Joseph “Jay” Hooley , who took
over in March, has set a long-term goal of increasing earnings
by 10 percent to 15 percent a year. With record-low interest
rates eroding what the bank earns from lending and investing,
State Street has made acquisitions to boost profit. The company,
which employs about 28,000 worldwide, trimmed 1,700 jobs in the
first quarter of 2009, when it also cut bonuses and reduced its
quarterly dividend from 24 cents a share to a penny.  “If your prices keep going down, the only way you can get
profit up is to wait for interest rates to go up or get your
costs down,”  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC
in Lutz, Florida, said in a telephone interview.  Bove said competition and increased use of technology has
forced prices down for the services provided by State Street and
its main rivals, Bank of  New York Mellon Corp.  and Chicago’s
 Northern Trust Corp.   Barclays Cuts  The job cuts will start this week and be completed by the
end of next year, State Street said. About 400 positions will be
eliminated in Massachusetts, where State Street employs 12,600,
spokeswoman  Carolyn Cichon  said in a telephone interview. She
declined to say where other cuts may be concentrated
geographically.  The company plans to book as much as $165 million of the
restructuring costs in the fourth quarter, mainly related to the
workforce reductions. Measures will also include consolidating
real estate to lower occupancy expenses and investments to
increase computing capabilities, according to the statement.  Barclays Capital, the securities unit of Barclays Plc, is
preparing to eliminate hundreds of jobs in the next two months
following a decline in investment banking revenue, according to
three people familiar with the matter. A spokesman for Barclays
in London declined to comment.  Custody banks make money in part by investing or lending
out cash and securities deposited by clients that include mutual
funds and pension funds. The margin between what they pay
depositors and what they make from investments and lending
narrows when interest rates decline.  Fed Rates  The Federal Reserve has held its  benchmark lending rate  at
between zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008. The rate
won’t rise above 0.5 percent until the first quarter of 2012,
according to the average forecast of 41 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “Amid the current challenging economic conditions, we will
continue to improve our operating environment in the short-term
while ensuring that we have the right structure in place for
long-term growth,” Hooley said in the statement.  State Street in October reported a 21 percent increase in
third-quarter operating profit, boosted by two European
acquisitions. Revenue from trading services, which includes
foreign-exchange trading and brokerage fees, fell 15 percent to
$228 million. Securities-finance revenue, hurt by low interest
rates, declined 35 percent to $68 million.  Fees Suffer  Fees at State Street’s money-management unit have also
suffered as investors continued to shift from higher-earning
equities to bonds. Clients at State Street Global Advisors
withdrew a net $3 billion in the third quarter. Index-based
investments, including exchange-traded funds, attracted $25
billion.  The company completed the purchases of Mourant
International Finance Administration in the U.K.’s Channel
Islands in April and the securities-servicing unit of Italy’s
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA in May. In October, State Street agreed to
buy Bank of Ireland’s investment-management business.  Its shares are little changed this year, compared with the
4.7 percent gain by Standard & Poor’s  index  for money managers
and custody banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 