-- Sukuk Snap Five-Month Gain on Europe Debt Contagion Risk: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2010-11-30T08:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/sukuk-snap-five-month-rally-on-european-debt-islamic-finance.html
Islamic bonds slumped in November,
snapping a five-month rally, as concern Europe’s debt crisis
will spread reduced demand for higher-yielding assets in
emerging markets.  Average yields on sukuk climbed 19 basis points, or 0.19
percentage point, in November to 5.04 percent, the highest level
in two months, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Index . Yields had dropped 194 basis points from May 31
until the end of October. The extra yield investors demand to
hold non-Islamic emerging-market debt instead of U.S. Treasuries
rose 22 basis points in the month to 267, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  “The sukuk market doesn’t work in isolation,”  Scott Lim ,
chief executive officer at Kuala Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah Asset
Management Bhd., who oversees the equivalent of $670 million of
assets, said in an interview Nov. 26. “Europe is having too
many structural problems and this is only the beginning. It is
going to be challenging for the bond market.”  The declines pared gains this year for Islamic bonds to
11.2 percent, compared with a 13.3 percent advance for debt in
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  Ireland agreed over the weekend to an 85 billion euro ($112
billion) aid package from European governments to help shore up
its banking system. Yields on Portugal and Spain’s 10-year
government debt climbed to records this month on speculation
those countries will follow Ireland in seeking a financial
bailout.  Spreads Widen  Investor demand for the safety of German debt drove the 
extra  yield investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds
over bunds to an all-time high of 460 points on Nov. 11. Spain’s
 premium  widened to 286 points today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The  difference  between the average yield for sukuk
and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 12 basis points
in November to 349 basis points, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  “When looking at the euro-zone challenges, it is of course
easy to see the gravitation of capital towards the safe
havens,”  Rafael Martinez Dalmau , the Singapore-based head of
Shariah-compliant portfolio management at BNP Paribas, wrote in
an e-mailed reply to questions on Nov. 29. “While the markets
may suffer sporadic bouts of volatility, further gains in sukuk
are likely to continue, albeit at a slower pace from what we
have seen in the last few months.”  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 fell three basis points to 2.87 percent today and climbed
38 basis points in November, according to prices provided by
Royal Bank of Scotland Group. It has advanced 54 basis points
from a record low of 2.33 percent on Nov. 4. The difference in
yield between Dubai’s notes and Malaysia’s shrank three basis
points today and narrowed 15 basis points this month to 379.  Sukuk Sales  Sales of Shariah-compliant bonds, which pay returns on
assets to comply with Islam’s ban on interest, have slumped 31
percent this year to $13.7 billion as debt restructurings and
falling property prices in the Middle East hurt investor
confidence. They reached a record $31 billion in 2007.  Sukuk offerings are likely to pick up next year as growth
in Asia and the Persian Gulf continues to outpace Europe and the
U.S., Dalmau wrote.  Asia’s developing economies will expand 8.4 percent in 2011,
compared with 2.2 percent growth in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6. Economies in the
Middle East and North Africa will grow 5.1 percent next year,
the IMF estimates.  Dubai Sale  Dubai’s government hired CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., a Kuala
Lumpur-based unit of  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. , as a lead manager
to sell between $1 billion and $1.5 billion of sukuk, a person
with knowledge of the plan said Nov. 24. Malaysian Prime
Minister  Najib Razak  said Oct. 26 the Dubai Department of
Finance is proposing a multi-currency sukuk program.  National Commercial Bank, Saudi Arabia’s largest lender,
plans to sell its first Islamic bond in the second quarter of
2011, Abdulrazzak Elkhraijy, executive vice president and head
of the Islamic banking development group, said in an interview
in Manama, Bahrain, on Nov. 22.  “We do not expect new sukuk issuance to be affected only
because the market is in a corrective phase,” BNP Paribas’
Rafael said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 