-- U.K. Plans to Increase Tax on High-Strength Beers
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-11-30T13:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/u-k-plans-to-increase-tax-on-high-strength-beers-update1-.html
The U.K. government plans to
increase taxes on beers containing more than 7.5 percent alcohol
by volume and cut duties on beers below 2.8 percent alcohol,
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman Steve Field said.  Tennent’s Super lager made by C&C Group Plc and Carlsberg
A/S’s Special Brew are among the brands affected by the
additional levy, due to be introduced late next year.  The plans are part of a drive to encourage responsible
alcohol consumption and tackle binge drinking, with alcohol-
fueled violent crime costing the U.K. 12 billion pounds ($19
billion) a year, according to the  Home Office .  “This reflects what’s currently there in the market and it
also reflects research by health and homelessness groups about
the problems associated with super-strength lager,” Field told
reporters in  London  today. The rates will be set out in the
March budget, he said.  The plan to increase duty on high-strength beers was
attacked by the  British Beer and Pub Association .  “These account for less than half of 1 percent of total
alcohol sales, and less than 1 percent of beer sales,” Chief
Executive Brigid Simmonds said in an e-mail. “Duty rates remain
untouched for higher-strength drinks such as spirits and wine.”  The state-funded  National Health Service  spends 2.7 billion
pounds a year dealing with alcohol abuse, according to the
 Department of Health .  Tobacco Curbs  Health Secretary Andrew Lansley also said today the
government is considering only permitting the sale of tobacco
products in plain packaging and curbing the display of
cigarettes and tobacco in shops. He will make a statement to
lawmakers at 3:30 p.m.  The previous Labour government, which lost power in May,
put in place legislation to remove cigarettes from public
displays in large supermarkets from October 2011. Lansley said
the government is considering whether to press ahead with the
plans.  “Even if cigarettes are put under counter there is a risk
that people just say they will carry on smoking and I don’t care
what the government tells me,” he told the  BBC ’s Today radio
program today. “We’ve got to arrive at a point where
politicians stop just telling people how to be healthy but
actually help them to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  