-- U.S. States' Tax Receipts Rose For Third-Straight Quarter, Survey Finds
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-11-30T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/u-s-states-tax-receipts-rose-for-third-straight-quarter-survey-finds.html
State tax revenue rose 3.9 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, the third consecutive
gain, as a recovering economy boosted receipts from sales and
personal-income levies, a study of 48 states shows.  Increases occurred in 42 states, according to data compiled
by the  Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government  in Albany,
New York. Compared with July through September of 2008, tax
receipts in the 48 states fell 7 percent, the group said.  “With three straight quarters of growth, the trend is
clearly positive,”  Robert Ward , the institute’s deputy
director, said yesterday in an e-mailed comment. “The problem
is that states have been down so long, it’s hard to say where up
is located. Revenues are still below the level of two years ago,
because of very sharp declines in 2009.”  The longest recession since the Great Depression cost
millions of Americans their jobs and homes, leaving states to
cope with dwindling revenue and mounting budget deficits.
Employment increases in  New York  and  Texas  last month led gains
in 41 states, according to Labor Department  data , a sign that
the nation’s job market may be stabilizing.  New York had the largest third-quarter increase in tax
receipts, collecting $577 million, or 4.5 percent, more than a
year earlier, the institute said. The gain was mainly driven by
higher personal-income tax collections and growth in payments of
levies on retail sales, the group said.  Alaska Down Most  Alaska  reported the largest drop in tax revenue among six
states that had declines, the institute said. Alaska receipts
plunged 48 percent, mainly because of lower collections from oil
and gas producers, it said.  Personal-income tax payments, which made up 41 percent of
total third-quarter tax revenue, rose 4.7 percent nationwide
compared with the 2009 period, the institute said. Collections
were down 6.9 percent from two years earlier, it said.  California  and New York had the biggest dollar gains in
receipts from personal-income taxes in the three months through
September, with increases of $610 million and $315 million,
respectively, the institute said. Alabama, with an 18 percent
jump compared with a year earlier, had the biggest percentage
increase. Hawaii had the largest decline, at 54 percent, because
of a delay in tax refunds from 2009, the group said.  Sales tax collections increased by 4.1 percent in the third
quarter, compared with a year earlier, the institute said.
Receipts were 5.1 percent lower than two years earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 