-- U.S. Using ‘Bully Pulpit’ to Urge Rental Car Repairs
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-11-30T23:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/u-s-auto-safety-regulator-using-bully-pulpit-to-urge-rental-car-repairs.html
The top U.S. auto-safety regulator
said he is “working through the bully pulpit” to make sure
rental-car companies such as Avis Budget Group Inc. and Hertz
Global Holdings Inc. complete repairs on recalled vehicles.  National Highway Traffic Safety Administrator  David Strickland  said he’s working to publicize the investigation he
opened last week into the repair history of 29 U.S. models in
rental-car fleets. Thirty percent of recalled vehicles in the
U.S. aren’t repaired, according to agency data.  “Our interest and our conversations with rental-car
companies are to make sure every driver, every customer is in a
vehicle that is safe,” Strickland told reporters today in
Washington.  The recall process treats rental-car companies the same way
as retail customers, who must be notified about defects and
aren’t required to fix them.  Clarence Ditlow , executive director
of the Washington-based Center for Auto Safety, said rental-car
companies should be held to the same standard as auto dealers,
who can’t sell a car if the repairs aren’t complete.  “If there’s a safety recall, there’s a safety recall,”
Ditlow said. “When rental cars are subject to a recall, the car
should be repaired before the consumer uses it.”  Enterprise, Hertz, Avis  Carmakers issue hundreds of recalls a year, affecting
thousands of Enterprise Holdings Inc.’s cars and trucks, said
Laura Bryant, a spokeswoman for the largest U.S. rental-car
company. Enterprise parks its vehicles when recommended by the
manufacturer, she said.  “Our practice frequently goes above and beyond what is
required -- in most cases, we place a ‘hold’ on recalled
vehicles so they are not rented until the recall work is
completed,” Bryant said in an e-mail.  The Center for Auto Safety petitioned the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission in August to look into whether Enterprise rents
to its customers before recall repairs have been completed.  The company would cooperate with the FTC and the NHTSA in
any inquiry into its current practices, Bryant said.  Paula Rivera , a spokeswoman for Hertz, and  John Barrows , a
spokesman for Avis, didn’t respond to an e-mail and a phone
message seeking comment.  The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  works
with automakers such as Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Co. to
issue recalls for safety-related defects. Automakers, in turn,
notify customers about the repairs, which are done at no charge
to vehicle owners.  There can be months of delay between the time a
manufacturer notifies NHTSA about a defect and when vehicle
owners are informed of a recall, Ditlow said. NHTSA could
require carmakers to notify rental companies sooner, he said.  NHTSA on Nov. 22 said on its website it had been informed
of “incidents involving allegations of personal injury and
death” caused by defects in rental cars and failure to conform
to federal safety standards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 