-- Banks See Margins Widen by Deposits Surging to Most
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-30T19:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/u-s-banks-see-margins-buoyed-by-core-deposits-surging-to-most-since-1990s.html
Profit margins at U.S. banks may get
a boost from increasing deposits as customers show a preference
for immediate access to their money and less appetite for risk
with interest rates at a record low and the economy still
seeking a bounce from recession.  Commercial banks in the U.S. added $88.9 billion of so-
called core deposits in the third quarter, bringing the total to
$6 trillion, the most since at least 1992, according to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Wells Fargo & Co., the fourth-
largest lender by deposits, and fifth-ranked  U.S. Bancorp  have
said they’re competing for such funds, which include checking
and savings accounts and time deposits of less than $100,000.  Banks are relying more on deposits for funding after a
freeze in credit markets sparked the financial crisis and led to
the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  in September
2008. The industry must shift from raising funds in debt and
securitization markets to increasing core deposits, which pay
little or no interest, analysts say. The average rate of 0.80
percent on bank deposits is the lowest since at least 2000,
according to Market Rates Insight in San Anselmo, California.  “Other sources of funding are drying up,” said
 Christopher Whalen , a former Federal Reserve analyst and co-
founder of Institutional Risk Analytics in Torrance, California.
“The banks that have stable funding will inherit the earth.”  Shrinking Leverage  Banks consider core deposits more dependable in times of
stress since customers with checking and savings accounts are
more likely to keep their money in the bank than bond investors
or lenders. Lehman and business lender  CIT Group Inc. , financial
companies more reliant on credit markets, filed for bankruptcy
when their traditional sources of funding vanished.  Borrowing by U.S. commercial banks fell 17 percent since
July of last year, while deposits, excluding large time
deposits, increased 9 percent in the same period, according to
the Fed. About two-thirds of the core deposits added by banks in
the third quarter, or $59.4 billion, were deposits that don’t
pay interest, according to the FDIC.  Leverage, the ratio of assets to total equity, fell in the
second quarter to 8.8, the lowest since 1988, for banks with
more than $20 billion in assets, according to federal data.
Total deposits rose to 56.3 percent of assets at 22 of the 24
firms in the  KBW Bank Index  through Nov. 22, from 50.3 percent
at the end of September 2008, according to Siddharth Jain, a
bank analyst at KBW Inc. Citigroup Inc. and McLean, Virginia-
based Capital One Financial Corp. don’t provide figures.  Banks relied on deposits to fund 81 percent of the growth
in assets during the third quarter, the FDIC said Nov. 23.  ‘Shift in Funding’  “One of the most overlooked aspects of the current cycle
is the secular shift in funding,” said  Todd Hagerman , a banking
analyst in New York with Collins Stewart Plc, a London-based
brokerage. “We’re seeing ongoing deleveraging, which means less
reliance on wholesale funding and more reliance on core funding
sources.”  Core deposits are also valued because banks can lend the
money at higher rates or profit just by purchasing securities.
Buying two-year  Treasuries  would net lenders the spread between
the cost of the funds and the notes’ yield, currently about 0.5
percentage point.  Customers who provide core deposits, particularly those
with checking accounts, are thought to be the most loyal and
least likely to defect to competitors because they have an
active and involved relationship with the bank, according to
 Richard Hartnack , a vice chairman and head of consumer and small
business at Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp.  ‘Safe Storage’  “We’re acting as a safe storage place for people’s
liquidity, and we’re also acting as the institution that is
effecting payments for them,” Hartnack said. “As long as we do
a good job, most clients are happy with the value proposition.”  Checking-account holders are more likely to sign up for
other products such as debit or credit cards, overdraft
protection, or a savings account, Hartnack said. Research shows
they stay with the bank longer than any other customers, except
those with  30-year mortgages , he said.  Through the first three quarters of this year,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  had the biggest percentage increase of domestic
deposits that don’t pay interest among the six largest U.S.
commercial banks, according to company filings. The New York-
based bank, the second-largest by deposits, reported a 7.5
percent increase to $219.3 billion.  Wells, U.S. Bancorp  Wells Fargo , based in San Francisco, boosted noninterest-
paying deposits by 1.7 percent, while U.S. Bancorp reported a
6.7 percent jump and Pittsburgh-based PNC Financial Services
Group Inc., the sixth largest by deposits, was up 3.8 percent.  Bank of America Corp., based in Charlotte, North Carolina,
and New York-based  Citigroup , which rank first and third,
reported fewer deposits that don’t pay interest. Bank of America
lost 1.5 percent of such deposits over the period, while
Citigroup’s fell 9.7 percent.  Robert Julavits , a spokesman for Citigroup, said the bank’s
overall noninterest-bearing deposits, if foreign accounts are
included, increased through the first nine months of this year.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Bank of America, said the
bank’s retail deposits increased this year. The decline in
noninterest-paying deposits was the result of the sale of First
Republic Bank, and a “conscious decision” to reduce the number
of checking-account customers, while others moved into savings
accounts that pay interest, Dubrowski said.  The increase at JPMorgan was driven by deposit growth in
commercial banking and treasury services, said  Tom Kelly , a
spokesman for the bank.  Fred Solomon , a spokesman for PNC,
declined to comment.  Core Deposits  “Core deposits remain important to us as the best source
of funding for new loans to our customers and as the foundation
for deep and lasting relationships that we can build on,”
 Howard Atkins , Wells Fargo’s chief financial officer, wrote in
an e-mail.  The U.S.  savings rate  has averaged 5.7 percent of
disposable income this year, up from 3.1 percent in the prior
decade, according to the Commerce Department. U.S. companies are
holding $943 billion in cash, Moody’s Investors Service said
Oct. 26. Consumers saved $1 trillion in domestic bank accounts
in the three years ended October, according to Market Rates
Insight.  “We’re in this new era of deposit behavior,” said Nancy
Bush, an independent bank analyst based in Annandale, New
Jersey. “Deposit levels in the banking system will be higher
than in the past because consumers will be spending less and
saving more, even when the economy picks up.”  ‘Stickier’ Deposits  The increasing pool of core deposits, and a greater
reliance on them, has led to more competition among some banks.  “I have instructed our team to be aggressive on deposit
gathering,” Richard Davis, chief executive officer of U.S.
Bancorp, said on the company’s earnings call Oct. 20. Whichever
bank “goes into the recovery with the most customers -- with
the most deposits, especially core deposits -- will end up
winning the next cycle. So, we’re not backing down.”  Wells Fargo’s Atkins said on a conference call Oct. 20 that
increased deposits will help the bank’s net interest margin, the
spread between interest paid on deposits and received on loans,
since it shrinks the amount the bank must pay out to other
sources that cost more. The bank reported an 11.2 percent rise
in checking accounts in New Jersey during the third quarter from
the year-earlier period, and a 9 percent increase in Florida.  “Those are more relationship-oriented and are stickier and
a more stable source of funding than just CDs or money-market
accounts,” said  Blake Howells , an analyst at Becker Capital
Management Inc. in Portland, Oregon, who spent 13 years at U.S.
Bancorp.  ‘Rotten’ Yields  For the most part, banks have used core deposits to buy
securities as loan growth stays flat or declines. Between June
30 and Nov. 10, commercial banks bought about $121 billion of
Treasuries and agency-related  debt , compared with $47 billion in
the first half, according to the Fed. Commercial and industrial
loans outstanding have fallen by about $65 billion this year,
central bank data show.  It may be difficult for banks to keep the deposits they’ve
attracted once interest rates rise, according to  Bert Ely , a
banking consultant in Alexandria, Virginia.  “These  yields  are so rotten, you park the cash in the bank
not because you want to, but because there aren’t many good
options,” Ely said. “When things start to pick up, you will
pull that cash out.”  Average Rate  The average rate on deposits calculated by  Market Rates
Insight , which provides data and analysis to financial services
companies, is based on a sample of 1,300 U.S. commercial banks
and credit unions and includes checking, savings and money-
market accounts, as well as certificates of deposit, according
to Executive Vice President  Dan Geller .  Fed policy makers cut the  overnight lending rate  between
banks to a record low range of between zero and 0.25 percentage
points in December 2008.  When rates do rise, the cheapest deposits will become even
more valuable, leading banks to fight for any market share
they’ve taken, said  Timothy Coffey , an analyst at FIG Partners
LLC in San Francisco.  “You’re going to want to find a way to minimize that
increase” in funding costs as rates on savings accounts rise
faster than asset yields, and adding low-cost deposits is the
best way to do that, Coffey said.  ‘Huge Win’  Deposits will also become more valuable as other types of
funding remain scarce, said Whalen of Institutional Risk
Analytics. The FDIC on Nov. 9 said it would change the rules for
the deposit-insurance fund to penalize lenders that rely more
heavily on borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank system.  FDIC-insured institutions cut FHLB advances by $43 billion
in the third quarter, marking the eighth consecutive quarterly
decline, the FDIC said Nov. 23.  In the past, banks have funded residential and commercial
real estate loans by bundling them into bonds and selling them.
Less than $40 billion of commercial mortgage-backed securities
have been issued this year, down from more than $250 billion in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Without healthy
securitization markets, banks will keep loans on the balance
sheet, where they will have to be funded with debt or deposits,
Whalen said.  “Any bank that can access core funding and build a
business on top of that is by definition going to be more
stable,” Whalen said. If banks can fund assets with deposits,
he said, “that’s a huge win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  