-- U.S. Completes Takeover of Name Checks From Airlines
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-11-30T20:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/u-s-government-completes-takeover-of-name-checks-from-airlines.html
The U.S. government said it has
completely taken over from airlines the responsibility for
checking passenger names against terror watch lists, a move
designed to boost security and cut cases of mistaken identity.  The Transportation Security Administration completed the
transition for international flights involving 197 airlines
after fully taking over checks for domestic flights earlier this
year, agency chief  John Pistole  said on a conference call today.  The government checks the names under a program called
Secure Flight, created to tighten security after the Sept. 11,
2001, terror attacks. It replaces a system adopted in 1998 in
which airlines checked ticket information against watch lists.  “Secure Flight more effectively helps prevent
misidentification of passengers who have similar names to those
on the watch list and then obviously helps better identify those
who may be a known or suspected threat,” Pistole said.  Under the new program, airlines submit passengers’ full
names, birth dates and gender to the federal security agency.
The TSA then checks the identities against 16,000 people who
must get additional scrutiny and 2,500 others who are barred
from flying.  So-called false positives, such as when Senator  Edward Kennedy  of Massachusetts was barred from a flight in 2004
because his name matched an alias on a watch list, are
eliminated under the new program, the agency has said. The
computer system the government uses is more sophisticated than
the one employed by airlines, and more detailed information is
now collected from travelers, the security agency has said.  Procedures and Costs  Secure Flight was supposed to begin in 2005. It was delayed
as officials struggled with questions over procedures and costs.
An earlier version was scrapped in 2004 after the American Civil
Liberties Union and other groups complained it would violate
passenger privacy.  While the ACLU thinks the government may do a better job
with the passenger screening than airlines have, “the watch
lists themselves are incredibly problematic,” said Chris
Calabrese, a legislative counsel at the New York-based
organization. The lists are “bloated and inaccurate.”  The group is  suing  the government in federal court on
behalf of plaintiffs who charge that they can’t fly because they
have been mistakenly put on the lists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  