-- U.S., England Are Only World Cup Bids to Meet FIFA Sales Goals, Study Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-30T12:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/u-s-england-are-only-world-cup-bids-to-meet-fifa-sales-goals-study-says.html
England and the U.S. are the only
countries bidding to host the World Cup in 2018 and 2022 that
can meet FIFA’s revenue targets, a study commissioned by
soccer’s governing body said.  The “World Cup Host Candidate Report,” prepared by
McKinsey & Co., was sent to FIFA’s Executive Committee to assist
in their Dec. 2 vote on the venues. The confidential report,
seen by Bloomberg News, didn’t detail FIFA’s projected revenue
target.  The McKinsey study supports FIFA’s own  technical analysis 
of the bids published Nov. 17, and may help sway committee
members that England and the U.S. are the best choices as they
go up against rivals including Russia, Qatar and Japan. The
American bid team has said hosting the most-watched sports event
would be worth about $5 billion to the U.S. economy.  “FIFA have just published an economics study and England
comes out way ahead of its competitors in that economic study,”
said  Andy Anson , chief executive officer of England’s bid
committee. “If you combine the technical evaluation with the
economics study, we clearly have the strongest bid.”  England is bidding against Russia and joint proposals from
Spain/Portugal and the Netherlands/Belgium for the 2018 edition.
The U.S. faces challenges from Qatar, Australia, Japan and South
Korea for the 2022 tournament.  Operational Issues  Finances won’t be the only consideration when the executive
committee votes in Zurich. FIFA’s evaluations addressed
operational issues including stadiums, accommodation, transport
and the ability of host broadcasters to deliver a quality signal
for beaming matches around the world.  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said this month he wasn’t sure
how much the executive body will rely on the technical analysis
of the best bids.  Marios Lefkaritis , a voter from Cyprus, said
“football politics” would have a big impact.  Zurich-based FIFA declined to comment on the McKinsey
report and Jurgen Mainka, a spokesman for the U.S. bid, wasn’t
able to immediately comment. McKinsey spokesman John Cheetham
said the company doesn’t comment on the work it does for its
clients.  The 1994 edition in the U.S. had the highest average
attendance per game at 69,000, while the total 3.6 million
spectators remains a record even after the competition was
expanded in 1998 to 32 teams from 24.  The McKinsey report subdivides FIFA’s revenue targets into
five streams -- media, sponsorship, ticketing and licensing.  100 Percent  England, which won its only title as host in 1966, got 100
percent in all five categories, while the U.S. was awarded the
top mark in four.  The bid from Spain and Portugal is forecast by McKinsey to
generate 91 percent of FIFA’s revenue target, followed by the
Netherlands and Belgium at 87 percent. Russia, considered the 4-
6 favorite by U.K. bookmaker William Hill to be the 2018 host,
trails with a projection of 86 percent.  Andreas Herren , a spokesman for the Russian bid, said
projections didn’t always reflect reality, citing the country’s
performance at attracting sponsorship ahead of the 2014 Winter
Olympics in Sochi. The Games domestic sponsorship income has
topped $1 billion, $650 million more than projections, he said.  “You show me one report I’ll show you two others with
different findings,” he said.  100% Rating  The U.S. is the only 2022 contender with a 100 percent
rating from McKinsey, even though the bid is the third favorite
to win behind Qatar and Australia, according to William Hill.
Japan is next at 73 percent, followed by South Korea at 71
percent, Qatar at 70 percent and Australia at 68 percent.  Frank Lowy , the billionaire chairman of Australia’s bid,
said development in Asia over the next decade would strengthen
the financial prospects of an Australian World Cup.  “By the time the World Cup will happen Asia will be the
economic powerhouse of the world,” he said in an interview
yesterday. “More than two-third of the population is in our
region so I think that poses an economic, moral and football
rationale for football to recognize that.”  In FIFA’s technical reports England and Spain/Portugal were
deemed to be the lowest risks of the 2018 contenders. Russia had
more risk factors than the other bid contenders.  “FIFA has gone to Korea, to Japan, to Africa to take a
risk but this leaves us a substantial human legacy, gives
national pride to people, reconciles people” said  Vitaly Mutko ,
chairman of the Russian soccer federation. “That’s more
significant than just going through the ratings.”  ‘Low Risk’  Among the 2022 bidders, the U.S., South Korea and Australia
had more “low risk” marks than Japan and Qatar in the 17
categories listed.  The U.S. bid team said yesterday that movie actor  Morgan Freeman  will join dignitaries including former President  Bill Clinton  and Los Angeles Galaxy forward  Landon Donovan  tomorrow
in making the final presentation to FIFA’s voters.  England makes its final pitch a day later, with a
presentation group that includes  Prince William , Prime Minister
 David Cameron  and former national team captain  David Beckham .  A majority vote is required to decide the host. If that
isn’t immediately attained, the lowest-scoring bids are
eliminated in further voting rounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Zurich at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  