-- U.S. Stocks Fall on European Debt Crisis; Google Slumps on Antitrust Probe
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-11-30T21:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-before-home-price-data-seagate-may-fall.html
U.S. stocks declined, preventing the
third straight monthly advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, amid concern that Europe’s government debt crisis will
worsen and as  Google Inc.  faced an antitrust probe.  Google fell 4.5 percent, the most since July, after
European Union antitrust regulators began an investigation.  EBay
Inc.  dropped 3.6 percent after the stock’s rating was cut at
Piper Jaffray & Co.  Bank of America Corp.  slumped 3.2 percent,
the most in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, as the cost to
insure its debt against default climbed to a 16-month high.  The S&P 500 fell 0.6 percent to 1,180.55 at 4 p.m. in New
York, below its end-of-October level of 1,183.26. The  Dow  lost
46.47 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,006.02. Stocks briefly
erased declines as President  Barack Obama  suggested he’s willing
to compromise with Republicans on extending tax cuts.  “The things that we’ve put to bed are waking up again,”
said  Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief equity market
strategist at Federated Investors Inc., which manages $341.3
billion. “Ireland is a problem. The question is how far behind
are Portugal and Spain? The market is concerned that this is
going to become a bigger deal.”  Since reaching a two-year high on Nov. 5, the S&P 500 has
lost 3.7 percent. For the second time in two sessions, the stock
index has rebounded after falling below its average price from
the past 50 days, a level watched by analysts who make forecasts
based on chart patterns.  Europe Concern  Government securities and the euro are being dragged down
by concern Portugal and Spain may suffer the fate of Ireland,
which had to ask for an 85 billion-euro ($111 billion) rescue
package to help bail out its banks. Italian and Spanish bond
yields rose today and the extra yield investors demand to hold
10-year Italian debt instead of benchmark German bunds widened
to more than 200 basis points for the first time since the
euro’s debut in 1999.  U.S. stocks extended declines in the final 15 minutes of
trading after S&P said it may cut Portugal’s credit ratings on
concern that the government has made little progress on boosting
economic growth to offset the fiscal drag from scheduled 2011
budgetary cuts.  Mohamed El-Erian , the chief executive officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said Europe’s debt contagion will
likely spread to nations such as Spain and Portugal. The 16-
nation euro will probably be shared as a currency by fewer
countries in five years, he said in an interview on CNBC today.  Technology Slumps  Technology companies, the biggest S&P 500 industry among
10, slumped 1.4 percent collectively.  Google  lost 4.5 percent to $555.71. The company is being
probed by EU antitrust regulators for allegedly discriminating
against competing services in its search results and for
stopping some websites accepting rival ads.   EBay  dropped 3.6 percent to $29.14. The owner of the
second-most visited e-commerce site was cut to “neutral” from
“overweight” at Piper Jaffray, which said the company will
lose market share in the next two years.  Bank of America  retreated 3.2 percent to $10.95, the lowest
price since May 2009. WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange , who told
Forbes magazine that he’ll release documents from a U.S. bank
next year, said in 2009 that his group had a hard drive from a
Bank of America executive. In an e-mailed statement, Bank of
America said it has no evidence WikiLeaks has the device.  The benchmark index for U.S. stock options rose to a two-
month high. The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, rallied 9.3 percent to 23.54. It closed above
its average price from the past 200 days for the first time
since Oct. 4.  70 Minutes Earlier  The CBOE said today that VIX futures will start trading 70
minutes earlier, at 8:20 a.m. New York time. Currently, they
start changing hands when U.S. stock exchanges open.  The S&P 500 pared a decline of as much as 1.2 percent as
Obama said he asked Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and
budget office director  Jack Lew  to lead negotiations with
congressional Republicans on extending Bush-era tax cuts.  “If Geithner has been appointed to deal with Congress, it
means that the president sees the tax issue as a high
priority,” said  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $18 billion as chief
investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in
Cincinnati. “That’s good for the market. The tax issue has been
among the biggest uncertainties thus far. If that is resolved,
stocks may have a chance to move forward.”  The  S&P 500  bounced off its average price of the last 50
days after yesterday dipping below it for the first time since
September, Bloomberg data show.  Ryan Detrick , senior technical
analyst at Schaeffer’s Investment Research, says the index may
have found support at that level.  ‘Encouraging’  “It’s encouraging thus far that we haven’t violated it,”
Cincinnati-based Detrick, who studies charts to make forecasts,
said in an interview. “That could be a very positive thing
moving into the new year.”  Some  retail companies  were among the best performers in the
S&P 500. Weekly retail sales rose by 0.5 percent for the week
ending Nov. 27, according to the ICSC-Goldman Sachs Weekly Chain
Store Sales Index. Retail sales rose by 3.5 percent on a year-
over-year basis. Gap Inc., the clothing retailer, gained 3.1
percent to $21.36. Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, rose 1.5 percent to $22.70.  Research In Motion Ltd.  climbed 4.8 percent to $61.83, the
highest price since June 17. The BlackBerry maker was raised to
“buy” from “hold” at Jefferies Group Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 