-- U.S. Army Requests Bids for $1.35 Billion Ground-Combat Vehicles Contract
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-30T17:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/u-s-army-begins-a-1-35-billion-contest-for-vehicles-update1-.html
The  U.S. Army  issued a revised
request for proposals for a new class of ground-combat vehicles
valued as much as $1.35 billion for the prototype phase.  Three winners will be picked for the development phase in
the third quarter of 2011, and one will then be selected for a
production contract seven years later, Army Colonel Anthony
DiMarco said on a conference call today. Each contract will be
worth as much as $450 million over 24 months, DiMarco said.  The Army plans to buy as many as 1,874 of the vehicles to
replace the fleet of Bradley infantry fighting vehicles, DiMarco
said. The ground-combat vehicle is a successor to the manned-
vehicle portion of the $159 billion Future Combat Systems
program canceled last year by Defense Secretary  Robert Gates .  The new vehicles must be capable of carrying nine soldiers
and their equipment to battlefields, DiMarco said. He declined
to specify a production value for the winner manufacturing the
vehicles.  Today’s bid request revises a previous one that was
withdrawn in August because the Army wanted bidders to scale
down risks involved in untested technologies.  That request drew interest from Chicago-based  Boeing Co. 
and its partners  Science Applications International Corp. , and
Germany’s Krauss-Maffei Wegmann Gmbh & Co. and Rheinmetall AG;
BAE Systems Plc, London, and its partner Northrop Grumman Corp.;
and a team including General Dynamics Corp., of Falls Church,
Virginia; Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin Corp.;
Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon Co. and MTU Detroit
Diesel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net 
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net 
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  