-- Profits to Drive Canada's S&P/TSX to 14,500 Next Year, UBS Strategist Says
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-12-01T23:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/ubs-raises-s-p-tsx-12-month-forecast-to-14-500-from-13-500.html
Canada’s benchmark equity index will
rise 10 percent by the end of 2011 as corporate profits continue
to increase and low yields make corporate bonds less attractive
than stocks, UBS AG’s chief Canadian strategist said.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  will advance to
14,500 even if corporate earnings increase less than two-thirds
as fast as analysts estimate on average in a Bloomberg survey,
 George Vasic  said in a note.  “As we move further down in the year, the macro risks will
become less cataclysmic,” Vasic said in an interview in
Toronto. “There isn’t a better game in town. Of all the major
asset classes, it’s tough to come up with something that has
better medium-term potential” than stocks.  Canadian stocks are cheaper than they have been most years
since 1988, according to Vasic, who uses a model that compares
share prices with book value, return on equity and corporate
bond yields. Investors using simpler valuation models, such as
comparing share prices to profits alone, fail to realize the
potential for further price gains, he said. The S&P/TSX trades
for  $17.76  per dollar of estimated profit over the next year,
compared with an average of $15.06 since the beginning of 2006.  “There is more valuation headroom than most investors
appreciate,” he said. In September 2009, when the S&P/TSX was
near 11,500, Vasic forecast the index would rally to 13,500 by
the end of 2010. The Canadian benchmark gained 12 percent this
year, closing at 13,148.35 today, as commodity prices have
surged on demand from emerging markets and easing concern that
the economy will return to recession.  Dividend Boost  The index advanced 195.47 points, or 1.5 percent, to a two-
year high of 13,148.35 today as banks gained after National Bank
of Canada boosted its quarterly dividend.  Corporate profits are likely to climb again in 2011,
despite historically high unemployment, as companies squeeze out
more productivity gains, Vasic said. S&P/TSX profits rose 7.4
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to
 Bloomberg data .  “The profit cycle is ahead of the economic cycle,” he
said.  Unemployment isn’t as bleak as many assume, Vasic said.
Employment in the U.S. rose in October for the first time in
five months, a sign businesses may be starting to gain
confidence in the prospects for a faster pace of growth.
Seventy-five percent of Canadian exports went to the U.S. last
year, according to Statistics Canada.  Looser Lending  U.S. employment should continue to increase in 2011, led by
small and medium-sized businesses, as regional banks loosen
their lending policies, he said.  China’s efforts to restrain inflation and the European debt
crisis, which have limited equity gains this year, are unlikely
to derail advances in 2011, Vasic said. China is likely nearing
the end of its tightening phase, and progress toward
coordinating tax and spending policies should help Europe
recover.  With Canadian corporate bond yields below 4 percent and the
Bank of Canada likely to double its benchmark interest rate to 2
percent by the end of next year, investors will have to turn to
equities if they want a reasonable return on their investment,
Vasic said.  “Bond investors at this point would be lucky to get their
coupon,” he said.  Materials, Banks  Of the three industries that make up  76 percent  of Canadian
stocks by market value -- financial, raw-material and energy
companies -- Vasic said financials are most likely to outperform
the rest of the market in 2011.  Banks , which have climbed 8.9
percent in 2010, should continue to benefit from historically
low interest rates.  Energy stocks  may trail the broader market as crude oil,
held back by excess capacity, trades between $70 and $90 a
barrel in New York. The fuel closed at $84.11 a barrel
yesterday.  Vasic’s valuation method shows European stocks, especially
those in the U.K., have even more room to gain next year than do
Canadian equities. The  Stoxx Europe 600 index  has lagged behind
the S&P/TSX and S&P 500 this year, gaining 5.2 percent, as
sovereign-debt concerns have held back equities there as well as
bonds.  “If we go back to a situation where the world appears to
be stabilizing, well I’m sorry, but quality doesn’t do as well
as garbage,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  