-- Lukoil Third-Quarter Net Rises 37%, Beats Estimates
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 2010-11-30T16:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/lukoil-third-quarter-profit-rises-37-beats-analyst-estimates.html
OAO Lukoil , Russia’s second-largest
crude producer, said profit climbed more than analysts estimated
in the third quarter because of a gain in oil prices and a
favorable settlement in a Kazakh ownership dispute.  Net income rose 37 percent to $2.82 billion from a year
earlier, the Moscow-based company said today in a statement.
That beat a $2.24 billion average  estimate  of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Shares advanced 3.4 percent, the
biggest gain since June 10, to 1,739.82 rubles in Moscow.  Russian producers are boosting profit as oil prices recover
from last year’s economic slump. Prices for  Urals , Russia’s
benchmark export blend, rose 11 percent to average $75.64 a
barrel in the quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
State-controlled OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer,
more than doubled profit in the period, while TNK-BP, Russia’s
third-largest oil producer, said profit rose 25 percent.  “On first glance, great results,”  Alexei Kokin , an oil
and gas analyst at UralSib Financial Corp., said by telephone
from Moscow. “Operationally they’re pretty healthy. I don’t
think many people thought they would generate so much free
cash.”  Lukoil had about $7 billion dollars in free cash and spent
$4.6 billion buying back their own stock from ConocoPhillips,
Kokin said.  Dividend Increase  Profit was also boosted by a $438 million gain from a
favorable settlement in the third quarter in a dispute with
PetroKazakhstan Inc., a unit of China National Petroleum Corp.,
over a production unit in Kazakhstan, Lukoil said.  Lukoil plans to boost its dividend “slightly” for 2010,
Andrei Gaidamaka, director of strategic development told
reporters in Moscow. Lukoil’s board today approved plans to
boost dividend payouts “gradually” under a mid-term strategy,
according to a statement.  ConocoPhillips is selling its 20 percent share in Lukoil to
repay debt and buy back shares. The Russian company bought $3.44
billion of its own shares in August. Lukoil, UniCredit AG and
investors led by Lukoil Chief Executive Officer  Vagit Alekperov 
bought $2.38 billion more shares from the Houston, Texas-based
company in September at $56 apiece.  ConocoPhillips Buyback  Lukoil may buy 25 million of its own American depositary
receipts from UniCredit at no more than $56 each under an option
that expires on Sept. 29, according to a separate statement
today. The offer is invalid at market prices below $50.  ADRs, equal to one share each, gained 3.6 percent to $55.30
in London.  ConocoPhillips probably holds 2 percent to 4 percent of
Lukoil stock still, Gaidamaka said. Lukoil’s treasury stock
represents 8.1 percent of outstanding shares, he said.  Sales advanced 21 percent to $26.5 billion, as higher
prices and gas output outweighed a 2.1 percent drop in crude
production.  Output in West Siberia, where the company produces more
than half its oil, fell 4.1 percent in the first nine months of
the year from last year as Lukoil spent less on drilling to
boost cash flows, the company said.  Oil production may decline next year, Gaidamaka said.  Lukoil is in the initial stages of production from the
Korchagin deposit in the Caspian Sea, which the company said may
gain exemptions from Russia’s oil export duty as early as
December.  The company said it recognized a $111 million expense on
provisions in the third quarter, relating to $224 million of
claims from the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service for antitrust
violations in the oil products wholesale market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 