-- German Unemployment Falls to 18-Year Low as Economy Leads Europe Recovery
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-11-30T10:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/unemployment-in-germany-declined-to-lowest-level-in-18-years-in-november.html
German  unemployment  fell for a 17th
month in November as business optimism improved, underscoring
the gulf between Europe’s biggest economy and peripheral nations
struggling to cut debt.  The  number  of people out of work declined a seasonally
adjusted 9,000 to 3.14 million, the lowest since December 1992,
the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said today. Economists
forecast a decrease of 20,000, according to the median of 31
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The adjusted  jobless rate 
remained at 7.5 percent.  Rising payrolls help bolster domestic demand in Europe’s
most populous country, lessening German reliance on  exports  and
shoring up slower-growth economies in Greece, Ireland, Portugal
and Spain. German retailers are enjoying a “dream start” to
the Christmas shopping season, the HDE industry federation said
yesterday, as the European Union said a bigger-than-expected
“spillover” from Germany may be coming to Europe’s aid.  “The German economy stands at the eve of a virtuous circle
for domestic demand,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
in Brussels. “Combined with a general-feel-good factor, German
consumers seem set to finally spend their way out of the
recession during the Christmas shopping season.”  The euro fell against the dollar today on concern that the
debt crisis in Ireland will spread to other euro nations. The
currency was at $1.2987 as of 10:05 a.m. in London from $1.3125
yesterday.  Porsche Engineers  German  business confidence  unexpectedly surged to a record
in November as domestic spending increased, the Ifo institute
said on Nov. 24. Ifo’s gauge of executives’ expectations also
rose to a record.  Porsche SE will hire more than 100 engineers in the coming
weeks and increase capacity at a center in Weissach, Germany, it
said Nov. 18.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  will add 500 workers
to its engines plant in Munich, Focus magazine reported this
week, citing works council head  Manfred Schoch .  The Berlin-based DIW institute said yesterday that the
German economy will maintain its pace of recovery in the current
quarter, forecasting expansion of 0.7 percent. Consumer spending
is increasingly becoming an “engine of growth,” it said.  The revival of domestic demand may boost manufacturing
across the euro region, helping recoveries in so-called
peripheral nations including Ireland and Portugal, whose
governments are struggling to reduce budget deficits.  Spillover  “The spillover from the pick-up in activity in Germany to
other member states may materialize to a greater extent than
currently envisaged,” European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in Brussels yesterday.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive body, forecast
2.2 percent economic growth in Germany in 2011 after 3.7 percent
this year, the fastest pace since the reunification of East and
West Germany in 1990.  The recovery in the euro-area economy is “uneven” across
member states, Rehn said. An index of export orders at German
manufacturers rose in November, while similar gauges for Spain
and Greece declined, according to commission figures.  A separate report today from the EU statistics office in
Luxembourg showed that the euro-area jobless rate increased to
10.1 percent in October, the highest since July 1998, from 10
percent in September. Spain had the highest rate, at 20.7
percent.  Pay Boost  With German economic recovery showing few signs of cooling,
workers may benefit from earlier pay increases.  MAN SE  will
bring forward a 2011 raise, saying on Nov. 24 it will increase
salaries in Germany by 2.7 percent as early as February.  Retail sales were higher than expected last weekend, the
first of advent, and retailers are forecasting a further sales
increase in the weeks leading up to Christmas, the  HDE  retail
federation said yesterday. The Ifo institute’s German  retail
trade  gauge rose in November to the highest level since the
series started in January 2003.  Average German unemployment will drop to 2.96 million in
2011 from 3.24 million this year, the Labor Agency’s IAB
research institute has  forecast . That’s based on a prediction of
3 percent economic growth this year and 1.75 percent in 2011.  According to OECD data, Germany’s jobless rate was 6.7
percent in September. The equivalent rate in France was 10
percent, the U.S. rate was 9.6 percent and the Group of Seven
average was 8.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  