-- Hungary Bonds Extend Record Slump as Government Clashes With Central Bank
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-11-30T15:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/hungary-debt-may-be-hurt-by-european-volatility-as-moody-s-reviews-rating.html
Hungary’s bonds tumbled for a
seventh day, lifting five-year yields to the highest since
September 2009, as a row between the central bank and the
government over interest rates undermined investor confidence.  The yield on government bonds in forint due February 2015
jumped 20 basis points to 8.38 percent, as of 3:10 p.m. in
Budapest. The cost of insuring Hungary’s debt against non-
payment climbed to the highest since June. The forint, the
world’s worst-performing currency in November, appreciated 0.3
percent after tumbling 3.2 percent in the previous three days.  The central bank raised the benchmark rate yesterday and
said more tightening may be needed to contain inflation. The
rate increase was “unjustified,” the Economy Ministry said in
a statement. The government earlier called for rate cuts and for
central bank President Andras Simor to resign. Hungary failed to
sell the planned amount of debt at an auction today.  “The central bank has been critical about the government’s
fiscal program and sees the fiscal slippages as the main macro
risk,”  Societe Generale SA  strategists led by  Benoit Anne  in
London wrote in a report today. “This and ensuing political
bickering is likely to reflect poorly on investor confidence, in
our view. We maintain a bearish bias on Hungary.”  Default Swaps  The European Union’s most-indebted eastern member was the
first EU nation to receive an International Monetary Fund-led
bailout during the global credit crisis two years ago after its
widening budget deficit and consumers’ spiraling foreign-
currency debt spurred investors to dump Hungarian assets. Prime
Minister Viktor Orban’s government is levying special taxes and
funneling assets from private pensions to plug its budget gap.  Hungary’s credit-default swaps climbed 11 basis points to
379.1 basis points, the highest since June 4, according to CMA
prices. The cost of default swaps rises as investor perceptions
of the borrower’s creditworthiness deteriorate.  Yesterday, the forint weakened 1.5 percent, the most in
four months, and Hungary’s benchmark equity index fell 2.6
percent, bringing its loss from a 2010 peak to more than 20
percent, as the rate increase compounded concern that Europe’s
debt crisis is spreading east.  The debt management agency sold 30 billion forint ($137
million) of three-month Treasury bills, 10 billion forint less
than planned, as the average yield rose to 5.78 percent from
5.28 percent at the last auction on Nov. 23. Bids fell to 46.5
billion forint versus 76 billion forint last week, according to
auction results on the agency’s Bloomberg page.  Rates  New industry taxes, designed to reduce the budget shortfall
to less than 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, will
raise the inflation rate by 0.3 percentage points next year, the
central bank said on Nov. 11. The annual inflation rate climbed
to 4.2 percent in October, the highest since June.  The central bank will likely lift the benchmark rate to
6.25 percent by February, Bank of America Merrill Lynch wrote in
a report to clients today. The U.S. bank previously expected
rates to stay unchanged until the second half of 2011, BofA
economist  Raffaella Tenconi  said by phone from London.  “The central bank increased its inflation and GDP
projections, but we believe the main motivation” for the rate
increase “was the heightened risk aversion amid the euro-zone
periphery fiscal crisis, exacerbated by the increasingly inward
looking policies of the Orban government,” the BofA note said.  ‘Debt Dynamics’  The government told Hungarians on Nov. 24 to move some of
their private-retirement fund assets to government control or
lose their state pension, an ultimatum designed to shift 3
trillion forint to help plug the budget gaps.  Hungary’s “debt dynamics” may be worse than earlier
thought because of volatility of European markets,  Kristin Lindow , a senior vice president at Moody’s Investors Service in
New York, said yesterday. The credit evaluator, which has been
reviewing Hungary’s Baa1 rating, the third-lowest investment
grade, for a possible downgrade since July 23, will make a
decision “within the next week or two,” Lindow said.  Fitch Ratings said last week it may cut the country’s
credit rating from BBB, the second-lowest investment grade,
because the pension changes are “negative” for the public
finances.  The  BUX  equity index rose 1.6 percent after closing at a
two-year low yesterday. The 12-member gauge fell 10 percent in
the previous seven sessions, driving its 14-day relative
strength index down to 24.65. Readings lower than 30 suggest to
some technical analysts that a security or an index will rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  