-- Venezuela Death Toll Climbs to 21 After Thousands Displaced by Heavy Rain
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-11-30T23:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/venezuela-death-toll-climbs-to-21-after-thousands-displaced-by-heavy-rain.html
At least 21 people have died in
Venezuela as a result of mudslides and flooding, prompting the
government to declare a state of emergency in the capital and
three states where thousands of families have been displaced,
Vice President  Elias Jaua  said.  Some 5,600 people have been displaced and more than 56,000
affected by torrential rains that have fallen across 11 states
since Nov. 25, Jaua said on state television today.  Landslides destroyed homes in Caracas overnight, killing at
least two people and blocking some roads leading to the capital,
Jaqueline Faria, head of the Capital District said on  state
television  today. A local government official and a policeman
were swept away by a river in northern Vargas state and at least
two people were killed in Miranda state, according to local
reports.  President Hugo Chavez decreed a state of emergency in
Falcon state and approved 20 million bolivars ($4.65 million) to
aid 30,000 people who fled the heavy rains that halted some work
at the world’s largest refining complex in the Paraguana
Peninsula yesterday. The state of emergency was expanded to
Caracas, Vargas and Miranda today, Jaua said today.  “The climate will remain unpredictable,” Jaua said. “The
government is declaring an emergency as a preventative measure
because we’re expecting more rain.”  The government closed schools in the capital and nine
states along the northern coast until Dec. 6, Jaua said.  Oil, Housing  Petroleos de Venezuela SA ’s 310,000 barrel-a-day refinery
remains idled after a power outage and the 645,000-barrel Amuay
refinery is now operating normally, a company official said
today. Venezuela is South America’s largest oil producer.  The government is using military bases across the country
as shelters for families. Chavez on Nov. 28 offered to house as
many as 25 families in the Miraflores presidential palace. Air
travel and fishing in Falcon state have been suspended, Interior
Minister  Tarek El Aissami  said on state television.  The Maiquetia international airport in Caracas continues to
operate normally,  Jorge Garcia Carneiro , governor of Vargas,
said.  Venezuela suffered a severe drought earlier this year that
led to electricity rationing and curbed output at the country’s
largest steel mill after water levels dropped in reservoirs
behind hydroelectric plants.  La Nina  The La Nina weather cycle that often brings rains to
northeastern South America replaced the El Nino cycle that
caused the droughts this year, according to the U.K. Met Office.  La Nina is a cooling of the equatorial Pacific Ocean
occurring on average every three to five years and lasting nine
to 12 months, according to the  U.S. National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration . Some events have lasted as long as
two years.  In the last four months, about 55 centimeters (21.6 inches)
of rain has fallen across Venezuela, which is 2.5 times more
than normal, according to  David Streit , senior lead forecaster
at Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  The jump in rainfall is almost certainly because of La
Nina, Streit said.  “It is the primary forcing function,” Streit said.
“There may be other things coming into play but I think that is
probably the biggest culprit.”  Mudslides north of Caracas killed hundreds of people in
December 1999 after torrential rains caused rivers to overflow
their banks and swept communities in Vargas state into the
Caribbean Sea.  The rains may continue for at least three more days, Jaua
told Union Radio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  