-- Videocon, Unitech Shares Fall as India Reviews Wireless Permits Amid Probe
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-11-30T05:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/videocon-unitech-fall-as-india-s-government-reviews-some-wireless-permits.html
Videocon Industries Ltd.  and  Unitech
Ltd.  led shares of Indian phone carriers lower after the
government said it’s informing companies that they may have
suppressed facts when they won wireless permits in 2008.  Videocon tumbled as much as 7 percent and Unitech, the real
estate developer that has a partnership with  Telenor ASA ,
slumped as much as 6.9 percent.  Reliance Communications Ltd. ,
India’s second-largest wireless operator, declined for a sixth
consecutive day to a record low.  Telecommunications Minister  Kapil Sibal  said yesterday the
owners of 85 licenses have two months to respond. Separately,
119 phone companies that have not met network rollout
commitments will be issued notices, he said, without identifying
any companies.  “If the slow rollout is the problem, then the government
will ask for penalties,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , the New
Delhi-based chief strategist at SMC Global Securities Ltd. “If
eventually the steps lead to cancellation of licenses, then
whatever investment went in will go for a toss and reputations
will be damaged.”  The government issued the notices after the Comptroller and
Auditor General of India said earlier this month that the
process followed for issuing licenses two years ago lacked
transparency and was arbitrary.  The Indian government missed out on as much as 1.4 trillion
rupees ($30 billion) in potential revenue from the auction of
the so-called second-generation airwaves, according to the
auditor.  Videocon fell to as low as 202.15 rupees while Unitech
declined to as much as 57 rupees.  Venugopal Dhoot , Videocon’s chairman, couldn’t be reached
for a comment. Unitech said earlier this month it was
cooperating with the authorities about the investigation into
the sale of airwaves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  