-- Vietnam State Firms Don't Face Vinashin-Like Financing Trouble, ADB Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-30T08:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/vietnam-state-firms-don-t-face-vinashin-like-financing-trouble-adb-says.html
Major state-owned Vietnamese
companies are unlikely to face the same problems afflicting
near-bankrupt Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group, according to
the  Asian Development Bank .  Vietnam Shipbuilding, known as Vinashin, had accumulated
total debt of about 86 trillion dong ($4.4 billion) as of June.
It used resources obtained from government guarantees to invest
in non-core activities, falsified financial reports and is on
the verge of default, the World Bank said last month.  State enterprises may contribute 40 percent to Vietnam’s
gross domestic product, with less than half of them financially
healthy, Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday. The Vinashin
episode indicates a systemic failure in the government’s
supervision of state-owned companies,  Ayumi Konishi , the ADB’s
country director for Vietnam, said at a conference today.  “I would not really take Vinashin as an isolated case, but
at the same time if we count major state-owned enterprises, we
really don’t see any obvious candidates for big trouble in the
near future,” Konishi said in Ho Chi Minh City. “So that also
gives me a reason for comfort.”  Bank Exposure  Money owed by Vinashin is the largest debt concentration of
some Vietnamese banks, with exposures as high as 3 percent of
the individual loan portfolios of some institutions, Moody’s
said yesterday.  “It’s not just the state-owned commercial banks,” Konishi
said. “There are a good number of foreign banks that also got
hit as a result of this.”  Still, any bad loans related to Vinashin are unlikely to
create broader problems for Vietnam’s banking industry, Konishi
said. Moody’s note yesterday said the writing off of Vinashin
debt would damage the capital of some Vietnamese banks.  Vietnam’s government has approved a restructuring plan for
Vinashin that includes transferring some units to other state-
owned companies and paring its debt.  “I don’t have any problems with Vietnam supporting the
survival of Vinashin, when you consider shipbuilding as an
industry for Vietnam,” Konishi said. “At least for the next
ten or fifteen years shipbuilding can be a major industry for
Vietnam.”  -- Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors:  Alan Soughley ,
Oanh Ha  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net . 