-- Vitamin D, Calcium Supplements May Be Unnecessary, Study Finds
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-11-30T16:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/vitamin-d-calcium-supplements-are-unnecessary-u-s-canadian-report-says.html
Vitamin D  and  calcium  supplements
are unnecessary for most people and may be harmful to some, a
study commissioned by the U.S. and Canadian governments found.  While vitamin D and calcium are important for bone health,
most residents of North America get enough of both through a
diet that includes fortified foods and sun exposure, an expert
committee commissioned by the U.S.  Institute of Medicine  found.  The panel reviewed more than 1,000 studies and comments
from scientists in drawing its conclusions. The report said labs
that test for vitamin D may overestimate the number of people
who are deficient because their tests aren’t based on “rigorous
scientific studies.”  “What we concluded may be surprising to some,” said
Catherine Ross, the committee chair and a professor of nutrition
at Pennsylvania State University, in a news conference. “We
couldn’t find solid evidence that consuming more of either
nutrient would protect the public from chronic diseases.”  The  report  was posted today on the Web site of the
Washington-based Institute of Medicine, an independent, non-
profit group that advises U.S. policy makers and the public.  The committee also found while most people get enough
calcium through diet, girls between the ages of 9 and 18 can
probably gain health advantages through use of supplements. On
the other hand, postmenopausal women taking extra calcium may
get too much, raising risks for kidney stones, the panel said.  “Confusion has grown among the public about how much
vitamin D is necessary,” the report’s authors said.  Fortifying Food  Some researchers have questioned whether current levels
used to fortify food are enough to meet people’s needs,
according to the  Mayo Clinic  website. Recommended intake for
adults aged 19 through 70 is 600 IU, and 800 IU for adults 71
years and older, according to the National Institutes of Health.  Almost all milk in the U.S. is fortified with 400 IU of
vitamin D per quart, according to the NIH. The vitamin is also
added to some breakfast cereals, orange juice, yogurt,
margarine, and soy beverages, according to the  Office of Dietary
Supplements  website.  The body also makes vitamin D from the sun, although in the
winter in the northern half of the U.S., the sun is not strong
enough for vitamin D production. While their  diet  may not supply
enough vitamin D for many people, the sun provides enough to
make up the difference, the report said.  People who may not get enough vitamin D can include those
with darker skin, older adults, the obese, and those with some
digestive disorders such as Crohn’s disease may not get enough
vitamin D unless they make an effort, the NIH has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Connolly  in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 