-- Wal-Mart International CEO McMillon Foresees Foreign-Born Chief One Day
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-30T21:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/wal-mart-international-ceo-mcmillon-foresees-foreign-born-chief-one-day.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  the world’s
largest retailer, might one day be led by an executive born
outside its U.S. home, international chief  Doug McMillon  said.  “A future CEO of Wal-Mart could be stocking shelves in
India today,” McMillon, 44, said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “Wal-Mart is increasingly a
global company.”  All of Wal-Mart’s CEOs have been born in the U.S., where
the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer generates about 75
percent of its $400 billion in annual sales. That includes
current  CEO Mike Duke , who took the helm in February 2009 and
hails from Georgia. His predecessor,  Lee Scott , was born in
Kansas, and company co-founder Sam Walton came from Oklahoma.  McMillon, who is from Jonesboro, Arkansas, is considered by
some analysts and investors to be next in line for the top job
at Wal-Mart. McMillon, who began working for Wal-Mart in high
school, making $6.50 an hour in a distribution center, declined
to comment about the possibility of succeeding Duke.  Wal-Mart  is seeking to expand internationally to make up
for slowing growth in the U.S., where same-store sales have
fallen for six consecutive quarters. The retailer ran more than
4,100 stores in 14 countries outside the U.S. through April,
with sales topping $100 billion in the most recent fiscal year.  For years Americans ran the foreign operations, some of
which suffered setbacks. Wal-Mart pulled out of Germany and
South Korea after losing money in both countries.  Managua-Born  Now several international executives were born outside the
U.S. For example, Latin American chief  Eduardo Solorzano  was
born in Managua, Nicaragua, and is a naturalized Mexican
citizen, according to his company biography.  Andy Clarke , head
of Wal-Mart’s British Asda unit, was born in the U.K.  In the third quarter, sales at Asda stores open at least
one year increased 1.3 percent, fueled by sales of apparel and
baby items, the company said Nov. 16. Comparable sales at
Walmex, the retailer’s Mexican division, rose 2.8 percent in the
same period.  Wal-Mart’s top executive in Asia,  Scott Price , and  Scot Rank , who runs Mexico and Central America, are both American.  Wal-Mart  rose  24 cents to $54.09 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 1.2
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ; 