-- WikiLeaks' Postings to Have `Modest' Impact on Foreign Policy, Gates Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-11-30T22:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/wikileaks-impact-likely-modest-on-u-s-diplomacy-gates-says.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
said descriptions of the potential harm from secret diplomatic
cables posted online by WikiLeaks.org are “significantly
overwrought” and the disclosures will have a “fairly modest”
impact on foreign policy.  “The fact is governments deal with the United States
because it’s in their interest -- not because they like us, not
because they trust us, and not because they believe we can keep
secrets,” Gates said at a Pentagon news conference today. “Is
this embarrassing? Yes. Is it awkward? Yes. Consequences for
U.S. foreign policy? I think fairly modest.”  As WikiLeaks makes the cables public, the State Department
has limited access to classified information through a network
that connects its database with the Pentagon, according to
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley .  “We have made some adjustments, and that has narrowed for
the time being those who have access to State Department cables
across the government,” Crowley told reporters today. “We want
to make sure that our documents are adequately protected and
that we have the ability to detect if anything like this occurs
in the future.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and her deputies have
spent the past week doing damage control with their foreign
counterparts, starting prior to WikiLeaks’ initial Nov. 28
posting on its website of leaked cables from U.S. embassies.
WikiLeaks has said that it has more than 250,000 cables, which
feature commentary on foreign leaders and confidential
conversations with allies, and their publication threatens to
complicate U.S. efforts to shape international relations.  ‘It Will Pass’  Ambassadors of Arab nations, some of whose leaders were
reported to have made remarks critical of Iran, downplayed the
potential long-term impact of the leaks.  “It is something that is unusual, and embarrassing
somehow, but it will pass,” Ibrahim Dabbashi, Libya’s deputy
ambassador to the United Nations, said in an interview.  Egyptian Ambassador  Maged Abdelaziz  said comments reported
from leaked cables aren’t actually very secret, dismissing them
as “information that you have heard here or there.” Abdelaziz
said diplomats “don’t know where this is coming from, or how
credible this information is.”  The Pentagon and the State Department have taken steps to
tighten control over information since WikiLeaks began posting
field reports from the war in Afghanistan in July and released
another batch from Iraq in October.  Behind-the-Scenes Talks  While those reports mainly added detail to scenarios
already made public for both conflicts, the latest release of
U.S. embassy cables revealed higher-level, behind-the-scenes
discussions and assessments.  The State Department put restrictions on the Secret
Internet Protocol Router Network, which connects the State and
Defense departments.  U.S. Army intelligence analyst Bradley Manning was arrested
in June on suspicion of illegally releasing classified
information. He had said in an online chat that he downloaded
State Department cables from embassies and consulates around the
world, the New York Times reported.  “One of the issues that this incident has brought to light
is the real question as to who, and how many, have a need to
have this kind of access to a database that has a broad array of
State Department documents?” Crowley said.  Clinton condemned the leak of the embassy cables yesterday
before departing on a trip that will include a security
 conference  in Bahrain with top leaders and diplomats of Arab
countries often cited in some of the cables.  ‘Great Concern’  “Obviously this is a matter of great concern, because we
don’t want anyone in any of the countries that could be affected
by these alleged leaks to have any doubts about our
intentions,” Clinton told reporters.  She said that her discussions with counterparts had been
“productive” and that most diplomats worldwide understand the
need for candid internal discussions.  “I am confident that the partnerships that the Obama
administration has worked so hard to build will withstand this
challenge,” Clinton said.  Practical interests will trump concerns over the leaks,
Gates said today.  “Every other government in the world knows the United
States government leaks like a sieve,” Gates said. “Some
governments deal with us because they fear us, some because they
respect us, most because they need us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 