-- Snow Spreads in Europe, Disrupting Germany, U.K. Air Services
-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2010-11-30T15:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/winter-weather-grips-u-k-snow-shuts-edinburgh-airport-affects-aberdeen.html
Air services across Europe were
disrupted today, as snow and bad weather led to flight
cancelations and delays at airports including in Frankfurt,
London, Amsterdam and Edinburgh.  In Frankfurt, 266 flights were canceled as of 2:45 p.m.,
airport owner  Fraport AG  said in an e-mailed statement.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG , Europe’s second-largest carrier, said Fraport had
made “insufficient de-icing and handling capacities”
available. Fraport spokesman Thomas Uber said “clumpy,
coagulated” snow meant de-icing took longer than usual.  Cold temperatures and snow are forecast for Germany over
the next five days, according to AccuWeather.Com, with
temperatures in Munich expected to dip as low as minus 10
degrees Celsius (14 degrees Fahrenheit) today. The earliest
widespread snowfall of a British winter since 1993 has led to
“icy roads and heavy snow” across most parts of the country,
the  Met Office  said on its website.  “The winter weather we will experience this week will be
such as many people, especially in eastern Germany, have never
experienced in their lives,” German weather service  Wetter24.de 
said on its website.  Munich airport, Germany’s second-biggest, yesterday saw 170
flight cancellations out of more than 1,100 scheduled flights,
according to spokesman Florian Steuer. Services were “back to
normal” today, he said.  London, Edinburgh  Some flights were stopped at  London City Airport  today,
according to its website. London Gatwick Airport said it
canceled 10 out of 575 scheduled flights. Edinburgh Airport was
open after shutting in the morning “due to heavy snowfall,”
 BAA Airports Ltd.  said on its website. Glasgow Airport opened
after shutting yesterday. London Stansted Airport is open
although some flights may be affected by the weather. Some
flights were also stopped out of Amsterdam airport.  Flight services in Europe have also been disrupted as
flight attendants in Finland started an open-ended strike in a
work-rules dispute.  Finnair Oyj  said it will cancel more than
half its flights and  SAS Group ’s Blue1 unit will cut at least 20
percent of services after the Finnish Cabin Crew Union stopped
work today.  Weather disruption could cost the U.K. economy 1.2 billion
pounds ($1.9 billion) a day, as supply services are affected and
shopping disrupted in the run-in to Christmas, according to  RSA
Insurance Group Plc , the U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer by
market value.  “If the weather continues for the next two weeks, as the
Met Office is predicting, this figure will quickly spiral to
more than 12 billion pounds, dwarfing the hit we took in
January,” RSA Director David Greaves said in an e-mailed
statement today.  ‘Pretty Cold’  “The origins of the winds are from Russia and Siberia, so
it’s pretty cold,” said Met Office spokesman Barry Gromett.
“In many areas today and tomorrow, it will be blanketed in
snow.”  The weather service said icy roads may cause difficulties
especially where melted snow re-freezes.  “Yesterday was our busiest November day on record, we were
peaking at about 2,200 calls per hour and now it’s down a little
to 2,000,” said John Franklin, a spokesman for  Aviva Plc ’s RAC
Plc auto-service. “We’re getting more call-outs from Wales, the
north-west, London, Kent and the south-east as we see more snow
creeping southwards.”  Schools in Edinburgh closed for a second day, according to
the municipality’s website. Melting snow in the city center
caused some buses to skid and struggle up hills.  Energy Demand  U.K. power for next-day delivery rose to its highest level
in 22 months yesterday as natural gas costs increased and the
weather conditions boosted demand.  National Grid Plc , the U.K.’s gas and power network
manager, said demand rose 5 percent to 435 million cubic meters
in the 24 hours through 6 a.m., 90 million more than normal for
the time of year. That’s the highest gas usage since Jan. 13.  Natural gas is used to heat about 80 percent of homes and
businesses and to generate about half of the country’s
electricity. The U.K. is Europe’s biggest gas user.  Heavy snowfall in central France cut power to as many as
25,000 households yesterday as Electricite de France SA,
Europe’s biggest operator of nuclear reactors, asked customers
to limit use amid a cold snap expected to last a week.  Power demand in France, Europe’s second biggest power
market, will peak today at 90,600 megawatts at 7 p.m. Paris
time. It reached a record 93,080 megawatts in February this
year.  -- With assistance by  Alan Purkiss ,  Lars Paulsson ,  Catherine Airlie  in London,  Oliver Suess  in Munich,  Cornelius Rahn ,  Mike Gavin  in Frankfurt,  Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf,  Fred Pals  in
Amsterdam,  Rodney Jefferson  in Edinburgh,  Tara Patel  in Paris,
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm,  Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki.
Editors:  Peter Branton ,  James Cone   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Lawrence  in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  