-- Yen Rises to 11-Week High Versus Euro on China Tightening, Irish Contagion
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-30T07:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/yen-rises-to-11-week-high-versus-euro-on-china-tightening-irish-contagion.html
The yen strengthened to an 11-week
high against the euro as speculation China will take more
measures to cool its economy and Europe’s debt woes will worsen
boosted demand for safer assets.  Japan’s currency gained versus all 16 of its major
counterparts after the China Daily quoted Zhong Jiyin, an
economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, as saying
his nation needs to raise interest rates by 2 percentage points.
The euro fell toward a 10-week low versus the dollar on concern
Ireland’s banking crisis will spread to Portugal and Spain amid
signs the region’s economic recovery is slowing.  “China is likely to tighten monetary policy, given
inflation risks,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general manager of
foreign exchange at Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow Ltd., Japan’s
largest currency broker. “There’s risk aversion, so the yen and
the dollar may be bought.”  The yen climbed to 110.22 per euro as of 6:45 a.m. in
London from 110.60 in New York yesterday, after rising to 109.99,
the strongest since Sept. 15. Japan’s currency was at 84.03 per
dollar from 84.26. The euro traded at $1.3106 from $1.3125
yesterday, when it slid to $1.3064, the weakest since Sept. 21.  China’s recent increases in the reserve requirement ratio
won’t be enough to reverse excessive liquidity in the system,
Zhong wrote in a commentary in the newspaper. The People’s Bank
of China has ordered banks to set aside larger reserves twice in
two weeks after raising interest rates in October, the first
increase since 2007.  Sentiment ‘Weak’  “Risk sentiment is weak,” said  Imre Speizer , a
Wellington-based market strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.,
Australia’s second-largest bank. “Concerns that euro-zone
contagion can spread further are sending currency investors into
a safe-haven currency, and for now that safe haven is deemed to
be the U.S. dollar.”  China’s consumer prices increased 4.4 percent last month,
the statistics bureau reported Nov. 11, more than the 4 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Australian dollar fell for a fourth day as speculation
the Chinese government will raise interest rates pushed down the
Asian nation’s stocks.  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, lost 1.6 percent. Earlier it slid 3.8
percent, the most in two weeks. Australia is the world’s largest
exporter of iron ore and coal and counts China as its biggest
trading partner.  Australian dollar declined 0.1 percent to 96.21 U.S. cents,
and slipped 0.4 percent to 80.86 yen.  Spain, Portugal  The euro has weakened 6 percent this month against the
dollar, its biggest drop since May.  Investor concern has shifted to Spain and Portugal since
Nov. 28, when European governments sought to bolster the euro by
giving Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($111 billion) bailout package.  “As markets continue to fret over Irish contagion, we
wouldn’t be surprised to see further declines in the euro,”
 Spiros Papadopoulos , a senior economist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Melbourne, wrote in a research note today. The next
key support level is viewed as around $1.30 per euro, he said.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds jumped 28 basis points
yesterday to as high as 5.45 percent, the most since 2002. The
 difference  in yield, or spread, over German bunds widened to a
euro-era record of 267 basis points.  ‘Fiscal Consolidation’  “Portugal needs to assure strong fiscal consolidation
continuing in 2012 and beyond,” European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday. If
growth proved to be “somewhat lower” than expected, “then
it’s essential still to meet fiscal targets by taking additional
measures,” he said. Rehn will speak today in Brussels.  The 16-nation euro area’s jobless rate was unchanged from
the previous month at 10.1 percent in October, according to a
Bloomberg survey before today’s report. That’s would match the
highest reading since 1998.  Gross domestic product  in the region
may grow at a 1.5 percent rate in 2011 from 1.7 percent this
year, the European Commission said in a report yesterday.  The dollar headed for its first monthly gain since April
against the yen on speculation the U.S. economic recovery is
gaining momentum.  The Conference Board’s U.S. consumer confidence  index 
climbed to 53 this month from 50.2 in October, according to a
Bloomberg survey before today’s report.  “We’ll likely to get a series of favorable economic data
for the dollar,” said  Keiji Matsumoto , a currency strategist in
Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “Improving consumer
sentiment is one of factors that pushes the greenback higher.”  The dollar has gained 0.3 percent against a measure of the
currencies of 10 developed nations this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has
risen 12 percent and the euro has weakened 9.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 