-- ThyssenKrupp Forecasts Higher Sales After Returning to Profit
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-11-30T10:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/thyssenkrupp-returns-to-full-year-profit-as-costs-drop-steel-use-climbs.html
ThyssenKrupp AG , Germany’s largest
steelmaker, forecast an increase in sales and earnings this
fiscal year after a recovery in metal demand helped the company
return to profit in the 12 months through September.  Net income  was 824 million euros ($1.08 billion) in the
period, Essen-based ThyssenKrupp said today in a statement. That
compared with a 1.86 billion-euro loss a year earlier and beat
the 752.4 million-euro average  estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Sales rose 5.1 percent to 42.6 billion euros.  The German economy, Europe’s largest, has benefited from
higher global demand for manufactured goods and an increase in
household spending this year. ThyssenKrupp, which also builds
elevators and services power plants, has lowered operating
expenses by reorganizing its five business units into two, and
reducing its  workforce  after selling divisions.  The steelmaker forecast a 10 percent to 15 percent gain in
sales in the 2010/2011 year and said profit will rise more than
revenue. That compares with an expected 12 percent increase in
sales, according to the average of 26 analyst estimates.  “The outlook continues to be positive,”  Jeffrey Largey ,
an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said today in a note to
investors, citing “operating improvements and a continued
recovery in its end markets.”  Shares Drop  ThyssenKrupp  fell as much as 2.2 percent in Frankfurt
trading and was down 0.5 percent at 29.40 euros as of 10:58 a.m.
local time. The stock has  risen  11 percent this calendar year,
compared with a 13 percent advance for the benchmark  DAX Index .  ThyssenKrupp will exclude capitalized interest-cost effects
and other items from its adjusted earnings before interest and
tax to better reflect operating performance, according to the
statement. The steelmaker is seeking to boost profit by that
measure to about 2 billion euros this fiscal year from 1.2
billion euros.  Household spending is putting Germany’s  economy  on a firmer
footing even as global and euro-area demand for its exports
slackens. While the pace of economic expansion slowed to 0.7
percent in the third quarter from a record 2.3 percent in the
second, household consumption was one of the main growth
contributors, the Federal Statistics Office said Nov. 23.  Germany’s economy will expand by 3.7 percent in 2010,
according to the government’s council of economic advisers, even
as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis curbs growth in debt-strapped
nations such as Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  Auto Sales  The order intake for German rolled steel, used to make
cars, rose 11 percent in September as metal traders replenished
their inventories, the  German Steel Federation  said on Nov. 15.
German auto sales may total 2.9 million vehicles this year, the
VDA carmakers’ lobby said in a Nov. 2 statement, raising a
previous forecast of 2.8 million.  ThyssenKrupp’s European steel unit sells 59 percent of its
output within 500 kilometers (310 miles) of its blast furnaces
and mills in the western German town of Duisburg, according to a
presentation posted on the company’s  website  last month.  The company, which was formed in a merger a decade ago and
traces its history back to the 19th century, may benefit from an
increase in metal use after opening a raw-steel plant in Brazil
and a mill in Alabama this year to serve clients in the U.S.  German carmakers Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, Daimler AG
and Volkswagen AG are seeking to boost production in the south
of the U.S. to limit the effect of currency swings on earnings.  ThyssenKrupp has picked Siemens AG’s industrial unit chief
 Heinrich Hiesinger  to succeed Chief Executive Officer  Ekkehard Schulz  next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  