-- Zloty Snaps Worst Slump Since May as Poland's Economic Growth Accelerates
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-11-30T10:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-30/zloty-snaps-worst-slump-since-may-advances-from-four-month-low.html
The Polish zloty advanced from the
weakest level in more than four months after a report showing
the economy grew at the fastest pace in two years last quarter
lured investors.  The zloty appreciated 0.9 percent to 4.0705 per euro as of
11:20 a.m. in Warsaw. The currency’s 14-day relative strength
index fell as low as 28 yesterday. A reading below 30 indicates
the zloty may strengthen, according to technical analysts. The
zloty is the best performer today among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Warsaw’s benchmark  WIG20
Index  rose 1 percent to 2,641.22 as financial stocks and oil
refiners gained.  Poland’s  gross domestic product  expanded an annual 4.2
percent in the third quarter, the statistics office said today,
as consumer demand boosted investments. The acceleration is a
temporary spurt that may last for several quarters, after which
growth will slow to below 4 percent,  Jan Winiecki  of the central
bank’s Monetary Policy Council said today in an interview on TVN
CNBC television.  “It is a strong and encouraging number for Poland,” said
 Baron Chan , a foreign-currency strategist at Credit Suisse AG in
London. “The government is very dependent on growth to cut its
deficit so if it does well on the numbers it should be taken
positively by the markets.”  The Polish currency dropped 3.7 percent in the previous
three days, its worst performance for the period since May, as
investors shunned emerging-market assets amid speculation
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen and Fitch Ratings said on Nov.
25 that the country may need to cut its deficit to prevent
“negative pressure” building on its creditworthiness.  Deficit, ‘Volatility’  The Finance Ministry said in October the general government
deficit will likely widen beyond the 2010 target of 6.9 percent
of gross domestic product to 7.9 percent. It was 7.2 percent in
2009. The European Commission called on Poland to reduce the gap
to the EU limit of 3 percent by 2012. The government said in
August it won’t meet the target before 2013.  The zloty hasn’t shown “dramatic” volatility during its
recent decline and there is “no reason to panic” about its
current level, the central bank Governor  Marek Belka  said on
Radio RMF FM. The currency will return to strengthening as soon
as capital inflows resume, he said, adding that local exporters
“can live with a much stronger zloty.”  Poland is continuing to “take advantage” of a weaker
zloty to exchange part of about 5.6 billion euros ($7.3 billion)
held by the Finance Ministry,  Piotr Marczak , head of the
ministry’s public debt department, said yesterday in e-mailed
comments to Bloomberg News. He declined to say whether the
ministry conducted any transactions on the currency markets
recently.  “The valuation of the zloty has somewhat decoupled from
the economic fundamentals,” Bank Pekao SA economists wrote in a
note to clients. “Following the recent violent weakening the
currency may stabilize after verbal interventions but the global
sentiment will remain key.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  