-- Illinois Approves Power Lines for Prairie State Plant
-- Edward Klump
-- 2007-07-10T18:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-10/illinois-approves-power-lines-for-prairie-state-plant-update2-.html

          
          
             An interstate network of transmission
lines connecting the planned Prairie State power plant in
southern  Illinois  to the electricity grid was approved by the
Illinois Commerce Commission.  
 The 38 miles (61 kilometers) of power lines connecting the
1,600-megawatt plant near Lively Grove, Illinois, will also
provide a much-needed ``bridge'' between Missouri and Illinois,
according to a statement today from  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , which
is developing the plant and adjacent  coal mine  with partners.  
 The transmission lines, to be built and owned by units of
 Ameren Corp. (AEE) , will connect the Dynegy Energy Complex in Baldwin,
Illinois, with Ameren's Rush Island plant across the Mississippi
River in Missouri, as well as provide a connection to the Prairie
State plant, St. Louis-based Peabody said.  
 Construction is expected to begin in mid-2008, with
completion in the first quarter of 2010, Ameren spokeswoman Erica Abbett said in an interview.  
 Prairie State has signed a $2.9 billion agreement with
Bechtel Group Inc. for engineering procurement, construction and
management, Peabody said. Groundbreaking for the project is
expected in the fall.  
 CMS Energy Corp. in May said it was quitting the partnership
with Peabody developing the power plant about 40 miles southeast
of  St. Louis , citing a lack of long-term contracts for its share
of the plant's output.  
 The remaining partners include American Municipal Power-
Ohio, the Indiana Municipal Power Agency, the Kentucky Municipal
Power Agency, Missouri Joint Municipal Electric Utility
Commission and Northern Illinois Municipal Power Agency, Peabody
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        