-- Picky about wine? Try making your own
-- By  Leslie Gevirtz
-- Sat Jan 13, 2007 4:50am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/13/businesspro-food-wine-crushpad-dc-idUSN1228040320070113

 

 NEW YORK  Jan 12 (Reuters Life!) - If you have great 
grapes, the right equipment, an experienced wine maker and 
$5,000, it's pretty easy to make a barrel of good wine - even 
if you live in Finland. 

  Rather than investing in shares in a vineyard, some wine 
lovers are taking their passion literally into their own hands 
and making their own wine.  "There's a good chance that you can even make a really 
great wine," said Noah Dorrance, marketing director of 
Crushpad, an urban winery in San Francisco where you can make 
your own custom wine.  Dorrance said Crushpad's clients, who range from doctors 
and lawyers to salesmen and IT experts, are people "who either 
don't have the resources - those being usually money or 
experience or time - to start their own winery."  Instead they can visit Crushpad's huge warehouse in a 
gentrifying strip on the edge of San Francisco's Mission 
District.  "There are barrels and bottles, winemakers, label 
designers, the apparatus to sell your wine to others. It's a 
way to have a winery and keep your day job," said Dorrance.  "You can come up here and harvest, crush, blend or not come 
at all. Either way, it's a great learning experience."  He said making your own wine did not mean settling for 
lesser quality, noting wine critic Robert Parker had bestowed a 
rating of over 90 on at least one client's vintages.  About half of Crushpad's clients live in the San Francisco 
Bay area and regularly visit the winery or go up to one of the 
30 vineyards that have been contracted to supply grapes.  "But this year we hope to install video cameras in the 
vineyards, so folks who can't make it here can see what the 
conditions are at any time," Dorrance said.
  HOW DOES YOUR VINEYARD GROW?  That will make it easier for the other half of the 1,500 or 
so customers, who live in one of 35 different U.S. states, the 
United Kingdom, Italy, Canada and Finland to monitor the 
weather conditions and harvest online at Crushpadwine.com.  This spring, customers who cannot make it to the winery 
will also be sent samples of their own barrels, as well as 
blending wines and instructions on how to hold a blending 
session by Crushpad which makes more than 400 different wines.  "Usually we have a huge blending session at the winery," 
Dorrance explained. "It's a chance to add a touch more cabernet 
franc to that Bordeaux blend or maybe soften the cabernet in 
your barrel with a bit of merlot.  "Before, our customers who couldn't make it to the winery 
missed out on this step. But this year, we're sending them 
they're own blending kits. Invite three or four of your friends 
over and have a small blending session."  Crushpad requires a minimum investment of one barrel or 
roughly $5,000 with one barrel yielding 25 cases of wine. If 
your cellar isn't large enough for 300 bottles of wine, you can 
share the cost and the cases with friends, or swap your wine 
with others on the winery's social network.  Dorrance insisted that bottle for bottle, because Crushpad 
has eliminated the retailer and distributor, the actual cost is 
almost 50 percent less to the customer.  "And the experience you get is priceless," he said.