-- Chrysler sees sales growth
-- By  Kevin Krolicki
-- Sun Jan 7, 2007 5:23pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/07/businesspro-autoshow-chrysler-ceo-dc-idUSN0728250920070107

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Chrysler Group expects to reverse its 
recent sales slump in 2007 as it looks to clinch a cost-savings 
deal on heath-care with its major union and readies a 
restructuring plan to be announced in February, the automaker's 
chief executive said on Sunday. 

  Tom LaSorda, who heads DaimlerChrysler AG's DCXGn.DE 
Chrysler Group, told reporters on the sidelines of the Detroit 
auto show, that he expected to sell more than the roughly 2.7 
million vehicles Chrysler sold in 2006 this year.  DaimlerChrysler's U.S. sales dropped almost 6 percent in 
2006 and inventory built up as the company failed to react 
quickly enough to the consumer shift away from sport utility 
vehicles and pickup trucks.  LaSorda described 2006 as "not a stellar year," but said 
Chrysler would mount by reversing the downturn in sales and 
cutting its operating costs.  "The intention is profitable growth. We definitely want to 
be above 2.7 (million units). But we'll do it in a profitable 
way. If somebody said, I could make a lot more money at 2.65 
(million), I would consider it," he said.  Chrysler, which lost $1.5 billion in the third quarter, is 
readying a turnaround plan expected to include capacity 
reductions and job cuts that LaSorda said would be ready by 
February,  Chrysler has cut some 44,000 jobs since 2000, and LaSorda 
indicated that the upcoming restructuring could not cut as 
deeply, he said. "If you took that kind of number out, you 
wouldn't have an enterprise," he said.  Expectations have been running high among analysts that 
Chrysler would look to close an assembly plant focused on SUVs 
as part of its restructuring.  LaSorda declined to comment in detail on what the 
cost-cutting plan would involve, but said it would involve an 
update on the company's half-year old effort to cut $1,000 from 
the cost of the average car it produces.  LaSorda also said Chrysler was back in negotiations with 
the United Auto Workers on a deal that would mirror a similar 
set of concessions the union granted its larger competitors 
General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ) and Ford Motor Co.( F.N )  The UAW rejected granting a similar deal for Chrysler in 
September on the basis of its better performance. In the wake 
of Chrysler's third-quarter loss, the talks were revived.  Chrysler has said that its health care costs add about 
$1,400 to the cost of the average vehicle it sells.  "We have a competitive disadvantage with Ford and GM," 
LaSorda said on Sunday. "We'll work together (with the UAW) to 
get that gap closed."  LaSorda said he was hopeful that a health care deal could 
be done with the UAW before both sides begin a new round of 
contract talks, an effort that will gather momentum this summer 
ahead of the September expiration of the current contract.  LaSorda said he expected the closely watched round of 
contract talks with the UAW and the Detroit-based automakers to 
follow the past practice of pattern bargaining, under which 
similar terms on wages, benefits and other issues applies to 
all of the traditional Big Three.  "Otherwise, in a hyper-competitive industry, how does the 
union decide at what point an automaker gets a better deal?" 
LaSorda said.  LaSorda also said he wanted to ensure that the automaker's 
2007 marketing was aimed more at differentiating its brands: 
Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep.  LaSorda took over direct responsibility for the automaker's 
sales and marketing efforts last month when Joe Eberhardt, the 
executive who had the post, stepped down.  Chrysler's marketing efforts in 2006 -- including a 
high-profile campaign starring DaimlerChrysler Chairman Dieter 
Zetsche -- proved unpopular with its own dealers, who 
complained that the advertising had failed to generate sales.  LaSorda also acknowledged that his leadership had come 
under fire since Chrysler plunged into a loss in 2006, but said 
he intended to stay on.  "When your CEO, the buck stops here," he said. "People want 
to talk about it, but I have to look forward and I have my head 
held high and I want to lead the troops to a better future."  Chrysler had 126,000 before a restructuring effort that 
began in 2000 and now employs about 82,500, a spokesman said.