-- GM CEO hopes for higher 2007 retail car sales
-- 
-- Sun Jan 7, 2007 4:06pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/07/businesspro-autoshow-gm-sales-dc-idUSN2644440920070107

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ) hopes to 
increase its U.S. retail sales in 2007 despite what is expected 
to be flat growth at best for the U.S. auto industry, Chief 
Executive Rick Wagoner told reporters on Sunday. 

  The world's largest automaker -- expected to lose that 
crown this year to arch rival Toyota Motor Corp. ( 7203.T ) -- 
sold 3 million vehicles to U.S. retail customers in 2006.  "We'd like to tweak that up" in 2007, Wagoner told 
reporters at the North American International Auto Show here.  Wagoner said he agreed with assessments the overall 2007 
U.S. vehicle market will be flat compared with a year earlier.  Almost 16.6 million vehicles were sold in the U.S. market 
in 2006. Analysts caution that a slower economy and housing 
market, which could squeeze consumer spending, may well lead to 
a weaker car market in 2007.  But Wagoner said GM remains more optimistic.  "The housing situation seems to be settling down, interest 
rates are leveling out, energy prices at least for now have 
come down quite a bit, employment is strong. None of that 
suggests the U.S. is really headed for a disastrous year," 
Wagoner said.  "We expect a little weaker in the first half of the year, a 
little stronger in the second half of the year, and auto sales 
should move in that track as well."  GM, which lost $10.6 billion in 2005, is in the middle of a 
broad restructuring that includes slashing more than 35,000 
jobs and closing 12 plants. The automaker is cutting structural 
costs by $9 billion but faces daunting challenges.  As the company heads toward formal contract talks with the 
United Auto Workers union this year, Wagoner said health care 
costs and competitiveness will be key issues.  He cited a $4 billion to $5 billion health care 
disadvantage for GM compared to its competitors, saying it was 
a major drain on the company's cash position.  "I hope we take advantage of this next round of contracts 
to address broad-based productivity, competitiveness issues," 
Wagoner said. "They continue to be health care, they continue 
to be things like the impact of the jobs bank," he said.  The jobs bank allows laid-off workers to get paid nearly 
their full salary until retirement -- a clause written into the 
labor contract during GM's profitable years.  In 2006, GM negotiated health care concessions with the 
United Auto Workers union that could save it $1 billion in 
annual costs. But contract talks are expected to get very tense 
in 2007 as the automaker asks for more concessions.  "It's just as important for the unions as it for us if we 
want to keep the job levels we even have now in this country," 
Wagoner said.  Speaking of further job cuts this year, Wagoner said he 
does not expect any large numbers but does not rule out the 
possibility of more limited cuts.  "There are still some parts of the business we are more 
heavily vertically integrated. So there are still some 
opportunities there," he said.  "In the end, it's going to be determined on 'Hey can we 
sell more cars and use our plants?' and if we can, frankly, the 
pressure to downsize will be significantly less."