-- Honda mulling plug-in vehicles
-- By  Poornima Gupta
-- Sun Jan 7, 2007 4:46pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/07/businesspro-autoshow-honda-dc-idUSN0727701720070107

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Honda Motor Co Ltd ( 7267.T ) said on 
Sunday it is targeting a U.S. sales increase of 3 percent in 
2007 and is considering developing a plug-in electric hybrid 
vehicle to add to its lineup. 

  Honda, which saw sales rise 3.5 percent last year, expects 
higher demand for its Civic mid-size sedan, Fit compact car and 
CR-V sports utility vehicle to boost sales in 2007, President 
and Chief Executive Takeo Fukui told reporters on the sidelines 
of the North American International Auto Show.  The Japanese automaker is increasing production of Civic 
sedans and CR-V SUVs this year, he added.  Honda, known for building fuel-efficient vehicles, is 
enjoying strong demand for the remodeled Civic sedan and CR-V 
crossover, keeping supply short of orders.  To alleviate the bottleneck, Honda will begin production of 
the CR-V at its plant in Mexico from the fall of 2007.  The Tokyo-based car maker has already announced a slew of 
new factories and expansions last year, including plans for a 
car plant in Indiana to start operations in late 2008.  The company is also looking into the development of plug-in 
hybrids but battery technology remains a significant barrier to 
successful development, Motoatsu Shiraishi, president of Honda 
Research and Development, told Reuters at the auto show.  "We are studying what kind of conditions would enable a 
plug-in," Shiraishi said, adding that the two major challenges 
to introducing a hybrid is the current battery capacity, which 
has to improve significantly, and speed of recharging it.  Plug-in hybrids, a favorite among many environmentalists, 
are capable of being charged with a standard electric outlet.  Honda rival Toyota Motor Co ( 7203.T ) is the leader in 
gas-electric hybrids. General Motors ( GM.N ) also announced a 
"concept car" at the show on Sunday called the Volt, which it 
says could be on the road in two or three years and run almost 
entirely on electricity.  Battery technology is key to the next generation of hybrid 
vehicles as automakers seek ways to lower the cost of batteries 
and increase their power and storage capacity.  GM said the Volt will be outfitted with new lithium-ion 
battery packs, which hold a charge longer than the nickel metal 
hydride batteries now used widely in automobiles.  Shiraishi said Honda also plans to introduce diesel engines 
in the United States by the end of 2009.  Currently, Honda is working to meet the stringent U.S. 
standards for cleaner emissions from diesel vehicles, he said.  The Japanese automaker plans to offer diesel engines in 
mid-size and larger vehicles, Shiraishi said. But he declined 
to specify which model will be first to be fitted with a diesel 
engine.