-- Policymakers upbeat on world growth
-- By  Stella Dawson  and  Simon Rabinovitch
-- Sun Jan 7, 2007 4:47pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/07/businesspro-bis-dc-idUSL0776843520070107

 

 BASEL, Switzerland  (Reuters) - Financial policymakers gave 
an upbeat assessment on Sunday for a world economy heading into 
its fifth straight year of above 4 percent growth, although the 
uncertain path for oil prices still poses a risk. 

  Against this backdrop, International Monetary Fund Managing 
Director Rodrigo Rato recommended major central bankers take a 
cautious approach to setting interest rates, making decisions 
as economic data unfolds.  That would mark a shift from the steady path of interest 
rate increases seen in Europe over the past year, while in the 
United States the Federal Reserve already has paused to assess 
the outlook.  "The world economy is moving into another year of strong 
growth and broad-based growth," Rato said after the first day 
of meetings with central bankers from the world's major 
economies here at the Bank for International Settlements.  "We see strong growth in Europe, continuation in Japan, and 
we see very strong growth in Asia and other areas, and 
certainly from the point of view of the United States, the 
central scenario is a soft landing," Rato told reporters.  Backing the prospect that global growth is becoming more 
widely spread around the world's main economic regions, rather 
than driven primarily by the United States and China, Bank of 
Canada Governor David Dodge also said there were positive signs 
on the unwinding of world economic imbalances.  The IMF estimates that global growth will slow slightly to 
4.9 percent annual rate this year from 5.1 percent in 2006, and 
Rato did not modify that forecast.  But this outlook along with plenty of money circulating to 
finance global growth also creates challenges for central 
bankers as they try to keep prices stable, Rato said.  "In that respect, we see the position of the major central 
banks, the Federal Reserve and the ECB (European Central Bank), 
is the accurate one in terms of responding to real data of 
economy to maintain their monetary policies," he said.  One challenge is crude oil prices, which Rato said still 
pose a potential inflationary threat, even though that has not 
materialized yet and prices have retreated recently. Crude oil 
has tumbled from $78 a barrel in early August 2006 to $56.31 
last Friday CLc1 last week.  "I think it is necessary that monetary policy remain 
vigilant," Rato added. Vigilance usually is central banker code 
for readiness to raise interest rates again. Such vigilance 
also was an appropriate stance for the Bank of Japan, he said.
  FLEXIBILE CHINA  Strong global growth would also keep demand robust for 
cheap Chinese exports. China's central bank chief Zhou 
Xiaochuan said China's growing trade surplus could mean 
increased flexibility in its yuan currency, which has 
appreciated 3.7 percent since its revaluation in July 2005 -- a 
rise the United States considers insufficient.  "If the trend is continued in this way, certainly I think 
the renminbi flexibility will be expanded," Zhou said, when 
asked if the trading band for the currency would be widened.  Further currency appreciation depended on market supply and 
demand, he said.  The U.S. and Europe consider the yuan is still undervalued, 
giving China an unfair trade advantage, and that a stronger 
Chinese currency would help ease global economic imbalances.  Canada's Dodge said some progress had been made on this 
front, although the pace was still an open question.  "There is some small evidence of appropriate adjustment 
taking place," he told reporters.
  OIL PRICE PINCH  Growth and inflation prospects are also helped by a dip in 
crude oil prices. But lower oil prices could also have a 
negative impact on oil-producers Canada and Saudi Arabia.  Dodge said the weakness in the Canadian dollar, which was 
dragged to a near year-low against the U.S. dollar last week 
amid the oil price slide, was not surprising although currency 
moves had generally reflected economic fundamentals.  The head of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency said the 
world's largest oil producer could struggle if prices fell 
further, although current prices would have little impact.  "The problem is if it would continue and if it would fall 
more substantially. It could affect revenue, but it is an 
exogenous factor," Governor Hamad Saud al-Sayyari said.  Mexican central bank governor Guillermo Ortiz said the fall 
in crude costs could also widen credit spreads which have hit 
historic lows for emerging debt -- a trend Rato agreed needed 
monitoring although he said it was not necessarily a problem.  (Additional reporting by  Krista Hughes  and  Sven Egenter )