-- LionOre Says Norilsk's Higher Bid Beats Xstrata's
-- Choy Leng Yeong
-- 2007-05-07T23:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-07/lionore-says-norilsk-s-higher-bid-beats-xstrata-s-update2-.html

          
          
             LionOre Mining International Ltd. (LIM)  said
a C$5.3 billion ($4.8 billion) takeover bid from Russia's OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel is superior to an earlier offer the company
accepted from  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   
 Xstrata's agreement allows it to increase its offer by May
14, Toronto-based LionOre said today in a statement. Norilsk's
May 3 cash offer of C$21.50 is 16 percent more than the C$18.50
per-share bid Xstrata made March 26.  
 LionOre, which expects to produce 44,300 tons of nickel this
year, is being pursued for mines in Australia and Africa as the
metal used in stainless steel soars. Nickel has more than doubled
in the past year and closed at a record $51,600 a ton on the
London Metal Exchange May 4.  
 Vladimir Potanin , who plans to buy a stake from fellow
Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  to become Moscow-based
Norilsk's largest shareholder, wants to buy Lionore to keep
production ahead of Brazilian rival Cia. Vale do Rio Doce.  
 Buying Lionore would help Xstrata Chief Executive Officer
 Mick Davis  in his drive to make the company one of the world's
three largest nickel producers.  
 Ore from LionOre's two mines in Botswana and South Africa is
processed at Xstrata's Nikkelverk refinery in Norway. LionOre
also operates three nickel mines and one gold mine in Australia
and owns the undeveloped Honeymoon Well nickel deposit in Western
Australia.  
 Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata's offer is due to close on
May 25 and carries a breakup fee of C$131 million. It also has
the right to match any superior offer. Xstrata said in March it
had secured an irrevocable ``lock-up'' arrangement with
shareholders including directors for 19 percent of the company.  
 Shares of LionOre rose 19 cents, or 0.8 percent, to C$24.04
at 4:10 p.m. in Toronto today. The shares have gained 81 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Choy Leng Yeong in  Seattle  at 
 clyeong@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        