-- Shougang Officials, Peru Miners to Hold Strike Talks
-- Alex Emery
-- 2007-05-07T19:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-07/shougang-officials-peru-miners-to-hold-strike-talks-update1-.html

          
          
             Officials at Shougang Hierro  Peru  SAA,
Peru's only iron mining company, were poised to resume talks with
workers today to end an eight-day strike, a union official said.  
 Subcontracted workers at the Shougang mine on the south
coast of Peru are one of three groups that have yet to negotiate
labor settlements since a national miners' strike began April 30.  
 Peru's Mining Federation, which represents 70 unions and
28,000 miners, will also ask the government to step in to help
broker a contract for workers at Cia. de Minas Buenaventura's
Uchucchacua silver mine north of  Lima , union spokesman Vicente
Sotomayor said today in a phone interview.  
 ``The companies have to accept a compromise to end these
strikes,'' Sotomayor said. ``Everyone else has gone back to
work.''  
 Talks were also in limbo at  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) 's Minera
Yanacocha SRL mine, where workers remained on the job. Workers at
all other mining operations, including those run by  Southern
Copper Corp. (SCCO)  and Doe Run Resources Corp., returned to work soon
after agreeing on May 4 to end a five-day national strike,
Sotomayor said.  
 Miners are seeking a greater share of the profits producers
are generating from surging metal prices. Peru is the world's
largest producer of silver, the third-biggest in copper, zinc and
tin and fifth in gold.  
 The strikes haven't cut output at Hierro Peru and
Uchucchacua, Shougang deputy general manager Raul Vera and
Buenaventura Chief Financial Officer Carlos Galvez said.  
 Yanacocha Talks Halted  
 Newmont said contract talks with workers at Yanacocha, the
world's largest gold mine, were halted after miners rejected a
42.6 percent average monthly wage increase.  
 A strike probably wouldn't affect production because the
Yanacocha Workers Union represents less than half of Yanacocha's
3,000 employees,  Omar Jabara , a Newmont spokesman, said in a
phone interview from Denver. Newmont owns 56 percent of the mine,
which is in Peru's northern  Andes , and Buenaventura holds the
remainder.  
 ``We believe we have made the workers a good offer,'' Jabara
said. ``We don't see grounds for a strike.''  
 Newmont's  shares  fell 2 cents to $41.93 at 3:25 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Buenaventura's New York-
traded ADR rose 64 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $34.01.  
 Gold futures for June delivery rose 70 cents, or 0.1
percent, to $690.40 an ounce on the Comex division of the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        