-- Iran Gives China Chance to Prove Its Stuff: Celestine Bohlen
-- Celestine Bohlen
-- 2010-02-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-14/iran-gives-china-chance-to-prove-its-stuff-celestine-bohlen.html

          
          
             That’s it. Iran has gone too far.
Even Russia is fed up and is now talking about tough sanctions,
with the U.S.,  France , the U.K. and  Germany .  
 There’s a problem: China.  
 This would be a good time for China to prove it’s ready to
assume a leadership role in global affairs, something its
partners have been asking it to do for five years or more. By
joining the other permanent members of the United Nations  Security Council  and Germany in facing down Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s latest nuclear provocation, China could
show its willingness to bring its political clout up to the
level of its economic might.  
 When it comes to Iran, China clearly has interests it wants
to protect. It has now overtaken the European Union to become
Iran’s largest trading partner; trading volumes have skyrocketed
from $400 million in 1994 to $29 billion in 2008.  
 Even more importantly, China depends on Iran for 11 percent
of its energy needs; just this week, the China National
Petroleum Corp. said it will start drilling next month at the
$4.7 billion South Pars gas project, where it has replaced
France’s  Total SA .  
 Until now, officials in Beijing have taken the line that
China doesn’t like interfering in the internal affairs of other
countries. They also argue that sanctions don’t work.  
 Irrelevant Objections  
 These objections are increasingly irrelevant: Iran’s
nuclear ambitions aren’t just an internal affair -- any more
than  North Korea ’s are. China, like all other major nuclear
powers,  supports  international non-proliferation efforts.
Sanctions, while imperfect, would at least demonstrate that the
world’s leading powers are united on the issue.  
 That’s why  China  needs to get on board soon. Once it does,
other countries now in the Security Council’s rotating seats --
such as Turkey and  Brazil  -- would probably see the wisdom in
following suit, rather than risk isolation.  
 There is even a platform of limited sanctions ready,
prepared by the U.S. and its Western allies, designed to target
companies and assets owned by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps of Iran, a bulwark of the regime. This is hardly the kind
of declaration of economic warfare that China might have feared.  
 Until last week, Russia was the country in the six-nation
group involved in ongoing negotiations with Iran that was always
reluctant to ratchet up economic pressure. Each time sanctions
against Iran went through the Security Council, the Russians
would drag out the debate and water down the proposals.  
   Russia ’s Message  
 Now, Russia’s position has shifted radically and vocally.
That message was delivered this week by none other than Nikolai Patrushev, now secretary of Russia’s Presidential Security
Council and formerly head of its secret service -- in other
words, an authoritative source.  
 What has irked Russia -- and everyone else -- was
Ahmadinedjad’s Feb. 7 pledge to enrich uranium up to 20 percent
levels of purity. This has undercut Iran’s claim that it isn’t
seeking to produce nuclear weapons, just nuclear power.
Patrushev, for one, isn’t convinced. Iran’s actions, he said,
“raise doubts in other countries and these doubts are fairly
well-grounded.”  
 The Russians may also be miffed at Iran’s dithering about
an offer to send its uranium stockpile outside the country to be
enriched. Or they may just be trying to remind Iran that Russia
can -- and will -- use its power in the UN Security Council to
punish its southern neighbor.  
 Same Record  
 In the past, China has fallen in line behind Russia’s
position, avoiding direct heat from Western powers. Now, it’s on
its own, endlessly spinning the same record, calling on
“relevant parties” to “step up efforts and push for progress
in the dialogue and negotiations.”  
 Worse, China has resorted to cheap stalling tactics. It
sent a  low -level diplomat to a high-level meeting called at the
UN in January, the same trick it played at the Copenhagen
climate-change summit, when it annoyed world leaders by slipping
a minor diplomat into a meeting with heads of government.  
 This isn’t the diplomatic behavior of a great power. Most
analysts have interpreted China’s recent blustering threats
against the U.S. over arms sales to  Taiwan , and a pending visit
by the  Dalai Lama , as a sign of China’s new assertiveness.  
 There is nothing wrong with China’s increased self-
confidence: The world needs to adjust to China’s new bold
stance. But with power, comes responsibility, and that’s where
China has yet to meet the challenge posed by its formidable
economic girth.  
 Odd Man Out  
 China will have to set some of its interests aside if it
wants to avoid diplomatic isolation. To be the odd man out on
the UN Security Council as it reviews Iran’s latest nuclear
taunt would have “longer-term implications,” as U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  warned last month.  
 Last week,  Iran  rose to the top of the international
agenda. It chose the Feb. 11 anniversary of the 1979  Islamic
Revolution  both to confront the international community with its
claim to being a “nuclear state,” and to redouble its
crackdown against opposition protests.  
 This challenge to its opponents both at home and abroad
can’t go unanswered. For the world community to present a  united
front  to Iran’s defiance, China’s voice must be heard.  
 (Celestine Bohlen is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Celestine Bohlen in Paris at 
 cbohlen1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        