-- Obama Defies Critics by Holding to Radical Center: Albert Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-02-14T15:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-14/obama-defies-critics-by-holding-to-radical-center-albert-hunt.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  sees an irony
in his relations with the U.S. business community. “On the
left, we are perceived as being in the pockets of big
business,” he said in an Oval Office interview this past week.
“On the business side, we are perceived as being anti-
business.”  
 The criticism from the left, he realizes, goes with the
territory; from Franklin Roosevelt to Barack Obama, Democratic
presidents always disappoint their party’s left wing.  
 The business criticism frustrates him. The  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce  and some corporate chieftains have portrayed this
administration as government-loving, free enterprise-hating
radicals.  
 This depiction isn’t reflected either in Obama’s record or
the 35-minute interview with  Bloomberg BusinessWeek . He
professes to be a “fierce advocate” for a pro-growth, dynamic
free market.  
 This was more than just trying to appeal to a business
audience, as he stresses the need to temper these views with
protection for consumers and investors. “There have to be some
rules of the road in place in the financial sector that will
create an even playing field,” Obama says, noting a need to
“restore a sense of balance to the compact between business,
government and employees.” That isn’t an anti-business
attitude.  
 Waffling on Trade  
 To be sure, there are legitimate criticisms. On trade, the
president waffles, saying he can’t complete pending accords with
 South Korea ,  Colombia  and Panama until important details are
threshed out.  
 The South Koreans are cutting trade deals all over the
world; it’s the U.S. that’s the outlier. Colombia has a
courageous government that is making progress on human rights
while battling terrorists; it needs the economic support.  
 With strong labor opposition, it’s tough politically for a
Democratic president. Yet getting the North American Free Trade
Agreement and supporting  China ’s entrance to the  World Trade
Organization  was difficult for  Bill Clinton , and he did it.  
 Articulating a coherent economic policy remains elusive. In
the BusinessWeek interview the president was asked to distill
his economic message. He spoke about sustainable economic growth
that requires innovation, smart  energy policy , health care and
an educational system that generates the most productive
workers.  
 The parts are fine; there isn’t a unifying theme. It should
all be about jobs. The president believes this; too often he
doesn’t convey it.  
 No Radical  
 However, neither the policies nor the pronouncements are
radical or hostile to businesses. The stimulus plan, most
economists believe, was essential, and has ameliorated the bleak
jobs picture. The only debate is: Should it have been somewhat
smaller or larger?  
 Critics have a field day characterizing the cap-and-trade
bill as job-losing and government grabbing. Yet during the
interview with the president, 30 feet away in another session
were  General Electric Co. (GE)  Chairman Jeffrey Immelt,  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK)  Chairman Jim Rogers,  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  Chief
Executive Officer David Cote and others making common ground
with White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel  and energy
coordinator Carol Browner on energy policy.  
 That’s hardly a socialist cell.  
 The Obama health-care plan didn’t envision any government
takeover, was small-business oriented and contained a few
serious cost-control measures, incurring the displeasure of
Democratic liberals and labor supporters. However botched the
effort, it wasn’t a march toward U.K.-style national health
care.  
 Focusing on Finance  
 Nowhere is the Obama approach more evident than on the
economy and finance. For starters, he’s smart. As kind as former
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson , in his recent book, was to
President  George W. Bush , it’s clear Obama’s predecessor was a
bystander on major economic policies. No one would say that of
the current White House occupant.  
 He is knowledgeable. In the BusinessWeek interview, talking
about the “Volcker Rule” to limit the scope and activities of
big banks, or about risky leverage or executive compensation, he
is conversant and comfortable. In another interview, I once
asked him a reasonably complicated question involving bond
yields; fortunately, he was far more informed than the
questioner.  
 Whatever the merits of his proposals, and advisers such as
former Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker, National
Economic Council Director Lawrence Summers and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , they aren’t radical.  
 Feed Vs. Cede  
 The left-right divide, or in this case the feed-versus-cede
debate, is most vivid in the financial industry. The left wants
Obama to feed the populist beast, attacking, in Teddy Roosevelt’s felicitous phrase, the “malefactors of great
wealth,” or cousin Franklin Roosevelt’s “moneychangers.” The
business community, including some industrial chiefs who don’t
much like their Wall Street counterparts, wants him to cede the
populist stuff.  
 Either approach, Obama realizes, would be problematic. A
feel-good populist assault would undermine investor confidence;
to ignore the public anger at Wall Street bankers and the
reckless behavior that threatened the global economy is to
abdicate leadership.  
 Threading the Needle  
 In the BusinessWeek interview, Obama threaded that needle
skillfully. When asked about  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  CEO  Lloyd Blankfein ’s $9 million bonus and the $17 million received by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon, the president passed up an
opportunity to take a shot, praising their talents while
acknowledging that to most Americans that’s a lot of money.  
 That balance infuriated some on the left, and the White
House later tried to backtrack a little. (Tellingly,
administration officials again passed up any opportunity to
criticize Blankfein and Dimon.)  
 The guess here is that he believes, correctly, that
Blankfein and Dimon blew a chance to become popular outside of
 Manhattan  by forfeiting their bonuses for a year. But the
payouts were more modest than anticipated and were tied to
longer-term performance, and there are more important matters
facing the president.  
 There is another issue that rankles the corporate
community: The Obama administration is the first in memory
without a major CEO in the Cabinet. Obama makes a convincing
case that he needed the financial expertise of a Summers and a
Geithner to cope with the worst economic crisis in 70 years.  
 He could have tapped a CEO for commerce secretary and
placated some critics. Of course, the  last commerce secretary  of
any real note was in 1928: Herbert Hoover.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        