-- Gref Warns Against Gazprom Industrial Grab in Russia
-- Bradley Cook
-- 2007-02-16T08:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-16/gref-warns-against-gazprom-industrial-grab-in-russia-update2-.html

          
          
             Russian Economy Minister  German Gref 
warned the government to curb gas-export monopoly OAO  Gazprom (GSPBEX) 's
expansion into other industries, saying it could ``throw the
country back many years.''  
 Russia  shouldn't ``go to extremes,'' using Gazprom assets
to buy controlling stakes in companies in all sectors of the
economy, Gref told a conference in Krasnoyarsk, Siberia today.
``If we do, we'll not only get a government monopoly of the 19th
century, but also a state-capitalism monopoly that will throw
our country back many years.''  
 Gazprom, the world's largest gas producer, in December
gained control of Sakhalin-2 from Royal Dutch Shell Plc after
the government threatened to derail the country's then-largest
foreign energy project. The state-run company is also expanding
its media holdings and moving into power generation and coal and
uranium mining.  
 Russia, the world's largest energy exporter, is heading for
a ninth year of  economic growth . The annual pace of inflation
narrowed to 8.2 percent in January, the slowest pace in eight
and a half years.  
 Gazprom's lending arm, ZAO Gazprombank, said in an e-mailed
statement today it bought 52 percent of OAO Morion, a St.
Petersburg-based telecommunications equipment producer whose
clients include the Federal Security Service, the main successor
to the Soviet KGB, and the  Interior Ministry . The bank didn't
say how much it paid for Morion, which had sales of $14.4
million last year.  
 Gazprombank said yesterday that it loaned companies in
Russia's nuclear industry $1.1 billion last year and plans to
further expand in the sector through a strategic agreement with
uranium miner and fuel trader Tenex. Those companies include ZAO
Atomstroyexport, the state atomic power plant builder in which
Gazprombank owns 49.8 percent.  
 ``Instead of acquiring new assets and creating a state
monopoly conglomerate,'' Gazprom should concentrate on
developing new gas deposits and meeting surging domestic demand
for the fuel, Gref said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at   ckirkham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        