-- Pharming 2006 Net Loss Widens on Partnership Reserve
-- Martijn van der Starre
-- 2007-02-16T07:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-16/pharming-2006-net-loss-widens-on-partnership-reserve-update1-.html

          
          
             Pharming Group NV (PHARM) , a biotechnology
company that uses milk from genetically modified rabbits to make
its most-advanced experimental drug, said its full-year loss
widened on money put aside for future payments to a partner.  
 The net loss was 18.6 million euros ($24.4 million) compared
with 17.9 million euros a year earlier, the Leiden, Netherlands-
based company said in an e-mailed statement today. The company
booked a 2.2 million-euro provision for future payments to Paul
Royalty Fund II, LP. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected a
loss of 17.8 million euros, the median of five estimates.  
 Pharming last year signed a strategic partnering agreement
with affiliates of Paul Royalty Fund valued at $30 million, for
its most important drug. The fund will receive royalties of less
than 10 percent on future sales of the drug, Pharming said.  
 Pharming has one product in late-stage development, a
treatment for an abnormal swelling in the body known as
hereditary angioedema. The treatment, known as recombinant human
C1 inhibitor or Rhucin, received a fast-track designation in the
U.S. and is under review by European regulators.  
 The company said today it anticipates the European
regulators to decide on Rhucin's application in the second half.
Pharming forecast operational costs this year to be in line with
expenses in 2006. The company didn't give a forecast for 2007
earnings.  
 Shares of Pharming, which created the first genetically
modified bull, fell 8.6 percent in the past 12 months, while the
25-member Amsterdam Midkap Index of medium-sized companies jumped
21 percent. Pharming has a market value of 330 million euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        