-- Utama Banking Rejects Revised Rashid Bid From Primus
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2007-02-16T12:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-16/utama-banking-rejects-revised-rashid-bid-from-primus-update2-.html

          
          
             Utama Banking Group Bhd. rejected a
revised bid for its stake in  Malaysia 's Rashid Hussain Bhd. from
Primus Pacific Partners, extending exclusive talks to sell the
holding to Kuwait Finance House.  
 Utama and Kuwait Finance, the  Persian Gulf 's biggest
Islamic investment bank, set a Feb. 23 deadline to reach an
agreement, Utama said in a statement today. Utama, which owns 33
percent of Kuala Lumpur-based Rashid Hussain, didn't put a value
on the offer from Primus, a Hong Kong-based investment group.  
 Rashid Hussain, which owns 65 percent of RHB Capital Bhd.,
Malaysia's fourth-biggest bank, offers a foothold in  Asia 's
biggest Islamic banking market. Kuwait Finance is now competing
with EON Capital Bhd., which last week made bids worth 6.33
billion ringgit ($1.8 billion) for Rashid Hussain and its unit.  
 ``It all boils down to Utama, which option they want to
take,'' said Kaladher Govindan, head of research at TA Research
Sdn. ``If they want to exit the banking scene altogether, what
matters to them is who offers them the best price.''  
 RHB Capital shares today gained 12 sen to 4.56 ringgit.
Rashid Hussain lost 1 sen to 1.68 ringgit. EON dropped 15 sen to
6.7 ringgit. Utama fell 3 sen to 2.19 ringgit.  
 `Committed'  
 Kuwait Finance's investment group last week offered 2.16
billion ringgit for Utama's stake in Rashid Hussain. Kuwait
Finance has said it's prepared to invest more than 12 billion
ringgit in the Malaysian financial services company to create a
``mega'' Islamic bank.  
 Kuwait Finance said in a statement today it's in the
``final stages'' of reaching an agreement with Utama.  
 EON, whose investors include Malaysian tycoon Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary, said today it gave  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  two more weeks
time to consider its offer. Rashid Hussain said it's
``committed'' to assessing the proposal.  
 Still, some analysts say Utama's support for Kuwait
Finance's bid suggests the Middle East company will win the
bidding war.  
 Kuwait Finance ``stands a better chance of success,''
Winson Ng, an analyst at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., said in a
note today.  
 Salman Younis, head of Kuwait Finance's Malaysian unit, was
in a board meeting today and couldn't immediately comment. Akmal
Baqi, a spokesman for RHB Capital, didn't pick up his phone.
Utama Chairman Nik Hashim Nik Yusoff didn't return a call.  
 Rashid Hussain said in a separate statement that while it
was aware Utama received an offer from Primus, it wasn't given
details of the bid.  
 Primus proposed ``the restructuring and recapitalization of
Rashid Hussain,'' Utama said. ``The board takes note of the
revised proposal but will not be considering'' the offer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        