-- Gazprom Warns Europe of Ukraine Gas Supply Reduction
-- Torrey Clark
-- 2008-02-29T16:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-29/gazprom-warns-europe-of-ukraine-gas-supply-reduction-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom,  Russia 's state-run
natural-gas export monopoly, warned European consumers it will
reduce supplies to Ukraine by a quarter in three days after
talks over gas payments broke down.  
 ``Given that the situation hasn't progressed from a
stalemate, Gazprom will cut supplies to Ukrainian consumers by
25 percent on March 3 at 10 a.m. to ensure its economic
interests,'' Moscow-based company spokesman  Sergei Kupriyanov 
said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 The threatened reduction is reminiscent of a price dispute
in January 2006, when Gazprom turned off all Ukrainian
deliveries for three days, causing gas volumes to fall in the
European Union. About a fifth of  Europe 's gas comes from Gazprom
via Ukrainian pipelines. U.K. gas prices extended gains.  
 ``The European Commission and European partners have been
warned about the ongoing situation in a timely manner,''
Kupriyanov said.  
 Ukraine has failed to settle its full debt for 2007 and
isn't paying for deliveries this year after Russia made up for a
shortfall in gas from central  Asia , Kupriyanov said.  
 NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, Ukraine's state oil and gas company,
has said it fully paid its debt for last year, while challenging
a charge of 1.4 billion hryvna ($277 million). Kupriyanov said
Ukraine owes Gazprom about $600 million for Russian gas.  
 `Long-lasting'  
 EU Energy Commissioner Andris Piebalgs ``has called on both
sides to reach as quickly as possible an agreement that we hope
is definitive,'' his spokesman Ferran Tarradellas Espuny said in
Brussels today. The spokesman said the agreement should be
``long-lasting.''  
 Tarradellas Espuny said the EU is monitoring gas supplies
by means of its Network of Energy Security Correspondents.  
 ``We expect that supplies to Europe should not be
affected,'' the spokesman said.  
 Gazprom has already threatened to shut off supplies this
month, which Ukraine averted through a Feb. 12 agreement reached
between President  Viktor Yushchenko  and his Russian counterpart
 Vladimir Putin . Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko has
since sought to reject that deal.  
 Next-day U.K. gas, for delivery on March 3, climbed as much
as 8.2 percent to 57 pence a therm. That's equal to $11.33 a
million British thermal units. A therm is 100,000 Btus.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        