-- `Very Few' European Banks Disclose Enough Data on Risks Tied to Bonuses
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-06-28T16:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/-very-few-european-banks-disclose-enough-data-on-risks-tied-to-bonuses.html

          
          
             “Very few” banks disclose enough
information about how bonuses affect lenders’ capital reserves
and the amount of risk they take, the  Committee of European
Banking Supervisors  said today.  
 Banks should also disclose more data on the relationship
between derivatives and capital, exposure to sub-prime mortgages
and investment strategies, CEBS officials said at a hearing in
London today. The group of European financial regulators praised
the amount of bonus information provided by  Deutsche Bank AG ,
 Societe Generale SA  and  BNP Paribas SA .  
 Global regulators are pushing banks to be more transparent
about potential risks. An EU parliament committee this month
voted to cap bonuses for bankers at half their pay, blaming poor
procedures for risk taking that contributed to the global credit
crunch.  
 Only a few banks disclose enough information in their
annual reports on the bonuses paid to staff who have “an impact
on the risk profile of the bank,” said Nathalie Beaudemoulin,
an accountancy adviser to  CEBS . The group conducted a study into
the transparency of 24 EU banks’ 2009 annual reports.  
 The most transparent banks gave “specific reports with
information on the quantity and quality of traders’ bonuses,”
Beaudemoulin said, and disclosed “the proportion of cash to
non-cash remuneration.”  
 French, German Banks  
 French and German banks gave the most information compared
with lenders from other European countries because “they had to
comply with national requirements in 2009.”  Commerzbank AG  and
 Credit Agricole SA  were among the banks that provided the most
details.  
 London-based CEBS coordinates national banking authorities
and makes policy recommendations to the European Union on
regulation.  
 CEBS is conducting EU stress tests in cooperation with the
ECB on some cross-border lenders. CEBS officials said today
the way banks disclose information under “stressed conditions”
should be standardized. The hearing today didn’t address how and
when the results of the European tests would be published.  
 EU officials met last week in Brussels to discuss whether
Spanish savings banks, or cajas, and Germany’s state-owned
regional Landesbanken should be included in the current round of
stress tests.  
 The EU is also examining whether to include the chance of a
sovereign-debt default in the stress-test scenario and on which
day to release the test results.  
 Billionaire investor  George Soros  has said it would be
impossible to judge the state of the European banking industry
without including “the smaller banks, notably the cajas in
Spain and the Landesbanken in Germany,” in the stress-testing
exercise. He made the comments at a speech in Berlin on June 23.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        