-- La Nina May Damage Soybean Crops in Biggest Exporters
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-06-28T06:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/la-nina-may-damage-soybean-production-in-u-s-brazil-argentina-dtn-says.html

          
          
             La Nina may hurt soybean crops in
the U.S., the largest exporter, and  South America , should it
cause a “severe” drought between early August and February,
likely curbing yields, Telvent DTN Inc. said. The price of the
oilseed had the first gain in five sessions.  
 “If La Nina shows up in August, yes, it could contribute
to damage to the U.S. soybean crop,” said  Bryce Anderson , chief
agricultural meteorologist at DTN, a provider of market
information to 700,000 clients across  North America . “It can
certainly be a feature that leads to a reduction in the crop
size” in  Brazil  and Argentina, he said in an interview.  
 La Nina, characterized by colder-than-normal sea-surface
temperatures in the Pacific Ocean, can change world weather
patterns, affecting crop development. It can cause wetter-than-
usual weather in Asia and below-average rainfall in parts of the
U.S.,  Argentina  and south Brazil. There’s a high probability for
La Nina to develop during  India ’s June-to-September monsoon
season, the weather office said June 25.  
 Output losses in the U.S., Argentina and Brazil, which make
up 82 percent of global soybean output, may end a 13 percent
slump in prices in  Chicago  this year. Prices declined this year
because of record crops.  
 November-delivery futures rose for the first time in five
sessions, gaining as much as 0.4 percent to $9.1575 a bushel.
The contract, which reversed an earlier loss of 0.2 percent,
traded at $9.1425 a bushel at 2:16 p.m. Singapore time.  
 ‘Mother Nature’  
 The market will continue to monitor the changes in the
weather pattern and price in potential risks for losses to
global output,  Peter McGuire , managing director of CWA Global
Markets Pty. said by phone from Sydney.  
 “When you’re dealing with Mother Nature, you’ve always got
those issues as far as the weather is concerned,” McGuire said.  
 Soybean planting in Brazil, the second-largest producer,
may be delayed by dry weather caused by La Nina, the Sao Paulo-
based forecaster Somar Meteorologia said June 23. The sowing
season runs from September to November.  
 “The critical time frame for the soybean crop is pretty
much during February” in Argentina and Brazil, and early August
in the U.S., when plants are most susceptible to heat, DTN’s
Anderson said in a phone interview from  Nebraska  on June 25.  
 La Nina may bring more rains to northeast  China , boosting
the nation’s soybean output, he said.  
 The weather pattern may damage crops in other parts of  Asia 
should it arrive during the monsoon season, bringing heavier
rainfall and flooding in growing areas, he said.  
 Indian Monsoon  
 Rains in the June-September season in India, Asia’s biggest
soybean-meal exporter, may be 102 percent of the 50-year average,
more than previously forecast, because of La Nina, the country’s
weather office said June 25. Showers would be 98 percent of the
long-period average, the office said April 23.  
 The U.S. crop may also sustain heavier losses should the
weather pattern come during the northern hemisphere summer,
causing heat stress to the crop as drier weather depletes soil
moisture, he said.  
 Still, “forecast models” indicate a weak La Nina event,
which may not cause much damage to global soybean production,
Anderson said. “Things are looking fairly promising if there is
a weak event,” he said. “Right now, truly I don’t think that
anybody can say for certainty when La Nina is going to start.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        