-- Madoff, Merkel Ridiculed as Hedge Funds Hit Back in Psychedelic Radio Show
-- Tom Cahill
-- 2010-06-28T09:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/madoff-merkel-ridiculed-as-hedge-funds-hit-back-in-psychedelic-radio-show.html

          
          
             The six nervous men in suit jackets
huddled in the rain and waiting to enter a south London radio
station get a last bit of advice from Dr. Stu, the host of  The
Naked Short Club .  
 “Oh, and don’t turn off your cell phones -- it adds a
certain ambience,” said Dr. Stu, just before the 42nd
broadcast of his hourlong show on Resonance 104.4 FM. Listeners
get hedge-fund developments, gossip and gags in between poetry
and B-side tracks from psychedelic rock bands such as  Gong ,  the
Orb  and  the Stooges , which the host says was the band’s name
“before  Iggy Pop  got famous.”  
 Dr. Stu, who says he works for a hedge fund in London,
declines to identify himself to add mystery to broadcasts --
most Monday evenings at 9 p.m. London time at 104.4 FM in
central London or worldwide via  http://www.resonancefm.com .  
 There are many jokes aimed at  Bernard Madoff , who is
serving a 150-year sentence for orchestrating history’s biggest
Ponzi scheme. The show’s preferred imagined location lately has
been the “Hotel Grand Madhoff” in Berlin, where the “Ponzi
Biers” flow like water.  
 Dr. Stu sets up a mock pursuit of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who banned some short-selling on sovereign debt and
blames hedge funds for Europe’s credit woes.  
 “Merkel’s said to be scared of dogs, but hedgies are
locusts and we want to eat her leaves, strip her bare,” Dr.
Stu said as he kicked off the show, adding that the Hedge Fund
Emergency Helpline will remain closed until the short-selling
ban is lifted.  
 Serious Moments  
 The Naked Short Club does have its serious moments. Three
managers of quantitative hedge funds on the June 7 show said
what their funds did and didn’t do on May 6, when  U.S. stocks
plunged , temporarily erasing more than $1 trillion in market
value. The May 24 show delved into the intricacies of hedge-
fund firms starting Ucits funds, European mutual funds known
under the acronym Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities.  
 In addition to a rule against guests marketing their funds
or firms, Dr. Stu enforces a strict “don’t dumb down, don’t
explain” policy so that the discussion doesn’t get bogged
down.  
 “It’s in English, but I don’t understand what the words
mean,” French rocker and poet  Anne Pigalle  said after the May
24 show.  B.H. Fraser , a regular contributor of poems known as
the City Poet, frequently reads works such as “ The Mask of the
Giant Vampire Squid ,” a reference to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
and peppers his work with investment-banking and investing
jargon.  
 Untranslated Armenian  
 Dr. Stu revels in keeping some of the discussion out of
the grasp of all listeners. A recent guest explained her view
of hedge-fund strategy in her native Armenian, without
translation.  
 “As a layman, the discussions become an ambient
psychedelic jive, it’s clearly abstracted from what we normally
think of as reality,” said Ed Baxter, program manager for
Resonance.  Baxter  said he was sold on the show because “just a
show about a hedge funds, or about progressive rock, would be
boring, it’s the juxtaposition.”  
 Still, Dr. Stu, in a pre-performance prep talk at a Costa
coffee shop next to Resonance’s studio south of London Bridge,
cautions the hedge-fund managers to choose their words
carefully.  
 “The audience is usually half asleep but there’s always
the danger that a CAIA student listening thinks they might
learn something,” Dr. Stu says of applicants to become
 Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst s. Dr. Stu peppers his
program with “health warnings” about hedge funds and
investing in general.  
 Primal Scream  
 Dr. Stu, who says he hosted “primal scream therapy”
radio shows while a university student, flirted with a career
as a radio broadcaster in Birmingham, England, before veering
into finance. He describes the show as “an exercise at
performance art combined with a serious treatment of a business
that sometimes takes itself too seriously.”  
 So far, he’s managed to attract many top hedge-fund
managers and investors, and thousands of listeners to the live
broadcast with more listening via  podcasts .  
 Baxter, the program manager, said the show appeals partly
because hedge funds are vilified by so many politicians and in
the popular press.  
 “They’re as misunderstood as Somalian refugees,” said
Baxter, whose  programming list  includes recordings made beneath
the Heathrow flight path after the Icelandic volcano’s eruption
and a weekly digest of Iranian arts and culture. “As long as
they’re hated we’re happy to offer them refuge.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Cahill  in London at 
 tcahill@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bernard Madoff, founder of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, is escorted into federal court in New York on March 12, 2009. Madoff told a judge he pleads guilty to directing the largest Ponzi scheme in history, defrauding thousands of clients out of billions of dollars and becoming a symbol of investor distrust in the global recession. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The logo of London radio station Resonance104.4fm is shown in this photograph provided by the broadcaster on June 28, 2010. The station hosts a hedge fund show called The Naked Short Club.'' Photo:Resonance via Bloomberg.  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
