-- China Draws Taiwan Into Economic Embrace With Trade Pact
-- Frederik Balfour
-- 2010-06-29T00:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/taiwan-to-sign-first-trade-treaty-with-china-cementing-economic-relations.html

          
          
             Taiwan  is due to sign its first
trade treaty with China today, strengthening commercial ties
with the fastest-growing major economy and the island’s biggest
trading partner and investment destination.  
 The accord to be signed in the Chinese city of Chongqing,
former headquarters of Taiwan’s ruling Kuomintang when they
battled  Mao Zedong ’s Communists during China’s civil war, shows
how much relations with the mainland have warmed since Taiwanese
president  Ma Ying-jeou  took office in May 2008.  
 “This would not be imaginable two or three years ago,”
 Carl Chien , senior country officer at  JPMorgan Chase & Co . said
by telephone in Taipei. “The mere fact that the two governments
are signing some kind of treaty is already a record-breaking
thing.”  
 China set aside its claim that Taiwan is a renegade
province to negotiate the Economic Cooperation Framework
Agreement, betting that ever-tighter economic integration will
achieve what six decades of military threats did not. For Taiwan,
the deal restores the island’s competitiveness in the world’s
third-biggest economy and may pave the way for agreements with
other trading partners.  
 China will cut tariffs on 539 items from Taiwan valued at
$13.8 billion, or about 16 percent of the island’s 2009 exports
to the mainland,  Zheng Lizhong , vice chairman of the Association
for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits, said last week. Taiwan
will cut tariffs on 267 items from China worth $2.86 billion, or
about 10.5 percent of the country’s shipments to Taiwan in 2009.  
 Chinese Visitors  
 Since Ma took office, direct air, shipping and postal links
have been established. In the first five months of this year,
70,445 Chinese visited Taiwan, 70 percent more than in the
corresponding period a year earlier, according to Taiwan Tourism
Bureau numbers.  
 Taiwan’s benchmark  stock index  gained 17 percent in the
past year as Ma pushed for the trade pact with China. That
outpaced the 13 percent advance by the  MSCI  Asia Pacific Index.  
 Taiwan is keen to reach the trade deal with China in order
to secure for its companies the same preferential treatment the
mainland now offers 10 Southeast Asian countries.  
 In January, a separate trade accord took effect between
China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, lowering
tariffs on two-way trade. Similar deals for China with Japan and
South Korea are under discussion.  
 “It’s vital for us economically, it’s a matter of life and
death,” said  Philip Yang , a professor of political science at
National Taiwan University in Taipei. “If we sign we won’t be
in a disadvantageous position with Asean and Korea, our major
economic rivals in China.”  
 Omissions  
 Still, the proposed trade pact doesn’t include items some
Taiwanese companies had wanted, such as tariff cuts for
polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, one of the island’s top exports, and
easing restrictions in the semiconductor industry.  
 “The detailed items haven’t been disclosed,”  Lee Chih- tsuen , chairman of Formosa Plastics Corp, Taiwan’s biggest
polyvinyl chloride maker, told shareholders on June 25. “We
aren’t satisfied, but it is acceptable.”  
 Under the pact, China will open up 11 service sectors such
as banking, insurance, hospitals and accounting, while Taiwan
agreed to offer wider access in seven areas, including banking
and movies, the two sides said.  
 “China is incorporating Taiwan into its supply chain and
Taiwan’s economy will become part of China’s economy, and that
is the biggest worry for Taiwan people,”  Tsai Ing-wen ,
chairwoman of the opposition Democratic Progressive Party, said
at a rally by more than 30,000 people on June 26 to protest the
accord.  
 Trade Booms  
 Trade with the mainland, Taiwan’s largest export market,
rose 68 percent in the first four months of 2010 compared with
same period last year, and Taiwan investment rose 44.7 percent,
China’s Tang Wei, head of Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao affairs at
China’s Ministry of Commerce said on June 13. China and Hong
Kong accounted for 43 percent of Taiwan’s exports, according to
data from the island’s Ministry of Finance.  
 Under the deal, tariff reductions on items including
petrochemicals, auto parts, textiles and machinery will be
implemented in three stages over two years, by which time
tariffs will be brought to zero.  
 A trade agreement with China is also vital to Taiwan as it
seeks similar accords with other regional trading partners.  
 The agreement will “ease the concerns of most of the
countries in the world and start to bring Taiwan back to a
normal position in establishing FTA relationships with its
important trading partner countries,” J.T. Wang, chairman of
 Acer Inc.,  the world’s largest notebook computer supplier, said
in an e-mailed reply to questions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Taiwan's president Ma Ying-jeou. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth DeWoskin, a director of Deloitte LLP's China Research and Insight Center, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about trade negotiations between China and Taiwan. 
     Taiwan and China aim to sign three agreements in a sixth round of cross-strait talks that will be held later this year, Chiang Pin-kung, chairman of the Taipei-based Straits Exchange Foundation, said. Cross-strait negotiations resumed in 2008 after a nine-year halt during which former Taiwan president Lee Teng-hui described the talks as "state-to-state," a term Beijing rejected. China claims the self-ruled island as its territory and has threatened force to impose Taiwan’s unification with the mainland. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
