-- Makhteshim's U.S. Purchase of Albaugh to Improve Positioning, Analysts Say
-- David Wainer
-- 2010-06-28T13:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/makhteshim-gains-most-in-week-in-tel-aviv-on-plan-to-buy-u-s-crop-company.html

          
          
             Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd. ’s $1
billion purchase of Albaugh Inc. will boost the exposure of the
world’s biggest maker of generic crop chemicals in the Americas,
lower costs and increase synergies, analysts said.  
 The shares climbed 2.1 percent, the biggest advance since
June 17, to 14.10 shekels at the close in Tel Aviv. The stock
has declined 22 percent over the  past year .  
 “Albaugh has a great platform in the U.S. that will allow
Makhteshim flexibility in production and enable it to be closer
to big customers in the U.S. grainbelt,”  Limor Gruber , an
analyst at Psagot Investment House Ltd. said by telephone.
“Albaugh’s ability to produce at lower costs in Argentina will
improve Makhteshim’s cost structure in South America.”  
 Tel Aviv-based Makhteshim yesterday agreed to buy the
Ankery, Iowa-based supplier of crop-protection chemicals for a
combination of cash, debt and stock. If successful, the purchase
would be the first major combination in crop protection since
2002, according to the company.  
 With Albaugh, Makhteshim will have a stronger foothold in
the U.S. market, “something it had been attempting to achieve
for years with limited success,” Deutsche Bank AG analyst  Tim Jones  wrote in a report.  
 Makhteshim, which  posted losses  in two of the last three
quarters, is looking to boost profit after insecticide prices
declined as farmers cut production amid the global recession.
The combined company will benefit from potential operating
synergies of $50 million to $60 million, Makhteshim said
yesterday. Chief Executive Officer  Erez Vigodman  called the
acquisition “transformational.”  
 “The success of the deal hinges on Makhteshim-Agan’s
ability to sell its higher-margin products through Albaugh’s
distribution chain in the Americas,” Citigroup Inc. analyst
 Andrew Benson  wrote in a research report. “An acquisition of
this scope may be hard for Makhteshim to swallow,” according to
Psagot’s Gruber, who cited increased competition and added
exposure to glyphosate, which is facing pricing pressure.  
 The deal, which requires approval from European and U.S.
regulators, is likely to close in the fourth quarter and add to
adjusted earnings a year later, Makhteshim said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronit Goodman  in Tel Aviv at 
 rgoodman9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        