-- Malaysia Leads in Filling Holes in Shariah Bank Services: Islamic Finance
-- Soraya Permatasari
-- 2010-06-28T08:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/malaysia-leads-in-filling-holes-in-shariah-bank-services-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             The Islamic finance industry is
catching up with Malaysia in offering a full range of services,
supporting growth in an industry with $1 trillion in assets,
said the chief executive officer of CIMB Islamic Bank Bhd.  
 Malaysia has a Shariah-law compliant alternative for every
conventional product available because of its early start,
 Badlisyah Abdul Ghani  said in a June 25 interview in Kuala
Lumpur. Automobile financing complying with the religion’s ban
on interest accounted for 80 percent of new loans last year,
said Badlisyah. There’s no industry “handicap” or lack of
demand, only the need for appropriate regulations, he said.  
 “We don’t have much difficulty in introducing new Islamic
financial products in Malaysia as there is an effective product-
development approval process,” said Badlisyah. CIMB Islamic is
a unit of Malaysia’s second-biggest banking group  CIMB Holdings
Bhd.  “In most other markets the process is not that clear, and
most of the time you have to go through a cumbersome process of
getting clearance from different regulators.”  
 Demand for services complying with Shariah law is
increasing as the wealth of the world’s 1.6 billion Muslims
rises, spurred by Asian economic growth and crude-oil income in
the Persian Gulf. Shariah-compliant customers are often
restricted to a “handful” of simple products such as savings
accounts and debit cards,  Harris Irfan , the Dubai-based head of
Islamic finance products at Barclays Capital, said in April.  
 The industry’s assets, which are growing 15 percent
annually, may reach $1.6 trillion by 2012, according to the
Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial Services Board, a standards
setting body.  
 ‘Main Challenge’  
 Outstanding sukuk bonds total $130 billion, about 13
percent of the Shariah-compliant industry’s assets, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Global sales of sukuk, or Islamic
bonds, have fallen 23 percent to $6.48 billion so far this year.  
 The 303.3 billion ringgit ($93 billion) of assets held by
Islamic banks in Malaysia, the world’s biggest sukuk market,
accounted for 19.6 percent of the total last year, the central
bank said in March. By contrast, Pakistan’s Islamic deposits, at
300 billion rupees ($3.5 billion), are about 6 percent of the
total.  
 Credit Lines  
 Customers want loans that can be tapped at any time over a
pre-determined period, said Kaleem Iqbal, a senior executive
vice president at the Al Baraka Islamic Bank in Islamabad. To
ensure compliance with Shariah, products must be vetted by
religious scholars. Agreements are usually based on the transfer
of goods or services.  
 “Introducing new products will certainly increase the pace
of industry’s growth,” Iqbal said in a June 24 telephone
interview. “The industry isn’t using enough credit lines as in
conventional banking.”  
 CIMB rolls out about 10 to 15 new products every year,
Badlisyah said. There are three types of CIMB Islamic Mastercard
depending on customers’ income, according to CIMB’s  website .
Malayan Banking Bhd., the Southeast Asian nation’s biggest
lender, started selling Shariah-compliant credit cards two years
ago, in collaboration with American Express.  
 Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC, the United Arab Emirates’ largest
Islamic bank, plans to offer as much as 2 billion dirhams
($544.5 million) of financing to individuals in the country, CEO
Abdullah Ali al-Hamli said last month. The  bank  and Abu Dhabi
Islamic Bank PJSC, the nation’s second-biggest, offer car and
home financing, according to their  websites .  
 Individual Financing  
 In the Gulf, the industry is “meeting the day-to-day
requirements,” said Ghazanfar Naqvi, global head Islamic
product development at Standard Chartered Saadiq, a unit of
 Standard Chartered Plc , said in a June 27 interview. “The key
to move forward is to go deeper into the market, to provide
greater flexibility in these basic products, to capture the
different needs of different markets.”  
 HSBC, which has provided Islamic financial services through
its Amanah unit since 1998, says the wide range of separate
systems in the Gulf will make it hard for Islamic banks to
achieve higher volumes and improve efficiency.  
 “The main challenge for the industry is a lack of
standardization in the product structures and documentation,
which is preventing it from reaping the benefits of economies of
scale,” said Gul Khan, the global head of personal financial
services in Dubai at HSBC Amanah. “Given that retail banking is
a volumes business, having more coherent structures will help
the industry move forward faster.”  
 European Crisis  
 Shariah-compliant bonds have weathered the European debt
crisis better than notes in emerging markets. Islamic bonds
returned 6 percent so far this year, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while debt in
developing markets gained 5.5 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  
 The spread between the average yield for emerging market
sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 37 basis
points so far this year to 430, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Index .  
 Pakistan’s central bank plans to sell 35 billion rupees of
sukuk in the domestic market, the News newspaper reported on
June 23, citing an unidentified government official. That would
add to the 42 billion rupees outstanding. Pakistan plans to sell
sukuk in the domestic market for the first time in two years to
fund its budget deficit, a spokesman for the central bank  Syed Wasimuddin  said, without giving details.  
 “Outside Malaysia, Islamic financial products are still at
their introduction stage with limited offerings,” said
Badlisyah of CIMB. “The reason is not because Islamic products
have a handicap or that there is insufficient demand. It simply
reflects the early stage of the industry’s development.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        