-- Alex Gains Strength, May Become Hurricane in 48 Hours
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-06-28T21:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/alex-gains-strength-may-become-hurricane-in-48-hours.html

          
          
             Tropical Storm Alex picked up
strength today as it churned toward the Texas-Mexico border,
forcing the evacuation of some offshore rigs and pushing swells
toward the oil slick left by the U.S.’s worst spill.  
 The storm, blamed for at least 13 deaths in Central
America, is encountering high-level winds that may prevent it
from intensifying as much as forecasters first predicted. The
storm probably won’t become the Category 3 major hurricane
officials had feared earlier today, according to the  U.S.
National Hurricane Center.   
 The system, with maximum sustained winds up to 60 mph from
50, was about 520 miles southeast of Brownsville, Texas, and
moving north-northwest at 5 mph, the agency said in an  advisory 
posted on its website just before 5 p.m. Miami time. It is
expected to reach hurricane strength of 74 mph tomorrow.  
 “Alex will be a large hurricane tomorrow,” said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist for Planalytics Inc., a
weather adviser to energy interests. “Current projections place
the destructive right forward quad of Alex across southeast
Texas, possibly up to Corpus Christi.”  
 The U.S. and Mexican governments issued hurricane watches
from just south of Baffin Bay in Texas to La Cruz, Mexico,
according to the hurricane center. A watch means storm
conditions may develop with 48 hours. A tropical storm watch has
been issued from Baffin Bay to Port O’Connor, Texas.  
 Spill Watched  
 The storm’s track keeps it away from a direct hit on the
slick of crude oil pouring from a BP Plc well. However, large
ocean swells are already making their way to the site, said
Brian LaMarre, a National Weather Service meteorologist in
Slidell, Louisiana.  
 “A hurricane is like a giant plunger and the waves radiate
out,” said  Joe Bastardi , chief hurricane forecaster at
 AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania. “Some big
swells are coming out and pushing oil to the coast and there
isn’t anything anyone can do about it.”  
 The waves may reach as high as 12 feet in the next 36
hours, pushing the oil into the Gulf Coast wetlands, Coast Guard
Admiral  Thad Allen , the U.S. government’s incident commander,
said today at a press conference. Allen said he doesn’t think
current oil capture operations will be affected.  
 Helix Delay  
 BP needs about three more days of work to connect a new cap
that will feed crude oil from the leaking Macondo well to the
Helix Producer, a vessel that can capture an additional 20,000
barrels to 25,000 barrels a day beyond the company’s current
containment capacity,  Kent Wells , senior vice president of
London-based BP, said on a conference call today.  
 The work can only be completed in flat seas, Wells said. As
a result, Alex could cause a seven-day delay in connecting the
Helix, he said. The work is to be completed by July 7, he said.  
 The Gulf of Mexico measures about 500 miles from north to
south between the Mississippi River delta and the Yucatan, and
about 1,000 miles west to east, according to the  website  of the
Gulf of Mexico Foundation in Corpus Christi, Texas.  
 It is home to about 30 percent of U.S. oil and 12 percent
of its natural gas production. It also has seven of the 10
busiest U.S. ports, according to the Army Corps of Engineers.  
 Petroleos Mexicanos, the state-owned company also known as
Pemex, closed oil export terminals Cayo Arcas and Dos Bocas as
Alex bore down on the area. Pemex, Latin America’s largest oil
producer, is operating all of its rigs and said they will remain
open as the storm passes.  
 Gulf Evacuations  
 BP and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the biggest oil producers in
the Gulf, are evacuating hundreds of workers from offshore
platforms in the western and central Gulf as a safety
precaution.  
 Shell said on its website it was shutting down production
in the path of the storm as it evacuates about 700 workers from
offshore operations. About 835 workers remain offshore.
“Production from our East assets will be evaluated as the storm
progresses,” Shell said.  
 Exxon Mobil Corp., Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Apache
Corp. said they are evacuating non-essential workers.  
 Oil and gas companies are requesting additional helicopters
to evacuate workers, primarily in the western Gulf, said Kade
Monlezun, manager of business development for Air Logistics LLC,
a helicopter services company and unit of Bristow Group Inc.  
 Helicopter Evacuations  
 “They’re also prepared to evacuate further east,” he
said. “But with the drilling moratorium, there are fewer
projects going on and less need for additional aircraft for
evacuations.”  
 The Gulf Coast region is also home to about half of U.S.
refining capacity, according to the  Energy Department . Gulf
Coast refiners in August and September 2008 lost about 20
percent of daily production capacity due to hurricanes Ike and
Gustav.  
 At least five people were killed after they tried to cross
rivers swollen by Alex’s rains in northern Nicaragua, said Maj.
Alberto Mendez, a spokesman for the country’s civil defense
agency. A passenger boat collision that killed at least one
person on Nicaragua’s Caribbean coast may have been caused by
low visibility because of heavy rains, Mendez said.  
 In western Guatemala, two farmers were buried and killed by
a mudslide triggered by Alex, said David de Leon, a spokesman
for the national disaster agency. Five deaths were reported in
El Salvador in landslides or river drowning, said David
Alvarado, a spokesman for the Red Cross in that country.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tropical storm Alex is seen gaining speed off the coast of the Yucatan peninsula on June 25, 2010. Source: NOAA via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
