-- Alex Gains Strength, May Become Hurricane in 48 Hours
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-06-28T19:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/alex-regains-tropical-storm-strength-may-become-hurricane-within-48-hours.html

          
          
             Tropical Storm Alex picked up
strength today as it churned toward the Texas-Mexico border,
forcing the evacuation of some offshore rigs while pushing
swells toward the oil slick left by the U.S.’s worst spill.  
 The storm may grow into at least a Category 3 hurricane,
considered a major storm with minimum winds of 111 mph (178
kph), before making landfall early July 1, according to the  U.S.
National Hurricane Center.   
 The system, with maximum sustained winds up to 60 mph from
50 earlier today, was about 535 miles southeast of Brownsville,
Texas, and moving north-northwest at 5 mph, the agency said in
an  advisory  posted on its website just before 2 p.m. Miami time.
It is expected to reach hurricane strength of 74 mph tomorrow.  
 “I expect Alex to grow and intensify significantly over
the next 72 hours,” said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy
meteorologist for Planalytics Inc., a weather adviser to energy
interests. “It remains entirely possible that Alex could grow
into a Category 2 or low-end Category 3 on Wednesday or
Thursday.”  
 The U.S. and Mexican governments have issued hurricane
watches from just south of Baffin Bay in Texas to La Cruz,
Mexico, according to the hurricane center. A watch means storm
conditions may develop with 48 hours.  
 Storm Track  
 The storm’s track keeps it away from a direct hit on the
slick of crude oil pouring from a BP Plc well. However, large
ocean swells are already making their way to the site, said
Brian LaMarre, a National Weather Service meteorologist in
Slidell, Louisiana.  
 Those waves, which may reach as high as 12 feet in the next
36 hours, may push the oil into the Gulf Coast wetlands, Coast
Guard Admiral  Thad Allen , the U.S. government’s incident
commander, said today at a press conference. Allen said he
doesn’t think current oil capture operations will be affected.  
 “A hurricane is like a giant plunger and the waves radiate
out,” said  Joe Bastardi , chief hurricane forecaster at
 AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania. “Some big
swells are coming out and pushing oil to the coast and there
isn’t anything anyone can do about it.”  
 The Gulf of Mexico measures about 500 miles from north to
south between the Mississippi River delta and the Yucatan, and
about 1,000 miles west to east, according to the  website  of the
Gulf of Mexico Foundation in Corpus Christi, Texas.  
 Pemex Closings  
 It is home to about 30 percent of U.S. oil and 12 percent
of its natural gas production. It also has seven of the 10
busiest U.S. ports, according to the Army Corps of Engineers.  
 Petroleos Mexicanos, the state-owned company also known as
Pemex, closed oil export terminals Cayo Arcas and Dos Bocas as
Alex bore down on the area. Pemex, Latin America’s largest oil
producer, extracts about 73 percent of its oil from Gulf fields,
producing 2.593 million barrels a day in May.  
 Mexico is the second-largest crude provider to the U.S.
after Canada. Pemex is operating all of its rigs and said they
will remain open as the storm passes.  
 BP and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the biggest oil producers in
the Gulf, are evacuating hundreds of workers from offshore
platforms in the western and central Gulf as a safety
precaution.  
 Shell Shutdowns  
 Shell said on its website it was shutting down production
in the path of the storm as it evacuates about 700 workers from
offshore operations. About 835 workers remain offshore.  
 Shell is preparing for a “potential full evacuation” of
workers from its western and central Gulf of Mexico operations,
according to the statement. “Production from our East assets
will be evaluated as the storm progresses,” Shell said.  
 Exxon Mobil Corp., Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Apache
Corp. said they are evacuating non-essential workers.  
 The Gulf Coast region is also home to about half of U.S.
refining capacity, according to the Energy Department.  
 “It can take two or three days to safely shut a refinery
in advance of a storm,” said  Bill Day , a spokesman for Valero
Energy Corp., which operates five refineries in Texas and one in
Louisiana. “You’re not just flipping a switch and walking away.
You have to be prepared.”  
 Gulf Coast refiners in August and September 2008 lost about
20 percent of daily production capacity due to hurricanes Ike
and Gustav.  
 Bastardi said the next two days will be critical in
determining where Alex will make landfall.  
 “It is going to be like a fork in the road,” he said.
“If it misses the fork it will go into Mexico; if it makes it,
it will go north,” Bastardi said.  
 Rouiller said some models suggest landfall from anywhere on
the Texas coast just south of Galveston to Padre Island.  
 “I would suggest preparing for the worst-case scenario
from Corpus Christi to Brownsville, Texas,” Rouiller said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Coast Guard Admiral Thad Allen, the government’s national incident commander for the spill, said officials are monitoring Alex. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
