-- Allens Arthur Adds Finance, Resources and Insurance Partners in Singapore
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-06-28T06:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/allens-arthur-adds-finance-resources-and-insurance-partners-in-singapore.html

          
          
             Allens Arthur Robinson , the fourth-
largest Australian law firm with 900 lawyers, hired  Rod Howell 
from Clifford Chance LLP and moved three partners to Singapore
to target finance and natural resources work in Southeast Asia.  
 Energy and resources partners  Darren Murphy  and Marae
Ciantar and insurance partner  Matthew Skinner  have also
relocated to Singapore, bringing the number of its lawyers there
to 12, according to office Managing Partner  Robert Clarke .  
 “Singapore’s of great strategic importance to us as a hub
office for the rest of Southeast Asia,” said Clarke, who plans
to add another eight lawyers to the office. “The real growth
story here is Indonesia and Vietnam.”  
 Allens joins firms including London-based Clifford Chance
and New York-based White & Case LLP that are expanding in
Singapore to service booming economies like Indonesia, one of
Asia’s best performing stock markets this year, and India. While
those countries keep foreign law firms out, Singapore opened its
legal market last year.  
 Singapore’s government has said it plans to award more
licenses to practice local law after six firms including White &
Case and Clifford Chance won them at the end of 2008.  
 Sydney-based Allens, which has a joint law venture with
TSMP Law Corp. in Singapore, doesn’t plan to apply for a
qualifying foreign law firm license, Clarke said, as the firms
have a “good and healthy relationship and have a good fit.”  
 Resources, Mergers  
 The resources, mergers and acquisitions and financial
services practices will drive Allens’ Southeast growth, Clarke
said. Howell had been an asset finance specialist in New York
with Clifford Chance.  
 Allens advised the Vietnam government on the privatization
of Bao  Viet Insurance & Finance Group,  the country’s largest
insurer, and advised on Commonwealth Bank of Australia’s 15
percent stake purchase in Vietnam International Commercial
Joint-Stock Bank, according to Clark. The firm’s clients include
Rio Tinto Ltd. and  Qantas Airways Ltd.   
 Allens was the fourth largest Australian law firm by number
of lawyers last year, according to  Australasian Legal Business .
Mallesons Stephen Jaques was the largest with 1,200, followed by
Minter Ellison and Clayton Utz.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        