-- Malvey Recommends Speculative Bonds Amid Environment of `Minuscule Yields'
-- Katie Evans
-- 2010-06-28T23:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/malvey-recommends-speculative-bonds-amid-environment-of-minuscule-yields-.html

          
          
             Investors should turn to
speculative-grade debt amid a “world of minuscule yields” that
is likely to persist, according to  Jack Malvey , former chief
global fixed-income strategist at  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.   
 Investors pumped $1.1 billion into funds that specialize in
high-yield, high-risk debt in the week through June 23, the most
since March, according to EPFR Global, a research firm that
tracks fund flows. The return on the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index is 1.67 percent this
month, after a 3.52 percent loss in May.  
 “There’s been a pick-up in sentiment moving back into the
high-yield space,” said Malvey, 58, in an interview on
Bloomberg Radio’s “On the Economy With  Tom Keene .”  
 “In investment-grade markets, unfortunately, there’s
really no compelling outstanding yield advantage today,” Malvey
said. “This is a world of minuscule yields and is unfortunately
likely to stay over the course of the medium term.”  
 The movement to high-yield debt funds comes as Treasuries
rally, with the yield on the 10-year note reaching the lowest
level in over a year as concerns of a slow economic recovery
prevailed following meetings among G-20 leaders.  
 In contrast to the concept that “greed is good” espoused
by the character Gordon Gekko in the 1987 movie “Wall Street,”
Malvey said, “it seems like the theme for the early part of the
teens is ‘austerity is good.’  
 “In terms of running a Wall Street desk, it’s good news
for government bond trading and swap trading in and around
government securities because there’s a lot of action and
activity,” said Malvey, now a consultant.  
 Junk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. The Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index posted a 1.65 percent
return for the current month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 Kevans28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        