-- Andy Roddick's Bid for First Title at Wimbledon Is Undone by Poor Returns
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-28T23:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/andy-roddick-s-bid-for-first-wimbledon-title-is-undone-by-poor-returns.html

          
          
             Andy Roddick  kept struggling with
his service return, each missed shot lessening the American’s
hopes of making a second straight Wimbledon final and winning
his first trophy at the All England Club.  
 The fifth-seeded Roddick was upset by the 82nd-ranked  Yen- Hsun Lu , from Taiwan, 4-6, 7-6 (7-3), 7-6 (7-4), 6-7 (5-7), 9-7,
as the men’s and women’s fourth rounds were completed yesterday.  
 Against Lu, the first Asian man to make a Grand Slam
quarterfinal since Shuzo Matsuoka of Japan at Wimbledon in 1995,
Roddick converted one of eight break points. Lu took one of two
chances on Roddick’s serve, among the best in the men’s game.  
 “It wasn’t my serve,” Roddick said in a news conference
after the 4-hour, 36-minute match. “It was my returning.”  
 Roddick’s serve helped him push six-time champion  Roger Federer  to 16-14 in the fifth set during last year’s final.
Federer also beat him in the 2004 and 2005 championship matches.
Roddick, 27, was ousted in the second round two years ago.  
 “I just wasn’t doing a good job of converting,” Roddick
said. “It wasn’t coming off the right way. I was fighting it
all day.”  
 Women’s defending champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S.
faces China’s Li Na in the quarterfinals today. U.S. Open
champion  Kim Clijsters  of Belgium plays  Vera Zvonareva  of
Russia, five-time Wimbledon champion  Venus Williams  meets
Bulgaria’s  Tsvetana Pironkova  and  Petra Kvitova  of the Czech
Republic plays  Kaia Kanepi  of Estonia.  
 The men’s quarterfinals are set for tomorrow.  
 Lu’s Breakthrough  
 Lu, 26, had lost in the first round of Wimbledon the
previous four years. His victory over former world No. 1 Roddick
was his first against a top-10 player since he upset  Andy Murray 
of Britain in the first round of the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  
 Hiring a conditioning coach from Argentina before the
grass-court Grand Slam began made all the difference, Lu said.  
 “We trained really hard for three and a half weeks to
prepare for this tournament,” Lu said in a news conference.
“He used a new system. It’s a different training program that
makes my legs a little bit stronger. So I can jump higher, I can
serve better.”  
 Roddick agreed.  
 Better Serves  
 “The thing that he did very well, better than times that
we played in the past, was serve,” said Roddick, who had beaten
Lu in straight sets in their three previous meetings. “I
thought he served a lot better than normal.”  
 Lu had 22 aces, while Roddick produced 38. Lu had four
double faults, four fewer than the American.  
 Watched by his wife, Brooklyn, on the new Court 2, Roddick
had chances to break Lu’s serve in the fifth set. Lu overcame
two break points at 2-2 and saved another for 5-4 with a
backhand volley.  
 “That was a pretty impressive volley at that point,” 2003
U.S. Open champion Roddick said.  
 Serving to stay in the match at 7-8, Roddick’s bid for a
second Grand Slam title ended as Lu produced a passing shot on
his first match point.  
 After making the quarterfinals at the Australian Open in
January, Roddick reached the final at Indian Wells, California,
in March and won the title in Miami two weeks later. That marked
the first time since 2003 that Roddick had reached back-to-back
finals in Masters events.  
 Roddick’s Struggles  
 Roddick struggled during the European clay-court season. He
lost in the third round of the French Open to 114th-ranked
qualifier  Teimuraz Gabashvili  of Russia and pulled out of the
Madrid Masters because of illness.  
 Two weeks before Wimbledon, he lost on grass to Israel’s
 Dudi Sela  in the round of 16 at the Queen’s Club in London. A
four-time champion at Queens, it was Roddick’s worst result at
the event since 2001.  
 Lu will play former Australian Open champion  Novak Djokovic 
of Serbia for a place in the semifinals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lu Yen-Hsun of Taiwan celebrates after beating Andy Roddick of US during the Wimbledon Tennis Championships. Photographer: Adrian Dennis/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
