-- APA, BHP, Gloucester, Infigen, Woodside, Virgin: Australian Stock Preview
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-06-28T22:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/apa-bhp-gloucester-infigen-woodside-virgin-australian-stock-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may rise or fall in Australia. This preview
includes news announced after markets closed yesterday. All
prices are from yesterday’s close unless otherwise stated.  
 The S&P/ASX 200 Index  futures contract  due in September
slipped 0.3 percent to 4,362 as of 6:59 a.m. in Sydney. The  Bank
of New York Australia ADR Index  dropped 1.7 percent. The  S&P/ASX
200 Index  declined 0.7 percent to 4,384.50.  
 Mining shares: Copper prices fell for the first time in
three sessions in New York.  
 BHP Billiton  (BHP AU), the world’s largest mining company,
lost 0.8 percent to A$38.49 in Sydney. Its American depositary
receipts lost 1.9 percent in New York trading.  
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO AU), the world’s third-largest mining
company, retreated 1.4 percent to A$68.60 in Sydney. Rio said a
new quarterly pricing system for iron-ore sales may be scrapped
if steel mills opt to buy cheaper spot cargoes of the raw
material.  
 Oil companies: Crude oil fell from a seven-week high in New
York.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  (WPL AU), Australia’s second-
largest oil and gas producer, was unchanged at A$43.28, and
rival Santos Ltd. (STO AU) declined 0.3 percent to A$12.66.  
 APA Group  (APA AU): The company, whose pipelines carry more
than half Australia’s natural gas, is considering bidding for
some of Alinta Energy Ltd.’s assets, the Australian Financial
Review reported, citing an interview with APA Managing Director
 Mick McCormack . APA shares dipped 1.6 percent to A$3.60.  
      CSL Ltd.  (CSL AU): CSL failed to properly test and
investigate discrepancies with batches of its flu vaccines,
according to a June 24 letter from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration that was posted today on the agency’s website.
CSL shares rose 0.9 percent to A$32.86.  
      FKP Property Group  (FKP AU): The property company was
raised to “buy” from “neutral” at UBS AG by equity analyst
 John Freedman . FKP shares slumped 3.5 percent to 69.5 Australian
cents.  
      Gloucester Coal Ltd.  (GCL AU): The coal producer received
an extension of the offer period for its parent Noble Group
Ltd.’s A$1 billion ($875 million) takeover bid. Noble has
extended the time allowed for the Australian commodities
supplier to decide on the bid by a month to Aug. 4, the company
said in a statement today. Gloucester shares were unchanged at
A$12.44.  
      Infigen Energy Ltd.  (IFN AU): The Australian wind energy
project developer has decided to proceed with the construction
of the 42-megawatt Woodlawn wind farm near Bungendore in New
South Wales state, the company said. Infigen shares plunged 5.3
percent to 80.5 Australian cents.  
      Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd.  (VBA AU): Chief Executive  John Borghetti  wants to double the airline’s share of the corporate
market to 20 percent, the Australian Financial Review reported,
without saying where it got the information. Borghetti has hired
Jane McKeon, Qantas Airways Ltd.’s head of government and
international relations, the newspaper said. Virgin Blue shares
fell 1.6 percent to 30 Australian cents.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        