-- Apple IPhone 4 Sets Sales Record of 1.7 Million Units
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-06-28T14:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/apple-iphone-4-sets-debut-sales-record-of-1-7-million-units-in-three-days.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  sold 1.7 million iPhone
4s in its first three days, a record for the newest iteration of
its top-selling product featuring video calling and an updated
body.  
 The iPhone 4 made its debut in the U.S., U.K., Japan,
France and Germany on June 24. Many stores, including retailer
 Best Buy Co. , sold out. The previous 3GS model sold 1 million
during its first weekend.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  added new features
including a high-definition video camera, a sharper screen and
multitasking that allows the use of several programs at once.
Apple is competing against  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry
and phones made by companies such as HTC Corp. that use  Google
Inc. ’s Android operating system.  
 Analysts  including  Colin Gillis  of BGC Partners LP in New
York and  Andy Hargreaves  of Pacific Crest Securities in
Portland, Oregon, projected Apple would sell 2 million iPhone 4s
by June 26, the end of the company’s fiscal quarter.  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in Minneapolis,
estimated 1 million to 1.5 million.  
 Apple had a difficult time getting enough touch screens to
meet demand for the device, said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at
Rodman & Renshaw Inc. in New York, so the early sales figures
may not be an accurate reflection of demand.  
 “It’s too early to say if this is negative,” said Kumar.
While Apple has some production constraints, the company “has a
captive audience,” he said. “Demand for the iPhone 4 is not yet
satiated so it just gets pushed out into subsequent quarters.”  
 IPhone, IPad  
 Apple , based in Cupertino, California, rose 80 cents to
$267.50 at 10:01 a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The shares had risen 27 percent  this year  before today.
Hargreaves rates Apple “outperform” and Munster rates it
“overweight.” Gillis recommends buying the stock and Kumar rates
it “market outperform.”  
 The iPhone sales results follow Apple’s statement last week
that it sold more than 3 million of its iPad tablet computing
device in the first 80 days.  
 With the iPad, introduced April 3, and the three-year-old
iPhone, Apple has widened its business beyond the Macintosh
computer and iPod media player. IPhone sales accounted for 40
percent of revenue last quarter.  
 Apple’s  share price  has more than doubled since the
original iPhone’s release on June 29, 2007. The company is now
the world’s largest technology company by  market value .  
 Reception Problems  
 Some iPhone 4 customers reported trouble with the new
antenna design. The phone signal drops when users cover the
bottom left corner of the device with their palm. Apple
recommended holding the phone differently or using a case to
solve the problem.  
 Customers in the five countries began lining up days in
advance to buy the device. Users have access to more than
225,000 applications for playing games, listening to music or
finding a nearby restaurant.  
 Apple said the iPhone will be available in 88 countries by
the end of September.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs pictured with the iPhone 4. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
