-- Aquino Needs to Reduce Philippine Deficit With `Bold' Targets, Pimco Says
-- Karl Lester M. Yap
-- 2010-06-28T06:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/aquino-needs-to-reduce-philippine-deficit-with-bold-targets-pimco-says.html

          
          
             Philippine President-elect  Benigno Aquino , who may unveil his choice for finance chief as early as
today, needs to cut the  budget deficit  and increase investment
to boost growth, Pacific Investment Management Co. said.  
 “If the new finance secretary can articulate a credible
fiscal consolidation program to help move the Philippines to
investment-grade category in the next three to five years’ time,
that would be a tremendous market booster,”  Chia-Liang Lian , a
Singapore-based fund manager at Pimco, which runs the world’s
largest bond fund, said in a June 25 interview.  
 Philippine growth has lagged behind its Southeast Asian
neighbors as a budget shortfall in all but four of the past 25
years curtailed the government’s ability to develop an economy
where the World Bank estimates one in every four people live on
less than $1.25 a day. Aquino, who will replace  Gloria Arroyo 
this week, has refrained from saying whether he will reduce the
deficit, forecast by policy makers to hold near a record level.  
 Global bonds issued by the Philippines have returned 17
percent in the past year, less than Indonesia’s 30 percent
advance, according to an HSBC Index that tracks the region’s
dollar bonds. The country’s debt is rated below investment level
by Fitch Ratings, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors
Service, and is graded lower than that of neighboring Malaysia,
Indonesia and Thailand.  
 In the 20 years through 2009, the Philippine economy
expanded an average 3.7 percent annually, lagging behind
 Thailand ’s 4.7 percent and Malaysia’s 6 percent.  
 Regional Underperformer  
 “The Philippines will not be attaining investment grade
anytime soon,”  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps manage about $5
billion in emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Management Plc in
London, said in an e-mail today. “The lack of public investment
which poor tax collections condemns the Philippines to also
implies that it will continue to be a regional underperformer
with respect to growth.”  
 The president-elect, whose mother  Corazon Aquino  helped
oust former dictator  Ferdinand Marcos  in 1986, has vowed to go
after tax evaders and corrupt officials rather than raise taxes.  
 Philippine policy makers expect the budget shortfall to be
little changed at 297.2 billion pesos this year from a record
298.5 billion pesos in 2009. That’s more than the 293.2 billion-
peso gap forecast earlier. The five-month deficit widened to
162.1 billion pesos, exceeding the first-half target.  
 Bold, Realistic  
 “I want a promise that the new administration will cut the
deficit,” said  Yvette Marquez , who helps manage about 480
billion pesos ($10 billion) at BPI Asset Management in Manila.
“They have to generate revenue either by generating more
economic activity, raising taxes, or encouraging foreign direct
investments.”  
 The Philippine peso climbed for the first time in five
days, rising 0.2 percent to 46.35 per dollar at 2:31 p.m. in
Manila on optimism Aquino will announce policies to boost
economic growth. Benchmark four-year bond yields fell one basis
point.  
 “Macro targets need to be bold yet realistic at the same
time, to the end that policy makers are not seen as over-
promising but under-delivering,” said Lian. Pimco, which has
more than $1 trillion of assets, owns and is “supportive” of
Philippine dollar-denominated debt, he said.  
 This year’s budget gap is estimated at 3.6 percent of gross
domestic product, from 3.9 percent last year, according to
government forecasts. Fitch Ratings predicts the deficit will be
4 percent of GDP, excluding asset sales.  
 Pressing Concern  
 “In the near term, the deficit is a more pressing
concern,”  Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based head of Asia-
Pacific sovereigns at Fitch, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions from Bloomberg News last week. “A lower deficit would
support the sovereign credit-worthiness of the Philippines and
we are looking out for more details on the fiscal policy
strategy of the new administration.”  
 Aquino on June 17 said he will “need to verify” the
fiscal data “to determine the appropriate action to take” on
the budget shortfall and other economic targets. He has said he
plans to unveil the appointments to his cabinet and economic
team this week.  
 Cesar Purisima , who was Arroyo’s finance secretary in 2005,
is part of Aquino’s group of advisers. Philippine newspapers
including Philippine Daily Inquirer have reported that Aquino
will return Purisima to the post he left in July 2005.  
 Spending Raised  
 Gary Teves , the current finance secretary, said last week
the new administration should consider a proposal to raise
taxes, including the value-added tax, to increase revenue by 94
billion pesos next year.  
 The government raised its 2010 spending budget for public
works, salaries and debt payments to a record 1.62 trillion
pesos from a previous forecast of 1.58 trillion pesos, Budget
Undersecretary  Laura Pascua  said in an interview last week.
Revenue, including gains from the sale and lease of assets, may
climb to 1.32 trillion pesos compared with an earlier estimate
of 1.28 trillion pesos, she said.  
 Fitch rates the Philippines BB, two levels below investment
grade. The company in January raised Indonesia’s rating to one
step below investment grade. S&P rates Philippine debt BB- and
Moody’s has a Ba3 grade, both three levels below investment.  
 Philippine  GDP growth  may accelerate to a range of 5
percent to 6 percent this year from 1.1 percent in 2009,
officials predicted earlier this month. The country’s $167
billion economy expanded 7.3 percent last quarter, the fastest
pace in almost three years, increasing demand for Ayala Land
Inc. homes and Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. loans.  
 “One focal point for the Philippines is to boost its
investment spending, a necessary ingredient to bolstering its
long-term GDP growth potential,” Pimco’s Lian said. “Policy
makers should accelerate efforts to promote the country as a
destination for foreign direct investments.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Philippine President-elect Benigno Aquino  
                       
                         
                           Edwin Tuyay/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Philippine President-elect Benigno Aquino during an interview at his house in Quezon City. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Philippine President-elect Benigno Aquino during an interview at his house in Quezon City. Photographer: Edwin Tuyay/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
