-- Harmony Gold Says `Booby Trap' Explosive Devices Found at Its Phakisa Mine
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-06-28T11:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/harmony-gold-says-booby-trap-explosive-devices-found-at-its-phakisa-mine.html

          
          
             Harmony Gold Mining Ltd., Africa’s
third-largest producer of the metal, said “booby trap”
explosive devices were found near the scene of an explosion that
killed four workers at one of its mines.  
 While the devices are similar to those used by illegal
miners, Harmony can’t yet say for certain what caused the
“immense explosion” at its Phakisa mine southwest of
Johannesburg, spokeswoman  Marian van der Walt  said by phone from
the city today. The devices were found about 2,950 feet (900
meters) from the site of the June 24 accident, some 2 kilometers
(1.2 miles) below the surface, the company said in a statement.  
 Mines in South Africa, the fourth-biggest gold producer
after the U.S., China and Australia, are among the world’s
deepest and most dangerous. Tremors and fires often occur in the
normal course of mining as explosives are used to blast rock
from tunnels as far as 2.35 miles below the surface.  
 Illegal miners break through barriers and use similar
methods to extract gold from these mines, which are often linked
by hundreds of kilometers of underground tunnels.  
 Illegal mining costs the South African economy more than 5
billion rand ($660 million) a year, Mines Minister  Susan Shabangu  said in April. Pan African Resources Plc said last year
that five illegal miners died in a fire they set at the
company’s Consort mine at Barberton, in South Africa’s
Mpumalanga province.  
 ‘Scare Them Off’  
 Harmony strengthened security after more than 86 illegal
miners were killed in a fire at a disused mine last year. Chief
Executive Officer  Graham Briggs  ordered the installation of
additional security fencing, stopped his workers from taking
food underground to prevent them selling it to illegal miners,
and also offered them amnesty.  
 “We have spent almost 100 million rand in the last year to
improve security measures,” Van der Walt said in an e-mailed
response to questions today.  
 One-hundred-and-two illegal miners accepted amnesty between
June 6 and June 25, Van der Walt said on June 25. They won’t be
arrested but most will be deported to their home countries, she
said. South Africa’s mining industry attracts labor from
Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Swaziland and as far afield as Malawi.  
 “Criminal miners regularly set booby traps,” Van der Walt
said today. “They sometimes use small amounts of explosives, in
Coke bottles, which they throw at approaching people, mostly to
scare them off.”  
 Phakisa, which started operating in Harmony’s 2008
financial year, has yet to resume mining after last week’s
explosion, Van der Walt said. Phakisa produced 955 kilograms
(2,105 pounds) of the 33,649 kilograms of gold produced by
Harmony in the nine months through March.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        