-- AstraZeneca's Trial for Expanded Use of Crestor Pill May Have Been Biased
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2010-06-28T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/astrazeneca-s-trial-for-expanded-use-of-crestor-pill-may-have-been-biased.html

          
          
             A trial showing that  AstraZeneca
Plc’s  Crestor cholesterol pill prevented heart disease in
seemingly healthy people was flawed and may have been biased
because of the company’s role in the research, according to an
article in the Archives of Internal Medicine.  
 Nine of the 14 researchers who conducted the study, dubbed
Jupiter, had financial ties to London-based AstraZeneca that
may have influenced the way they did their job, doctors led by
Michel de Lorgeril wrote in the report published today. The lead
Jupiter researcher is a co-holder of a patent on a protein
marker of inflammation that would potentially boost royalties
from wider use of Crestor, the authors said.  
 “The possibility that bias entered the study is
particularly concerning because of the strong commercial
interest in the study,” wrote de Lorgeril of the  Universite
Joseph Fourier  and  National Center for Scientific Research  in
Grenoble, France.  
 Over five years, using Crestor in people with normal
cholesterol may prevent 250,000 heart complications in the U.S.,
AstraZeneca’s researchers said when presenting Jupiter findings
at the American Heart Association meeting in 2008. AstraZeneca
in March 2008 stopped the study early because of “unequivocal”
evidence that the pill cut deaths better than a placebo in
people who had no evidence of existing heart disease.  
 U.S. and European regulators this year allowed the
drugmaker to broaden Crestor’s use to anyone at an increased
risk for heart disease, even if so-called bad cholesterol levels
are normal. Crestor belongs to a family of drugs known as
statins that work by blocking an enzyme in the liver involved in
cholesterol production.  
 Trial Halt  
 The results of the 17,802-patient Jupiter study are an
exception among 12 other failed cholesterol-lowering research
projects, fueling concern that the decision to stop the trial
early was faulty, the authors of the Archives article wrote.  
 “Inconsistencies” in the data “should have led to the
continuation of the trial rather than its premature ending,”
the authors wrote.  
 Paul Ridker  of Harvard Medical School, who led the Jupiter
study, said in an e-mail, “My conflict has been publicly
disclosed literally hundreds of times going as far back as 1997.
There is nothing new here.”  
 The study showed “overwhelmingly” that statin therapy cut
the risk of heart disease among people who had high levels of C-
reactive protein or CRP, even though their dangerous cholesterol
was normal, Ridker said. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration
“found the study to have been exceptionally well conducted and
without issue” after reviewing the trial data, he wrote.  
 CRP is a measure of inflammation, and high amounts may mean
a risk of heart disease.  
 Crestor Sales  
 “Jupiter was undertaken with a fully independent steering
committee, data and safety monitoring board, and academic study
statistician,”  Chris Sampson , a spokesman for AstraZeneca, said
in an e-mail. “The trial was financially supported by
AstraZeneca, but AstraZeneca played no role in conducting data
analyses and had no access to unblinded trial data.”  
 Crestor sales probably will rise 68 percent to $7.57
billion by 2012, helped by additional revenue from expanded use
on the back of the Jupiter results, according to  Gbola Amusa , an
analyst for UBS AG in London. The drug is  AstraZeneca’s  third
best seller, bringing in $4.5 billion in 2009.  
 The new expanded indication differentiates Crestor from
other cholesterol-lowering medicines and may convince doctors
that it’s worth the extra cost after  Pfizer Inc. ’s competing
Lipitor pill, the world’s best-selling drug, is threatened by
generic copies in 2011.  
 Well Respected  
 The study investigators are among the most well-respected
physician researchers in the world, said  Steven Nissen , head of
cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio. While the benefits
of statins in preventing heart disease can be debated, attacking
the integrity of the researchers and their work is unhelpful, he
said in a telephone interview.  
 “Jupiter was a meticulously performed trial,” he said in a
telephone interview. “I trust that they did their job well and
the data in Jupiter are presented accurately. I don’t think that
impugning the integrity of physicians who are well respected
serves the scientific world very well.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Trista Kelley  in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        