-- Tata Motors to Raise $1 Billion to Pare Debt From Jaguar, Land Rover Deals
-- Vipin V. Nair
-- 2010-06-28T14:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/tata-motors-to-raise-1-billion-to-expand-pare-jaguar-land-rover-debt.html

          
          
             Tata Motors Ltd. , the Indian owner
of Jaguar and Land Rover, plans to raise as much as 47 billion
rupees ($1 billion) to expand operations and pare debt
accumulated for the purchase of the luxury brands.  
 “The timing and structure of the issues will be decided
depending upon market conditions post shareholders’ and other
approvals,” Tata Motors said in the statement today.  
 Tata Motors, India’s largest commercial vehicle maker, had
 debt  of 185.3 billion rupees, according to Bloomberg data. The
company took on loans to purchase the luxury vehicle unit from
Ford Motor Co. for $2.5 billion in 2008.  
 “Tata may take about 6 months to one year to raise the
full amount,” said  Umesh Karne , a Mumbai-based analyst at BRICS
Securities Ltd. “They may be able to get good valuation as the
Indian auto industry is doing very well and there are no big
concerns in the short term.”  
 Jaguar Land Rover is targeting growth in emerging markets by
opening more showrooms in India and setting up a sales company
in China, where its full-year deliveries doubled from 8,821 in a
10-month transitional period ended March 2009. Setting up
production in China would require one to two years after the
company made any decision on partners and a location, Chief
Executive Officer  Carl-Peter Forster  said May 28.  
 Tata Motors rose 2.7 percent to 789.25 rupees in Mumbai
trading. The shares have fallen 0.3 percent this year compared
with a 1.8 percent gain for the benchmark  Sensex .  
 Fund Raising  
 In October, Tata Motors raised $750 million selling global
depository receipts and convertible bonds. The size of the
offering was increased 25 percent after the initial fund-raising
target had been met in less than an hour.  
 The automaker sold a 20 percent stake in its construction
equipment venture to Japanese partner Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co. for 11.6 billion rupees in March. Tata Motors also
offered in the same month to convert some of the bonds into
shares about a year early to reduce its debt and preserve cash.  
 The maker of the world’s cheapest car, the  Nano , raised 41
billion rupees through a rights offer in October 2008. The
company’s founders, the Tata Group, invested 30 billion rupees
by subscribing to the offer. Tata Group’s other businesses
include making steel, computer software, tea and power.  
 Tata Motors’ corporate  family rating  was raised to B2 from
B3 at Moody’s Investors Service in April with a positive outlook.
The rating upgrade reflected the quick turnaround in the
operating performance of the Jaguar Land Rover business, Moody’s
said.  
 Tata Motors  returned to a profit  in the fiscal year ended
in March after the luxury unit had a pretax profit and sales
gained amid economic growth.  
 Jaguar Land Rover  had a pretax profit of 32 million pounds
($48.23 million) in the year ended in March as the global
economy began to recover from the worst recession since World
War II. Tata also reduced its workforce to cut costs at its
U.K.-based luxury vehicle unit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vipin V. Nair  in Mumbai at 
 Vnair12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        