-- Rudd Excluded From Gillard's Cabinet After Being Ousted as Prime Minister
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-06-28T05:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/australia-s-gillard-excludes-rudd-from-cabinet-moves-crean-to-employment.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  excluded predecessor  Kevin Rudd  from her Cabinet as she
laid the groundwork for an election campaign by moving former
labor union leader  Simon Crean  to the post of employment
minister.  
 Foreign Affairs Minister  Stephen Smith  will take the
additional role of trade minister, held by Crean, Gillard told
reporters during a news conference in Canberra, flanked by Smith
and Crean, where she outlined her Cabinet.  
 “Our focus is on governing the nation now,” Gillard said
after announcing what she called “modest” changes to “keep
maximum stability within the team.” Gillard, who ousted Rudd on
June 24, plans to hold an election in “coming months.”  
 Gillard for now shut out the man she deposed as the
nation’s leader to arrest a drop in the Labor party’s popularity
in opinion polls after Rudd shelved carbon-trading plans in
April and announced in May plans to impose a 40 percent levy on
resource projects. She held out the chance Rudd would serve in
the Cabinet in the future.  
 “If the government is re-elected, I would be very
delighted to welcome Kevin Rudd to the Cabinet in a senior
position,” Gillard said. “This is the best course.”  
 Rudd, who plans to stand at the next election in his seat
of Griffith in Queensland state, said in an e-mailed statement
today he respects Gillard’s decision.  
 “For the immediate future, my family and I have decided to
take a break,” Rudd said. “I would be prepared to serve the
government” and “would do so in the interests of the
government and the country.”  
 Industry Standoff  
 Gillard, 48, has said it is her “priority” to resolve a
standoff with industry over the resource profits tax in the
world’s biggest shipper of coal and iron ore. Gillard confirmed
last week her deputy,  Wayne Swan , will remain Treasurer and will
lead talks with mining companies.  
 “We are working hard to collaborate with our mining
community in a spirit of goodwill,” she said today, without
providing details about the timing of a compromise.  
 Climate change will also be a focus in the lead up to an
election. The earliest date for a joint House of Representatives
and Senate ballot is Aug. 7 under Australian  election laws .  
 “Climate change is caused by human activity,” Gillard
said. “Addressing climate change means that we will have to
have a price on carbon,” she added, without pledging to adopt
the carbon-trading plan shelved by Rudd in April.  
 Finance Minister  
 Finance Minister  Lindsay Tanner , who intends to retire at
the next election, will retain his role and no further changes
will be made to the leadership team until after the national
ballot, Gillard said today.  
 “This is a low-profile approach and from a spin-doctoring
point of view it will work,”  Rick Kuhn , a political scientist
at Canberra-based Australian National University, said by phone
in comments on the Cabinet. “From a content point of view,
nothing has changed.”  
 Labor would win an election held now, according to a
Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper today, confirming
a Nielsen poll at the weekend. Labor leads the opposition
Liberal-National coalition by 53 percent to 47 percent,
according to the telephone survey of 1,142 people between June
25 and 27. Some 53 percent preferred Gillard as leader, compared
with 29 percent for the opposition’s  Tony Abbott , the poll, with
a 3 percentage point margin of error, showed.  
 First Poll  
 The first Nielsen opinion poll after Gillard overturned
Rudd gave her a 10 percentage point lead over the opposition and
a 21-point lead over Abbott, according to the telephone survey
of 1,000 voters in the Sydney Morning Herald June 26. The poll
gave Labor 55 percent of voters, versus 45 percent for the
opposition. The previous poll, on June 3 to June 5, put the
coalition in the lead, at 53 percent to 47 percent, for the
first time in four years.  
 Melbourne-based Crean, a former president of the Australian
Council of Trade Unions in 1985, was elected to parliament in
1990 and is a graduate of Melbourne-based Monash University with
degrees in economics and law.  
 “Employment is fundamental to the economic security of
this nation,” Crean said today. He intends to “resume
unfinished business,” taking on all of Gillard’s former
responsibilities for education, workplace relations, employment
and social inclusion after Gillard said last week a “good
government has lost its way” under Rudd’s leadership.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Australia's new Employment Minister Simon Crean, seen here as Australia's trade minister, speaks during a news conference in Singapore. Photographer: Charles Pertwee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
