-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Drop Most in Three Weeks on Global Slowdown Concerns
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-29T15:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/australian-n-z-dollars-decline-for-second-day-on-signs-of-slowing-growth.html

          
          
             The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell by the most in three weeks as concern the global
economy is slowing prompted investors to sell riskier assets.  
 The kiwi slid to its lowest since June 10 versus the yen
after a New Zealand government report showed home-building
 approvals  declined for the second time in three months. The
South Pacific currencies extended quarterly losses as Japan said
industrial production fell and its jobless rate rose, and after
U.S. consumer confidence worsened.  
 “We’re seeing risk easing off with talk coming out about a
double-dip recession,” said  Alex Sinton , a senior dealer at ANZ
National Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “There’s a bias to the downside
for both the Aussie and kiwi.”  
 The Australian dollar dropped 2.2 percent, the most since
June 4, to 85.31 U.S. cents as of 11:47 a.m. in New York, from
87.22 yesterday. It slid 3.2 percent to 75.45 yen and touched
75.13 yen, the least since June 9. New Zealand’s dollar declined
1.9 percent to 69.47 U.S. cents and fell 3 percent to 61.43 yen,
near a three-week low.  
 The Aussie has lost 7 percent since March 31 against the
U.S. greenback, ending four quarters of gains. The kiwi has
weakened 2.2 percent over the same period, and is poised for
three quarters of declines.  
 Home-building permits dropped 9.6 percent from April when
they gained a revised 8.4 percent, Statistics New Zealand said
today, citing seasonally adjusted figures.  
 N.Z. Rates  
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard  on June
10 raised the official cash rate a quarter point, the first
increase in three years, and said he expected to boost borrowing
costs further this year. There is a 78 percent chance of a
quarter-point increase on July 29, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG  index  based on swaps trading.  
 “If consent issuance does not pick up as expected, then
this should certainly be a factor necessitating the need for the
Reserve Bank to pause,” said  Philip Borkin , economist at
Goldman Sachs JBWere Ltd. in Auckland.  
 Japan’s factory output fell 0.1 percent in May after rising
1.3 percent in April, the Trade Ministry reported today. The
nation’s jobless rate rose to 5.2 percent last month from 5.1
percent in April, the government reported. The Conference
Board’s confidence index in the U.S. fell to 52.9 this month
from 63.3 in May, figures from the New York-based research group
showed today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        