-- U.S. Financial Overhaul Legislation Would Alter Municipal Bond Regulations
-- William Selway
-- 2010-06-28T18:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/bank-bill-strips-wall-street-of-control-of-u-s-municipal-bond-regulator.html

          
          
             The U.S. financial overhaul
legislation would alter the municipal bond business by curbing
Wall Street’s sway over its regulator, increasing oversight of
advisers and protecting governments that enter derivative deals.  
 Provisions in the  2,300-page bill  lawmakers agreed on last
week would strip banks and securities firms of their majority
control of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, require
local-government financial advisers to register with regulators
and impose rules on banks that sell derivatives such as
interest-rate swaps to local governments.  
 The legislation marks Congress’s response to the crisis
that erupted more than two years ago and touched every aspect of
the financial system, including the $2.8 trillion municipal bond
market. State and local governments were hit with billions of
dollars in unexpected expenses when interest-rate swaps that
were designed to protect against  rising borrowing  costs
backfired amid the financial crisis.  
 Such transactions pushed Jefferson County, Alabama, close
to bankruptcy by increasing the borrowing costs on $3 billion of
bonds that financed the construction of its sewer system. Other
public borrowers -- from Pennsylvania school districts to the
agency financing a new bridge across San Francisco Bay -- paid
millions in fees to exit the transactions.  
 The legislation, if signed into law, would subject
financial advisers, including those that assist with interest-
rate swaps, to added oversight.  
 Wait for Rules  
 Under the bill, the MSRB would create regulations for such
advisers to ensure that they act in the best interest of local-
government clients. The board’s rules are approved by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 “The real effect for municipal-market participants will
not take full form until the rulemaking is complete,” said  Paul Maco , a Washington attorney with Vinson & Elkins and former
director of the SEC’s office of municipal securities.  
 House of Representatives and Senate negotiators approved
the bill to rewrite the rules for Wall Street on June 25 and
planned votes on the measure by the end of this week. It would
then be sent to President  Barack Obama .  
 The legislation would create requirements for the Wall
Street banks that work on swaps with local governments and other
public entities. Among them are the need for swap dealers that
serve as advisers on the transactions to act in their clients’
best interest, as well as a ban on such firms using the
instruments to defraud public borrowers.  
 MSRB Board  
 The body that crafts the rules for the municipal market
would be changed under the bill. Eight of the MSRB board’s 15
seats would be given to people who aren’t employees of a broker,
securities dealer or municipal financial adviser. Banks and
securities firms currently hold 10 seats, giving them the
dominant voice over regulatory matters weighed by the board.  
 The bill also would address whether municipal borrowers
should be forced to provide more information to investors.
Within two years, it requires the U.S. Comptroller General to
issue a report to Congress on whether additional rules are
needed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        