-- Banking Bill Invites the Next Global Meltdown: Roy C. Smith
-- Roy C. Smith
-- 2010-06-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/banking-bill-invites-the-next-global-meltdown-commentary-by-roy-c-smith.html

          
          
             The financial overhaul bill set for
passage sometime next week is supposed to “bring accountability
to Wall Street.” In announcing an agreement between the House
and Senate last week, Senator  Christopher Dodd  noted that “the
American people have called on us to set clear rules of the road
for the financial industry to prevent a repeat of the financial
collapse that cost so many so dearly.”  
 The final bill, though, does little to prevent a
systemically important bank from failing, and makes it far more
difficult for regulators to assist one seeking to avoid failure.
This all but insures that the system-wide calamity the bill
should be trying to prevent will, in fact, occur again.  
 Most of the systemic risk in the U.S. is now carried in the
six largest bank-holding companies (Bank of America, JPMorgan
Chase, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley). The bill lets them off easy: none is to be broken up
and the effort to lower the risk they take on was diluted.  
 They will still report to the same regulators as before,
whose effectiveness in averting prior crises was negligible. To
impose serious sanctions on the banks, the regulators will have
to go through a lengthy process involving a two-thirds vote of
the new ten-member Council of Regulators, which is subject to
appeal in the courts. They still won’t have to pay for the
cheap-money subsidy that being a large bank provides, nor for
the untaxed windfall profits from government guarantees and
market intervention over the past two years.  
 Live With It  
 They will probably have to face tougher capital adequacy
standards in the future but not for at least two years. They
will be subject to more consumer-products regulation in the
future but will probably be able to pass the cost on to their
clients. On the whole, this is a bill the big banks can live
with. They will not have to change much of they now do.  
 What they now do is pursue a universal-banking strategy
aimed at maximizing shareholder value through market dominance.
They operate all over the world in fast-changing, highly
competitive markets that push them to take on high risk in
search of high returns. When they are running on all cylinders
in rising markets, they are very impressive and highly
profitable.  
 Global Peril  
 But when they aren’t running smoothly, or trying too hard
to increase market share or improve profitability they can make
mistakes that seriously disappoint their shareholders and can
imperil the global financial system.  
 Repeatedly since the repeal of the  Glass-Steagall Act  in
1999, increased competition has driven the banks to giant,
unexpected trading losses, harsh public criticism and large
regulatory and litigation settlements. This has eroded
confidence in their managements and their stock prices are now
close to or below book value, placing little value on their
once-mighty franchises and talent pools. From the recent history
of such eminent firms as Citigroup, UBS, AIG, Merrill Lynch and
Bear Stearns, you can only conclude that the business model they
followed was not only too big to fail, it was also too big to
manage.  
 Out there is another accident waiting to happen. When that
occurs, as inevitably it will, the consequences for the
financial system are hard to imagine, given the requirements of
the new bill to prevent taxpayer-funded bailouts.  
 Facing Facts  
 What the large banks should do now is accept the fact that
their business model hasn’t been working, and try to figure out
what to replace it with. In principle, they all need to simplify
their management structures and reposition their riskier
activities elsewhere to provide steadier, more predictable
income for their investors.  
 Academic research has shown no benefit to banks for
excessive size or having many different lines of business. Now,
bank-holding companies will be subject to somewhat higher costs
of capital for all their businesses, particularly the riskier
ones that must compete with hedge funds not subject to such
requirements.  
 Some part of the trading and asset-management businesses
might be better off outside the banking rules, by selling them
or spinning them off to shareholders. Goldman Sachs now houses
vast proprietary trading, hedge fund and private equity
businesses; it might be able to separate these units without
harming its investment-banking market share. Split up, the value
of the firm might be worth more than the two combined, as often
has been the case.  
 Case for Breakups  
 Further, some of the large banks might be better off
disposing of ill-fitting activities. Bank of America,
fundamentally a retail bank, may decide that the acquired
wholesale banking activities of Merrill Lynch require risk-
management capabilities it doesn’t have. Citigroup, already
being broken up, might decide to go all the way back to  John Reed ’s model in which investment banking was minimal.  
 Equally important is the need to restore the public trust
of these once-admired firms. The most valuable corporations have
always been those with the most pristine reputations, and the
last several years have certainly taken their toll on the
reputations of all of the leading banks.  
 Even without this bill, these banks will face a long period
of intense scrutiny from regulators and from potential
litigants. It will be hard to escape this condition without
changing the model, which could be a fresh start for everyone.  
 ( Roy C. Smith , author of “Paper Fortunes: Modern Wall
Street: Where It’s Been and Where It’s Going,” is a finance
professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column: Roy C. Smith at
 rsmith@stern.nyu.edu   
          
          


  


        