-- Bank-Rescue Measure Proving Political Liability for Some U.S. Republicans
-- Catherine Dodge
-- 2010-06-28T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/bank-rescue-measure-proving-political-liability-for-some-u-s-republicans.html

          
          
             The $700 billion bank-rescue program
designed to avert an economic collapse has proved a political
liability to some Republican lawmakers in primary races.  
 Amid voter concern over rising government  debt  and
 spending , the lawmakers are facing criticism they strayed from
fiscal conservative principles by backing the Troubled Asset
Relied Program in 2008.  
 Two lawmakers in Republican-leaning South Carolina who lost
primaries last week -- Representative  Bob Inglis  and  Gresham Barrett  -- were dogged by their votes for the bailout, which was
backed by then-President  George W. Bush , a Republican. Other
Republicans fending off attacks from within the party over their
support of the measure include Senator  John McCain  of Arizona.  
 “It’s become a lightning rod for voters,” said  Karlyn Bowman , who studies public opinion at the American Enterprise
Institute in Washington.  
 While the public supported the plan during the economic
crisis in the last quarter of 2008, there was a “stark turning
against” it as the funds continued to be released, she said.  
 Senator  Bob Bennett , a Utah Republican whose re-nomination
bid was rejected by a state party convention in May, said he has
no regrets about supporting the rescue bill, even though it
helped derail his try for a fourth term.  
 ‘Right Vote’  
 “If I had to do it again knowing it would end my career, I
would still” back it, Bennett said in an interview. “It was
the right vote.”  
 The legislation, crafted by leaders from both parties and
top officials in the Bush administration, was backed by 91
Republicans out of 199 then in the  House  and, in the  Senate , by
34 out of 49.  
 Republicans would have been worse off if they had unified
in opposing the bailout, said  David Woodard , a political
scientist at Clemson University in South Carolina.  
 Such a move would have put the party “in the wilderness”
for decades, facing political challenges similar to those
Republicans confronted after President  Herbert Hoover ’s
administration failed to stave off the Great Depression, Woodard
said.  
 Still, the passage of the TARP bill has become part of the
assault on Republican incumbents by fiscally conservative
challengers, who link it to the economic stimulus package passed
in 2009 and health-care legislation approved this year as
examples of federal overreach.  
 “They forget how scary it was because time’s passed,”
said Representative  Gary Miller , a California Republican who won
a four-candidate June 8 primary with 49 percent of the vote. “I
tried to do what I thought was right and I got beat up pretty
good for it.”  
 South Carolina  
 In South Carolina, the House vote Barrett cast for the TARP
bill hindered his unsuccessful campaign for governor. He lost
the Republican nomination to  Nikki Haley , who had backing from
Tea Party activists who favor limited government, in a June 22
runoff.  
 Inglis found voters in his district troubled by his support
for the TARP bill. He lost his re-nomination bid in the runoff
to county prosecutor  Trey Gowdy , who accused Inglis of breaking
with party principles in backing the measure.  
 In Texas, Governor  Rick Perry  nicknamed Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchinson , his opponent in the state’s March 2 Republican
gubernatorial primary, “Kay Bailout Hutchison” because of her
vote for the TARP bill. Perry beat Hutchinson by 21 percentage
points.  
 McCain Misled  
 McCain, a four-term incumbent, suspended his Republican
presidential campaign in September 2008 to travel to Washington
to help craft the TARP bill. He now says he was misled by
 Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and then-Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  about how the funds would be used, as he
fights attacks over the measure from his primary opponent,
former Representative J.D. Hayworth.  
 The Treasury has disbursed $386 billion of the $700 billion
authorized for TARP, and $194 billion of it has been repaid,
Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  said at a June 22 congressional
hearing. The program’s ultimate cost to the government will be
$105 billion by Geithner’s latest estimate, down from a $341
billion estimate in August.  
 Companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  Bank of
America Corp . that took funds have since repaid the money.  
 The first $350 billion authorized by the bill was used to
shore up struggling financial services companies, including
 American International Group  Inc., as well as General Motors Co.
and Chrysler Group LLC. Congress authorized release of the
second half of the funds in January 2009 after President  Barack Obama  pledged to spend $100 billion of the money on a
foreclosure-prevention effort. Only six Senate Republicans
supported the second authorization.  
 Senator  Richard Burr , a North Carolina Republican, said
voters don’t distinguish between the program’s two phases. “The
initial one was to shore up the architecture,” said Burr. “The
second was to do the bailouts.”  
 Miller said the TARP issue was difficult to explain in a
political advertisement. “I’m a hardcore conservative but I’m a
realist,” he said. “I couldn’t explain that on TV in a matter
of 30 seconds.”  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Republicans fending off attacks from within the party over their support of the measure include Senator John McCain of Arizona. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
