-- Banks Need `New Business Model' of Less Borrowing, More Capital, BIS Says
-- John Glover
-- 2010-06-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/banks-need-new-business-model-of-less-borrowing-more-capital-bis-says.html

          
          
             Banks need “a new business model”
based on less borrowing and more capital against losses,
according to the  Bank for International Settlements .  
 Banks have enjoyed higher short-term  returns on equity  than
other industries because they’re able to use about five times as
much borrowed money, or leverage, according to the BIS’s annual
report, published today. Over longer periods, though, banks have
tended to post lower returns than other industries -- sometimes
4 percent less per year over a decade -- because higher leverage
makes them more vulnerable to economic downturns, the BIS said.  
 “For several decades, financial institutions have resorted
to high leverage as a way to boost short-term profitability, at
the cost of a  marked volatility  in their performance,” BIS
analysts wrote in the report. “Weak capital, illiquid assets
and reliance on short-term funding created vulnerabilities that
led in recent years to large losses and systemic distress.”  
 Banks worldwide are struggling to recover from almost $1.8
trillion of credit losses and writedowns after the collapse of
the U.S. subprime housing market infected other investments and
forced governments to rescue their financial systems. The
benchmark  KBW Bank Index  of 24 stocks fell to 48.4 on June 25,
about where it was in October 1996, after rising to as high as
121.06 in February 2007.  
 Higher leverage also makes banks’ returns more volatile
while their outperformance during booms tends to be “modest,”
without compensating for losses in times of crisis, the BIS
said. When returns in the overall market have been in the bottom
20 percent of their historical range, financial stocks have
tended to underperform by more than 10 percentage points, the
analysts wrote.  
 Banking Overhaul  
 Banks also need to work out how to cope with the weak
economy and new regulations, the analysts wrote. Congressional
negotiators approved the most sweeping overhaul of U.S.
financial regulation since the Great Depression on June 25,
reshaping oversight of Wall Street.  
 Longer term, banks must refinance “a large portion” of
their borrowings, end their reliance on government support,
strengthen their balance sheets and cut operating costs to
regain investors’ favor, the BIS said. About $2 trillion of bank
bonds are due to mature in the next two years, the analysts
estimated, and financial companies will be selling debt in
competition with governments, with the result that some will
have to shrink their businesses.  
 The more capital a bank has, the more resilient it is
during a crisis, and it doesn’t hurt profitability during the
boom period, said the BIS, formed in 1930. Also, “by rewarding
the long-term resilience of better-capitalized institutions,
funding markets could actually help ensure high long-term
profits in the financial sector,” according to the report.  
 “As markets recognize this resilience, the cost of funding
will decline, and with it the return on assets in the sector
will rise,” the analysts wrote. “And since higher capital
constrains leverage, it will also limit institutions’ capacity
to boost leverage in good times at the cost of elevated losses
in bad times.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        