-- Bernanke Paves Way for Lula Bond Sale as Brazil Yields Sink
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-06-28T22:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/bernanke-paving-way-for-lula-bond-sale-as-yields-slide-to-seven-month-low.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke’s  drive to keep interest rates near zero may pave the
way for Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  to sell
international bonds for the first time since April.  
 Brazil’s  benchmark dollar borrowing costs  have fallen this
month the most since February as Bernanke pledged last week to
keep the benchmark U.S. rate at a record low for an “extended
period” to support the economic recovery. With yields near a
seven-month low, Brazil may sell more of its dollar bonds due in
2021 and 2041 at “any time,” according to  Kieran Curtis , who
helps manage $2 billion at Aviva Investors in London.  
 “It would be a smart move for the Brazilian government to
issue longer-dated debt with yields at these low levels,”  Laura Ostrander , who oversees $3 billion assets at Columbia Management
Group LLC. in Boston, said in a telephone interview. “The Fed
is telling you they will maintain low rates for some time. I
don’t think there’s a huge risk owning Brazilian dollar bonds.
Even though the yields are low, you still get more than on
Treasuries.”  
 Brazil is rated BBB- at Standard & Poor’s and Baa3 at
Moody’s Investors Service, both the lowest investment grade.
Fitch Ratings today boosted Brazil’s rating outlook to positive
from stable and affirmed the country’s BBB- rating, citing the
country’s “growth dynamics” and “prudent” policies.  
 Brazil sold $788 million of bonds due in 2021 to yield 5
percent in its last sale abroad on April 15. The yield has
dropped 16 basis points since then to 4.84 percent as Bernanke’s
comments helped spark a rally in U.S. Treasuries, the  benchmark 
for emerging-market dollar bonds.  
 The average yield on Brazilian dollar debt touched a seven-
month low of 5.68 percent on June 18, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index . The yield was 5.72 percent on June
25.  
 Treasury Monitoring  
 The government will sell more of its dollar bonds due in
2021 and 2041 this year if market conditions remain favorable,
Deputy Treasury Secretary  Paulo Valle  told reporters in New York
on June 22. JPMorgan estimates that Brazil will issue $1.2
billion more bonds in international markets this year.  
 “Prices on Brazilian bonds have been improving in recent
weeks,”  Fernando Garrido , the Treasury’s debt operations
coordinator, said in a June 25 telephone interview from
Brasilia. “The Treasury permanently monitors the secondary
market to choose the best moment to sell bonds.”  
 Brazilian dollar debt has returned 1.6 percent since May
31, the biggest monthly advance since February, according to
JPMorgan. The bonds have gained 5.1 percent this year, beating
the average 4.9 percent return on  emerging-market dollar debt.   
 A government offering could help reignite bond sales from
Brazilian companies, Garrido said. There have been no Brazilian
corporate debt offerings in international markets since  Braskem
SA , Latin America’s biggest petrochemical producer, issued $400
million of 10-year securities on April 30 as Europe’s debt
crisis eroded demand for emerging-market debt.  
 Corporate Yields  
 The  average yield  on Brazilian corporate dollar bonds
jumped to a 2 1/2-month high of 6.79 percent on May 7 before
sliding back to 6.44 percent at the end of last week as concern
eased that the European crisis will erode global economic
growth, according to JPMorgan’s CEMBI index.  
 “The sovereign is the benchmark for private issuers,”
Garrido said. “It’s common for the sale of sovereign bonds to
lead the way for bonds from companies.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. securities widened one basis point today
to 238, according to JPMorgan.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps dropped three basis
points today to 129, according to data compiled by CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  
 Real Declines  
 The real was little changed today at 1.7803 per dollar. The
yield on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures contract due
in January rose one basis point to 11.32 percent. That yield
shows traders expect the central bank to raise the rate to about
12 percent by year-end from 10.25 percent today to cool the
economy after growth surged to its fastest pace in 15 years in
the first quarter.  
 Yields  on 10-year U.S. Treasuries dropped to a 14-month low
of 3.02 percent today as back-to-back months of falling consumer
prices and the European crisis bolstered speculation Bernanke
will leave the benchmark rate near zero until 2011. The yield
has dropped 97 basis points since April 5, helping push rates on
Brazilian bonds due in 2041 down 35 basis points to 5.73
percent, the lowest since they were issued in September.  
 ECB, BOJ  
 “With rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan staying low for
longer, people are still going to look for yield pickup in safe
credits,” said  Denise Simon , who helps manage $6.5 billion of
emerging-market assets at HSBC Halbis Partners in New York.
“There’s demand for Brazilian paper. There’s more bang for your
buck.”  
 The Fed has kept its benchmark rate in a range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008. The European Central Bank’s
benchmark interest rate is 1 percent while the Bank of Japan’s
is 0.1 percent.  
 Brazil may try to sell more bonds before presidential
elections in October, according to Aviva’s Curtis.  
 More Issuance?  
 “It’s reasonable to suggest that they will try new
issuance before elections,” Curtis said. “It’s arrogant to
assume there won’t be any volatility during the election.”  
 Dilma Roussef , Lula’s former cabinet chief and chosen
successor, leads opinion polls along with  Jose Serra , a former
governor of Sao Paulo state.  
 Brazil has reduced its  dollar borrowing  this decade, helped
by a rally in its commodity exports that has boosted its  foreign
reserves  to a record $254 billion from $38 billion when Lula
took office in 2003. The country, which became a net creditor
for the first time in 2008, had less than $60 billion of dollar
debt as of April, down from about $75 billion in 2001, according
to the Treasury.  
 “A little bit of new issuance coming to the market will be
relatively easily absorbed,” said  Vivienne Taberer , who
oversees $2.5 billion in emerging-market assets at Investec
Asset Management in Cape Town, South Africa. She has an
“overweight” position in Brazilian bonds. “Brazil probably
offers a little bit of value,” she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve  
                       
                         
                           Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke speaks during a conference on the Squam Lake Report in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke speaks during a conference on the Squam Lake Report in New York. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
