-- Bloomberg Urges FCC to Weigh Sale of CNBC in Proposed Comcast-NBC Merger
-- Kelly Riddell
-- 2010-06-28T17:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/bloomberg-urges-fcc-to-weigh-cnbc-sale-in-proposed-comcast-nbc-deal.html

          
          
             Bloomberg LP, parent company of
Bloomberg News, asked U.S. regulators to consider forcing
 Comcast Corp.  to sell business-news network CNBC if its proposed
merger with NBC Universal Inc. gets approved.  
 Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, may have an
incentive to discriminate against Bloomberg Television to
protect CNBC’s position as the No. 1 rated business-news
channel, New York-based Bloomberg said in a petition filed with
the U.S. Federal Communications Commission on June 21.  
 The FCC is currently evaluating whether Comcast’s $28
billion transaction with  General Electric Co.  to take control of
NBC Universal will benefit consumers or lead to anticompetitive
behavior. Bloomberg’s petition to the FCC highlights industry
concerns that Comcast will gain too much control over the pay-TV
market through its combination with the one of the largest
providers of cable TV programming.  
 Comcast has been a good distribution partner for Bloomberg
TV and has a long-term contract with the channel, said  Sena Fitzmaurice , a spokeswoman for Philadelphia-based Comcast. Since
announcing the proposed NBC transaction in December, Comcast has
expanded Bloomberg TV’s distribution to an additional 1.5
million customers, she said.  
 Bloomberg is requesting that if regulators approve the
merger, Comcast should be required to place Bloomberg TV next to
CNBC on the cable dial and make Bloomberg TV available to all
viewers who get CNBC. If those and other conditions aren’t
placed on the merger, Bloomberg asked the FCC to make Comcast
divest CNBC. Greg Babyak, a spokesman for Bloomberg, wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  
 Distribution Differences  
 Bloomberg TV is distributed to 67 million U.S. homes,
whereas CNBC is carried to 100 million households, research firm
 SNL Kagan  estimates. CNBC is estimated to be the second most
profitable of NBC’s cable networks, Bloomberg said in its
filing. This year, CNBC is forecast to have about a 62 percent
profit margin, compared with Bloomberg TV’s 35 percent margin,
SNL Kagan says.  
 Dish Network Corp. , the satellite-television provider,
asked the FCC to block the deal, saying it could reduce
competition. The Communications Workers of America labor union
and Public Knowledge, a Washington-based advocacy group, have
also filed papers opposing the deal as proposed.  
 NBC affiliates and the governors of New York, California
and Pennsylvania are among those who have backed the deal.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        