-- BOE Panelist Sentance Favors Early `Gradual' Rate Increases, Reuters Says
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-28T15:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/boe-panelist-sentance-favors-early-gradual-rate-increases-reuters-says.html

          
          
             Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said he voted for an increase in the bank’s key
interest rate this month as he favors an early “gradual”
withdrawal of stimulus to avoid larger increases later, Thomson
Reuters reported, citing an interview.  
 “I think it is desirable over this recovery to have a more
gradual, gradualist approach to tightening policy,” Sentance
said, according to Reuters. “That would imply moving in small
steps and gradually, because I think there is a risk if you
start tightening sharply you risk knocking back private-sector
confidence, which is the last thing I would want to do.”  
 Sentance voted for a rate increase at the central bank’s
June 10 meeting, marking the first push for a rise within the
monetary policy committee in almost two years. The bank’s
 benchmark rate  has been at a record low 0.5 percent since March
2009.  
 “I have come to the decision that we should begin to
gradually withdraw some of the monetary stimulus,” he said,
according to Reuters.  
 The policy maker said the government’s June 22 emergency
budget hasn’t changed his view of the economy because the
measures weren’t “far off expectations before the budget,”
Reuters reported.  
 Sentance said he is concerned about upside risks to
inflation expectations, Reuters reported. The  U.K. inflation
rate  was at 3.4 percent in May, above the government’s 3 percent
upper limit. The policy maker said part of the increase in the
rate is due to the pound’s decline. The currency has lost about
a quarter of its value on a trade-weighted basis since the start
of 2007.  
 Sentance said part of the pound’s decline “may be
warranted,” Reuters said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        