-- BofA, Wells Fargo Face Biggest Hit If Debit-Fee Cap Passed, Moody's Says
-- Peter Eichenbaum
-- 2010-06-28T20:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/bofa-wells-fargo-face-biggest-hit-if-debit-fee-cap-passed-moody-s-says.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo &
Co.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the three biggest U.S. debit-card
issuers, may face $1.38 billion in annual lost revenue from a
proposed cap on “swipe” fees, said Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Pretax net income may drop 3.4 percent at Bank of America,
2.7 percent at San Francisco-based Wells Fargo and 2 percent at
New York-based JPMorgan if Congress approves the financial
overhaul bill, Moody’s said today in a report. The legislation
would empower the Federal Reserve to set swipe fees, or
interchange, that are “reasonable and proportional” to the
cost of processing debit transactions.  
 Moody’s based its estimates on the banks’ 2010 first-
quarter pretax profits, a 50 percent reduction in swipe fees and
an assumption that the lenders would recoup half the lost
revenue through new fees and “other actions.”  After those
efforts, the interchange caps may cut revenue by $589 million at
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, $438 million at
Wells Fargo and $356 million at JPMorgan, Moody’s said.  
 “The legislation is credit-negative for debit-card
issuers,” Moody’s analyst  Curt Beaudouin  said in the report.  
 Bank of America spokesman  Scott Silvestri  and JPMorgan’s
 Tom Kelly  declined to comment. Wells Fargo spokeswoman Lisa
Westermann didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  
 Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , the world’s biggest payments
networks, set interchange fees and pass the money to card-
issuing banks. Interchange accounted for about 80 percent, or
$15.8 billion, of an estimated $19.7 billion U.S. merchants paid
to accept Visa and MasterCard debit cards last year, Moody’s
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net 
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        