-- Bond Risk Falls in Australia as Congress Dilutes Financial Legislation
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-28T02:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/bond-risk-falls-in-australia-as-congress-dilutes-financial-legislation.html

          
          
             The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific
corporate and sovereign bonds from default dropped after the
U.S. Congress diluted financial-reform legislation last week,
causing banking stocks to surge.  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of credit-default swaps on 50
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan fell 6 basis points to
133 basis points as of 8:20 a.m. in Singapore, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices show. That’s the biggest decline since
June 21, according to CMA DataVision.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. stock surged
and the cost to protect against losses on bank bonds fell for
the first time in a week on June 25 after Congressional
negotiators agreed on an industry-reform bill that doesn’t
prevent hedge-fund and buyout-fund investing. A ban on
derivative-trading by commercial banks was amended to allow
trades on interest rates and foreign-exchange swaps.  
 “From a credit market perspective, the revised legislation
certainly looks to be a positive,” National Australia Bank Ltd.
analysts led by  Michael Bush  said in a note to clients today.
“It will likely de-risk bank earnings and balance sheets while
at the same time not impacting them overly or tightening equity
funding sources.”  
 The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 7 basis points to
127.5 as of 11:31 a.m. in Sydney, also the biggest decline since
June 21, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. and CMA.  
 The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped the most since June
21, falling 3.5 basis points to 132.5 as of 10:37 a.m. in Tokyo,
Morgan Stanley and CMA prices show.  
 Goldman Sachs shares closed at $139.66 in New York, a 3.5
percent increase. Citigroup gained 4.2 percent to $3.94.  
 Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions
of credit quality and a drop shows improvement.  
 The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        