-- BP Chief Executive Hayward Has Full Backing of Board, Refining Head Says
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-06-29T10:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/bp-spill-costs-climb-to-2-65-billion-as-drilling-advances-on-relief-well.html

          
          
             BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  has the backing of the board and is not about to resign,
according to  Iain Conn , the oil company’s head of refining and
marketing.  
 Hayward has faced public anger in the U.S. and attacks from
lawmakers over BP’s failure to halt the worst oil leak in U.S.
history in the Gulf of Mexico. Yesterday, Russia’s Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Sechin  said Hayward was planning to stand down and
announce a successor. BP denied the CEO would quit.  
 “What happened in Russia was a misunderstanding,” Conn
said today in an interview in Oxford, England. “Tony is leading
this company in a very strong and robust way. He’s a remarkably
resilient person and he has our full support.”  
 BP has  lost  54 percent of its market value since the April
20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that
killed 11 crew members and caused the spill. The company has
agreed to deposit $20 billion in an independent account to pay
for Gulf restoration and compensation claims as rising costs
associated with the spill spur ratings  downgrades  and concern
over its future.  
 BP needs to remain a “strong and viable”  company  to fund
all its commitments arising from the spill, Conn said. “I’m
very encouraged by the administration, the alignment now that we
need to stop this and mitigate the damage done to the people of
the Gulf Coast.”  
 Recovery Rate  
 BP recovered about 11,070 barrels of oil from the leaking
well in the first 12 hours of yesterday, according to an update
on its  website . It captured 24,450 barrels of oil on June 27.
The company has spent $2.65 billion to date on trying to clear
up the spill, and on grants and claims and other costs.  
 “BP’s focus is absolutely on one thing, which is to stop
this leak and to clean up the mess and do the right thing by the
people of the Gulf coast,” Conn said. “I know we’ve come in
for a lot of criticism but that commitment is absolutely
genuine.”  
 It’s not yet clear where all the blame lies for the leak,
according to Conn.  
 “We clearly have a share of responsibility and we’ve taken
it,” he said. “We’ve been absolutely public about that. Maybe
 BP  is not 100 percent responsible, but right now we are just
doing what we believe is the right thing.”  
 BP is also drilling two relief wells to permanently seal
the leak that are scheduled to be completed next month.  
 ‘Good Progress’  
 “We are making good progress,” Conn said. “This process
slows the closer you get because we’re ranging, finding the
well, drilling ahead, checking drilling, again. It’ll take time
and we want to get it right.”  
 The boycott of  BP  goods in the U.S. is starting to hurt
“to some degree,” Conn said. “The outrage expressed is
understandable. It’s a deeply devastating thing for a company
that has been so committed to safety and the environment,
especially in the last few years, for this to happen.” He
couldn’t put a figure on losses arising from the boycott.  
 Conn hoped that BP’s actions in trying to clear up the
spill under the leadership of  Robert Dudley  in the U.S. will
help to “demonstrate just how committed we are to doing the
right thing.”  
 Planned asset sales to raise cash for the $20 billion fund
will mainly be drawn from exploration and production, Conn
earlier told the World Forum conference on low carbon mobility.
 BP  can meet all of its obligations, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ships and drilling rigs surround the Discoverer Enterprise, center, as it continues to recover oil from the Deepwater Horizon drill site in the Gulf of Mexico. Photographer: Bob Laura/U.S. Coast Guard via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) --  Kenneth Feinberg, the government-appointed administrator of a $20 billion fund to compensate victims of the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, talks with Bloomberg's Al Hunt about the payment process to claimants. (This report is an excerpt of the full interview to air on "Political Capital with Al Hunt."  Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
