-- BP Sticks to August Plan for Plugging Leaking Oil Well, May Beat Schedule
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-06-28T05:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/bp-sticks-to-august-plan-for-plugging-leaking-oil-well-may-beat-schedule.html

          
          
             BP Plc  stood by its August timeline
for plugging the Gulf of Mexico gusher behind the biggest U.S.
oil spill on record, sticking with a plan that may set the
company up to beat its own schedule.  
 The first of two relief wells aiming to intercept and plug
the leak has reached more than 90 percent of its target depth
and detected the metal casing of the Macondo wellbore, London-
based  BP  said on June 25. The relief well is still slated to be
done in early August as BP enters the “delicate” phase of
testing to find the right spot to stop the leak, company
spokesman  David Nicholas  said by telephone yesterday.  
 BP may find that “sweet spot,” about 200 feet (61 meters)
long, for cutting into and plugging the damaged Macondo well
earlier than the company estimated, said  Don Van Nieuwenhuise ,
director of professional geoscience programs at the University
of Houston. He called the August target a “careful” schedule.
The intercept well was at 16,275 feet late last week, BP said.  
 “They’ve got all the way down there without any
problems,” Van Nieuwenhuise said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “That’s a good sign, that’s a really good sign.”  
 BP is giving itself a “good envelope of time” to make
sure it can get the relief well in the right spot and penetrate
Macondo in the right place, he said.  
 An April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 crew members and triggered the spill.  BP  failed in
several efforts to stop the leak from above Macondo, including a
so-called top-kill technique and placement of a 40-foot-tall
steel chamber that clogged with slush-like gas hydrates.  
 Record Spill  
 The well is gushing as much as 60,000 barrels of crude a
day into the ocean. BP has lost more than half of its  market
value  since the rig blast, and it has spent more than $2.35
billion responding to the spill.  
 BP  is capturing some of the leaking oil through two systems
near the seafloor that are diverting crude and natural gas to
vessels on the Gulf’s surface.  
 The company captured 22,750 barrels of leaking oil and
burned 52.9 million cubic feet of gas on June 26, according to
BP’s  website . In yesterday’s first 12 hours, BP collected or
burned more than 12,000 barrels of oil.  
 The amount of oil captured was reduced by a two-hour
stoppage after a fire alarm went off on the Discoverer
Enterprise, a drillship that BP is using to collect oil,
spokesman John Curry said. The company is installing and testing
a riser for a third oil-collection vessel, he said.  
 High-Pressure Mud  
 BP  may need about a month from now to intercept Macondo as
the company works to determine the right trajectory, said Les
Ply, a retired consultant on drilling and plugging wells.  
 Plugging the well will be difficult because the column of
mud  BP  will pump into the wellbore must have a higher pressure
than the rocks under it, said the University of Houston’s Van
Nieuwenhuise. The company will drill about 18,000 feet deep.  
 “The trickiest part is to make sure that you get enough
pressure from the mud,” Van Nieuwenhuise said. Once the flow of
oil is stopped with drilling mud, the well will be capped with
concrete.  
 BP  agreed this month to set aside $20 billion in an
independently managed account to cover cleanup costs and
compensation claims from people affected by the spill.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Colin Fenton, chief executive officer of Curium Capital Advisors, talks about BP Plc's efforts to plug the Gulf of Mexico oil leak and the possibility of divestitures by the company.
     Fenton talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
