-- BP's $100 Million Rig-Worker Fund May Cover Half the Amount of Pay Losses
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-06-28T17:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/bp-s-100-million-rig-worker-fund-may-cover-half-the-amount-of-pay-losses.html

          
          
             BP Plc ’s $100 million fund to help
oil workers in the Gulf of Mexico is less than half of what’s
needed should the drilling rigs be kept idle for six months, a
 Louisiana State University  economist said.  
 The account was created to replace lost wages due to the
offshore drilling moratorium imposed by President  Barack Obama June  16 after the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig in
April led to the biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 The fund may last a maximum of two to three months using a
parameter of shift employees working directly on the rigs,
according to  Jim A. Richardson , a professor of economics with
the university in Baton Rouge. If workers off the rig are also
included, the six-month payroll loss could balloon to $450
million, he said.  
 “For all rigs, after six months the cost could equal $260
million,” Richardson said today in an interview. “One-hundred
million dollars is just a small drop in the bucket.”  
 Calculations are based on 180 workers each month on all of
the 33 affected platforms with an average wage of about $1,800
per week.  
 “The multipliers for this industry are very substantial
and $100 million isn’t going to come close to covering all the
ripple effects,” Richardson said.  
 Kenneth R. Feinberg , who will administer the rig-worker
fund, said it may be depleted before the ban expires. If the
moratorium survives a court challenge, he may need to request
more cash, he said last week.  
 ‘Good Will’ Gesture  
 Mark Salt , a spokesman for BP, referred to a previous
company statement, which said that as a “gesture of good will”
to communities affected by the spill, BP voluntarily agreed to
contribute $100 million to the fund.  
 The Louisiana Workforce Commission estimates potential lost
wages could be as high as $10 million per month for each of the
drilling rigs idled by the moratorium.  
 “It depends on how the independent fund defines ‘rig
worker’ and how much they allow the individuals to draw and in
what fashion,” Dan Juneau, president of the  Louisiana
Association of Business and Industry , a business-lobbying group
in Baton Rouge, wrote in a June 25 e-mail. “The two-to-three
month time frame is probably accurate.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        