-- Rousseff Says Won't `Waste Time' Pushing Brazil Central Bank Independence
-- Maria Luiza Rabello
-- 2010-06-29T10:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/brazil-s-rousseff-says-won-t-lose-time-pushing-central-bank-independence.html

          
          
             Brazilian presidential candidate
 Dilma Rousseff  said she doesn’t support granting independence to
the country’s central bank and instead prefers to continue the
current model of allowing it operational autonomy.  
 “To invest on central bank formal autonomy is to lose time
and invest in something that won’t occur,” Rousseff said in an
interview to TV Cultura’s Roda Viva show last night, adding that
no political party in the country supports such a move.  
 Rousseff, candidate for President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da
Silva’s Workers’ Party, said that Brazil’s interest rates are
heading lower at a “swift” pace though it would be
“reckless” to reduce the government’s current 4.5 percent
 inflation target  right now.  
 The former cabinet chief, who leads opposition candidate
 Jose Serra  in polls ahead of the October election, said Brazil’s
real interest rates can fall to international levels if the
economy grows between 4.5 percent and 5.5 percent a year.  
 If elected, Rousseff says she will maintain Lula’s current
support for the bank’s operational autonomy and make the bank
chief a member of her cabinet, as current president  Henrique Meirelles  is.  
 Rousseff did not say whether she would ask Meirelles to
continue in his job, though the bank chief in April said he
plans to step down when Lula’s second term ends in December.  
 The candidate said she plans to eliminate taxes on
investment, saying such charges “go against the country’s
interests.”  
 Rousseff overtook Serra for the first time in an Ibope poll
published June 23 for the National Industrial Confederation.
Rousseff is supported by 40 percent of those surveyed, compared
with 35 percent for the former Sao Paulo Governor. The
nationwide poll of 2,002 people was taken June 19 to June 21 and
has a margin of error of 2 percentage points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        