-- Brazil Credit Rating Outlook Raised to Positive by Fitch on `Resilience'
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-06-28T18:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/brazil-credit-rating-outlook-raised-to-positive-by-fitch-on-resilience-.html

          
          
             Brazil’s credit rating outlook was
boosted to positive from stable by Fitch Ratings, which cited
the country’s “growth dynamics” and “prudent” policies.  
 Fitch rates Brazil BBB-, the lowest investment-grade rating
and in line with rankings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s
Investors Service. Fitch last boosted the country’s rating in
May 2008, taking it up one level from BB+.  
 Latin America’s largest  economy  may expand 7.13 percent
this year, the fastest pace since 1994, according to a central
bank survey, after rising domestic consumption helped pull the
country out of its deepest recession in a decade in 2009. Policy
makers are paring economic stimulus and have boosted Brazil’s
benchmark interest rate to 10.25 percent from a record low of
8.75 percent in March to contain inflation.  
 “The outlook revision reflects Brazil’s better-than-
expected resilience and economic performance in the face of the
global recession, which together with its relatively prudent
economic policies should allow the country’s per capita income
and fiscal solvency ratios to improve,” Fitch said in a
statement.  
 Credit Spreads  
 Brazil’s dollar bonds rallied, sending the yields on the
securities due in 2041 to 5.73 percent, the lowest level since
they were issued in September, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The yield was at the same level as Mexican bonds due in 2040,
which are rated BBB at Fitch, or one step above Brazil’s.  
 “I think it’s great, but in terms of how that’s going to
impact credit spreads it won’t have an enormous impact because
the BBB’s all trade within a few basis points of one another,”
said  Siobhan Morden , a strategist at RBS Securities Inc. “When
you look at the high grade Latin America pack, they all trade
pretty much flat within the investment category.”  
 Brazil needs to further “improve” its fiscal stance amid
rising inflation and “deterioration” in the current account
deficit, according to the statement.  
 Brazil’s gross government debt is more than 60 percent of
its economy, “well-above” the 10-year median of 35 percent of
gross domestic product for BBB-rated countries, Fitch said.  
 Fitch raised Brazil’s rating to investment grade two years
ago, partly as a rally in its commodity exports helped boost its
foreign reserves to a record $253 billion from $38 billion when
President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva took office in 2003.  Dilma Roussef , Lula’s former cabinet chief and chosen successor, leads
opinion polls along with  Jose Serra , a former governor of Sao
Paulo state, ahead of the election in October.  
 “It’s part of a belief that with a new incoming
government, if they can consolidate the fiscal picture,
especially on the spending side, this can quickly lead to an
upgrade by the ratings agencies,” said  Tony Volpon , Latin
America strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        