-- British Airways' Halted Employee Ballot Doesn't Mean Strike Risk Is Off
-- Louisa Fahy
-- 2010-06-28T14:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/british-airways-halted-employee-ballot-doesn-t-mean-strike-risk-is-off.html

          
          
             A  British Airways Plc  union’s
decision to call off a strike ballot may not remove the risk of
walkouts that could disrupt travel plans this summer, according
to a Goodbody Stockbrokers analyst.  
 Unite, which represents 12,000 flight attendants, said
yesterday it postponed a strike vote scheduled to start
tomorrow, saying it would be “inexplicable” for the union not
to put an offer to members. The London-based company made a
proposal to cabin crew on June 25 in an effort to prevent the
resumption of stoppages in a 17-month dispute over staffing
levels and future wages.  
 “As things stand, further strike action is looking likely
at the beleaguered flag carrier, which could see passengers
choose to fly with”  low-cost airlines  instead to avoid
potential disruption,  Marina Devitt , an analyst at Goodbody
Stockbrokers in Dublin, wrote in a note to clients today.  
 Unite is meeting cabin crew representatives today to
discuss the new offer and to allow a ballot on it to take
place, spokeswoman  Pauline Doyle  said in an e-mail. The
timetable for the ballot is “not yet clear,” Doyle said.  
 British Airways, Europe’s third-biggest carrier, offered
to increase allowances for existing crew once new recruits join
their ranks later this year, drop plans to reduce benefits to
fund higher staffing levels on some flights, and lift salaries
for two years starting in 2011.  
 Travel Perks  
 The proposals didn’t address the removal of travel perks,
the suspension of strikers and the use of volunteer crews,
issues that Unite says must be resolved before a deal on a
wider cost-cutting plan can be made. In its statement
yesterday, Unite said it wasn’t in a position to recommend
British Airways’s offer to union members.  
 British Airways  rose  0.9 percent to 209.1 pence at 3:41
p.m. in London, valuing the carrier at 2.4 billion pounds ($3.6
billion).  
 EasyJet Plc added 0.3 percent to 406.1 pence. Ryanair
Holdings Plc rose 0.4 percent to 3.63 euros in Dublin.  
 The fact that the new offer didn’t restore travel perks
“prevents this offer from BA being the breakthrough everyone
seeks,”  Tony Woodley , joint secretary general of Unite, said
in yesterday’s statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        