-- European Spreads Widen Amid Concern Crisis Deepening, Italian Bond Auction
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-28T15:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/bunds-drop-as-market-prepares-to-absorb-12-billion-european-debt-auction.html

          
          
             German bunds rose, sending the yield
to the lowest in more than two weeks, as investors demanded
higher yields to hold all but the safest European government
securities amid concern the region’s debt crisis may deepen.  
 Italian, Spanish and Greek bonds fell after European
auctions for a total of 10.7 billion euros ($13 billion) of debt
drew weaker demand. The difference in  yield  between German 10-
and 2-year bonds was at the lowest level since December as a
report today showed annual inflation in Europe’s largest economy
slowed. Greece, whose fiscal difficulties sparked this year’s
crisis, must refinance some bonds next month, and Germany, Spain
and France are scheduled to sell debt this week.  
 “Risk aversion is picking up” in Europe’s bond markets,
said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Suisse AG in Zurich. “You have a number of countries coming to
the market, and it’s preparing for that.”  
 Ten-year bund yields fell two basis points to 2.58 percent
at 3:55 p.m. in London, and touched 2.57 percent, the lowest
since June 11. The 3 percent security maturing in July 2020
gained 0.35, or 3.5 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 103.72.  
 The yield on the Italian 10-year bond rose four basis
points to 4.13 percent, the highest level since June 9. The
difference in yield, or spread, with bunds increased eight basis
points to 155 basis points.  
 Spain’s 10-year yield advanced six basis points to 4.56
percent. Greece’s was 14 basis points higher at 10.66 percent.  
 Debt Levels  
 German bonds returned 3.8 percent this quarter, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts’ Societies, driven by investors seeking a
refuge. Italian securities lost 1.1 percent, and Spanish bonds
lost 4.1 percent, while Greece’s debt handed investors an 18
percent loss, the indexes showed. U.S. Treasuries gained 4.1
percent.  
 Group of 20 leaders said over the weekend that advanced
economies plan to cut their deficits in half by 2013. Scrutiny
of European bond auctions has intensified this year amid
mounting concern that some countries’ fiscal shortfalls aren’t
sustainable and investors may balk at offerings or demand higher
interest rates.  
 Italy faced weaker demand today as it sold 3- and 10-year
bonds. The government auctioned 3.5 billion euros of securities
maturing in 2020 with investors bidding 1.29 times the amount of
10-year debt on offer. That’s down from the 1.37 times at the
May 28 sale. Italy also sold 3.5 billion euros of 3-year bonds
with a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 1.39 times, lower than
the 1.52 times at the previous sale.  
 Maximum Amounts  
 Belgium auctioned bonds worth almost 3.7 billion euros
today, and Slovakia sold 66 million euros of debt.  
 “At first sight, there are low bid-to-cover ratios,”
 Wilson Chin , a fixed-income strategist at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam, said in an e-mailed message. “Positive for the
market is the fact that the auctions are done and at the maximum
amounts.”  
 European bond spreads widened last week on speculation
banks are selling some government debt they bought during the
year-long emergency refinancing program from the European
Central Bank, which expires July 1.  
 The yield on the 10-year Greek government bond jumped last
week, closing at the highest since May 7, before the European
Union unveiled a 750 billion-euro rescue package and the ECB
started buying government bonds. The ECB said today it bought
four billion euros of bonds last week, matching the lowest
amount since its asset-purchase program started on May 10.  
 Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  told German lawmakers that
stress tests on European banks may be extended to 100 lenders,
said  Hans Michelbach , the deputy finance spokesman in parliament
for Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc.  
 German Inflation  
 Greece is seeking to raise 4 billion euros in July as it
rolls over three-, six- and 12-month treasury bills maturing
next month, the Financial Times reported, citing  Petros Christodoulou , head of the Greek debt-management agency.  
 The yield spread between two-year German notes and 10-year
bunds narrowed three basis points to 201 basis points.  
 Germany’s inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized
European Union method, slipped to 0.8 percent in June from 1.2
percent in the previous month, less than the median forecast of
25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey for it to decelerate to
1 percent.  
 Belgian  10-year yields slid seven basis points to 3.51
percent after the nation sold 3.7 billion euros of securities.
Slovakia sold 4.5 percent government bonds due in 2026, the Debt
and Liquidity Management Agency said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Rennie, head of currency research at Westpac Banking Corp., talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis from Sydney about the outlook for China's economy.
     A Chinese government official said the nation’s pledge for a more flexible yuan will slow China's exports this year, adding to difficulties that include the European debt crisis and rising costs. Rennie also discusses the U.S. economy and global currency market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
