-- Burundi Finishes Voting in Election Where President Is the Only  Candidate
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-06-28T14:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/burundians-begins-voting-in-election-in-which-nkurunziza-is-sole-candidate.html

          
          
             Voters finished casting their
ballots in  Burundi ’s national election in which President  Pierre Nkurunziza  was the sole candidate because of an opposition
boycott.  
 “It all went very well,” Pierre-Claver Ndayicariye,
president of the National Independent Electoral Commission, said
by phone today from Bujumbura, the capital. “There haven’t been
any incidents.”  
 More than 3.5 million Burundians were eligible to vote at
7,000 polling stations across the country, Ndayicariye said.
Voting began at 6 a.m and ended at 4 p.m. local time, he said.  
 The elections are the Central African country’s first since
rebel groups laid down their arms in 2009 after a conflict in
which 300,000 people died. Nkurunziza’s ruling Forces for the
Defense of Democracy last month won almost two-thirds of the
ballots in local council elections. Six opposition candidates
withdrew from today’s presidential poll, accusing the government
of fraud in last month’s vote.  
 A grenade exploded near a European Union office in
Bujumbura last night, mission spokesman Renaud Dewit said on the
phone from the city.  
 “We weren’t targeted,” Dewit said. “We’ve not had any
security issues while doing our work.”  
 While European observers found little evidence of fraud in
the May election, the opposition boycott will undermine the
credibility of the presidential vote, said analysts including
Dieudonne Tshiyoyo of the Johannesburg-based  Electoral Institute
for the Sustainability of Democracy in Africa .  
 Fears of Violence  
 Former rebels may “return to the jungle” if they don’t
think they can get into government, Tshiyoyo said in a June 25
interview from Bujumbura. “People fear we could fall back into
violence.”  
 Conflict erupted in Burundi in 1993 when soldiers from the
ethnic Tutsi minority assassinated the leader of the main party
of the Hutu majority. Nkurunziza, a former Hutu insurgent, was
elected president in 2005. The National Liberation Forces, the
last remaining rebel group, then signed a cease-fire with the
government, before giving up its weapons last year.  
 Burundi’s economy, which relies mainly on coffee exports,
has benefitted from greater political stability, with higher
coffee volumes and donor aid expected to boost growth to 3.9
percent this year from 3.5 percent in 2009, the International
Monetary Fund said on June 4.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        