-- Business Method Patents Limited by U.S. Supreme Court
-- Susan Decker
-- 2010-06-28T17:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/business-method-patents-curbed-by-u-s-high-court-in-hedging-strategy-case.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Supreme Court  ruled against
two men who sought to patent a system for hedging energy trades,
while leaving the door open to allowing limited legal
protections for registering business methods.  
 The ruling in the so-called Bilski case was the first time
in 29 years that the court voted on what types of innovations
qualify for legal protection. While the decision was unanimous,
the justices divided 5-4 in their reasoning, with the majority
declining to bar all patents on methods of conducting business.  
 “This is a victory for people in favor of broader patents
generally, including software,” said patent lawyer  Edward Reines  of Weil Gotshal in California, who was watching the case.
“The stakes are high, the technology is evolving rapidly and
it’s really difficult to make all-purpose rules in this area.”  
 The justices voting in the majority said there needs to be
a flexible test for emerging technologies. The case drew record
interest for a business dispute before the highest U.S. court,
with  Microsoft Corp.  and  Morgan Stanley  among dozens of
companies filing briefs. The fight split industries, dividing
companies that rely on their own intellectual property from
those aiming to head off expensive infringement lawsuits.  
 The dispute involved Bernard L. Bilski and Rand A. Warsaw,
founders of a Pittsburgh company that sells customized consumer
energy products. The Supreme Court was reviewing a decision by
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit against Bilski
that said methods can be patented only if they have some
physical component, through either a connection to a machine or
their power to transform an item into a different state.  
 Rewording the Patent  
 Writing for the Supreme Court, Justice  Anthony Kennedy  said
the federal circuit’s standard was only a “useful and important
clue” and isn’t the sole test that should be used in
determining whether a process is eligible for a patent. He did
say business methods “raise special problems in terms of
vagueness and suspect validity.”  
 The decision leaves it up to the federal circuit, which
specializes in patent law, to create a more flexible test.  
 Michael Jakes , the lawyer who represented Bilski and
Warsaw, said it may just mean a rewording of the patent
application to “make the claims less abstract.”  
 “For most patent owners, it’s a very good decision,”
Jakes, a lawyer at Finnegan Henderson in Washington, said in a
telephone interview. “It eliminates the federal circuit’s very
restrictive test and leaves open patents for things that are not
physical” inventions.  
 Abstract Idea  
 Companies that argued that the lower court standard was too
restrictive included  Bank of America Corp. ,  Medtronic Inc. ,
Novartis Corp.,  Palm Inc.  and Accenture Plc. Small software,
financial services and electronic commerce companies also backed
broad patent rights.  
 Those urging restrictions on method patents included
Microsoft, Morgan Stanley,  Google Inc.  and  J.C. Penney Co.  The
Obama administration also advocated a high standard for granting
method patents, as did Bloomberg LP, the New York-based parent
company of Bloomberg News.  
 Patents can be granted for machines, articles of
manufacture, compositions of matter, and processes. It is the
definition of a “process” that was the subject of the dispute.  
 Justice  John Paul Stevens , joined by justices  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Steven Breyer  and  Sonia Sotomayor , said that “a claim
that merely describes a method of doing business does not
qualify as a process” that is eligible for a patent.  
 “If business methods could be patented, then many business
decisions, no matter how small, could be potential patent
violations,” Stevens wrote. “Businesses would either live in
constant fear of litigation or would need to undertake the costs
of searching through patents that describe methods of doing
business, attempting to decide whether their innovation is one
that remains in the public domain.”  
 The case is Bilski v. Kappos, 08-964.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Greg Stohr reports on the latest Supreme Court rulings, including one that said Congress violated the Constitution when it set up an auditing board under the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley law. In other decisions, the high court rejected the Justice Department's bid for as much as $280 billion in tobacco company profits and put limits on business method patents. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
