-- Byrd's Death, Republican Fee Concerns Complicate Finance Bill
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-06-28T22:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/byrd-s-death-complicates-senate-passage-of-financial-regulatory-measures.html

          
          
             The death of Democratic Senator
 Robert Byrd  of West Virginia may delay the vote on a package of
new rules for Wall Street.  
 Senate Democrats had been counting Byrd’s vote as one of
the 60 needed for final passage of the financial-regulatory bill
approved June 25 by a House-Senate committee. With his death,
and with Massachusetts Republican Senator  Scott Brown  suggesting
he might switch from yes to no, Democrats could come up short if
they bring the measure to the floor as planned before July 4.  
 Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, told Bloomberg Television today that
consideration of the bill could be postponed until West
Virginia’s Democratic Governor  Joe Manchin  appoints a successor
to Byrd, possibly not until after the funeral.  
 “The hope was that the Senate would vote this week, and now
you have lost a vote,” Leahy said. “I am not sure what will
happen. It is possible they put this off until after a
replacement has been appointed by the governor.”  
 Leahy said he expects the bill “will eventually pass.” In
the House, where the Democrats enjoy a wider margin, leaders
expect to hold a vote as early as tomorrow.  
 The regulatory package would create a consumer protection
agency at the Federal Reserve, give the government more
authority to unwind failing financial firms and impose new
requirements on over-the-counter derivatives markets and the
banks that oversee these trades.  
 Political Pressure  
 The latest developments may increase pressure on two Senate
Democrats,  Maria Cantwell  of Washington and  Russell Feingold  of
Wisconsin, to switch their votes and support the bill. Cantwell
and Feingold voted against the measure May 20 because they said
it was not strong enough.  
 Feingold said today that he wouldn’t switch his vote. “As
I have indicated for some time now, my test for the financial
regulatory reform bill is whether it will prevent another
crisis. The conference committee’s proposal fails that test and
for that reason I will not vote to advance it,” he said in a
statement.  
 Without Byrd, Democrats could still pass the bill if they
hold onto support from four Republicans: Brown;  Susan Collins 
and  Olympia  Snowe of Maine; and  Charles Grassley  of Iowa. If any
of the four vote no, leaders would need one Democrat to switch.  
 Cantwell opposed the earlier Senate bill because she said
she wanted stricter rules on derivatives trading. She argued
that a change made by Democrats on the Banking Committee would
give banks too much authority to decide what trades needed to be
registered on a clearinghouse. She also wanted more transparency
of the largely unregulated markets.  
 Loopholes  
 During debate in May, Cantwell complained that the
legislation “fails to close the very same loopholes in
derivatives trading that led to the biggest economic collapse
since the Great Depression.”  
 Brown, who won a special election this year in Democrat-
dominated Massachusetts by casting himself as a small-government
advocate, issued a statement on June 25 raising doubts about his
vote after negotiators included a fee on banks and other
financial institutions to make sure the legislation doesn’t add
almost $19 billion to the U.S. budget deficit.  
 “My fear is that these costs would be passed onto
consumers in the form of higher bank, ATM and credit-card fees
and put a strain on lending at the worst possible time for our
economy,” Brown said. “I’ve said repeatedly that I cannot
support any bill that raises taxes.”  
 Amendments  
 Grassley and Snowe haven’t commented on the final package
since negotiators in the House and Senate wrapped up their work.  
 Collins said today that she also is concerned about the
bank fees. Before deciding how to vote, “I’m taking a look at
the specifics,” she said.  
 Collins and Snowe backed the initial bill after the Senate
accepted their amendments. Collins’s bars bank holding companies
from holding less capital than their subsidiaries, and Snowe’s
would limit the new consumer-protection bureau’s authority over
small businesses.  
 Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , the
Connecticut Democrat who wrote much of the legislation, said
last week that the two Maine Republicans have had frequent
discussions with committee staff and lawmakers involved in the
final negotiations.  
 Byrd’s death leaves Democrats with 56 of the Senate’s 100
seats; two independents -- Senators  Joe Lieberman  of Connecticut
and  Bernie Sanders  of Vermont -- also caucus with the party.
Byrd, whose declining health forced him to miss votes in recent
years, cast critical votes in favor of President  Barack Obama ’s
health care bill when Republicans united against it.  
 Election Season  
 Democrats have struggled to muster the 60 votes they need
to bring contentious bills to the floor whenever Republicans
have united against them. As November elections approach,
Republican leaders may press rank-and-file members to make it
harder for Obama and his allies to score legislative wins.  
 “The level of unity in opposition across the board is
almost without precedent,” said  Thomas Mann , a congressional
expert with The Brookings Institution, a Washington-based
nonpartisan, non-profit policy center. “It’s all about trying
to regain the majority.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick O’Connor  in Washington at 
 Poconnor14@bloomberg.net  or  Phil Mattingly  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Democratic Senator Robert Byrd, died aged 92. Photographer: Win McNamee/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- John Lynch, chief equity strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management Group, discusses the potential impact of Senator Robert Byrd's death on the financial regulatory overhaul and stocks. (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
