-- Canada Dollar Near Strongest Level in Three Sessions as U.S. Equities Rise
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-06-28T20:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/canada-dollar-near-strongest-level-in-three-sessions-as-u-s-equities-rise.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar swung between gains
and losses as stocks fell and crude oil, the nation’s largest
export, declined, damping demand for riskier assets.  
 The currency has declined 1.9 percent this quarter versus
the greenback as signs of a faltering North American recovery
prompted a flight from higher-yielding assets to the perceived
safety of such haven currencies as the U.S. dollar and the yen.
Group of 20 leaders pledged they would maintain current stimulus
plans while aiming to at least halve deficits by 2013.  
 “The Canadian dollar is following the risk aversion tones
of the market,” said  Maria Jones , currency trader at Toronto-
Dominion Bank in Toronto. “We’ve probably seen the highs in the
loonie for a while given the performance of the global economy.
A lot of the recent economic indicators are coming in on a
weaker footing.”  
 Canada’s currency, known as the loonie, traded at C$1.0351
per U.S. dollar at 4:09 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0355
on June 25. It gained as much as 0.3 percent and declined as
much as 0.2 percent. One Canadian dollar buys 96.65 U.S. cents.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.2 percent after
rising as much as 0.5 percent. Crude oil for August delivery
dropped 1.1 percent on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The
Canadian dollar tends to track movements in stocks and
commodities.  
 ‘Panic Trade’  
 “With little domestic economic data of note, the Canadian
dollar will look to global developments, the price of oil and
general risk appetite or risk aversion for direction,” said
 Matthew Strauss , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Toronto. “The market is unwilling to take the
Canadian dollar any weaker than C$1.0450. For the currency to
move much lower we will need to see some substantial event.”  
 The loonie last week posted its largest decline since the
five days ended May 21 as reports showed the nation’s retail
sales fell in April five times more than forecast and purchases
of U.S. new homes last month fell to the lowest level on record.
The currency reached parity with the U.S. dollar for the first
time in almost two years on April 6.  
 “Going into quarter-end, you would have thought we would
have been closer to parity, but the panic trade of May has taken
us off course amid risk aversion,” said  Carlos Leitao , chief
economist at Laurentian Bank Securities in Montreal. “We should
see the Canadian dollar still getting closer to parity, implying
a significant appreciation as the reversal of the panic trade
continues and as the market continues to underestimate the Bank
of Canada, who will continue to raise rates going forward.”  
 Bank of Canada  
 The central bank on June 1 raised its target interest rate
to 0.50 percent from a record low 0.25 percent, the first Group
of Seven country to do so since last year’s global recession.  
 Economists reduced forecasts for the Bank of Canada
overnight rate to 1.25 percent by year-end and 2 percent by mid-
2011, from forecasts last month of 1.5 percent and 2.5 percent,
respectively, according to the weighted average of economists’
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 The loonie has gained 8.6 percent this year according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices, the second-best
performance among its 10 developed-world counterparts as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis burnished the allure of
currencies backed by relatively strong balance sheets.  
 Canada, the last member of the Group of Seven
industrialized nations to enter the global recession, was the
first to recover, thanks partly to having the Group of Seven’s
lowest debt-to-GDP ratio and the world’s soundest financial
system, according to the World Economic Forum.  
 Advanced G-20 economies will aim to halve deficits by 2013
and start to stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016, the
group said in a statement yesterday after a meeting in Toronto.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        