-- CH2M Hill Offers $286 Million for Scott Wilson Group to Top Bid From URS
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-06-28T21:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/ch2m-hill-offers-286-million-for-scott-wilson-group-to-top-bid-from-urs.html

          
          
             CH2M Hill Cos., a U.S. engineering
and environmental consulting firm, offered to buy U.K.-based
 Scott Wilson Group Plc  for 245 pence a share, topping a bid
accepted hours earlier from  URS Corp.   
 The plan values Scott Wilson, which is helping design
London’s Crossrail train line, at 189 million pounds ($285.5
million), closely held CH2M said today. That’s 17 percent more
than the proposal for 161 million pounds, or 210 pence a share,
advanced by San Francisco-based URS.  
 CH2M’s bid for all of Scott Wilson built on the disclosure
earlier today that the Englewood, Colorado-based firm had taken
a 13 percent stake and was considering a cash offer for the rest
of the company. CH2M Hill has worked on projects including a
seven-year program to double the capacity of the Panama Canal.  
 “The combination of Scott Wilson and CH2M Hill will create
a larger and stronger group and will represent to the customers
of both companies an attractive international service
provider,” CH2M Hill said in an e-mailed statement.  
 An outside spokesman for URS didn’t immediately return
messages seeking a comment.  
 Scott Wilson more than doubled to close at 253 pence in
London  trading , suggesting that investors expected another bid.
URS’s offer was 76 percent more than the U.K. company’s June 25
closing price. URS rose 53 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $41.32 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Bidding War  
 The emergence of CH2M as a suitor for Scott Wilson follows
a $1.3 billion bidding war for British manufacturer Chloride
Group Plc, where ABB Ltd. beat  Emerson Electric Co.  to conclude
a deal. URS said Basingstoke, England-based Scott Wilson would
accelerate its expansion in the U.K. and growth markets spanning
transport infrastructure.  
 Scott Wilson and URS have “known each other for many years
and have worked together on projects,” URS Chairman  Martin Koffel  said in a telephone interview earlier today. “These
discussions just started as a matter of natural course.”  
 Koffel declined to discuss CH2M’s interest in Scott Wilson.
CH2M earlier had acquired 9.5 million shares in Scott Wilson at
245 pence a share.  
 The URS chairman cited low corporate tax as making the U.K.
attractive even as the government looks to make budget cuts.  
 The companies cooperated on the widening of the U.K.’s M1
motorway, Scott Wilson Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Blackwood 
said in the interview. URS leads Nuclear Management Partners, a
venture with Amec Plc and Areva SA that decommissions nuclear
waste at Sellafield.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in New York at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        