-- China Crackdown on Local-Government Debt May Restrain Economy, CICC Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-28T07:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/china-tackling-local-government-debt-risks-may-undermine-growth-cicc-says.html

          
          
             China’s efforts to contain the risks
from a surge in local-government debt may hurt growth in the
world’s third-biggest economy, investment bank China
International Capital Corp. said.  
 A  report  by the chief auditor last week indicated officials
may take “relatively forceful measures” including strictly
controlling new borrowing, CICC economists led by Hong Kong-
based Ha Jiming said in a report today. The effect may be to
“limit the source of funding for infrastructure projects and
affect future economic growth.”  
 Chinese policy makers are grappling with the risks posed by
the credit boom that fueled the nation’s  comeback  from the
global recession. Fitch Ratings says lenders’ weakened financial
positions as asset quality deteriorates could limit the nation’s
ability to respond to any renewed global slump with more
stimulus measures.  
 Next year, after the end of existing fiscal stimulus, “the
funding of infrastructure projects will face greater pressure,
so fixed-asset investment growth may decelerate and we can’t be
optimistic about the outlook for the economy,” the CICC
economists said.  
 Chinese banks may face a wave of bad loans from lending to
local-government financing vehicles under the stimulus program
begun in November 2008,  Victor Shih , a political economist at
Northwestern University, and Citigroup Inc. have warned
separately.  
 Weakening Asset Quality  
 According to Fitch, lending so far may have limited the
government’s options in the future.  
 A future deterioration in lenders’ asset quality is a
“near-certainty,”  Charlene Chu , a senior director in financial
institutions ratings for Fitch in Beijing, told a conference in
Hong Kong last week. “Chinese banks’ financial positions are
more strained than it appears,” she said.  
 In an e-mail, she said that in the wake of last year’s
record $1.4 trillion of lending, banks would be less able to
engage in as large a stimulus as in 2008 and 2009. This could
make any potential double-dip recession more protracted, she
said.  
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission estimates that
outstanding loans to funding vehicles set up by local
governments rose 70 percent to 7.38 trillion yuan at the end of
2009 from a year earlier. In the first quarter of 2010, about 40
percent of new loans went to such entities, according to the
CBRC. The vehicles are used because local governments can’t
borrow directly.  
 Slowing Growth  
 China’s growth  will decelerate to 9.3 percent in 2011 from
10.1 percent this year, according to the median forecasts in
Bloomberg News surveys of economists. CICC didn’t give a
forecast for next year’s growth.  
 In a “worst-case scenario,” the non-performing loans of
local-government financing vehicles could reach 2.4 trillion
yuan ($350 billion) by 2011, Citigroup said in March. Shih said
separately that a crackdown on lending could lead to a
“gigantic wave” of bad debts.  
 The CICC analysts said today that the borrowing won’t lead
to a crisis for China for reasons including the government’s
growing revenue, relatively low level of debt overall and large
asset base.  
 Liu Jiayi , the nation’s chief auditor, indicated last week
in a report to a standing committee of the National People’s
Congress that some local governments’ debt burdens are excessive.  
 Fiscal Risk  
 The official cited cases of debts amounting to more than
100 percent of local governments’ available fiscal resources in
an audit of 18 provinces, 16 cities and 36 counties. In one case,
the level is 365 percent, Liu said.  
 Officials must “strictly control” local government
borrowing and prevent “the financial risk evolving into a
fiscal one,” Liu  said.   
 China’s gross domestic product grew 11.9 percent in the
first quarter of 2010 from a year earlier, the fastest pace in
almost three years. The risk that the nation could have a “hard
landing” has been one of the biggest sources of anxiety for
global investors this year,  Tim Condon , a Singapore-based
economist at ING Groep NV, said last week.  
 In November 2008, the government scrapped quotas that
limited banks’ lending and pressed them to support a stimulus
program devised to shield the economy from the effects of the
global financial crisis. The result was a  flood of cash .  
 Some of the money went into property, fueling speculation
that contributed to  record price gains , and some was channeled
into the local-government financing vehicles.  
 China’s banking regulator said June 15 that it sees growing
credit risks in the real-estate industry and warned of
increasing pressure from non-performing loans. The State Council,
China’s cabinet, this month ordered local governments to ensure
repayment of debts by the financing vehicles and concentrate on
completing projects already underway.  
 -- Sophie Leung ,  Li Yanping ,  Paul Panckhurst ,  Luo Jun . Editors:
Paul Panckhurst,  Michael Heath .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Rennie, head of currency research at Westpac Banking Corp., talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis from Sydney about the outlook for China's economy.
     A Chinese government official said the nation’s pledge for a more flexible yuan will slow China's exports this year, adding to difficulties that include the European debt crisis and rising costs. Rennie also discusses the U.S. economy and global currency market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
