-- China Stocks `Range-Bound' on Exports, Citigroup Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-29T08:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/china-s-slowing-exports-to-cut-prospects-for-stock-rebound-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             China’s exports face “strong
headwinds” in the second half of the year from policy
tightening measures and the European debt crisis, reducing
prospects of a rebound in the stock market, Citigroup Inc. said.  
 Chinese stocks  will probably stay “range-bound” pending
clarity on policies and the economy,  Shen Minggao , head of China
research at Citigroup, said in a report obtained today. The
 Shanghai Composite Index , the world’s third-worst performer this
year, slid for a fifth day, falling 4.3 percent to 2,427.05.  
 “While low valuations are attractive in the near term,
risks lurk in terms of earnings downgrades or policy reversal,”
Shen said. “Macro policies remain directionless.”  
 The government is seeking to sustain the nation’s expansion
while cooling property prices after record credit growth
increased concern that inflation will accelerate. The Shanghai
Composite has tumbled 23 percent this year, the most after
Greece and Cyprus among the 93 indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Central banker  Yi Gang  said June 28 the nation’s monetary
policies are flexible and could be either tightened or loosened.
Analysts are split on whether the People’s Bank of China will
raise interest rates this year from crisis levels as the world’s
third-biggest economy surges back from the financial crisis, a
Bloomberg News survey showed last week.  
 The Conference Board today corrected its April gauge for
the outlook of China’s economy to indicate a slower pace of
expansion.  
 Contrasting Views  
 Citigroup’s view of the stock market is in contrast with
Nomura Holdings Inc., which turned “bullish” last week after
the central bank on June 19 signaled it will make the exchange
rate more flexible, spurring speculation the yuan will
strengthen.  
 The revaluation of China’s currency won’t happen quickly or
fix all the global economy’s imbalances, International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said yesterday.  
 China indicated on June 19 that it was scrapping the yuan’s
two-year-old peg to the dollar, pledging a more flexible
exchange rate. The decision will slow exports this year, adding
to difficulties that include the European debt crisis and rising
costs, Yu Jianhua, a Ministry of Commerce director general, said
at the Group of 20 meetings in Toronto over the weekend.  
 China’s exports jumped 48.5 percent in May from a year
earlier, the biggest gain in more than six years. Shipment
growth may slow as Europe’s deficits undermine investor
confidence and force governments to step up spending cuts,
clouding the economic outlook. Europe is China’s largest export
destination, accounting for 20 percent of overseas sales.  
 Slowing Loan Growth  
 The central bank has ordered a larger proportion of
deposits as reserves at lenders three times this year to rein in
investment growth after banks advanced a record 9.59 trillion of
new loans in 2009.  
 Loan growth will slow to 18 percent by the end of the year
from 21.5 percent in May, Shen said. This will be a drag on
money supply growth and “weigh” on the stock market, he said.  
 The Hong Kong-based analyst recommended “high valuation
structural plays” because of their better earnings outlook.
Among Citigroup’s top buys are  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co .,
Dongfeng Motor Group Co. and Ctrip.com International Ltd. Angang
Steel Co. and Maanshan Iron & Steel Co. were cited as top sells.  
 -- Allen Wan  in Shanghai, with assistance from Shiyin Chen in
Singapore. Editors:  Reinie Booysen ,  Linus Chua   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan at +86-21-6104-7041 or
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at +65-6212-1170 or
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Central banker Yi Gang said the nation’s monetary policies are flexible and could be either tightened or loosened. Natalie Behring/ Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Rennie, head of currency research at Westpac Banking Corp., talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis from Sydney about the outlook for China's economy.
     A Chinese government official said the nation’s pledge for a more flexible yuan will slow China's exports this year, adding to difficulties that include the European debt crisis and rising costs. Rennie also discusses the U.S. economy and global currency market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Lewis Wan, chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering and the outlook for China's banking industry.
     Agricultural Bank set a price range for the Shanghai part of its initial public offering that will allow it to raise as much as $20.1 billion, according to a company statement. The Beijing-based bank may offer 22.2 billion shares in Shanghai at 2.52 yuan to 2.68 yuan apiece, it said. Agricultural Bank last week priced shares in the Hong Kong part of its IPO at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 each. Wan, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's economy and stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
