-- Christian Group's Rights Not Violated by Hastings Law School, Court Says
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-28T21:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/christian-group-s-rights-not-violated-by-hastings-law-school-court-says.html

          
          
             A divided  U.S. Supreme Court  ruled
that a public law school in San Francisco didn’t violate the
rights of a Christian student group by denying it recognition
because it limits participation by nonbelievers and gays.  
 The justices, voting 5-4, today upheld Hastings College of
Law’s “all-comers” policy, which requires unrestricted
membership for campus student groups. The policy doesn’t
infringe First Amendment rights, the court said.  
 “Hastings, caught in the crossfire between a group’s
desire to exclude and students’ demand for equal access, may
reasonably draw a line in the sand permitting all organizations
to express what they wish but no group to discriminate in
membership,” Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  wrote for the
majority.  
 The case divided the court along ideological lines, with
Justice  Anthony Kennedy  joining the liberal wing of Justices
Ginsburg,  John Paul Stevens ,  Stephen Breyer  and  Sonia Sotomayor .  
 The Christian Legal Society chapter requires voting members
and officers to sign a statement of agreement with the group’s
religious views. The group also excludes those who engage in
homosexual activity, saying such conduct is inconsistent with
its principles.  
 Recognized student organizations get priority access to
meeting space on the Hastings campus and the right to place
announcements in the law school newsletter and on bulletin
boards. Approved student organizations can also apply for funds
to pay for activities and travel. The Christian Legal Society is
the only group that has been denied recognition.  
 ‘Handy Weapon’  
 In dissent, Justice  Samuel Alito  said the majority “arms
public educational institutions with a handy weapon for
suppressing the speech of unpopular groups.” Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices  Antonin Scalia  and  Clarence Thomas  also
dissented.  
 Alito said the ruling conflicted with a 2000 Supreme Court
decision that said the Boy Scouts may bar a gay scoutmaster.  
 “The First Amendment shields the right of a group to
engage in expressive association by limiting membership to
persons whose admission does not significantly interfere with
the group’s ability to convey its views,” Alito wrote.  
 In a concurring opinion, Kennedy said those interests had
to yield to the legitimate right of the law school to foster
tolerance and cooperation among students of different
backgrounds and viewpoints.  
 “A vibrant dialogue is not possible if students wall
themselves off from opposing points of view,” Kennedy wrote.  
 The law school argued that the Christian Legal Society
could retain its membership policies -- and still have access to
unused classroom space and other facilities -- as a non-
recognized group.  
 The case is Christian Legal Society v. Martinez, 08-1371.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        