-- Citigroup Adds Risk to Asian Portfolio on Expectations of Stocks Rebound
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-28T03:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/citigroup-adds-risk-to-asian-portfolio-on-expectations-of-stocks-rebound.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc. is adding risk to its
Asian portfolio on expectations of a recovery in the region’s
stock markets later this year, with China likely to be the
“biggest winner.”  
 The brokerage cut utility stocks to “underweight” and
trimmed its “underweight” in property shares, according to a
June 25 report by strategists led by  Markus Rosgen . Chinese
shares, previously the biggest “underweight,” climbed in the
brokerage’s rankings, according to the report.  
 Stock markets will “continue to face headwinds until late
summer” as analysts cut  earnings estimates  and domestic
liquidity decelerates, Rosgen wrote. “Beyond these near-term
negatives, we expect markets to recover, the catalysts being
realistic expectations, attractive  valuations  and abating
concerns about global growth.”  
 The  MSCI Asia excluding Japan Index  tumbled as much as 16
percent from this year’s high on April 15 as Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis raised concerns that the global economic recovery
will sputter. The gauge is down 5.1 percent for 2010 and trades
at 1.9 times  book value , according to Bloomberg data.  
 Investors have an “interesting entry point” when
valuations decline to 1.6 times book value, the Citigroup
analysts wrote.  
 Worst Performer  
 China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  has declined 22
percent this year, the worst performer in Asia, as policy makers
tightened monetary policy after record lending last year spurred
a surge in property prices.  
 Recent wage increases in the country and a drop in the
yuan’s peg to the dollar will favor domestic consumption,
according to the Citigroup report.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  said his government predicts
the yuan will appreciate “significantly” given China’s
surpluses. The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it would
end a two-year peg to the dollar and manage the yuan with
reference to a basket of currencies.  
 Obama met on June 26 with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  for
talks that included currency and trade. China’s decision to
shift its exchange-rate policy and allow its currency to trade
more freely was a first step, and the U.S. will monitor progress
over the next “several months,” Obama said.  
 The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific corporate and sovereign
bonds from default dropped today after the U.S. Congress diluted
financial-reform legislation last week, causing banking stocks
to surge. The Markit iTraxx Asia index of credit-default swaps
on 50 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan fell 6 basis
points to 133 basis points, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. That’s the biggest decline since June 21, according
to CMA DataVision.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho  and Shiyin Chen. Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Reinie Booysen   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at +86-21-6104-7011 or
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at +65-6212-1170 or
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 22 (Bloomberg) -- Uri Landesman, president of Platinum Partners Value Arbitrage, and Katherine Schapiro, a portfolio manager at Sentinel Asset Management, talk about the outlook for emerging-market stocks including China. 
     Landesman and Schapiro also discuss their investment strategies. They speak with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (This is an excerpt from the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg columnist William Pesek speaks from Tokyo with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the impact of labor disputes in China on the nation's economy.
     Widening labor unrest has forced auto parts makers to raise wages in China, increasing production costs for Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. Boosting salaries will help the government increase domestic consumption and move the economy away from a reliance on exports for growth. (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
