-- Citigroup's Parsons Says Financial-Services Plan to Make Big Banks Bigger
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-06-28T15:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/citigroup-s-parsons-says-u-s-overhaul-plan-will-make-large-banks-bigger.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  Chairman  Richard Parsons  said the Obama administration’s financial regulatory
overhaul bill will make the U.S.’s largest banks bigger.  
 “They will make it tougher for smaller competitors and the
big are going to get bigger,” Parsons said in an interview at
the  Fortune Global Forum  in Cape Town today. The plans will lead
to a “denser regulatory environment” and may not create any
“material impediments” to Citigroup’s growth strategy, he
said.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  praised lawmakers last week for
passing what he described as the “toughest financial reforms”
since the Great Depression. The broadest changes affecting banks
will regulate the $615 trillion over-the-counter derivatives
market and mostly ban proprietary trading. In Europe, banks like
Citigroup and  Deutsche Bank AG  may face stress tests, while
those with U.K. operations may be taxed more.  
 Group of 20 leaders, discussing global financial rules in
Toronto, said banks need to have “significantly higher”
capital, while giving lenders more flexibility to implement the
changes. Countries should adopt the new standards by the end of
2012, and banks will be allowed to phase in capital increases
during a transition period.  
 “I hope what comes out of the G-20 at least is that the
leadership will agree that there will be some coordination,”
said  Maria Ramos , chief executive officer of  Absa Group Ltd. ,
South Africa’s third-largest bank by value. “The difficulty
comes in when there are different announcements and
uncertainty.”  
 Basel Rules  
 Leaders said they will seek a final agreement at a summit
in Seoul in November when the Basel Committee of Banking and
Supervision, made up of international central bankers, will
propose a road map. The U.S. pushed for stricter new capital
rules while Europeans stressed the need for a phase-in period.  
 The Basel committee’s likely proposals on capital rules for
lenders may be “restrictive,” Parsons said.  
 Citigroup, the U.S.’s third-biggest bank by assets, is
focusing on expanding in emerging markets, and Africa’s
population of 1 billion creates a “sweet spot” for financial
institutions, according to Parsons. The lender plans to fund
more transactions in Africa, targeting growth in industries from
oil and gas to mining and telecommunications. Nigeria and Angola
provide “important” opportunities, he said.  
 Citigroup , which received a $45 billion government bailout
in 2008, is the world’s ninth-largest bank by market value. The
shares advanced 6 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $4 as of 11:43 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        