-- Citigroup's Parsons Says Africa's Population is a `Sweet Spot' for Banks
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-06-28T14:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/citigroup-chairman-says-africa-s-1-billion-population-creates-sweet-spot-.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc. , the U.S. lender with
more than 200 million clients, said Africa’s population of 1
billion creates a “sweet spot” for financial institutions.  
 “A lot of the demographics here in Africa are exactly what
financial services institutions are looking for as the sweet
spot,” Citigroup Chairman  Dick Parsons , 62, said in an
interview at the  Fortune Global Forum  in Cape Town today.  
 The bank, based in New York, plans to fund more
transactions in Africa and take on more clients that fall within
the lender’s target market, Parsons said. The company is also
targeting “organic” growth in Nigeria and sees Angola as an
important opportunity, he said.  
 There are currently 10 distressed lenders and 14 healthy
banks in Nigeria that may sell stakes, the country’s central
bank has said. In South Africa,  Old Mutual Plc  said its holding
in  Nedbank Ltd.  isn’t subject to acquisition talks now, while it
may be in the future.  FirstRand Ltd. , South Africa’s second-
largest bank, is looking at purchases in Nigeria and selling its
insurance assets to become a “pure banking play,” according to
 Neville Chester , a banking analyst at Coronation Fund Managers
in Cape Town.  
 “Africa is one of the most interesting” and “fastest
growing” of emerging markets, Parsons said, adding that Nigeria
is “particularly” interesting.  
 ‘Given the demographic trends, given the presence of so
much of the world’s natural resource base here, there is huge
opportunity and it’s high margin,” he said.  
 Indonesia also holds “big opportunities” for Citigroup,
the chairman said.  
 “Citi has a broad-band network that reaches out to all
developing and emerging markets across the globe, and our job is
to fill up the pipes in terms of services and products that our
customers need, including Russia,” Parsons said. “Our CEO,
 Vikram Pandit , was just in Russia meeting” with President
 Dmitry Medvedev  about the “creation of stronger domestic
capital markets within Russia,” he said.  
 Citigroup , which received a $45 billion government bailout
in 2008, is the world’s ninth-largest bank by market value. It
fell 0.3 percent to $3.93 as of 9:30 a.m. in New York trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        