-- Clijsters and Henin Rekindle Rivalry in Wimbledon Fourth-Round Matchup
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-28T08:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/clijsters-and-henin-rekindle-rivalry-in-wimbledon-fourth-round-matchup.html

          
          
             Kim Clijsters  and  Justine Henin  will
rekindle one of the longest current rivalries in women’s tennis
when they play at Wimbledon today for a place in the
quarterfinals.  
 The Belgians, both former top-ranked players who came out
of retirement after taking a break from the game, are tied 12-
12. Although the two have won nine major titles between them
since they first played each other in 1999 in Reims, France, a
Wimbledon trophy is still missing.  
 Cljisters last year won her second U.S. Open title as a
wild-card entrant. It was only her third tournament since she
came out of a two-year retirement during which she got married
and had a baby girl. This year marks the first time Clijsters is
playing the Wimbledon championships since Henin beat her in
straight sets in the 2006 semi-final.  
 “It’s great opportunity for both of us,” Henin said in a
news conference after she beat  Nadia Petrova  in the third round.
“To play each other again in a Grand Slam, it’s something we
couldn’t expect for still a year ago. It’s going to be
interesting, very exciting.”  
 After a traditional day of rest on the “Middle Sunday,”
the  entire fourth round  in the men’s and women’s draws will be
played today.  
 Federer, Serena  
 Defending men’s champion  Roger Federer  takes on Austria’s
 Jurgen Melzer , while women’s champion  Serena Williams  meets 2004
winner  Maria Sharapova .  Rafael Nadal , the 2008 champion, faces
 Paul-Henri Mathieu  of France. Last year’s finalist  Andy Roddick 
plays Yen-Hsun Lu of Chinese Taipei, while Briton’s  Andy Murray 
meets  Sam Querrey  of the U.S.  
 Henin has an edge over Clijsters on the faster grass
courts, leading 3-1. Clijsters’ only win on the surface over
Henin came when the former No. 1 retired during a tournament in
‘s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands in 2003. Henin also leads
Clijsters in meetings in majors, winning their five previous
matches in Grand Slam events.  
 The 27-year-old Clijsters, who grew up in Belgium’s
Flemish-speaking region, while the 28-year-old Henin was raised
in the French-speaking part. Both lost a parent. Henin’s mother
died of cancer when she was 12, while Clijsters’ father Lei, a
former soccer player for Belgium, died last year.  
 Clijsters’ preparation for Wimbledon wasn’t ideal. She
injured her left foot during a Fed Cup tie against Estonia in
April, which forced her to pull out of the French Open. She only
returned to the women’s circuit in Eastbourne, where she lost to
Victoria Azarenka of Belarus in the quarterfinals.  
 “It hasn’t been easy,” Clijsters, the No. 8 seed at the
All England Club, said in Eastbourne. A sprained ligament and a
muscle strain to her left foot had affected her mindset, she
said. “Try and get over that injury mentally, and to play
without any fear, and to move without any fear.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        