-- Cocoa Rises to Seven-Week High as Rain Hurts African Crops; Coffee Falls
-- Jennifer A. Johnson
-- 2010-06-28T18:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/cocoa-rises-to-seven-week-high-as-rain-hurts-african-crops-coffee-falls.html

          
          
             Cocoa futures rose to a seven-week
high in New York as heavy rain threatened crops in Africa,
including Ivory Coast, the world’s largest grower and exporter.
Coffee prices declined.  
 Rainfall in parts of Ivory Coast’s Daloa region, the
biggest cocoa-growing area, was almost three times the year-
earlier total over nine days earlier this month, the National
Meteorological Service said on June 24. Moisture has increased
the chance of crop disease in Nigeria, a local group said. Cocoa
prices are up 12 percent in New York in the past six weeks.  
 “Heavy rains in Ivory Coast and Nigeria have boosted cocoa
prices,” said  Dennis Cajigas , a senior market strategist at MF
Global Ltd., a broker in Chicago.  
 Cocoa for September delivery gained $25, or 0.8 percent, to
$3,138 a metric ton on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, after
touching $3,144, the highest level for a most-active contract
since May 7.  
 The Daloa region in Ivory Coast received 131.7 millimeters
(5.2 inches) of rain from June 11 to June 20, compared with 48.1
millimeters in the same period a year earlier, according to the
meteorological service.  
 In Nigeria, the increased threat of black-pod disease from
excessive moisture prompted farmers to start early spraying
against the fungal infection, according to the Cocoa Association
of Nigeria. The country is Africa’s third-largest producer of
the chocolate ingredient, behind Ivory Coast and Ghana.  
 Pound, Consumer Spending  
 Cocoa prices also got a boost from the rally in the British
pound against the dollar, increasing demand for supplies traded
in New York, Cajigas said. The U.K. currency, used to trade
cocoa in London, rose as much as 0.4 percent  
 A better-than-expected rise in U.S. consumer spending also
may be providing a boost for prices, Cajigas said.  
 Consumer purchases rose 0.2 percent in May, after little
change in April, Commerce Department figures showed today. The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
0.1 percent gain. Incomes climbed 0.4 percent, and the savings
rate increased to the highest level in eight months.  
 Global consumption of cocoa will climb 3 percent in the
year that ends Sept. 30, as the economy expands and processors
and food companies rebuild inventories,  Kona Haque , an analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd., said June 25 in a report.  
 In London’s Liffe exchange, cocoa futures for July delivery
rose 20 pounds, or 0.8 percent, to 2,574 pounds ($3,884) a
metric ton. Cocoa for September delivery fell 3 pounds to 2,447
pounds ($3,697).  
 In another ICE market, arabica-coffee futures for September
delivery fell 0.8 cent, or 0.5 percent, to $1.681 a pound in New
York. The commodity has gained 40 percent in the past 12 months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Johnson  in Chicago at 
 JJohnson133@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        