-- Consob's Cardia Says European Union Needs to Define New Market Regulator
-- Elisa Martinuzzi
-- 2010-06-28T12:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/consob-s-cardia-says-european-union-needs-to-define-new-market-regulator.html

          
          
             European officials will need to
clearly define the role of a proposed regional financial market
regulator for the new watchdog to be effective, said  Lamberto Cardia , outgoing head of Italy’s securities market regulator
Consob.  
 The European Commission has drawn up proposals for Europe-
wide supervisors for the banking, securities and insurance
industries in response to the worst financial crisis since World
War II. The plan would see the Committee of European Securities
Regulators take on more powers at the start of next year and
change its name to the European Securities and Markets
Authority.  
 Europe “will have to establish with clarity the mission
for the European regulator and for the national regulators,
their powers and their autonomy both from government and the
European Commission and just what their responsibilities will
be,” Cardia said today in a speech at Consob’s annual meeting
in Milan.  
 Cardia, 76, is leaving after seven years when he stepped up
investigations for market manipulation and insider trading in
Italy. Under Cardia, Consob was given expanded powers to police
market irregularities after hundreds of thousands of Italians
lost much of their savings in the collapse of dairy company
Parmalat Finanziaria SpA.  
 Consob Fines  
 Consob levied sanctions for regulatory breaches totaling
21.1 million euros ($26 million) in 2009, more than triple the
amount in 2008. In September, Consob fined bankers including
Citigroup Inc. employees 3.4 million euros for alleged insider
trading of Banca Italease SpA shares in 2006, and this year
fined fund managers 1.06 million euros in the same case.  
 Cardia urged euro-region members to better coordinate
budget policies, saying the euro would remain “an unfinished
project” until there was more coordination. “Monetary
integration hasn’t been accompanied by political integration,”
he said.  
 The lack of coordination was hampering the recovery in
financial markets, Cardia said. “Confidence in the markets will
return when Europe adopts common fiscal and budgetary policies
based on balanced budgets,” he said.  
 Cardia on June 24 was appointed chairman of Ferrovie dello
Stato SpA, Italy’s state-owned railway. He joins Ferrovie on
July 1. Newspapers have reported that the government will name
Antitrust Chairman  Antonio Catricala  to replace him.  
 Efforts by the EU and the Group of 20 to create global
standards “hasn’t yielded definitive results and hasn’t
produced broad coordinated intervention,” Cardia said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        