-- Consumer Spending in May Increased More Than Forecast
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-06-28T20:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/consumer-spending-in-u-s-increased-in-may-more-than-forecast.html

          
          
             Incomes grew faster than spending in
May, making it possible for American households to
simultaneously increase savings and support the economic
recovery.  
 Consumer purchases rose 0.2 percent, exceeding the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after little
change the prior month, Commerce Department figures showed
today.  Incomes  climbed 0.4 percent, and the savings rate
increased to the highest level in eight months.  
 Gains in payrolls, longer workweeks and rising pay give
Americans more confidence and the means to maintain spending in
coming months. The  Federal Reserve’s  decision last week to keep
interest rates unchanged may help households weather the fallout
from the European debt crisis, unemployment hovering near a 26-
year high and tight credit.  
 “The consumer is finally starting to see some positive
wage gains as the job market starts to improve,” said  Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford,
Connecticut. “Consumer spending isn’t going to propel the
recovery forward, but it should be more than enough to sustain
it. Overall, this was a fairly solid report.”  
 Stocks dropped as shares of energy producers fell in
conjunction with oil prices. The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index 
decreased 0.2 percent to close at 1,074.57. Treasury securities
jumped, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to
3.02 percent at 4:09 p.m. in New York from 3.11 percent late on
June 25.  
 Exceeds Forecast  
 The median estimate of 61 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
news called for a 0.1 percent gain in spending. Projections
ranged from an increase of 0.3 percent to a 0.5 percent drop.  
 “Consumers are less cautious than they were previously,”
 Robert Niblock , chief executive officer at Lowe’s Cos., the
second-largest home-improvement chain, said in a June 23
teleconference. “But they still know that we’re still not out
of the woods yet.”  
 Lowe’s  last month said it will add more than 1,400
positions for  employees  to visit customers’ homes to sell them
windows, doors and other products. The retailer is filling those
jobs internally and hiring new employees, Maureen Rich, a
spokeswoman for the Mooresville, North Carolina-based company
said in a May 28 interview.  
 Wages and salaries  rose 0.5 percent in May for a second
month and were up 1.3 percent since March, the biggest three-
month gain since December 2007, the month the recession began.
The median estimate of economists surveyed called for a 0.5
percent advance in incomes.  
 Savings Rate  
 The  savings rate  increased to 4 percent last month, the
highest level since September, to $454.3 billion.  
 “The U.S. consumer remains resilient,” said  Sal Guatieri ,
a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, which
correctly forecast the gain in spending. “As long as jobs are
coming back people will continue to spend.” Americans will also
“remain focused on paying down their debts and rebuilding their
savings.”  
 The report showed prices stabilized. The inflation gauge
tied to spending patterns increased 1.9 percent from May 2009
after a 2 percent increase in the 12 months through April.  
 The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.2 percent in May from the prior month, exceeding
the 0.1 percent median estimate of economists surveyed.  
 The Fed last week said the labor market is “improving
gradually,” changing April’s assessment that it was “beginning
to improve.” Consumer spending still “remains constrained” by
joblessness and “tight credit,” it said.  
 Durable Goods  
 Adjusted for inflation, purchases rose 0.3 percent last
month after little change in April. Price-adjusted spending on
durable goods, including automobiles and appliances, increased
1.1 percent after a 0.5 percent drop. Demand for nondurable
goods decreased 0.2 percent, the first decline this year, while
spending on services increased 0.3 percent.  
 Confidence  among U.S. consumers rose in June to the highest
level since January 2008, indicating the decline in stock prices
prompted by the European debt crisis has failed to weigh on
sentiment, figures from Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
showed last week. The group’s final sentiment index increased to
76 from 73.6 in May. The index has averaged 84.5 over the past
decade.  
 Consumer spending  grew at a 3 percent annual pace in the
first three months of 2010, less than previously estimated, the
Commerce Department said last week. The report showed the
economy grew 2.7 percent in the first quarter.  
 Economists surveyed this month projected purchases will
expand at a 3 percent rate in the April-to-June period and 2.6
percent in the second half of the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'Consumers are less cautious than they were previously,' said Lowe’s Cos. CEO Robert Niblock Photographer: Davis Turner/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Consumer spending in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent in May, more than forecast, a sign households are gaining confidence in the recovery and the job market. Personal income climbed 0.4 percent. Bloomberg's Betty Liu and Mike McKee report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
