-- Consob Asks Intesa Sanpaolo, UniCredit to Adopt Measures Against Conflicts
-- Sonia Sirletti
-- 2010-06-28T13:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/consob-asks-intesa-sanpaolo-unicredit-to-adopt-measures-against-conflicts.html

          
          
             Intesa Sanpaolo SpA ,  UniCredit SpA ,
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, Banco Popolare SC and BNP
Paribas SA should protect clients from potential conflicts of
interest when selling them investments or face sanctions,
Italy’s stock market regulator said today.  
 “We’re expecting an immediate adoption of measures, while
discretionary, to correct any misalignment,” Consob Chairman
 Lamberto Cardia  said today at a conference in Milan. Consob may
pursue sanctions if policies aren’t changed, Cardia said.  
 Regulators and lawmakers are scrutinizing how banks manage
potential conflicts of interest amid concern they put their own
profit ahead of serving clients. Consob’s request today comes
after the regulator in May said it reviewed how the five firms
were selling investments to individuals.  
 The five banks are studying measures to address the
concerns raised by Consob, the Rome-based watchdog said last
month. Cardia today said an additional nine financial
institutions are under review, without giving further details.  
 Officials for UniCredit, Intesa and Monte Paschi declined
to comment. Officials for Banco Popolare and BNP didn’t have an
immediate comment.  
 Banks have responded to a liquidity crisis by selling more
bonds to individuals, Cardia said today. Italy’s households
invest about 10 percent of their wealth in bank bonds, up from
2 percent in 1995, an amount “far” greater than in other
European countries, he said.  
 Consob in December reprimanded Banca Popolare di Milano
Scrl, which was found to have improperly sold part of a
700 million-euro ($864 million) convertible bond offering
to its clients.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        