-- Corn Drops, Posts Longest Decline Since March on Favorable Weather in U.S.
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-06-28T02:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/corn-has-longest-losing-streak-since-march-on-favorable-weather-in-u-s-.html

          
          
             Corn futures slumped in Chicago for
a sixth day, the longest losing streak since March, on
speculation drier weather in the Midwest will boost crop
development in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter.  
 Corn for December delivery declined as much as 1.4 percent
to $3.555 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and was at
$3.5825 at 10:02 a.m. Singapore time.  
 The Midwest will have drier, warmer weather this week,
bringing more relief to crops after excessive rain earlier this
month, Accuweather.com said in a forecast on June 25. The
Midwest is the largest U.S. corn and soybean growing region.  
 “The weather at the moment has been fantastic,”  Peter McGuire , managing director of CWA Global Markets Pty. said by
phone from Sydney. “The Midwest weather forecast will support
the development of U.S. crops.”  
 Soybeans for November delivery advanced for the first time
in five sessions, gaining as much as 0.4 percent to $9.155 a
bushel, before trading at $9.15 a bushel.  
 La Nina may hurt soybean crops in the U.S., the largest
exporter, and South America, if it causes a severe drought
between early August and February,  Bryce Anderson , agricultural
meteorologist at Telvent DTN Inc., said June 25. It may be too
early to predict exactly when the weather phenomenon will arrive
and how strong it will be, he said.  
 La Nina, characterized by colder-than-normal sea-surface
temperatures in the Pacific Ocean, may cause wetter-than-usual
weather in Asia and below-average rainfall in parts of the U.S.,
Argentina and south Brazil, potentially damaging crops.  
 There’s a high probability of La Nina developing during
India’s June-to-September monsoon season, the India
Meteorological Department office said June 25.  
 The market will be monitoring the impact of La Nina on
global soybean production, particularly in the U.S., Brazil and
Argentina, the three biggest soybean exporters, McGuire said.
“When you’re dealing with Mother Nature, you’ve always got
those issues, as far as the weather is concerned,” he said.  
 Wheat for September delivery lost as much as 1.1 percent to
$4.6575 a bushel, before trading at $4.68.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        