-- Janacek Joins Czech Central Bank's Board, Reinforcing Euroskeptic Outlook
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-06-29T10:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/czech-president-klaus-to-name-economist-janacek-as-new-bank-board-member.html

          
          
             Czech economist  Kamil Janacek , who
has argued against the country’s quick adoption of the euro, was
appointed to the central bank board, reinforcing the euroskeptic
outlook among policy makers.  
 President  Vaclav Klaus , the Czech Republic’s most high-
profile critic of the  European Union  and the bloc’s common
currency area, named Janacek at a ceremony at Prague Castle
today. Janacek, 67, is the oldest of the board’s seven members.
 The president  also named board member  Vladimir Tomsik , 36, to
the position of vice governor.  
 “I don’t think that too pro-active a monetary policy would
be good for the present, nor the future,” Janacek told
reporters after being appointed. Current monetary policy
settings are appropriate, he said.  
 The central bank has widely been seen by investors as
politically independent, though the president has the sole
mandate to choose board members. It has urged government
spending cuts after the worst  recession  in 20 years.  
 While the country doesn’t have a target to adopt the euro,
several policy makers have said the country has benefitted from
having its own monetary policy at the time of the global
financial crisis.  
 Euro Views  
 Janacek, who since 1994 has been the chief economist at
Komercni Banka AS, the local unit of France’s Societe Generale
SA, has similar views on the euro to Klaus, who delayed signing
the EU’s Lisbon Treaty last year and has opposed a rush into the
euro area.  
 “In terms of the long-term views on the economy, the euro
or monetary policy, Janacek’s opinions will understandably be
close to the president’s,”  Jan Cermak , an economist at CSOB
Bank, a Czech unit of KBC GROEP NV, said in a phone interview.
“He may be close to other board members, such as  Vladimir Tomsik  and  Eva Zamrazilova , who have worked with him in the
past. I would see him slightly on the side of the dovish wing.”  
 In 2005, Janacek was the co-author of an  article  which
argued that the euro has failed to accelerate economic growth
for the countries that use it, a stance repeatedly presented by
Klaus.  
 One year earlier, Janacek co-wrote a research paper with
Stanislava Janackova from Klaus’ office on the euro-adoption
process, which said the advantages of the country having an
independent monetary policy and its own currency prevailed over
benefits of quick entry to the euro area for the Czech economy.  
 ‘No Hurry’  
 “Following a policy of ‘no hurry’ with euro adoption would
undoubtedly be beneficial for the Czech Republic in light of the
long-term process of catching up with more developed
countries,” the  paper  said. “Use of country-specific monetary
policy is indispensable for real convergence.”  
 With the appointment of  Miroslav Singer  as governor on June
18, and the naming of two new board members when the six-year
terms of  Pavel Rezabek  and  Robert Holman  end in February 2011,
Klaus has a chance to reshape monetary policy as the nation
moves toward euro adoption. Singer and the other Vice Governor,
Mojmir Hampl, have said independent monetary policy and own
currency helped to tame the impact of the global crisis.  
 Tomsik, an advocate of free-market principles and a critic
of state interference in the economy through such methods as
subsidies for industries, was named to the board in December
2006.  
 Singer will officially become governor on July 1 when
 Zdenek Tuma  steps down. Tuma said he was leaving his post almost
eight months before his second term was to expire to limit the
period of “uncertainty” related to personnel changes at the
bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        