-- Dacheng, China's Largest Law Firm, Opens in Hong Kong, Targets Share Sales
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-06-29T04:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/dacheng-china-s-largest-law-firm-opens-in-hong-kong-targets-share-sales.html

          
          
             Dacheng Law Offices , Asia’s largest
legal firm by number of lawyers, opened a Hong Kong office,
joining rival U.S. and Chinese firms that have expanded in the
city to target a boom in finance and mergers.  
 Beijing-based Dacheng will have 15 partners in Hong Kong by
the end of this year, Yang Jinzhu, a Hong Kong-based partner
said in an interview yesterday. Dacheng, whose clients include
 China Railway Group Ltd. ,  China National Aviation Holding Co. ,
and  Export-Import Bank of China , hopes to win business from
foreign companies that want to issue yuan-denominated shares on
Shanghai’s planned international board, he said.  
 The number of international law firms in Hong Kong has more
than doubled to 70 since 2004, including Chinese firms  King &
Wood ,  Zhong Lun Law Firm  and  Jun He Law Offices . New York-based
firms Shearman & Sterling LLP and Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP have
also expanded their offices in the last year seeking merger and
private equity work with local law practices. Dacheng is one of
12 mainland Chinese law firms with offices in Hong Kong.  
 “Hong Kong is a financial hub and gateway into and out of
China,” said  Law Society  of Hong Kong President Huen Wong.  
 China-related stocks now account for half of  market
capitalization  in the city, up from 5 percent in 1993. Companies
last year raised HK$248.2 billion ($32 billion) through initial
share sales in  Hong Kong , the most of any exchange.  
 Mainland Capital Markets  
 “Hong Kong is a bridge between the international and
mainland capital markets so it’s important that we’re here,”
Dacheng’s Yang said.  
 Ten of the 12 mainland Chinese firms in Hong Kong, which
maintains a  separate legal system  from the People’s Republic of
China, have registered as foreign law firms. Meanwhile, Beijing-
based King & Wood and Jun He have converted their Hong Kong
operations into local firms, enabling them to practice there
without a Hong Kong-based partner.  
 Dacheng said it will work in association with Hong Kong-
based Wong Poon Chan Law & Co.  
 Dacheng’s 835 lawyers made it the largest law firm in Asia
in 2009, according to  Asian Legal Business  magazine. Baker &
McKenzie LLP and King & Wood followed with 821 and 800,
according to ALB.  
 Dacheng is aiming for revenue of 10 million yuan ($1.5
million) in its first year at the new Hong Kong Office, Yang 
said. Dacheng will cover capital markets and litigation and will
include a new practice targeting family-run businesses in Asia,
said Yang.  
 The firm has 29 offices in China and offices in Los Angeles
and  Singapore . Dacheng opened in Taipei May 16 and plans to
establish New York and Hanoi offices by the end of the year,
spokeswoman Lily Lau said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        