-- Debt Investors `Poorly Compensated' for Volatility, Barclays Capital Says
-- John Glover
-- 2010-06-28T10:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/debt-investors-poorly-compensated-for-volatility-barclays-capital-says.html

          
          
             Credit investors are being “poorly
compensated” for price volatility, sideling buyers until the
fourth quarter, according to analysts at Barclays Capital.  
 Three-month volatility on the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on investment-grade companies has more than
doubled to 84 percent since April, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, while the benchmark’s level has risen 60 percent.
Greater volatility, the rate at which prices move up or down,
means investors can make or lose more money than usual.  
 “Spreads are wider than they were but volatility has gone
through the roof,” Barclays Capital credit strategist  Aziz Sunderji  said in an interview. “That’s keeping real-money
investors who are sitting on piles of cash on the sidelines.”  
 Investor sentiment has been dented by “very weak” sales
of new homes in the U.S. and “dovish” central bank statements,
casting doubt on the strength of the recovery, London-based
Sunderji said. The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, less than previously calculated,
according to Commerce Department data.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe index reached a two-week high of
130.9 basis points on June 25, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The gauge fell 2.5 basis points today to 123.5. The index is
near the lowest since July 2008 when volatility is taken into
account, Sunderji said.  
 Unappealing Environment  
 “This is hardly an appealing environment for risk
taking,” Sunderji said. “There are few catalysts for a
sustained rally over the summer.”  
 Sentiment should improve in the fourth quarter as
volatility declines and investors start to use the cash they
hold, according to Sunderji.  
 “We expect volatility to subside, liquidity to increase
and that will draw real-money investors into the market,” he
said. “By then we may also have more clarity on issues such as
bank funding and regulation.”  
 Credit-default swaps are contracts based on bonds and loans
that are used to speculate on a company’s ability to repay debt.
An increase indicates deterioration in the perception of credit
quality; a decline, the opposite.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
$10 million of debt is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        