-- Won, Australian Dollar Strengthen on G-20 Deficit Targets
-- Saeromi Shin
-- 2010-06-28T06:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/dollar-yen-weaken-as-g-20-endorses-deficit-reduction-targets-won-gains.html

          
          
             The won, ringgit and Australian
dollar strengthened against the U.S. currency and the yen, and
concerns about defaults diminished after leaders from the Group
of 20 nations endorsed targets to slash budget deficits once the
world’s economic recoveries are cemented.  
 The won gained 1.3 percent to 1,201.89 per dollar at 3:27
p.m. in Tokyo, rising for the first time in five days, and
Malaysia’s ringgit climbed 0.7 percent. Australia’s currency
rose 0.4 percent. The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific corporate
and government bonds from non-payment fell the most since June
21. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  swung between gains and losses.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.1 percent and
those for the  Euro Stoxx 50  added 0.4 percent.  
 The G-20 pledged to maintain existing stimulus plans and
take “concerted actions” to sustain the global recovery, then
aim to reduce deficits by 2013. G20 leaders also said the
recovery, while faster than expected, is “uneven and fragile”
and called for banks to raise more capital to avoid a repeat of
the global financial crisis.  
 “Investors seem to be weighing uncertainties over the
global economic outlook in the latter half,” said  Hyun Dong Sik ,
a fund manager at Korea Investment Trust Management Co. in Seoul,
which manages $15 billion. “I don’t think we will have a double
dip, but the pace of recovery seen in the past year will
inevitably slow down as stimulus measures fizzle out.”  
 Yen Action  
 The yen was at 89.36 per dollar from 89.23 last week, when
it strengthened to 89.22, the highest since May 21, while the
dollar slipped to 1.0928 Swiss francs from 1.0929, after earlier
weakening to 1.0897, the lowest since May 4.  
 Yuan forwards strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.67 per dollar,
extending last week’s again, after U.S. President  Barack Obama 
said that his government expects the yuan to go up
“significantly.” The president also said the G20’s goal to cut
deficits reflects U.S. targets and takes into account the fiscal
and economic needs of each nation.  
 “The G-20 statement has Europe’s desire for deficit cuts
and the U.S.’s for maintenance of economic stimulus, which
satisfies both of them,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency
dealer at Okasan Securities Co. Ltd. in Tokyo.  
 Credit-default swap indexes declined, with the Markit
iTraxx Australia index sliding 9 basis points to 126, according
to Nomura Holdings Inc. The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped 6
basis points to 130, Morgan Stanley and CMA prices show, while
the Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade borrowers
outside Japan fell 6 basis points to 133 basis points, according
to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  
 Equity Movers  
 About the same number of stocks rose and fell on the MSCI
regional index.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  led Japanese banks
lower, losing 2.6 percent after saying it plans to sell new
shares.  Seoul Broadcasting System , which has the World Cup
broadcasting rights in South Korea, dropped 1.4 percent after
the nation’s soccer team failed to advance to the quarterfinals.  
 Indian Oil Corp. , the nation’s biggest state-owned refiner,
soared 6.4 percent, adding to an 11 percent surge on June 25
after India said it will scrap price controls on gasoline and
diesel after more than seven years.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. 
gained 3.2 percent and Hindustan Petroleum Corp. surged 7.1
percent. The  Sensex  climbed 0.5 percent, the first increase in
three days.  
 Raw material prices also increased, with nickel advancing
as much as 1.8 percent and copper trading near the highest level
in four weeks. Oil pared gains to trade little changed at $78.77
a barrel in New York after earlier rising to the highest in
seven weeks.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at a news conference during the Group of 20 summit in Toronto, on June 27, 2010. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Rennie, head of currency research at Westpac Banking Corp., talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis from Sydney about the outlook for China's economy.
     A Chinese government official said the nation’s pledge for a more flexible yuan will slow China's exports this year, adding to difficulties that include the European debt crisis and rising costs. Rennie also discusses the U.S. economy and global currency market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Craig Ferguson, a currency hedge fund manager at Antipodean Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his forecast for the Australian dollar.
     Ferguson, speaking from Melbourne, also discusses the implications of Julia Gillard's appointment as Australia's prime minister on the nation's currency and proposed mining profits tax, and the outlook for the yuan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
