-- Dubai Port Operator DP World Delays Dual-Listing on London Stock Exchange
-- Arif Sharif
-- 2010-06-28T12:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/dubai-port-operator-dp-world-postpones-listing-shares-on-london-exchange.html

          
          
             DP World Ltd. , the world’s fourth-
biggest port operator, postponed the listing of its shares on
the  London Stock Exchange  as it awaits the completion of a link
between the bourses in London and its home market Dubai.  
 DP World, owned by the Dubai government, “decided to
postpone the listing process until an acceptable system that
supports the dual listing is available,”  DP World  said in a
statement to Nasdaq Dubai today. The “next practical window of
opportunity” to seek a London listing would now be after the
publication of its 2010 audited annual results, it said.  
 DP World will wait until the Dubai and London markets have
completed aligning their trading systems that will enable
investors in London to buy the company’s shares, said a DP World
spokeswoman, who declined to be identified because of company
policy.  Nasdaq Dubai , where DP World’s shares trade, was
acquired this month by the  Dubai Financial Market PJSC , another
bourse in the emirate which will manages the trading system.  
 DP World said in January it will seek a listing on the
London exchange and maintain the primary listing on Nasdaq
Dubai. The move would help improve investor perception of its
value, the company said. The port operator raised almost $5
billion as it sold shares for $1.30 apiece in 2007.  
 DP World shares declined for a fifth day, plunging as much
as 7.3 percent to 44.8 cents, the lowest intraday level since
June 16. The shares have gained 7 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of $7.64 billion.  
 Listing Approvals  
 DP World expects to begin the London listing process in the
“spring,” the DP World spokeswoman said. The company needs to
have a fresh set of audited results for it, she said.  
 Nasdaq Dubai, part-owned by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , has
struggled to attract trading volume since its inception in
September 2005. Dubai-based interiors contractor Depa Ltd. in
July blamed the exchange’s low liquidity for its falling share
price and said it’s considering moving to another bourse.  
 Dubai Financial Market, the only Gulf Arab stock market to
sell shares to the public, in December offered to acquire Nasdaq
Dubai for $121 million as Dubai government-controlled companies
restructure amid the global financial crisis.  
 DP World  in March reported a less-than-expected decline in
full-year profit to $332.8 million helped by cost-cutting, and
said there were early signs of a recovery in trade. Container
volumes at the 28 ports DP World consolidates for accounting
purposes fell 8 percent in 2009 to 25.6 million 20-foot
equivalent container units, a standard measure of volume for
ports, it said in January.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        