-- Dutch Say There's Room to Improve After Extending Perfect World Cup Record
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-06-28T22:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/dutch-say-there-s-room-to-improve-after-extending-perfect-world-cup-record.html

          
          
             The Netherlands extended its perfect
record in qualifying and tournament matches for the 2010 World
Cup to 12 by beating Slovakia 2-1 to reach the quarterfinals.
The players and coach still aren’t satisfied.  
 “We didn’t play our best game today but in the end it’s
about winning,” Netherlands forward  Arjen Robben  told reporters
in Durban last night after his goal-scoring return to the
starting lineup. “We’re going through to the next round and
hopefully we will save our best match for when we need it.”  
 The victory over a Slovakian team that ousted defending
champion Italy in the group stage sent the Netherlands to a July
2 quarterfinal in Port Elizabeth, South Africa against Brazil,
3-0 winners over Chile last night. The Oranje’s best finish at
the four-yearly championship came in 1974 and 1978 when they
lost in the final.  
 After topping their European qualifying group by winning
all eight matches, the Dutch have now made their best start to a
World Cup with four straight victories.  
 “We’re here for one reason and one reason only,”
Netherlands coach  Bert van Marwijk  said in a news conference.
“As a sportsman you have to go for the big prize, so when you
go to a World Cup you have to try to become a winner. I do think
that everybody is taking account of the Netherlands here.”  
 Van Marwijk’s  team opened the tournament by beating Denmark
2-0 before defeating Japan 1-0 and finishing group play with a
2-1 victory over Cameroon.  
 “We have to keep going,” Netherlands striker  Dirk Kuyt 
told reporters. “We can improve, we must improve. That’s the
spirit of this team. We’ve won four games and we just want to
win the fifth.”  
 Robben Lift  
 The return of Robben, who was in doubt for the World Cup
after hurting his hamstring in a tune-up, has already lifted the
Netherlands’ level of play, Slovakia coach Vladimir Weiss said.  
 “We were preparing for three days for Robben but he’s an
absolute genius, he really knows what he’s doing,” Weiss told
reporters. “When I saw him in the lineup I knew that he makes
the Netherlands 50 percent stronger. I was correct.”  
 Robben, who helped Bayern Munich win Germany’s Bundesliga
title and reach the Champions League final last season, was
voted man of the match yesterday after scoring the opening goal
and setting up several other chances for teammates.  
 Van Marwijk didn’t call in a replacement to his 23-man
squad after Robben got hurt, betting on him recovering in time
to play in the tournament. After missing the first two games,
Robben came on for 17 minutes in the win over Cameroon. He
played 70 minutes yesterday.  
 ‘Unbelievable’  
 “The way he played, it’s unbelievable,” Kuyt said of
Robben. “From that kind of injury, playing so well and scoring
goals and creating chances. We’re very delighted that he’s back
in the team.”  
 Following Robben’s substitution,  Wesley Sneijder  put the
Netherlands 2-0 ahead after 84 minutes, side-footing into an
empty goal after Kuyt headed the ball past Slovakian goalkeeper
 Jan Mucha  and crossed into the middle of the penalty area.  
 In the closing seconds, the Dutch gave up just the fourth
goal of their 12-game 2010 World Cup campaign.  Robert Vittek 
converted a penalty kick after he was brought down in the area
by Netherlands goalkeeper  Maarten Stekelenburg .  
 “We’ve yet to turn in anything close to a perfect
performance,” Robben added. “In the past everyone always said
about the Dutch team that they play nice football but they never
win anything. That’s something we know and we want to change.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Durban through the Johannesburg newsroom
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Netherlands' players celebrate after midfielder Wesley Sneijder scored his team's second goal against Slovakia. Photographer: Carl De Souza/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
