-- Le Monde Defies Sarkozy, Accepts Bid Led by Socialist Backer Pierre Berge
-- Elliott Gotkine
-- 2010-06-29T10:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/le-monde-takes-offer-from-french-investor-trio-snubbing-president-sarkozy.html

          
          
             Le Monde, France’s struggling
newspaper of record, accepted an offer from investors including
Yves Saint Laurent Group partner  Pierre Berge , snubbing
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who had opposed the bid.  
 The group of investors, which also includes Internet
billionaire  Xavier Niel  and Lazard Ltd. banker  Matthieu Pigasse 
agreed to pay 110 million euros ($135 million) to take control
of the 65-year-old Paris afternoon daily, helping it avert a
capital crunch.  
 By accepting the offer, the newspaper’s staff rejected
pressure from Sarkozy, who had told Le Monde Chief Executive
Officer  Eric Fottorino  he didn’t want the daily taken over by
the trio. Berge backed opposition Socialist Party candidate
 Segolene Royal  in the 2007 presidential election and is close to
International Monetary Fund head  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , a
possible 2012 candidate for the Socialists.  
 “Le Monde is an institution, and as a result it has an
important political role,” said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at
Paris’ Political Studies Institute.  
 The daily, founded as the German army was being expelled
from France in 1944 and supported by General  Charles de Gaulle ,
is struggling to maintain revenue as advertising migrates to the
Internet. French newspapers, like their U.S. counterparts, are
cutting costs and seeking new revenue as readership shrinks.  
 New Owners  
 The daily’s new investors will enter into three months of
exclusive negotiations in exchange for a 10 million-euro fee, Le
Monde’s board said in an e-mailed statement.  
 If the plan presented by the investors wins the backing of
the staff at the newspaper, the group’s magazines and its
interactive operations, it would give Le Monde “the means to
develop in line with its identity and its values,” Fottorino
wrote in a front-page editorial in the daily today.  
 The investment by Berge, Pigasse and Niel, founder of  Iliad
SA , includes 60 million euros for debt payments and 50 million
for reinvestment, Adrien de Tricornot, vice president of
journalist group Societe des Redacteurs du Monde, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday.  
 “We consider Le Monde a common good,” Berge, Niel, and
Pigasse said in an e-mailed statement. “We are convinced that
only an ambitious policy of re-enforcement of editorial
offerings and investment in digital activity” will underpin the
newspaper’s future, they said.  
 Niel is a self-made billionaire thanks to his 64 percent
shareholding in Iliad, the discount broadband provider he
founded after an initial career running sex-chat services.
Pigasse is the deputy CEO of Lazard’s Paris advisory unit and
the owner of  Les Inrockuptibles , a music magazine.  
 France Telecom  
 The Le Monde staff rejected a rival joint bid for the daily
from France Telecom SA, the largest French phone company, and
the Nouvel Observateur magazine. That offer came after Sarkozy
had opposed the Berge bid.  
 Le Monde said last week it wouldn’t consider an offer from
Russian billionaire  Gleb Fetisov  that failed to meet the
deadline for bids. Offers from Berge and France Telecom were the
only confirmed bids for the daily.  
 France Telecom Chief Executive Officer  Stephane Richard  had
said the company wanted to assist Le Monde in its “digital
transition.”  
 The France Telecom-Nouvel Obs offer, which also included
Spain’s  Promotora de Informaciones SA , or Prisa, was a
“particularly elegant gesture,” Fottorino wrote.  
 Both bidders pledged to maintain the newspaper’s editorial
independence. “If they kill its independence, they kill their
investment,” de Tricornot said.  
 Saving Le Monde  
 Le Monde typically stakes out the political centre, between
the left-leaning Liberation and conservative Figaro, owned by
Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SA.  
 Circulation declined last year at all three major Paris
newspapers. Readership fell 9.5 percent at Liberation, 4.14
percent at Le Monde and 1.76 percent at Le Figaro, according to
circulation statistics office OJD.  
 Le Monde, based in Paris’s 13th arrondissement, cut 130
jobs after a 2008 cost-cutting exercise that aimed to save 15
million euros ($18.3 million) annually.  
 The newspaper last year took out a 25 million-euro loan
from lenders including BNP Paribas SA that was conditional on an
eventual recapitalization, Fottorino said.  
 “I really do think it can be rescued,” said Frederic
Filloux, a Paris media commentator and the editor of a blog,
Monday Note. “The brand is great, and they could put some money
toward a re-orientation of the paper.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Copies of Le Monde newspaper sit on display at a news kiosk in Paris. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Elliott Gotkine reports from Paris on the sale of the French national newspaper Le Monde.
     A group of investors, which includes Yves Saint Laurent Group partner Pierre Berge, Internet billionaire Xavier Niel and Lazard Ltd. banker Matthieu Pigasse agreed to pay 110 million euros ($135 million) to take control of the 65-year-old Paris afternoon daily, helping it avert a capital crunch. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     By accepting the offer, the newspaper’s staff rejected pressure from President Sarkozy, who had told Le Monde Chief Executive Officer Eric Fottorino he didn’t want the daily taken over by
the trio. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
