-- Technip Will Pay $338 Million to Settle U.S. Claims of Bribery in Nigeria
-- David Voreacos
-- 2010-06-28T20:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/technip-will-pay-338-million-to-settle-u-s-claims-of-bribery-in-nigeria.html

          
          
             Technip SA , Europe’s second-largest
 oilfield-services  provider, will pay $338 million to avoid U.S.
prosecution and resolve civil claims that it bribed Nigerian
officials to win $6 billion in construction contracts.  
 The Justice Department charged Technip with conspiracy and
violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by paying more than
$182 million in bribes related to liquefied natural gas plants.
Prosecutors will drop charges in two years if Technip pays a
$240 million fine and makes reforms. The Paris-based firm will
pay $98 million to resolve Securities and Exchange Commission
civil claims.  
 Technip “participated in a scheme to authorize, promise,
and pay tens of millions of dollars in bribes to Nigerian
government officials,” the company said today in federal court
in Houston. The firm was in a joint venture with  Kellogg Brown &
Root Inc. , which pleaded guilty in February 2009 and agreed with
its former parent, Halliburton Co., to pay $579 million to
resolve U.S. criminal and regulatory charges.  
 In a 17-page statement of facts entered in court today,
Technip admitted conspiring to pay bribes to officials of the
Nigerian government’s executive branch, the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. and Nigeria LNG Limited, which awarded
contracts. Technip admitted that one payment involved $1 million
in $100 bills delivered in a briefcase in a Nigerian hotel.  
 “Technip engaged in a sophisticated, decade-long scheme to
bribe a wide array of Nigerian government officials in order to
win and retain billions of dollars in contracts,” Mythili
Raman, principal deputy assistant attorney general in the
Justice Department’s criminal division, said in a statement.  
 Deferred Prosecution  
 As part of its deferred-prosecution agreement, Technip
agreed to appoint a monitor for two years to review its
compliance with the FCPA and French anti-corruption laws. The
company was subject to prosecution under the FCPA because its
American Depository Shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange
from August 2001 to November 2007, the SEC said.  
 “The final agreement with the U.S. authorities, completely
in line with the road map we laid out in February, puts this
legacy story behind us,” Technip Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Thierry Pilenko  said in a statement. “The  Board of
Directors  of Technip and its management are strongly committed
to the continued enhancement of our internal compliance policies
and processes.”  
 The Bonny Island project in Nigeria pipes liquefied natural
gas from wellheads to processing plants, purifies it and loads
it onto tankers for export.  
 Joint Venture  
 Technip was part of a joint venture offering engineering,
procurement and construction services with KBR and two companies
referred in court papers as EPC Contractor C, based in
Amsterdam, and EPC Contractor D, based in Yokohama, Japan.  
 The French firm admitted that it hired Jeffrey Tesler, a
British lawyer, and gave more than $130 million to Tri-Star
Investments Ltd., a Gibraltar corporation he used, to pay
bribes. Technip also admitted that it paid more than $50 million
to Consulting Company B, a Tokyo-based trading company, to bribe
Nigerian officials.  
 Tesler and another U.K. citizen, Wojciech Chodan, were
indicted in Houston last year on charges that they violated the
FCPA. The U.S. seeks their extradition.  
 Albert Jack Stanley , a former chairman of Kellogg Brown &
Root, pleaded guilty in 2008 to conspiring to violate the FCPA.
Stanley, who admitted he helped arrange $182 million in bribes,
is scheduled to be sentenced on Sept. 23 in Houston.  
 KBR, a former Halliburton unit split off from the company
in 2007, agreed to pay $402 million in February 2009 to settle
related allegations.  
 The case is United States of America v. Technip SA, 10-cr-
431, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).
The Tesler and Chodan indictment is USA v. Jeffrey Tesler and
Wojiech J. Chodan, 09-cr-98, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston). The Stanley case is USA v. Albert
Jackson Stanley, 08-cr-597, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        