-- Medvedev's Financial Center Dream May Stall on Russia's Corruption Record
-- Jon Menon
-- 2010-06-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/medvedev-s-financial-center-dream-may-stall-on-russia-s-corruption-record.html

          
          
             President  Dmitry Medvedev’s  goal of
making Moscow a global financial hub will take decades to
realize as investors balk at a history of corruption and weak
property rights, researchers at two top business schools said.  
 “I can’t see it coming,”  Tom Kirchmaier , who lectures on
finance and corporate governance at the  London School of
Economics , said in an interview. “Nobody believes they have an
impartial rule of law and the institutions are weak, from courts
to regulators to central banks, and there’s a lack of trust in
the market in respect of property rights.”  
 Medvedev presented his plan to make Moscow a global
financial center and the ruble a world reserve currency at a
conference on June 18 attended by some of the biggest names in
finance, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Economist  Jim O’Neill , French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  and chief
executives from some of the world’s largest companies.  
 A proposal by some countries to impose a tax on banks may
bolster Russia’s ambitions. Russian policy makers said they
won’t follow the U.K., Germany and France in calling for a bank
tax as Medvedev pledged to help build a new economic order from
the ruins of the financial crisis.  
 Russia can benefit from the “harsh” regulatory controls
being imposed in other countries, Medvedev  said  at a May 25
meeting with U.S. venture fund managers. “We invite to Russia
everyone who is suffering at home.”  
 The president on June 17  ordered  proposals to ease visa
requirements for investors and finance professionals and told
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and Moscow Mayor  Yury Luzhkov  to
improve the transport infrastructure needed to support an
international financial center.  
 Fulfilling Potential  
 Moscow was ranked 68th of 75 cities in the December 2009
Global Financial Centers Index commissioned by the City of
London. Emerging centers such as Moscow “have the connectivity
to succeed, but lack the necessary sectoral strengths to fulfill
their potential as yet,” the survey found. London and New York
were tied for the top ranking.  
 “The chances of Moscow becoming a global financial hub are
very slim,” said  Kate Phylaktis , a professor of international
finance and director of emerging markets at Cass Business School
in London. “It will take decades to gain the confidence of
international investors. It has a very long way to go even to
achieve regional status.”  
 Medvedev’s critique of Russia’s raw material dependence,
which he has called “humiliating,” underpins his drive to
diversify and modernize the economy. The president went to
California last week to meet with  Eric Schmidt , Chief Executive
Officer of Mountain View-based Google Inc., and  Steve Jobs , CEO
of Cupertino-based Apple Inc., to attract investment to the
world’s biggest energy exporter.  
 ‘Ambitious Target’  
 “This initiative could be very helpful for investors as
corporate governance should be high on the to-do list,” said
 Alexander Branis , chief investment officer at Prosperity Capital
Management in Moscow, the biggest Russian equity investor, with
$4.7 billion of assets. “It’s a very ambitious target, but it
should be good at tackling some real problems.”  
 Medvedev’s vision “creates a whole set of opportunities,”
 Vikram Pandit , CEO of New York-based Citigroup Inc., said in a
June 21 interview with Bloomberg Television. The best
environment for business has “good regulation and a lot of
transparency,” he said.  
 Russia last year ranked 146th among 180 countries in the
Transparency International Corruption Perceptions  Index , on a
par with Zimbabwe, Sierra Leone and Cameroon.  
 Institutional Weakness  
 It is the 20th riskiest place to do business, according to
Maplecroft, a Bath, England-based risk-management adviser. The
study of 172 countries ranks respect for the rule of law,
property rights, access to the legal system, corruption,
corporate governance and regulatory frameworks.  
 Russia’s bid is also hobbled by the lack of a central
depository, or clearing house, for trades and the presence of
numerous registrars that maintain records on the owners of
securities. The country has two competing depositaries, whereas
most markets have one, and about 70 registrars.  
 The government aims to improve market infrastructure and
expand the range of securities traded in Russia, Finance
Minister  Alexei Kudrin   said  June 3 at a government meeting
chaired by Medvedev. Russia’s bourses are ready to trade the
bonds and currencies of the Commonwealth of Independent States,
a grouping of post-Soviet nations, Kudrin said.  
 There are some voices of skepticism inside the Russian
government.  
 Deputy Finance Minister  Sergei Storchak  said Russia can’t
become a financial hub unless markets are regulated by U.K. law
and English becomes more prevalent, as in Dubai and Hong Kong.
The absence of these two features “somewhat worries” him,
Storchak told reporters June 24 in Moscow.  
 “To think that capital inflow can be stimulated without
resolving these two issues is somewhat odd,” he said.  
 According to Kirchmaier, the ultimate issue remains a lack
of confidence in property rights and legal protections.  
 “There’s no trust and without trust there’s nothing going
on in the financial markets,” he said. “One of the reasons
London is flying so well is that there’s an extreme belief in
property rights. You can’t beat 150 years of legal history.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russian president Dmitry Medvedev. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
