-- Emerging Nations Need to Let Interest Rates, Currencies Climb, BIS Says
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-06-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/emerging-nations-need-to-let-interest-rates-currencies-climb-bis-says.html

          
          
             Emerging economies may need to raise
interest rates and allow currency appreciation because their
“accommodative” monetary policies threaten to spur inflation
and asset bubbles, the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  
 Developing countries have kept rates low to help boost
economic growth, even as inflation accelerates in Asia, parts of
Latin America and Turkey,  BIS  said in its annual report today.  
 Capital inflows from investors seeking assets in countries
with higher growth rates than debt-laden advanced economies have
led many developing nations to intervene to prevent currency
appreciation and protect exports, the Basel, Switzerland-based
bank wrote. Investor inflows may stimulate economic growth in
the medium term, yet “can be destabilizing,” the report said.  
 “Keeping interest rates too low for too long increases the
risks of domestic overheating, inflation, excessive credit
expansion and asset-price overshooting,” BIS said. “There may
be no effective alternative to raising interest rates, allowing
greater flexibility in exchange rates and reducing reliance on
foreign-exchange intervention.”  
 Malaysia, the Philippines and Singapore have used forward
positions and China built up foreign reserves through the global
credit crisis to help control the exchange rate, the report
said.  
 Central bank policy makers in Brazil and India have begun
raising rates. Brazil’s central bank increased the  benchmark
interest rate  on June 9 for a second consecutive meeting, to
10.25 percent from 9.5 percent, in a bid to bring inflation back
to target amid forecasts the economy will expand this year at
the fastest pace in decades.  
 India, China  
 India has increased  rates  twice since mid-March and may
raise them again “anytime” after inflation unexpectedly
accelerated last month, Pronab Sen, the government’s top
statistician, said June 23.  
 China earlier this month relaxed its currency peg to the
dollar, triggering a jump in the yuan.  
 Widening interest-rate differentials between emerging and
advanced economies, better growth prospects in emerging markets
and expectations of strengthening exchange rates may fuel
“heightened exchange-rate volatility” in the short run, BIS
said. In the longer term, higher interest rates and increasing
exchange-rate flexibility may help developing countries move
toward more balanced economic growth, BIS said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        