-- Emerging-Market Stocks Snap Four-Day Drop, Currencies Rise on Deficit Plan
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-06-28T21:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/emerging-market-benchmark-stocks-snap-four-day-slide-currencies-advance.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in five days after leaders from the Group of 20
nations endorsed targets to cut deficits while maintaining
existing stimulus plans to sustain the economic expansion.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained 0.5 percent to
951.81 as of 5 p.m. in New York. South Korea’s won and the
Malaysian ringgit led Asian currencies higher against the dollar
after U.S. President  Barack Obama  said China’s yuan may
strengthen “significantly.” Russia’s Micex index of stocks
rose the most in a week.  
 Advanced economies will aim to at least halve deficits by
2013 and stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016 while
taking “concerted actions” to boost growth, G-20 leaders said
in a statement after meeting in Toronto. Banks and industrial
companies rallied as developing nations pledged to strengthen
social safety nets, raise infrastructure spending and enhance
exchange-rate flexibility.  
 “We expect markets to recover, the catalysts being
realistic expectations, attractive valuation and abating
concerns about global growth,”  Markus Rosgen , Citigroup Inc.’s
head of equity strategy in Asia, excluding Japan, wrote in a
research report. “The time is nigh to increase risk in the
portfolio.”  
 The MSCI emerging index is valued at 11.5 times this year’s
earnings estimates, down from 13.6 at the start of 2010,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . The 21-country gauge
has lost 3.8 percent this year after falling 5.8 percent since
March 31, the first quarterly decline since the end of 2008.  
 Yuan Outlook  
 Russia’s  Micex Index  rose 1.2 percent and India’s Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index advanced 1.1 percent, while the
Shanghai Composite Index in China slipped 0.7 percent.  The Dubai
Financial Market General Index  sank 1.2 percent. DP World Ltd.,
the Dubai government-owned port operator, tumbled 4.8 percent,
the most since May, after deciding to postpone listing shares in
London.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa stock  index fell as declines in commodity
prices overshadowed a central bank survey that showed economists
forecast faster growth with lower inflation.  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, retreated to the
lowest price in a month as crude prices fell from a seven-week
high.  
 The won strengthened 1.1 percent versus the dollar and the
Malaysian ringgit gained 0.9 percent.  
 Asian currencies are “undervalued” and any renminbi
appreciation would likely be reflected in currencies such as the
dollar of Singapore, which has a trade-weighted basket in which
the yuan is a “pretty important component,” Hong Kong-based
economist T.J. Bond of America Corp.-Merrill Lynch & Co. said
March 16.  
 Yuan to Strengthen?  
 “We do expect that as more and more market forces come to
bear, that given the enormous surpluses that China has
accumulated, the renminbi is going to go up and it’s going to go
up significantly,” Obama said, following the weekend Group of
20 summit. The yuan is also known as the renminbi.  
 Reports this week may boost Asian currencies further. South
Korea’s industrial production probably accelerated, Malaysia’s
exports climbed and Thailand’s current account and factory
output improved, according to economists’ predictions.  
 Emerging economies may need to raise interest rates and
allow currency appreciation as their “accommodative” monetary
policies threaten to spur inflation and asset bubbles, the Bank
for International Settlements said in its annual report today.  
 Agricultural Bank IPO  
 The Shanghai Composite  index declined for a fourth day, its
longest losing streak in two months, on concern a stronger yuan
and flooding in the southern region may slow economic growth.  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s largest bank
by customers, set a price range for the Shanghai part of its
initial public offering that will allow it to raise as much as
$20.1 billion, according to three people with knowledge of the
matter.  
 The Beijing-based bank may offer 22.2 billion shares in
Shanghai at 2.52 yuan to 2.68 yuan apiece, the people said,
declining to be identified before an official announcement.
Agricultural Bank last week priced shares in the Hong Kong part
of its IPO at HK$2.88 to HK$3.48 each.  
 Romania’s leu dropped 2.1 percent to 4.3683 per euro, the
lowest level since the euro was introduced in 1999, while the
BET index of stocks fell 1.5 percent on concern the country will
struggle to introduce austerity measures required to unlock an
international loan after a court ruled pension cuts illegal.  
 Romanian opposition leader  Victor Ponta  said he will file a
motion of no-confidence in the government once he has the
signatures of 236 deputies in parliament. Ponta, speaking to
reporters in Bucharest today, will need to attract some members
of the ruling coalition in order to meet the target as the
government holds 257 of the legislature’s 471 seats.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        