-- `Deep-Cover' Russian Spies Worked in U.S., FBI Says
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-06-29T18:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/ten-alleged-russian-spies-arrested-in-u-s-after-multi-year-investigation.html

          
          
             Federal agents arrested 10 alleged
members of a “long-term, deep-cover” Russian spy ring whose
ultimate goal was to infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles,
according to the Justice Department.  
 The arrests in the New York area, Boston and Arlington,
Virginia, broke up a group that began operating in the 1990s,
according to two criminal complaints unsealed yesterday in
Manhattan federal court.  
 The alleged ring included Russian agents posing as American
and Canadian citizens, some of them living in the U.S. for more
than 20 years, with the goal of becoming “Americanized” and
passing intelligence back to the Russian Federation, according
to court papers.  
 “The fact that there are 10 or 11 people here illegally as
part of a highly organized effort” and may explain why federal
authorities made the arrests now, said  William C. Banks ,
Director of the Institute for National Security and
Counterterrorism at Syracuse University in New York. “It may be
to send a statement that we’re on to this.”  
 The conspiracy involved at least three unnamed Russian
government officials, including one associated with the Russian
Mission to the United Nations, according to the complaints.  
 Federal prosecutors charged 11 individuals, including the
10 arrested June 27, with conspiring to act as illegal agents of
the Russian Federation within the U.S., according to a Justice
Department statement yesterday. Nine of the defendants are
charged with conspiracy to commit money laundering.  
 Canadian Arrested  
 Cyprus police said today they arrested a Canadian,
Christopher Metsos, who is alleged to be the remaining member of
the alleged ring. Officials in Cyprus are awaiting an
extradition request from the U.S., according to a police
spokesman.  
 It isn’t clear what, if any, secrets the ring is claimed to
have passed back to Russian officials. In one case, an alleged
agent in Boston discussed so-called nuclear “bunker buster”
weapons in 2004 with a government official working on strategic
planning related to atomic weapons development, the U.S. said.
Such bombs are intended to destroy hardened or below-ground
targets by penetrating below the surface before exploding.  
 According to the government, the alleged agents arrested in
Boston had a conversation with a former Congressional aide in
2006 about “turnover at the head of the CIA and the 2008 U.S.
presidential election.”  
 20-Year Sentence  
 The defendants face as long as 20 years in prison on the
money laundering conspiracy charges. The charges of conspiracy
to act as an agent of a foreign government without notifying the
U.S. attorney general carries a prison sentence of as long as
five years. None of the defendants were charged with espionage,
which can result in a life sentence upon conviction.  
 According to Banks, the fact that the alleged agents
weren’t charged with espionage or conspiracy to commit espionage
may show they didn’t obtain classified information. It may also
make the cases easier for the government to prosecute, he said.
Prosecutors in spy cases often are forced to drop cases to avoid
making classified material public, he said.  
 “The prosecutors are in a fairly enviable position,” said
Banks. “There may be some sensitivity as to the types of
electronic surveillance used, but a lot of it was old-school
cloak-and-dagger stuff.”  
 Obama and Medvedev  
 The arrests were announced four days after U.S. President
 Barack Obama  met with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  at the
White House. Obama said June 24 he wanted to move relations
between the two countries beyond arms control and security and
develop better economic ties.  
 Russia’s Foreign Ministry said today the U.S. claims are
reminiscent of the Cold War and “regrettable” at a time when
relations are improving.  
 “Such actions are completely unfounded and serve unseemly
goals,” the ministry said on its website.  
 Five of the defendants, Richard Murphy, Cynthia Murphy,
Juan Lazaro, Vicky Pelaez and Anna Chapman, 28, appeared before
a federal magistrate in Manhattan yesterday. All but Chapman are
scheduled to appear in federal court again July 1.  
 Defendants Michael Zottoli, Patricia Mills and Mikhail
Semenko appeared in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia,
yesterday, according to court records.  
 Donald Howard Heathfield and Tracey Lee Ann Foley appeared
in federal court in Boston yesterday, according to court
records. All of the defendants were ordered to be detained.  
 Court Appointed Lawyers  
 U.S. Magistrate Judge  Ronald Ellis  in Manhattan assigned
court-appointed lawyers for the five defendants who appeared
before him after they said they were unable to pay for a lawyer.  
 Robert Baum, an attorney for Chapman, asked Ellis to
dismiss the conspiracy charge against his client, saying
prosecutors had failed to establish their case. Baum argued that
when an agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, posing
undercover as a Russian official, gave Chapman a fake passport,
she had turned it over to New York police.  
 “That is just a reaction of an innocent person,” Baum
said.  
 Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  alleged
that some defendants made incriminating statements after their
arrests.  
 “This is just the tip of the iceberg,” Farbiarz told
Ellis. The prosecutor said that Chapman, after meeting with the
undercover FBI agent, bought a mobile phone she used to make
calls to Russia. He called her “a sophisticated agent of
Russia.”  
 Russian Official  
 He said the government has determined Chapman also
communicated with a Russian government official using a laptop
computer that transmitted data using a secret wireless
connection.  
 Chapman is a Russian national who operates an online real
estate business that she estimated was worth $2 million, Baum
said after court. He said his client has been in the U.S. since
2009. He declined to comment on the charges.  
 U.S. officials collected evidence on the alleged spies
through wiretaps, e-mail monitoring, hidden microphones, video
cameras and secret searches of some of the defendants’ homes,
according to the criminal complaints.  
 One of the alleged New Jersey conspirators, Cynthia Murphy,
had several work-related meetings with a “prominent New York-
based financier” whose name is omitted from the complaint.
Superiors in Moscow instructed Murphy to work on the
relationship and try to obtain foreign policy rumors and
invitations to political events, the government said.  
 ‘Develop Ties’  
 The alleged spies were instructed to remain in place for
years to deliver useful intelligence to agents of the Russian
Federation, according to the charges. Cynthia Murphy, and her
husband and co-defendant Richard Murphy, received a coded
message in 2009 from the Moscow headquarters of the Russian
Federation foreign intelligence service, instructing them on
their duties, the U.S. said.  
 “You were sent to USA for long-term service trip,” read
the message, decoded by the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
according to the government. “Your education, bank accounts,
car, house, etc. -- all these serve one goal: fulfill your main
mission, i.e. to search and develop ties in policymaking circles
in U.S. and send intels (intelligence reports) to C(enter).”  
 Richard Murphy, 39, has resided in Montclair, New Jersey,
since 2008, after living in Hoboken, Jersey City and Queens, New
York, according to a computer database.  
 Traveled to Rome  
 Farbiarz told Ellis that Murphy had traveled in 2009 to
Rome where he met with a Russian official and then traveled,
using a fake passport, to Moscow.  
 “There is also direct evidence of secret global travel,”
Farbiarz said.  
 By using illegal documents, the alleged Russian agents
assumed false identities before getting university degrees, took
jobs and joined professional associations, according to the
complaint. Agents also lived together, posing as married couples
and having children to deepen their cover, or “legend,” the
FBI said.  
 “We all feel pretty duped,” said Corine Jones, 53, a
neighbor of the Murphys in Montclair. “Who would have thought
there would be a Russian spy amongst us? It’s just a nice,
quiet, middle-class street.”  
 The Murphys, who moved to Montclair in 2008, have two
daughters who walked with their father to the school bus stop
each morning, said neighbor Jeanette Lauture, 45.  
 “We would say ‘good morning’ every morning but he was very
private,” Lauture said. “My kids would try to talk to him and
he would pretend he didn’t even hear it and walk away.”  
 Girls ‘Shell Shocked’  
 After the Murphys were arrested, FBI and police cars lined
the street for hours while agents searched the tan house with
brown shutters. A green Honda Civic sat in the driveway.  
 Their girls “got in a van with their pillows looking
pretty shell shocked,” Jones said.  
 Before coming to the U.S., the agents were trained in spy
craft, learning foreign languages, the use of encrypted messages
and the avoidance of detection of their work, according to the
FBI. One method that agents learned was a “brush-pass” or
“flash meeting” in which they secretly passed items or
payments to another while walking past them in public, according
to the FBI.  
 Prosecutors said federal agents determined the defendants
used a process called “steganography,” or messages that are
secretly encrypted within electronic images. Federal agents
found such encrypted messages on a computer disk recovered from
a 2005 search of the New Jersey residence, prosecutors said.  
 ‘Radiograms’  
 The defendants also made use of “radiograms” in which
they used coded bursts of data sent by a radio transmitter that
can be picked up by a radio receiver set to a proper frequency.
As the messages are transmitted, radiograms sound like the
transmission of Morse code, the U.S. said in court papers.  
 As early as 2001, the FBI was aware that the Russian agents
were using false identities, according to the complaints. A 2001
search of defendant Foley’s bank safe deposit box showed that
the negatives of photos taken of her in her twenties came from a
Soviet film company.  
 Ellen Shaffren, who lives in Yonkers, New York, across the
street from two of the alleged spies, Lazaro and Pelaez, said
her block has been “teeming” with FBI agents.  
 “I was totally shocked,” Shaffren said yesterday in a
phone interview. “I would never have suspected anything.”  
 Shaffren said Pelaez wrote columns for El Diario, a Spanish
newspaper in New York. An Internet search turned up numerous
references to Pelaez at the newspaper. A message left at the
newspaper wasn’t immediately returned.  
 The cases are U.S. v. Metsos; U.S. v. Chapman, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net  and;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Russian spy ring worked since 1990s, says U.S.  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. Magistrate Judge Ronald Ellis ordered the five defendants to be held without bail. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. Magistrate Judge Ronald Ellis ordered the five defendants to be held without bail. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Galeotti, professor at New York University, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the arrest of 10 members of an alleged Russian spy ring.
     Federal agents arrested 10 alleged members of a “long-term, deep-cover” Russian spy ring whose ultimate goal was to infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles, according to the Justice Department. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
