-- England Coach Capello Faces Decision on Future in Two Weeks After Cup Flop
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-06-28T14:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/england-coach-capello-faces-decision-on-future-in-two-weeks-after-cup-flop.html

          
          
             Fabio Capello  said he wants to stay
on as England soccer coach after yesterday’s World Cup loss to
Germany, and added that his future will be decided by the
Football Association over the next two weeks.  
 He said he “absolutely” wants to remain in the post.  
 “I spoke this morning with (Club England Chairman) Sir
Dave Richards and he told me that he needs two weeks to decide.
I said I can be the manager of England next season, but they
have to decide,” Capello said today. Club England deals with
national team matters at the F.A., English soccer’s ruling body.  
 Capello, 64, was speaking at a televised news conference
after yesterday’s 4-1 loss to Germany at Bloemfontein in the
World Cup round of 16, its worst-ever defeat in the competition.  
 He said he would have to make a lot of changes if he stayed
in the job, and he’d spoken with Richards about younger players
that could be brought in for the 2012 European Championship
qualifying games.  
 Capello said fatigue was a factor in England’s exit from
the World Cup. He said a winter break, such as takes place in
Germany, would help avoid such problems.  
 “I think all the English players arrived really tired at
this competition,” Capello said. “I spoke with the coaches,
and all the coaches told me that the physical and mental
situation of the players was not like the players that we know”
from games in qualifying.  
 Club England Managing Director  Adrian Bevington  told the
news conference there was “nothing sinister” in the two-week
decision period, which was designed to avoid a “knee-jerk”
reaction to a “very disappointing result.”  
 Under Contract  
 “Fabio is under contract with the F.A. until the 2012
European Championship and nothing has changed in that respect,”
Bevington said. “It makes perfect sense for us to go back to
London and take stock of the situation, reflect fully on the
tournament and see what we can take from it and just speak to
Fabio from there.”  
 Capello took over the England post after a 3-2 defeat to
Croatia in November 2007 led to the firing of Steve McClaren as
England failed to qualify for the 2008 European Championship.  
 He earns 6 million pounds ($9 million) a year, according to
U.K. media reports. The F.A. had set a minimum target of
reaching the World Cup semifinals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        