-- Theolia CEO Khallouf Plans to Keep More Assets Following Capital Increase
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-06-28T13:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/theolia-ceo-khallouf-plans-to-keep-more-assets-following-capital-increase.html

          
          
             Theolia SA , the French wind-power
producer raising cash to avert bankruptcy, will change tack and
keep some assets, according to its new chief executive officer.  
 “I want to keep certain assets on the balance sheet,”
 Fady Khallouf , who was appointed CEO on May 24, said in a
telephone interview today. “We are prepared to take the risk of
having a stake in our own projects.”  
 Theolia  last week said it will raise 60 million euros ($74
million) in a rights offering through July 7, short of an
original 100 million-euro target. Previous management announced
the plan to restructure 253 million euros of convertible  bonds 
and raise as much as 100 million euros in a share sale to help
avoid creditor protection.  
 Khallouf said the strategy to retain ownership of an as-
yet-undetermined proportion of wind-power assets will be a
“balance” between previous management’s plan to sell completed
projects to raise money for the company and that announced by
former CEO  Jean-Marie Santander  in September, 2008.  
 Keeping more assets would make earnings more
“predictable” and “could be more appealing to investors
looking for a regulated profit base,” Khallouf said. “We
aren’t in a hurry to sell assets. We will focus on when this is
necessary for value creation or investment in other projects.”  
 Theolia , which reported in April that its full-year loss
narrowed in 2009, plans to publish financial targets in
September or October, Khallouf said, adding that the “outlook
will be better” than last year.  
 Every Year  
 “The target is to be profitable every year,” he said.  
 The wind-power company will also seek to find outside
investors to take minority stakes in projects while remaining
the operator. “It’s a co-investment approach that will be done
on a case-by-case basis,” he said.  
 The rights offering includes commitments of 30.2 million
euros from Boussard & Gavaudan Asset Management LP and 15.1
million euros from Stiching Pensioenfonds ABP, Aix-en-Provence,
France-based Theolia said in a statement.  
 The Oceane convertible bonds were due January 2014, with an
option for investors to get repaid two years earlier.  
 Previous management had earmarked 40 million euros for
projects and 60 million euros for bondholders as early partial
repayment if the maximum was raised in the share sale.  
 Theolia managed a total of 782 megawatts at the end of
March, 319 megawatts for its own account and 463 megawatts for
third parties. Planned wind-power projects total 1,925
megawatts, including 1,703 in Europe, the company said in April.  
 Theolia has been preoccupied with its cash problems over the
past 12 months and will now move to “more aggressive
development” of projects, he said.  
 This includes completing about 134 megawatts of wind-power
projects which are being built and getting permits for another
600 megawatts, he said. The rest of the pipeline is at “earlier
stages” of development.  
 Theolia will retain France, Italy and Germany as “core
countries” while searching for “more appropriate” strategies
for Brazil and India, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        