-- Equatorial Guinea Pledges Oil Revenue Transparency, President Obiang Says
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-06-28T15:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/equatorial-guinea-pledges-oil-revenue-transparency-president-obiang-says.html

          
          
             Equatorial Guinea  President  Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo , who has held power for more than three
decades, said his country had entered a new era of
accountability and transparency.  
 A five-point policy initiative commits the government to
greater transparency on oil revenue, judicial independence and
press freedom, Obiang told the Fortune Global Forum in Cape Town
today.  
 “The country went through a period of crisis,” Obiang
told reporters. “No one was helping us to develop. After the
discovery of oil there was a rather weak initial response from
companies interested in investing. Now we feel secure in our
position and it is the right moment to invite companies with
confidence to invest in our country.”  
 The policy initiative will help the country rejoin the
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, Obiang said. It
was ejected earlier this year from the organization of
companies, governments and civil groups that aims to clean up
the oil and mining industries for failing to meet guidelines.  
 Russia’s  OAO Gazprom Neft , the oil arm of the world’s
largest gas company, has said it plans to produce crude off the
coast of Equatorial Guinea within four years after signing an
accord with the African nation’s state energy company June 25.  
 ‘Special Circumstances’  
 Obiang has ruled sub-Saharan Africa’s fourth-biggest oil-
producer since 1979, when he seized power from his uncle in a
coup. He won a fourth term in elections in November last year,
securing 95.4 percent of the vote. Groups including New York-
based  Human Rights Watch  said conditions were not in place for a
free and fair contest, and have accused Obiang of human rights
abuses and pilfering the country’s oil wealth.  
 Allegations that the country lacked an independent
electoral commission and failed to publish a voters’ roll were
incorrect and none of the parties that participated in the vote
complained, Obiang said.  
 Asked about his succession plans and whether his lengthy
rule was good for democracy, he said: “My country is
democratic. In my own situation there are special circumstances.
I have liberated the country. You can find development in every
corner of Equatorial Guinea and the people appreciate this. This
may be the reason why my candidacy is always supported.”  
 Oil Wealth  
 With a population of about 660,000 and an $8.1 billion
economy, Equatorial Guinea has Africa’s highest gross domestic
product per capita, World Bank data shows. At the same time,
average life expectancy is 50 years and 148 out of every 1,000
children die before the age of five.  
 “Substantial resources” from the oil industry would be
invested in health, education and other services, and the
environment would be protected, Obiang said.  
 A 2004 U.S. Senate investigation into money laundering
found that Washington-based Riggs Bank was holding as much as
$750 million in accounts controlled by Obiang, his family
members or government officials.  
 Obiang said he was unaware of any public funds being
diverted from the country and that many allegations made against
his government and his family were untrue.  
 “I will not say everything is well in Equatorial Guinea,”
he said. “We ask the skeptics and the critics to trust the
government and the society of Equatorial Guinea. Evaluate us by
our actions.”  
 Only seven countries rank lower than Equatorial Guinea on
Transparency International’s 2009 list of global corruption
perceptions.  
 Obiang has appointed Lanny Davis, a special counsel under
President  Bill Clinton , as a technical adviser on his reform and
transparency program.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        