-- Essar Oil, Grasim, Reliance, Mahindra, Tata Motors: India Equity Preview
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-06-28T02:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/essar-oil-grasim-reliance-mahindra-tata-motors-india-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies may have
 unusual  price changes in India  trading . Stock symbols are in
parentheses and share prices are as of the  last close .  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , fell
155.71, or 0.9 percent, to 17,574.53. The S&P CNX  Nifty  Index on
the National Stock Exchange declined 1 percent to 5,269.05. The
 BSE 200 Index  decreased 0.6 percent to 2,229.41. SGX CNX Nifty
Index futures for July delivery added 0.2 to 5,295.0 at 10:36
a.m. in Singapore.  
 Container Corp. of India Ltd.  (CCRI IN): The state-
controlled freight-train operator was raised to “buy” from
“neutral” by  Amar Kedia , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
who said the company will benefit from a Railway Ministry policy
that has allowed private operators to move bulk cargo, excluding
certain items, on the Indian Railway network. Container Corp.’s
share-price estimate was raised to 1,600 rupees from 1,350
rupees, according to a report by Nomura today. The stock fell
0.5 percent to 1,298.3 rupees.  
 Essar Oil Ltd.  (ESOIL IN): The second-biggest non-state
refiner won four coal-bed methane blocks, it said in a statement
to the Bombay Stock Exchange. The largest private fuel retailer
is also set to benefit “significantly” from India’s decision
to partially deregulate fuel prices,  Nitin Sharma , an analyst at
JP Morgan Cazenove Ltd., wrote in a note to clients. The shares
rose 6.4 percent to 137.65 rupees.  
 Grasim Industries Ltd.  (GRASIM IN): The cement maker owned
by the Aditya Birla Group was raised to “overweight” from
“neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co. The shares were little
changed at 1,798.65 rupees.  
 Hindustan Construction Co.  (HCC IN): The builder of
Mumbai’s sea link won an order worth 4.31 billion rupees ($93
million) from Himachal Pradesh Power Corp. of India Ltd. for
construction work at the 100 megawatt Sainj Hydroelectric
Project, according to a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange.  
 Separately, Hindustan Construction was raised to “buy”
from “reduce” by BNP Paribas analysts  Vishal Sharma  and
 Shashank Abhisheik , who said they see “strong catalysts” for
the company amid a strengthening of its balance sheet. The
analysts raised their share-price estimate to 140 rupees from 93
rupees. The shares fell 1.2 percent to 116 rupees.  
 Hindustan Copper Ltd.  (HCP IN): The monopoly producer of
copper ore is interested in bidding for the development of mines
in Afghanistan, the Press Trust of India reported, citing
Chairman  Shakeel Ahmed . The shares fell 1.1 percent to 488.4
rupees.  
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.  (MM IN): The biggest maker of
tractors plans to invest 2.5 billion rupees in its aerospace
business, Vice Chairman  Anand Mahindra  said at a news conference
in Bangalore. The shares fell 3 percent to 613.35 rupees.  
 NMDC Ltd.  (NMDC IN),  Tata Power Ltd.  (TPWR IN): NMDC, a
state-run iron ore producer, plans to partner with Tata Power,
the largest non-state generator, in mining for coal and buying
assets overseas, Daily News & Analysis reported, citing an
official from NMDC it didn’t identify. NMDC rose 0.6 percent to
265.95 rupees. Tata Power fell 0.7 percent to 1,309.9 rupees.  
 Reliance Communications Ltd.  (RCOM IN),  GTL Infrastructure
Ltd.  (GTLI IN): The country’s second-largest wireless carrier
will cut its debt by at least $3 billion by selling its mobile-
phone towers to GTL, two people familiar with the transaction
said. Reliance Communications rose 2.3 percent to 192.3 rupees.
GTL rose 6 percent to 45.35 rupees.  
 Reliance Industries Ltd.  (RIL IN): Reliance, Royal Dutch
Shell Plc and Essar Energy Plc may revive plans to add retail
fuel outlets in India after Asia’s third-biggest energy consumer
scrapped subsidizing gasoline and diesel. Essar will
“significantly” increase the number of outlets, said  Naresh Nayyar , chief executive officer of Essar Energy.  
 Reliance should gain from the government’s decision to lift
subsidies on gasoline and diesel and may revisit its strategy to
build 5,000 fuel outlets, Morgan Stanley analysts  Vinay Jaising 
and  Rakesh Sethia  said in a note to clients on June 26.  
 Separately, Reliance is competing for a service contract
from state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos for its new $6 billion
refinery project, Business Line reported, citing Mexican Energy
Minister  Georgina Kessel Martinez .  
 The shares rose 1 percent to 1,062.95 rupees.  
 Reliance Power Ltd.  (RPWR IN): The U.S. Export-Import Bank
has rejected a request by the Anil Ambani-controlled company for
$650 million in financing to build the Sasan coal-fired power
plant, the bank’s spokeswoman  Stephanie O’Keefe  said in an
interview.  
 Reliance Power Ltd. is seeking the government’s approval to
use surplus coal from a mine allotted to it for a power plant in
Jharkhand state at other projects, the Financial Chronicle
reported, without saying where it got the information. Reliance
wants to use about 300 million tons of surplus coal from the
mines meant for use at a planned 4,000 megawatt power plant at
projects it hasn’t specified, according to the report. Reliance
Power rose 0.5 percent to 167.95 rupees.  
 Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd.  (SUNP IN): The Mumbai-
based drugmaker said it will stop selling its generic
oxaliplatin drug after June 30 after a U.S. court denied its
motion to lift an April 22 order for it to stop selling the
product, the company said in an e-mailed statement. The shares
fell 1.1 percent to 1,790.65 rupees.  
 Tata Motors Ltd.  (TTMT IN): Tata Group is close to buying
an automotive company in Mexico, Business Line reported, citing
 Lorenza Martinez , Mexico’s undersecretary for industry and
commerce.  
 Tata Motors may gain an edge over the South Korean carmaker
from India’s decision to end state controls on gasoline prices,
said  Mahantesh Sabarad , a Mumbai-based analyst at Fortune Equity
Brokers India Ltd. Tata may lure drivers from Hyundai and Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd., the nation’s biggest carmaker, as it has a
wider range of diesel models, said Sabarad. Tata Motors fell 2.1
percent to 768.9 rupees.  
 -- With assistance from  Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok. Editor:
 Margo Towie .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        