-- Romanian Leu Weakens to Record Low as Opposition Plan May Stall IMF Loan
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-06-28T16:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/leu-drops-to-7-month-low-stocks-fall-on-concern-over-romania-bailout-loan.html

          
          
             The leu weakened to a record low as
Romania’s opposition leader pledged a no-confidence vote in
parliament, complicating austerity plans aimed at cutting the
budget deficit and reviving an international bailout loan.  
 The leu slid 2.2 percent to 4.3697 against the euro as of
7:10 p.m. in Bucharest, the lowest since the euro was introduced
in 1999, and lost 2.7 percent to the weakest against the dollar
since communism ended in 1989, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The International Monetary Fund postponed a board meeting
scheduled for today to discuss Romania’s loan program after the
Constitutional Court on June 25 threw out the administration’s
plan to cut pensions by 15 percent to align itself with IMF-
mandated deficit cuts. Romania said on June 26 it would raise
value added tax to plug the gap. Opposition leader Victor  Ponta 
said today he will file a motion of no confidence in the
government when he has the signatures of 236 legislators.  
 “The market is extremely worried about Romania meeting its
deficit targets and by extension the future of IMF loan
package,” said  Murat Toprak , a currency strategist at Societe
Generale SA in London. “The market has become extremely
concerned about sovereign risk as we saw in Greece and only a
couple of weeks ago in Hungary. It is an issue for Romania as
there are low capital inflows so they need IMF money.”  
 The European Union’s second-poorest member is relying on a
20 billion-euro ($24.6 billion) loan to support its economy and
must reach an IMF-mandated deficit limit to get further
payments. The next installment would be 850 million euros, with
1.2 billion euros scheduled to come from the EU. The IMF board
will meet June 30 to consider the loan payment.  
 May Deficit  
 Romania is cutting wages and raising the value-added tax to
meet a deficit target of 6.8 percent of gross domestic product,
down from 7.2 percent last year. Prime Minister  Emil Boc  said on
June 7 the government must cut spending to meet the budget goal
or risk being unable to pay benefits by year-end.  
 The budget deficit for the first five months of the year
widened to 3.1 percent of GDP on weaker revenue, the Finance
Ministry said today. State revenue fell 1.6 percent on the year,
led by a drop in value-added and income tax collection, the
ministry said. Expenses rose 5.7 percent on the year as
unemployment obligations more than doubled, it said.  
 Boc survived a no-confidence vote this month by eight votes
after opposition parties opposed his plan to reduce the wages of
public employees by 25 percent and pensions and jobless benefits
by 15 percent. Ponta, who was speaking to reporters in Bucharest
today, will need to attract some members of the ruling coalition
in order to meet the target as the government holds 257 of the
legislature’s 471 seats.  
 ‘Profoundly Disappointed’  
 The country’s  BET  Index of stocks fell 1.5 percent to a
two-week low, led by a 2.7 percent drop for lender BRD-Groupe
Societe Generale SA. The index has lost 19 percent this quarter,
the fourth-worst performance since March among 93 indexes
worldwide.  
 Finance Minister  Sebastian Vladescu  said June 26 day he was
“profoundly disappointed” because a VAT increase “is not the
best solution.”  
 “The interesting part is that the increase in VAT most
likely will not be enough to compensate for the cut in
pensions,”  Nicolaie Alexandru-Chidesciuc  and  Vlad Muscalu ,
economists at ING Groep NV in Bucharest, wrote in a note to
clients.  
 The cost of insuring Romania’s debt against default fell
for the first time in five days, with credit default swaps
declining to 389 basis points from 394.6 basis points at the
previous close, according to CMA DataVision prices.  
 Zloty, Forint  
 “In the current context, the IMF executive board might
want to wait for another review to take place in July before
disbursing,” BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest bank, wrote in a
research note today. “The European Commission was meant to sign
a new memorandum of understanding but it will certainly be
delayed. We remain negative on the leu.”  
 The zloty and forint followed the leu as the worst losers
today among 25 emerging-market currencies. The zloty slumped 0.6
percent to 4.1405 per euro, while the forint was down 0.4
percent at 285.65.  
 Public debt may reach 79 percent of gross domestic product
in Hungary and 54 percent in Poland this year, making the two
countries the most indebted eastern EU members, according to
European Commission estimates. Hungary received a 20 billion-
euro emergency IMF-led loan in 2008 to avert default.  
 “The sell-off in the leu is having some spill-over effects
on the rest of the region, with  the zloty and forint the most
exposed” given their debt levels, London-based BNP analyst
 Elisabeth Gruie  said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        