-- Euro Weakens as U.S. Data Showing Muted Inflation Lifts Greenback Optimism
-- Oliver Biggadike
-- 2010-06-28T21:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/euro-falls-as-group-of-20-leaders-fail-to-convince-markets-on-fiscal-route.html

          
          
             The euro fell against almost all of
its 16 major peers, dropping the most in three weeks versus the
dollar, after U.S. data showed inflation remains muted and Group
of 20 leaders agreed on a target for cutting budget deficits.  
 The  Dollar Index  rose, recovering from an earlier loss that
took it almost to a six-week low, as 10-year  Treasuries  rallied
and pushed yields to the least in more than a year. Advanced
economies among nations meeting in Toronto over the weekend
agreed to halve deficits by 2013 while providing stimulus to
support economic recovery. Spanish and Italian bonds dropped.  
 “We have moved from an environment where growth was
supported at any cost, and now we’ve shifted to fiscal
responsibility,” said  Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova Scotia
currency strategist in Toronto. “With the euro there’s still
this tremendous risk overhang. We’re seeing spikes in risk
aversion, which create U.S. dollar buying.”  
 The euro fell as much as 0.83 percent against the dollar,
the most on an intraday basis since June 4, to $1.2266 before
trading at $1.2277 at 5 p.m. in New York, from $1.2369 on June
25. The shared currency dropped 0.6 percent to 109.72 yen, from
110.41 on June 25. The yen fell 0.2 percent to 89.35 per dollar,
from 89.23 last week, after gaining as much as 0.2 percent and
touching 89.07, the strongest level since May 21.  
 Top Performers  
 The dollar was poised for the fourth-biggest gain this
quarter against the euro among its most-traded counterparts,
with a 10 percent climb trailing increases of 10.1 percent by
Brazil’s real, 11 percent by Singapore’s dollar and 15 percent
by the yen. The Japanese and Singaporean currencies and the real
also are the only three to gain against the greenback over the
same period, advancing 4.6 percent, 0.9 percent and 0.1 percent.  
 The Swiss franc gained to a record versus the euro as
investors sought a haven and a member of the nation’s central
bank said deflationary tensions “practically disappeared.” The
franc touched 1.3329 per euro before trading at 1.3344.  
 Consumer spending in the U.S. rose last month more than
forecast. Purchases increased 0.2 percent after little change in
April, Commerce Department figures showed today. Incomes climbed
0.4 percent.  
 The Federal Reserve’s preferred measure of inflation, which
excludes food and fuel, was at an annualized 1.3 percent for
May, government data showed, close to the 1.2 percent median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 U.S. stocks fluctuated. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
gained as much as 0.5 percent and fell as much as 0.5 percent.  
 ‘Bouncing Down’  
 “People aren’t keen on the whole risk backdrop,” said
 Brian Kim , a currency strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at
UBS AG, which forecasts the euro will depreciate to $1.15 in
three months. “The euro’s going to keep bouncing down, and over
the next few months growth issues are going to become more of a
concern.”  
 Investors sold dollars last week before the summit meeting
and today are resuming purchases of the currency, according to
 David Bloom , London-based global head of currency strategy at
HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 “People got a bit nervous that something would happen,”
Bloom said in a telephone interview. “People seem to be
reinstating some of the long-dollar positions that they had in
the week ahead of the G-20.” A long position is a bet a
currency or security will gain.  
 Banks need to raise capital “significantly” and countries
will be allowed to phase in new rules, with a goal of meeting
the standards by the end of 2012, G-20 leaders said in a
statement yesterday at the close of their summit in Toronto.  
 Reflects U.S. Targets  
 President  Barack Obama  said the group’s goal of cutting
deficits in half by 2013 reflects U.S. targets and takes into
account the fiscal and economic needs of each nation.  
 Italian 10-year note yields increased 4 basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 4.12 percent on weak auction demand,
while the yield on the comparable Spanish bond rose 7 basis
points to 4.54 percent.  
 The yen appreciated earlier against the dollar as a  decline 
in U.S. 10-year yields, which touched 3.01 percent, encouraged
Japanese investors to sell the note while U.S. buyers sought
longer-term securities to increase the duration of their
portfolios to match benchmarks at the quarter’s end. Duration
measures how sensitive a bond’s price is to changes in yield.  
 The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six trading partners including the yen and euro,
rose 0.5 percent to 85.698 after trading as low as 85.215, near
the 85.091 level on June 21 that was the lowest since May 13.  
 Fed ‘on Hold’  
 “We’re in the end of the month, and it’s pretty clear that
we have good dollar demand,” said  Sebastien Galy , a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “People for now
expect the Fed to stay on hold for a long time.”  
 Fed policy makers held the benchmark U.S.  interest rate  at
a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent last week and said it
will remain “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  
 “The dollar is benefiting from its tendency as a safe-
haven currency,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
Washington at Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-
exchange network. “Investor sentiment really has struggled to
regain its footing after last week. There are concerns about the
pace of the recovery after the Fed’s dovish tone.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        