-- Euro Meltdown Won't Be Avoided by German Makeover: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-06-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/euro-meltdown-won-t-be-avoided-by-german-makeover-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             Who is to blame for the state of the
world economy? To listen to a range of presidents, investors,
pundits and finance ministers, just one country: Germany.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  suggests the Germans are
sending the world back into recession.  George Soros  says they
are destroying the euro. French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  thinks they are pushing the euro area into deflation.  
 It is all crazy.  
 Germany’s huge trade surplus isn’t  part of the problem .
Handicapping the strongest link won’t help the European economy.
And Germany couldn’t change direction now even if it wanted to.
Instead of criticizing the Germans, other nations should be
learning from the world’s second-biggest exporter. German brands
such as  Siemens AG , Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Bayer AG
didn’t just appear for no reason.  
 It’s not hard to find people blaming the Germans for
everything going wrong in the world. The country hasn’t been
getting this much flak since World War II.  
 Before the Group of 20 summit in Canada, Obama scolded
countries cutting government debt as another recession
threatened. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  this
month called for “stronger domestic demand growth” in European
countries that have trade surpluses, such as Germany.  
 In response, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said in a
speech last week she had told Obama that cutting spending is
“absolutely important for us.”  
 ‘Main Protagonist’  
 Billionaire investor George Soros said in a lecture last
week that Germany “is the main protagonist” in the euro
crisis, and the austerity plans of Europe’s biggest economy may
inflict deflation on the region.  
 That echoed a theme pushed by Lagarde in March, when she
argued that Germany should cut its trade surplus to help out the
nations running deficits.  
 The consensus seems pretty clear. If the world does slip
back into recession, and if the euro collapses, it’s all the
fault of the Germans. Their insistence on saving money, living
within their means, and getting debt under control is the
greatest threat the world faces.  
 There’s just one snag with this analysis: It’s upside down.  
 Germany does have a big trade surplus: It was 13.4 billion
euros in April. And it’s cutting the budget deficit: Merkel aims
to slice 80 billion euros from state spending, starting in 2011.  
 Three Reasons  
 But that doesn’t threaten anyone. Here’s why.  
 First, the German trade surplus isn’t what created the
massive trade gaps in Greece, Spain and elsewhere in the euro
area. While it is true that every surplus has to be matched by a
deficit somewhere else, it doesn’t follow that Germany created
the black hole in Greek or Spanish finances. You could just as
well argue that the Greeks and the Spanish created the German
trade surplus by over-consuming, rather than saying Germany
created deficits in other countries by not consuming enough.  
 In reality, the Spanish chose to base their economy on a
construction boom, and the Greeks based theirs on lavish
government spending. They could have created competitive,
export-oriented economies. They didn’t and there is no point in
complaining about the countries that did.  
 Second, reducing the German trade surplus is the wrong
solution. You might as well tell the Brazilian soccer team that
it is allowed to play in the World Cup with only nine men on the
field because otherwise it wouldn’t be fair on everyone else.
It’s stupid. You can’t improve the euro area’s economy by
telling its strongest member to weaken itself. You have to
concentrate on the structural problems in the big-deficit
countries. That’s the only way to solve the crisis.  
 Frugal Germans  
 Third, rebalancing trade in the euro area won’t work. There
is about as much point in telling the Germans to embrace
consumption as there is in asking  Tiger Woods  to take up
celibacy. It isn’t going to happen, so what is the point of
asking? The only way the German government can engineer trade
deficits -- as Obama, Soros and Lagarde seem to think it should
-- is by offering even bigger stimulus packages.  
 That would just make German households save more, fearing
inflation and tax increases would follow. Frugality is in the
national character. You can no more get the Germans to squander
money than you can get the French to stop eating cheese.  
 The crisis of the euro won’t be fixed by making Germany the
scapegoat. The country runs a trade surplus because it makes
lots of things that people want to buy: cars, machinery,
pharmaceuticals and technical goods. The reason Germany doesn’t
consume as much as some economists and politicians say it should
is because the people are averse to debt. Maxing out the credit
card, which is part of daily life in the U.S. and U.K., just
never caught on in Germany.  
 Working hard? Making great products? Living within your
means? Those aren’t bad principles on which to base an economy.  
 ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Matthew Lynn  in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        