-- Stocks, U.S. Futures Rise on G-20 Growth Pledge
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-06-28T21:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/european-bonds-fall-as-governments-offer-debt-stocks-u-s-futures-rally.html

          
          
             Treasuries rallied, pushing the
yield on the 10-year note to the lowest level since April 2009,
on concern the economic recovery will remain slow. U.S. stocks
fell, while European equities broke a four-day losing streak.  
 The rate on 10-year Treasury notes slid nine basis points
to 3.02 percent at 5:15 p.m. in New York. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index lost 0.2 percent, led by commodity producers. The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index  advanced 1.2 percent, the most two weeks.
Crude oil fell from a seven-week high on skepticism that Gulf of
Mexico production will be disrupted by a tropical storm.  
 President  Barack Obama  pushed his G-20 counterparts meeting
in Toronto yesterday to focus on spurring growth even as leaders
in the U.K. and Germany started tightening spending to cut
deficits. G-20 leaders said nations can move at their own pace
to reduce budget gaps and also pledged to fulfill existing
stimulus plans.  
 “Some parts of the economy are improving while there is
still doubt about the overall direction of the recovery,” said
 Tom Mangan , who helps manage $2 billion as a money manager at
James Investment Research Inc. in Xenia, Ohio. “The Treasury
market is surprisingly resilient and that underscores the
uncertainty that people have about the economy.”  
 Exxon Mobil Corp. lost 1.1 percent to pace declines in 35
of 38 energy companies in the S&P 500. Oil for August delivery
fell 61 cents, or 0.8 percent, to settle at $78.25 a barrel on
skepticism that production in the Gulf of Mexico will be
disrupted by a tropical storm in the region.  
 Personal Spending  
 U.S. equity benchmarks gained earlier after government data
showed personal spending rose 0.2 percent in May, twice the rate
economists forecast, after being little change the prior month.
Incomes climbed 0.4 and the savings rate increased to the
highest level in eight months.  
 Tobacco and telephone companies led the market higher
earlier. Altria Group Inc. and Reynolds American Inc. rallied
more than 3.3 percent. The Supreme Court rejected the Justice
Department’s bid for as much as $280 billion in tobacco company
profits, all but ensuring the racketeering suit first pressed by
former President  Bill Clinton ’s administration won’t result in
financial penalties against Altria’s Philip Morris USA and R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co.  
 Sprint Nextel Corp. rallied 6.2 percent and AT&T Inc.
climbed 0.7 percent to lead telephone companies higher after
President Barack Obama proposed today almost doubling the
airwaves available for smartphones, laptop connections to the
Internet and new wireless devices.  
 Quarterly Decline  
 The S&P 500 is headed for an 8.1 percent retreat in the
second quarter, snapping a four-quarter streak of gains.  
 The gain in Treasuries narrowed the  difference  in yield
with German bunds by six basis points to 44 basis points.  
 Treasuries climbed 5.2 percent this year and bunds returned
6.7 percent, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, as concern
the economic recovery may falter amid the European debt crisis
drove investors to the safest assets.  
 Italy faced weaker demand today at a sale of 3- and 10-year
bonds worth 7 billion euros ($8.65 billion). The yield on the
10-year Italian bond climbed 4 basis points to 4.11 percent,
while the French yield rose 2 basis points to 3.1 percent after
that nation also sold debt.  
 Weighing Down  
 “We’ve got a lot of supply in Europe this week and that’s
weighing on the market,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at
Evolution Securities Ltd., a London-based broker.  
 Three shares gained for each that fell in the Stoxx 600
Index. PSA Peugeot Citroen rose 2.8 percent in Paris as La
Lettre de L’Expansion reported that France’s biggest carmaker
lifted its sales target for the DS3 model.  
 Most Asian stocks declined, with the  MSCI Asia Pacific
Index  little changed. Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Japan’s
third-biggest bank by market value, fell 2.6 percent in Tokyo on
plans to raise as much as 857.6 billion yen ($9.6 billion) to
meet new capital rules.  
 Russia’s  Micex Index  rose 1.2 percent and India’s Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index advanced 1.1 percent.  
 Oil fell 0.8 percent to $78.25 a barrel in New York,
retreating from a seven-week high. Tropical storm Alex, which is
forecast to become a hurricane within two days, is on a path
that keeps it away from major oil-producing areas in the Gulf of
Mexico.  
 Copper for delivery in September lost 0.7 percent to
$3.0895 a pound in New York, snapping a two-day rally, as a
stronger dollar curbed demand for metals as an alternative
investment.  
 The Dollar Index, which measures the currency against six
major trading partners, climbed 0.5 percent to 85.696.  
 The euro slipped 0.7 percent to $1.2277 after a U.S. report
showed inflation remains muted and Group of 20 nations leaders
agreed on a target for cutting budget deficits.  
 The Federal Reserve’s preferred measure of inflation, which
excludes food and fuel, was at an annualized 1.3 percent for
May, government data showed, close to the 1.2 percent median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama pushed his G-20 counterparts meeting in Toronto yesterday to focus on spurring growth even after leaders in the U.K. and Germany started tightening spending to cut deficits.  Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deborah Kostroun reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Treasuries rallied, pushing the yield on the 10-year note to the lowest level since April 2009, on concern the economic recovery will remain slow. U.S. stocks fell, while European equities broke a four-day losing streak. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
