-- Stress Tests on EU Banks Must Assess Sovereign Risk, Draft Says
-- Meera Louis
-- 2010-06-29T12:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/european-bank-stress-tests-on-must-assess-sovereign-risk-eu-draft-says.html

          
          
             Stress tests on European Union
banks should assess sovereign-debt risks when calculating how
lenders would perform against shocks to the banking system,
according to a draft EU document.  
 Finance ministers from the 27 EU countries, who will
discuss the stress tests at a meeting in two weeks, also will
ask the Committee of European Banking Supervisors, which is
conducting the EU-wide exercises, to extend them to include a
“significant market share of institutions” in each nation,
according to the draft, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
The paper, dated June 25, was prepared for a July 12-13 meeting
of EU ministers in Brussels.  
 Questions have arisen over whether the stress tests would
take into account risks tied to the sovereign debt of Greece,
Portugal and other European nations. Marking down the value of
Greek bonds, even for the purposes of a test, might imply that
regulators perceive a debt default as a possibility, which could
further unsettle investors, according to analysts.  
 The EU has pledged about $1 trillion to reassure the
markets and backstop the euro, which has fallen 14 percent
against the dollar this year on concerns that Greece’s debt
crisis is spreading. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Greek 10-year bonds over benchmark German bunds has jumped to
about 800 basis points, almost five times the level a year ago.
European banking stocks declined 3.2 percent today.  
 Banks’ Holdings  
 Investor concern that Greece’s fiscal crisis is spreading
to other EU countries such as Italy, Spain and Portugal has
increased those governments’ borrowing costs and raised
questions about banks’ holdings of sovereign debt. European
banks had $2.29 trillion at risk in Greece, Italy, Portugal and
Spain at the end of 2009, according to the Bank for
International Settlements.  
 Bill Winters , the former co-chief executive officer of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment bank, said on Bloomberg
Television on June 25 that the main issue for the stress tests
is whether they will include restructuring of sovereign-debt
holdings in the results.  
 “The question everybody’s asking is: Are you going to
include scenarios that involve the restructuring of Greek or
another countries’ debt in these stress tests?” Winters said.
“If you do include it, we already know the answer: There are
real issues. If you don’t include it, we’re not sure we’re going
to take that test very seriously.”  
 100 Lenders  
 Seeking to demonstrate that Europe’s  financial system  can
withstand shocks, EU leaders on June 17 agreed to disclose how
banks perform in the stress tests in the second half of July.
The tests, which so far include only large cross-border banks,
may be extended to 100 lenders, European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Axel Weber  told German lawmakers on June 25,
according to  Hans Michelbach , deputy finance spokesman in
parliament for the Christian Democrats.  
 According to the draft EU paper, “appropriate and common
methodology should be devised as soon as possible in order to
assess the resilience of banks, including the exposures to
sovereign risk, matching closely market concerns regarding the
exposures.” The paper is titled “Stress test exercise - Draft
Mandate to CEBS.”  
 Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said today that the
tests will make clear that her nation’s banks are strong. Spain
will ask European finance ministers at the July 12-13 meeting to
publish the results as soon as possible, she said.  
 Solvency Position  
 “At the next Ecofin meeting in two weeks, Spain’s request
will be for our stress tests to be published immediately, to
show that our whole banking system has an excellent solvency
position,” Salgado said in an interview with  Cadena Ser  radio
in Madrid.  
 “The banking industry worldwide is still in dreadful”
shape after the global financial crisis,  Ralph Silva , an analyst
at London-based Silva Research Network, which specializes in
financial-services firms, said in an interview today with
Bloomberg Television. Still, “we do have some solid banks and
that should form the foundation for the recovery.”  
 Billionaire investor  George Soros  said last week that it
would be impossible to judge the state of the European banking
industry without including “the smaller banks, notably the
cajas in Spain and the Landesbanken in Germany,” in the stress-
testing exercise. Continental European banks haven’t been
“properly cleansed” after the credit crisis, Soros said in a
speech in Berlin on June 23.  
 Bank-Rescue Fund  
 Germany’s state-owned regional Landesbanken and savings
banks will probably write down $143 billion for the years 2007
to 2010, the International Monetary Fund said in April. Spanish
savings banks may borrow around 10 billion euros from the
country’s bank-rescue fund, Bank of Spain Governor  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  told lawmakers in Madrid on June 22.  
 A gauge of European bank stocks in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index fell 2.5 percent today to the lowest since June 11.  
 With the stress tests, “CEBS should extend the exercise,
in close cooperation with the ECB, to a wider share of the EU
banking system also covering relevant financial institutions,
and more member states, with a view to representing a
significant market share of institutions in all countries
involved,” according to the EU document. London-based CEBS
coordinates national banking authorities and makes policy
recommendations to the EU on regulation.  
 “Individual banks’ results of the extended stress test
will be simultaneously disclosed to the public during the second
half of July 2010, with the consent of the banks concerned, as
well as the methodology, with details on macroeconomic scenarios
and loss rates,” according to the draft document.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Louis  in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       William "Bill" Winters  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Former co-Chief Executive Officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment bank William Winters pauses during a television interview in London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Former co-Chief Executive Officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s investment bank William Winters pauses during a television interview in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 -- Ralph Silva, founder and strategist at Silva Research Network, talks about European bank stress tests and the prospects for bank  insolvencies in the next year.
     Silva speaks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
