-- Stocks Rally in Europe for First Time in Five Days
-- Adria Cimino
-- 2010-06-28T16:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/european-stock-index-futures-gain-vallourec-standard-chartered-may-move.html

          
          
             European stocks  gained for the first
time in five days as automakers and mining companies rallied
after the Group of 20 nations pledged to safeguard economic
growth while cutting debt.  
 PSA Peugeot Citroen climbed 2.8 percent as La Lettre de
L’Expansion reported that France’s biggest carmaker has lifted
its sales  target  for the DS3 model. Rio Tinto Group advanced 2.1
percent as copper climbed for a third day. Premier Oil Plc
surged 7.1 percent after the explorer said a North Sea well
encountered oil-bearing sandstones.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 1.2 percent to 251.36, the
biggest gain in two weeks. The gauge, which has fallen 7.6
percent from this year’s high on April 15 amid concern about the
impact of Europe’s debt crisis, remains 59 percent higher than
in March last year as government stimulus measures helped
trigger a recovery in the global economy.  
 “This policy mix we’re seeing now -- easy money, tight
fiscal -- historically has been good for stocks,”  Larry Kantor ,
head of research at Barclays Capital in New York said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview. “We particularly like stocks the
U.S. and Europe. Indicators of confidence whether its consumer,
or business, really haven’t been dented.”  
 National benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western European
markets, except Portugal and Greece. France’s CAC 40 advanced
1.6 percent and Germany’s DAX increased 1.4 percent. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 gained 0.5 percent.  
 Banking Oversight  
 Global efforts to tighten banking oversight have gained
momentum, U.S. President  Barack Obama  said following the G-20
meeting this weekend. Group leaders agreed to pursue higher
capital requirements for banks once their economic recoveries
take root and endorsed targets to cut deficits at least by half
by 2013 and stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016.  
 Central banks and governments should consider withdrawing
extraordinary measures to avoid skewing investment decisions and
delaying companies’ recording of losses, the Bank for
International Settlements said.  
 “The time has come to ask when and how these powerful
measures can be phased out,” the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS
said in its annual report published today. “The cumulating side
effects themselves pose a danger that, at the very least,
implies exiting sooner than may be comfortable for many.”  
 Peugeot, Porsche  
 Peugeot  rose 2.8 percent to 22.30 euros, leading a gauge of
auto shares to the biggest gain among 19 industry groups in the
Stoxx 600. The carmaker has lifted its 2010 sales target for the
DS3 model to 70,000 from 45,000, La Lettre de L’Expansion
reported, without citing anyone.  
 Preferred shares of  Porsche SE , the maker of the 911 sports
car, climbed 3.1 percent to 37.16 euros as the stock was
upgraded to “buy” from “sell” at Bankhaus Metzler.  
 Rio Tinto, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
climbed 2.1 percent to 3,256 pence as copper, lead, nickel and
zinc advanced on the London Metal Exchange. Fresnillo Plc, the
largest primary silver producer, rallied 4.9 percent to 1,052
pence.  
 Premier Oil  surged 7.1 percent to 1,266 pence, the most in
more than a year. The U.K. explorer said the Catcher East
sidetrack well in the U.K. Central North Sea encountered
“excellent quality” oil-bearing sandstones.  
 Infineon, Vallourec  
 Infineon Technologies AG advanced 2.6 percent to 5.08
euros. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has agreed to help
Russia’s AFK Sistema negotiate with Infineon about purchasing a
stake in the German semiconductor maker, Financial Times
Deutschland reported. Infineon and Sistema are not in talks on a
stake purchase, spokesmen at the two companies said.  
 Vallourec SA , which produces steel pipes for the oil and
gas industry, rose 3.5 percent to 149.5 euros. The company has
seen a rebound in volumes after a low point reached in the first
quarter, Chairman  Philippe Crouzet  told La Tribune in an
interview. Vallourec is benefiting from a recovery in the U.S.,
Brazil and Asia, while the economy in Europe is “less good,”
Crouzet told the newspaper.  
 Banco Popolare SC jumped 3.9 percent to 4.75 euros. The
stock was rated  “buy”  at Societe Generale SA, which initiated
coverage of Italy’s fourth-biggest bank and set a price estimate
of 5.90 euros.  
 “Banco Popolare is a restructuring story, with significant
upside potential,” Paris-based analyst  Carlo Tommaselli  wrote
in a note today.  
 Bwin Gains  
 Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG  climbed 3 percent to
36.97 euros as the Austrian online betting company denied a
report that merger talks with PartyGaming Plc have collapsed.  
 “Bwin is currently holding talks with several potential
partners in the online gaming sector on possible co-operation
and/or acquisitions,” the company said. PartyGaming slid 3.4
percent to 242.5 pence in London.  
 Hennes & Mauritz AB fell 1.8 percent to 216.5 kronor after
Chief Executive Officer  Karl-Johan Persson  told La Tribune that
Europe’s second-largest clothing retailer isn’t for sale. The
Persson family, which holds 37 percent of the shares and 70
percent of the voting rights, considers H&M a “long-term
investment,” Persson, the grandchild of the Swedish founder,
told the newspaper.  
 Standard Chartered Plc fell 1.8 percent to 1,710 pence as
the British bank that earns most of its profit in Asia said the
European sovereign-debt crisis caused a “softening” of first-
half revenue.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adria Cimino  in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hennes & Mauritz AB fell 1.8 percent after Chief Executive Officer Karl-Johan Persson told La Tribune that Europe’s second-largest clothing retailer isn’t for sale. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
