-- Ex-Boston Provident Trader Levy Gets 67 Months Prison for $3 Million Fraud
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-06-28T20:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/ex-boston-provident-trader-levy-gets-67-months-prison-for-3-million-fraud.html

          
          
             Ezra Levy , a former trader and chief
financial officer of Boston Provident Partners LP, was sentenced
today to 67 months in prison for stealing about $3 million from
the Manhattan-based hedge fund.  
 Levy, 33, pleaded guilty in Manhattan federal court in
March to two schemes to defraud Boston Provident, run by  Orin Kramer , the chairman of the New Jersey State Investment Council.
He admitted committing securities fraud and wire fraud.  
 In his guilty plea, Levy admitted that he transferred $2.45
million from Boston Provident to his own account. He also said
he had the fund buy shares of  Atlas Energy Inc.  and another
stock at inflated prices from an account he controlled,
generating a $537,000 profit.  
 U.S. District Judge  Kevin Castel  today ordered Levy to pay
$2.99 million in restitution, fined him $12,500 and ordered him
to surrender to federal prison by Sept. 7.  
 “Levy brazenly stole $3 million from the hedge fund where
he worked as a trader and thereby breached his fiduciary duty
and professional responsibilities,” assistant U.S. attorneys
William Stellmach and David Miller said in court papers.  
 Levy used the proceeds for personal expenses, including
credit card payments, to purchase real estate and to buy an
Aston Martin, said prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara .  
 Prosecutors said in court papers that Levy faced from 63
months to 78 months in prison under federal sentencing
guidelines.  
 Katya Jestin, a lawyer for Levy, asked for leniency for her
client, saying he suffered from Lyme disease, a “depressive
disorder and alcoholism that may have impaired his ability to
distinguish right from wrong at the time he committed fraud.  
 ‘This Secret’  
 “Knowing that you have this secret and you engaged in this
conduct and your life is based on lies should certainly cause
you to experience a major depressive disorder,” Castel said.
“There are those who think that if I can steal $3 million and I
get caught and do five years, it’s not a bad transaction. That’s
why it has to be made an unacceptable transaction.”  
 Castel rejected a request by defense lawyers to allow Levy
to be free until October so that he could spend the Jewish holy
days in September with his family and help his six-year-old son
adjust to a new school.  
 At the time of Levy’s arrest, Boston Provident said Kramer
would cover the firm’s fees and losses from the crime. Boston
Provident fired Levy after learning of the scheme.  
 Levy joined Kramer Spellman LP, which changed its name to
Boston Provident in 2004, as an analyst in 2001. Before that, he
worked for Prudential Financial Inc. and the former SG Cowen &
Co. LLC after starting out as an accountant in a textiles firm.  
 Atlas Energy, based in Moon Township, Pennsylvania,
develops, produces and transports natural gas and oil in the
U.S.’s Appalachian Basin.  
 The case is U.S. v. Levy, 09-mj-2473, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in U.S. District Court in New York at 
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 David Glovin  in U.S. District Court in New York at
   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        