-- Ex-Stripper Crams Sports Betting, Golden Gloves Into Hot Memoir
-- Jeffrey Burke
-- 2010-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/ex-stripper-crams-sports-betting-golden-gloves-into-hot-memoir.html

          
          
             It wasn’t the job Beth Raymer took
dancing nude in private homes for $150 an hour that gave me
pause.  
 After all, a college graduate in Tallahassee, Florida,
might not have many options so remunerative, and as Raymer
describes herself in “ Lay the Favorite: A Memoir of Gambling ,”
she’s not shy.  
 I also accepted without much grudging the colorful cast of
her first gig with a professional gambler, the 6-foot-4, 280-
pound Dink (ne Douglas) Heimowitz of Dink Inc., who has a pet
hamster, reads Fuzzy Creatures Quarterly and works with guys
named Bobby Nebbish, Fat George and Lobster.  
 My skeptic’s antennae really twitched, though, when Raymer,
fired by Dink because his wife, Tulip, is jealous, decides to
take up boxing. She felt she wanted to hit something, and then
she discovered a kinship with boxers’ “rugged individualism.”  
 Naturally, she entered the Golden Gloves -- oh come on.
That’s when I hit the Google button, and sure enough, there she
was on April 3, 2003, getting creamed by a force of nature named
Dominga “La Tormenta” Olivo. There’s also a boxer known as the
Psychotic Grasshopper, but never mind.  
 In “Lay the Favorite” -- which has to do with betting,
not bedding -- Raymer traces four years from age 24 of
Dickensian picaresque that paints an entertaining view of sports
gambling and her own unconventional character.  
 Inside Poop  
 Her father was a problem gambler who took her to the dog
races at the Palm Beach Kennel Club when she was seven. Her job
was to check whether any of the dogs in the paddock moved its
bowels because her father believed lighter dogs ran faster.  
 She and her 60-pound Chow Chow, Otis, hook up with Dink
while she’s waiting tables in Las Vegas. He shepherds her
through the multibillion-dollar world of sports betting and such
arcana as an online service that tracks gambling lines and
information for all games:  
 “In fact, Don Best Live Odds did for gamblers and
bookmakers what Bloomberg terminals did for hedge-fund managers
and stockbrokers. Where Bloomberg streamed stock quotes and the
latest financial data, Don Best displayed the latest injury
reports and lineup changes.” A shameless plug, I know.  
 ‘Harmless Maniac’  
 Dink takes her back and they leave Vegas for a stint in
Costa Rica. Her other mentor is a “harmless maniac” named
Bernard Rose, who weighs 375 pounds and interviews her at a
pizzeria in the Long Island, New York, town of Ronkonkoma. She
sketches sharp, amusing profiles of both men that reveal a lot
about a gambler’s journey.  
 Bernard eventually sets up an operation in Curacao called
ASAP, planning to spend “five years in the vacuum of high-
stakes offshore gambling.” Raymer says it’s “like 30 years in
any other line of work” because it’s tied to the Internet and
runs 24/7. How’s the money?  
 “ASAP’s biggest win took place over the nine-day span of
the 2004 NBA finals. In one of the biggest upsets in basketball
history, the Pistons beat the Lakers in five games and we made
one and a half million dollars.”  
 Bad stuff happens, too: A staffer cleans out Bernard, a
creep cheats Raymer. She’s tough enough, though, to sort out the
deadbeat while scoring 20-large and a trip to Rio for herself.
Then, of course, she heads to New York’s Columbia University to
score an MFA, a book contract and at least one very positive
book review.  
 It’s on Curacao that my aforementioned antennae got to
twitching again when Raymer says she saw an associate named
Wladimir “catch a 30-pound, double-penised iguana with his bare
hands.” Yeah, I hit the Google button -- and learned what an
ignoramus I am about iguanas.  
 “Lay the Favorite: A Memoir of Gambling” is published by
 Spiegel & Grau  (228 pages, $25). To order this book in North
America, click  here .  
 ( Jeffrey Burke  is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Lay the Favorite"  
                       
                         
                           Random House via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of the book "Lay the Favorite: A Memoir of Gambling." The book is by Beth Raymer. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of the book "Lay the Favorite: A Memoir of Gambling." The book is by Beth Raymer. Source: Random House via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Author Beth Raymer.  "Lay the Favorite: A Memoir of Gambling" is her latest book. Source: Random House via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
