-- Texas Rangers, League Must Produce Documents on Team Bids, U.S. Judge Says
-- Thomas Korosec
-- 2010-06-28T23:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/texas-rangers-league-must-produce-documents-on-team-bids-u-s-judge-says.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers and Major League
Baseball must provide a group of lenders with documents about
bids for the team and valuations of the offers, a judge ruled.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Stacey Jernigan  in Dallas ruled at a
court hearing today that the Rangers and the league must comply
with a request from lenders for documents on a range of topics
related to the team’s sale and bankruptcy filing.  
 Jernigan said the request was relevant to a hearing set for
July 9 at which the Rangers will seek court permission for its
bankruptcy plan and sale to a group led by attorney Chuck
Greenberg and team President  Nolan Ryan .  
 “I think these issues pertaining to the other options of
this debtor and the debtor’s analysis of that and the equity
owners’ analysis of that could be germane on July 9,” the judge
said.  
 The lender group, which opposes the sale, went to court to
force the Rangers and the league to provide documents. The
lenders are seeking information related to bids for the team,
valuations of the bids, the financial ability of the Greenberg-
Ryan group to close the sale, and the team’s decision to file
for bankruptcy in May.  
 The Rangers and the league said in court papers that the
request from the lenders was “irrelevant.”  
 Jernigan also granted Major League Baseball’s request that
the lenders produce documents. MLB is requesting information
pertaining to why the lenders think any other bid for the team
is better and communications among the lenders concerning other
bids. The lenders have said Houston businessman  Jim Crane  made a
better bid for the Rangers.  
 “It’s a two-way street,”  Peter D’Apice , a lawyer for
Major League Baseball, told the judge.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Korosec  in Fort Worth, Texas,
at   tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  
          
          


  


        