-- Mexican Governor Candidate Assassinated in Tamaulipas as Drug Fight Rages
-- Andres R. Martinez
-- 2010-06-28T21:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/mexico-governor-candidate-torre-killed-in-tamaulipas-state-milenio-says.html

          
          
             The leading candidate for governor
in the Mexican border state of Tamaulipas was gunned down today
by unknown assassins, less than a week before elections in which
violence related to drug trafficking is a central issue.  
 Rodolfo Torre Cantu , a 46-year-old member of the
Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, was in a vehicle that
was attacked near the airport of state capital Ciudad Victoria,
according to Ruben Dario Rios Lopez, spokesman for the
Tamaulipas prosecutors office. Rios said four others were killed
in the attack, including Enrique Blackmore, a local lawmaker.  
 Torre Cantu’s death marks an escalation of Mexico’s drug-
fueled violence. It’s the highest-level political assassination
since PRI presidential candidate  Luis Donaldo Colosio  was killed
in March 1994, an event that shook investor confidence and
helped lead to a peso devaluation that began later that year,
said  Jorge Chabat , a political science professor at the Center
for Economic Research and Teaching in Mexico City.  
 “This marks a change in the violence,” Chabat said.
“This was done to prevent him from becoming governor.”  
 President  Felipe Calderon  called an emergency meeting of
the security cabinet.  
 Torre Cantu had made improving security a top campaign
pledge, promising to fight criminal impunity and punish
corruption, according to a document on his website. The
statement doesn’t make direct reference to the gangs that use
the state’s border crossings to smuggle marijuana and cocaine
into southern Texas.  
 Campaign Pledge  
 “Violence in all its forms threatens the well-being of the
population, in addition to inhibiting investment, trade and
productive activities,” Torre Cantu said in the document.  
 Mexico’s peso fell after news of the assassination spread.
It weakened 0.7 percent to 12.7332 per U.S. dollar as of 5 p.m.
New York time. The IPC stock index fell 0.1 percent to
32,568.19.  
 Calderon vowed to find the killers and said organized
crime, a label that Mexican politicians often use when referring
to drug gangs, represents a “permanent threat” to the country.  
 “This isn’t against one candidate from one political
party, but against our democratic institutions,” Calderon told
reporters.  
 Calderon’s National Action Party and the Party of the
Democratic Revolution said they have suspended political
activity in Tamaulipas.  
 Local police are leading the investigation into the
shooting with the support of federal prosecutors, said  Ricardo Najera , a spokesman with the federal attorney general’s office.  
 Television Video  
 Milenio Television showed video images of several dead
bodies splayed out on the road next to vehicles displaying Torre
Cantu’s campaign logo. Five people were killed in the attack,
Interior Minister  Fernando Gomez Mont  said, without identifying
the other victims. Torre Cantu was on his way to an event to
close his campaign, the Foro TV network reported.  
 “These events, in which four other people also lost their
lives, represent an absolutely reproachable act that fills the
entire society with total indignation,” Gomez Mont said.  
 Tamaulipas, in Mexico’s northeast, borders Texas along the
Rio Grande Valley, with the Gulf of Mexico to the east. It
includes the cities of Reynosa, Matamoros, Nuevo Laredo and
Tampico. The manufacturing industry and service industries were
the two largest sources of revenue for the state.  
 Torre Cantu was leading by a wide margin before the July 4
election. He had 61 percent support, compared with 30 percent
for National Action Party candidate Jose Julian Sacramento,
according to a June 12-16 poll by Mexico City-based Consulta
Mitofsky that had a margin of error of one percentage point.  
 Federal Lawmaker  
 Torre Cantu,  a surgeon , was a federal lawmaker in the lower
house of Congress from 2003 until 2006, and had worked as a
medical coordinator for state-owned oil company Petroleos
Mexicanos.  
 Eugenio Hernandez, the current governor of Tamaulipas, said
in an interview on Mexico City-based Radio Formula that the
election should go forward. Electoral authorities will make the
final decision on whether to hold the vote, he said.  
 “I express terrible indignation at this incident,”
Sacramento said on Foro TV. “I demand that the state and
federal authorities act with responsibility and give us an
explanation.”  
 Polling Stations  
 Sacramento said Tamaulipas should hold elections as
scheduled. Even before today’s killing, the PAN couldn’t find
anyone willing to operate polling stations in several cities in
Tamaulipas because of fears about organized crime, Sacramento
added.  
 Mexico has turned increasingly violent since Calderon came
to office in December 2006 vowing to fight traffickers. More
than 22,000 people have been killed in Mexico in violence
related to organized crime since Calderon came to power,
according to the U.S. State Department.  
 Mexico’s growth each year would be as much as
1.5 percentage points higher and the country would attract more
foreign direct investment if there were less drug-related
violence, said  Gabriel Casillas , chief economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Mexico City. The government estimates violence
saps one percentage point from gross domestic product.  
 Gunmen killed Jose Mario Guajardo, candidate for mayor of
the city of Valle Hermoso in Tamaulipas, last month.  
 Ciudad Juarez Mayor Jose Reyes Ferriz said in an interview
last year that he had received at least four credible death
threats. Reyes, the mayor of Mexico’s most violent city, has at
least four bodyguards with him at all times. Juarez is located
across the Rio Grande from El Paso, Texas.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 Amartinez28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mexico's Interior Minister Fernando Gomez Mont, pictured, confirmed the death of gubernatorial candidate Rodolfo Torre. Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
