-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Should Unwind Portfolios Amid Demand, Pimco Says
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-06-28T16:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-should-unwind-portfolios-amid-demand-pimco-says.html

          
          
             Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
housing-finance companies supported by U.S. taxpayers, should
take advantage of demand for government-backed mortgage debt and
sell their holdings, according to Pacific Investment Management
Co.  
 “Since the government’s going to want to unwind them at
some point anyway, why not do it at the best levels ever?”
 Scott Simon , the mortgage-bond head at Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest fixed-
income fund, said in a telephone interview. “It’s good for
taxpayers, good for stakeholders, good for everybody.”  
 The average price of the $5.2 trillion of so-called agency
mortgage bonds guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or
federal agency Ginnie Mae rose last week to an all-time high of
106.3 cents on the dollar, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Mortgage Master Index. The Federal Reserve said today it
would replace its contracts to take delivery of certain bonds
with other debt, reflecting a lack of supply in the market.  
 Investors have viewed the mortgage obligations as a  haven 
amid Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and as signs of a slowing
U.S. economy roil markets. Average values, which have also
risen on speculation that homeowner  refinancing  won’t
accelerate and that the Fed will hold short-term interest rates
at record lows, have climbed from 104.2 cents on March 31, when
the Fed stopped entering contracts to buy $1.25 trillion.  
 ‘Appalled’ at Behavior  
 “If they just hold it all, they’ll make much, much less
money,” and potentially report losses under accounting rules,
Simon said in the interview last week, referring to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac. “I’m appalled as a taxpayer they aren’t
selling.”  
 Janis Smith , a spokeswoman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
 Michael Cosgrove , a spokesman for McLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac, and  Corinne Russell , a spokeswoman for the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, their regulator, declined to comment.  
 The companies, which have received $145 billion of U.S.
capital injections, hold $1.5 trillion of housing loans and
securities combined, including almost $700 billion of agency
mortgage bonds, down from almost $840 billion at the start of
the year, according to their latest disclosures. The U.S. has
directed each of them to keep their  portfolios  below $900
billion.  
 The companies also guarantee $3.9 trillion of housing debt
they don’t hold. This year, they’ve increased the amount of un-
securitized mortgages in their investment portfolios, as they
buy delinquent loans out of the securities they back to reduce
expenses, while paring their securities holdings mainly by
allowing them to pay down.  
 Reducing Portfolios  
 While the Obama administration has deferred developing a
proposal for the so-called government-sponsored enterprises’
future with the U.S. housing market still struggling, Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  told lawmakers in March that his
department “remains firmly committed to ensuring that the GSEs’
retained portfolios are substantially reduced.”  
 Most proposals for leaving the firms as government-linked
or making them U.S. agencies envision maintaining smaller
portfolios or none at all, according to a Government
Accountability Office report in September. Caps on their
portfolios are scheduled to drop by 10 percent annually.  
 It “would be appropriate” for the companies to start
selling securities, though they may be resisting the idea, said
 Anthony Sanders , a professor of finance at George Mason
University in Fairfax, Virginia.  
 Return to Profitability  
 “They actually believe they will be put back to the market
again,” said Sanders, also a former mortgage-bond research
director at Deutsche Bank AG. “And the larger the portfolios
they retain, in theory, the easier it is for them to return to
being profitable businesses.”  
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should sell “every” mortgage
bond they own with 5 percent, 5.5 percent and 6 percent coupons,
while allowing their own debt to mature, be retired through
contractual call options or buybacks, or be offset with
interest-rate swap contracts, Simon said.  
 The least expensive coupons are the so-called current-
coupon bonds that most directly affect home- loan rates  because
they’re the ones into which lenders typically sell new loans, he
said. Those “are the ones Fannie and Freddie don’t own.”  
 The New York Fed  said  in a statement today that it would
use so-called coupon swaps to cancel its $9.2 billion of
contracts to buy 5.5 percent Fannie Mae securities, and instead
enter contracts to take delivery of other debt.  
 Retaining Low Rates  
 Sales by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of mortgage bonds, even
those that don’t directly affect loan rates, may run counter to
the government’s other actions meant to support markets,
including promises by the Fed to keep its benchmark rate  target 
unchanged for an “extend period.” At their April meeting,
central bank policy makers debated when and how fast to sell
holdings, signaling no rush to start.  
 Still, in unwinding their portfolios, Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac would also be removing their own corporate bonds
from the market, lessening their supply at the same time, or
entering swap contracts with similar effects, Pimco’s Simon
said.  
 Pimco’s $228 billion  Total Return Fund  reduced its holdings
of mortgage securities to 16 percent last month, down from 83
percent in January 2009, according to its website. Because the
fund holds less of the debt than found in benchmark indexes, it
would do better than rivals if the bonds underperform.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        