-- Glaxo's Avandia Faces Potential Recall in U.S. Advisers' Vote
-- Michelle Fay Cortez
-- 2010-06-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/fda-avandia-panel-likely-to-vote-on-withdrawal-deputy-commissioner-says.html

          
          
             GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s  Avandia may
face tougher scrutiny from a U.S. advisory panel reviewing
whether the diabetes pill should be pulled from the market than
a similar analysis in 2007, doctors said.  
 Avandia was linked to heart attacks and other
cardiovascular complications in two new studies published
yesterday that the authors say should prompt U.S. regulators to
block its sale. Outside advisers to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration will meet for two days beginning July 13 and are
likely to consider whether the pill should remain on the market,
deputy commissioner  Joshua Sharfstein  said.  
 Glaxo’s treatment, approved in 1999, generated $1.1 billion
in revenue last year. The new research and the FDA’s increased
focus on patient safety will make for a “politically charged’
panel meeting, said  Harlan Krumholz , a cardiologist and
professor of medicine at Yale University.  
 “The growing clamor about drug safety and increasing
concerns about the transparency of data and the balancing of
risks and benefits are putting the FDA in the position where
they’re probably a little more on the defensive” than in 2007,
Krumholz said.  
 Almost 50,000 elderly Americans died, suffered strokes or
developed heart failure after taking Avandia instead of a rival
medicine since the Glaxo treatment was approved, according to a
drug safety reviewer at the FDA who conducted one of the new
studies. A second study, from the scientists who first raised
the alarm about Avandia, found one of every 52 patients taking
the drug was harmed.  
 Earlier Vote  
 An FDA advisory panel reviewed the drug in 2007 and “the
vote was 22-1 in favor of keeping Avandia available for
patients,” Glaxo spokeswoman  Mary Anne Rhyne  said yesterday in
an e-mail. “FDA has not issued its list of questions for this
meeting yet so we can’t really comment further.”  
 The results of the two studies, which include information
gathered since Avandia was first linked to heart complications
in 2007, may provide the impulse the agency needs to take
action, said  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at the Cleveland
Clinic in Ohio and the second study’s lead author.  
 “You have not one, but two studies that come at the
problem using completely different methods and populations, and
they both fundamentally show a hazard,” Nissen said in a
telephone interview. “I think we’ve got more than enough
evidence to say this drug should not be used.”  
 Advocate Effort  
 The research, published in the Journal of the American
Medical Association and the Archives of Internal Medicine, is
part of a push by safety advocates to get Avandia taken off the
market. A rival medicine,  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. ’s Actos,
lowers diabetics’ blood sugar levels as well as Avandia and
doesn’t raise heart attack risks, according to Nissen.  
 While the new studies aren’t definitive, they “reinforce
the message that there is a cloud hanging over this drug,”
Krumholz said.  
 “The serious issues delineated in these two new,
independent reports put additional onus on advisory committee
members when they meet in July,” U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley ,
an Iowa Republican, said in a statement.  
 Grassley and Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, in
February released a report that said Glaxo knew Avandia may
cause heart damage several years before Nissen’s study
documented the risk.  
 Glaxo Analysis  
 Results from six trials made available since questions
about Avandia were first raised show the drug doesn’t increase
the overall risk of heart attack, stroke or death, said Glaxo’s
Rhyne. The company’s review combining 52 studies shows no
increase in myocardial ischemia, or reduced blood flow to the
heart, she said in an e-mail. Several new observational studies
suggest patients taking Avandia and Actos have about the same
risk of heart attack, she said.  
 Glaxo fell 1.5 pence, or 0.1 percent, to close at 1,143.5
pence in London trading. The shares have fallen 13 percent this
year.  
 Nissen and  Kathy Wolski , a statistician, updated the
original 2007 analysis that publicized Avandia’s risk. They
combined data from every study on the drug, published on London-
based Glaxo’s website, to determine if it raised heart attacks
or deaths from heart disease. Patients on Avandia had a 28
percent to 39 percent elevated risk of heart attack, though
deaths from heart disease weren’t significantly higher.  
 Heart Attack  
 “Any potential benefit from lowering blood sugar modestly
can’t possibly compensate for increasing an event as serious as
a heart attack,” Nissen said.  
 The original analysis found a 43 percent increased risk of
heart attack with Avandia. Sales plummeted after the report was
published, falling from a peak of $3 billion in 2006, when it
was the top-selling diabetes drug in the world.  
 FDA advisers reviewing the data in the summer of 2007
concluded that the evidence suggested a heart risk in diabetics.
Still they said the drug’s benefit outweighed its dangers.
Avandia remained on the market, with an added warning about
potential heart attacks. The outcome of the panel hearing may be
different this time, Nissen said.  
 “A tincture of time has an effect on the way people
think,” he said. What’s more “if we are right and Avandia
increases heart attacks and deaths, and we wait a decade to find
that out, we will kill or harm a huge number of people. If we
are wrong, and you take this drug off the market, there is
another drug that is just as effective.”  
 Second Study  
 In the other study published yesterday,  David Graham , an
official in the FDA’s Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology,
and his colleagues analyzed data on 227,571 Medicare patients
who took Avandia or Takeda’s Actos from July 2006 to June 2009.  
 Avandia patients were 27 percent more likely to have a
stroke, 25 percent more likely to develop heart failure and 14
percent more likely to die. There was an 18 percent increased
risk for all three, plus heart attacks, they found.  
 “We show with a fairly high degree of certainty that
Avandia increases serious risks of cardiovascular disease and
death compared to Actos in older Americans,” Graham said in an
interview. “There is no doubt about it. The real question is
why would anyone, a physician or a patient, choose to be on the
losing end of this equation.”  
 Graham estimated that almost 50,000 elderly Americans died,
suffered strokes or developed heart failure after taking
Avandia, he said in the interview.  
 Not Real  
 “These numbers do not reflect reality,” Rhyne, the Glaxo
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “If these numbers
about Avandia were true, we would have seen them clearly in the
long-term studies we have already done. None of these sources
are showing adverse events even remotely comparable to these
numbers.”  
 More than 4,000 lawsuits have been filed against Glaxo
alleging Avandia causes heart attacks and strokes in some users.
Glaxo in May agreed to pay $60 million in the first settlements
of the litigation, people familiar with the accords said then.  
 Contrary to the Graham analysis,  Nissen’s study  didn’t find
a significantly increased number of deaths in people taking
Avandia. The difference stems from the age of the patients
involved, according to Nissen. The Medicare analysis looked at
older patients who are more likely to die if they have a heart
attack. More than half of Avandia use is in younger patients,
who have a greater chance of surviving a heart attack, he said.  
 “It’s two sides of the same coin,” Nissen said. “It’s
really about how you die and when you die. If you followed the
people in our study long enough, the fact that they had heart
attacks means they are more likely to die sooner.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in London at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Avandia is a diabetes treatment. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Outside advisers to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration will meet for two days beginning July 13 and are likely to consider whether the pill should remain on the market, deputy commissioner Joshua Sharfstein said. Photographer: Stephanie Kuykendal/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
