-- Financial Overhaul Is `Hidden Tax' on Consumers, Calomiris Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-06-28T15:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/financial-overhaul-is-hidden-tax-on-consumers-calomiris-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             The overhaul of rules governing U.S.
financial services will result in an estimated $19 billion in
additional fees for consumers, according to  Charles Calomiris ,
finance professor at Columbia University.  
 “In a competitive environment, and I think finance is
highly competitive, it all gets passed on to the consumer,”
Calomiris said in a radio interview today with Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Surveillance. “It’s just a hidden mandate that really
is a hidden tax.”  
 The reform bill was forecast to cost banks $19 billion in
order to pay the cost of the overhaul, Calomiris said, which
they will make up for by charging consumers. “There are more
ways than you can count for you to be charged, and if Congress
creates new costs, you know you’re going to be,” he said.  
 Congress may as soon as next week approve the legislation
intended to protect consumers, curb risks, boost surveillance of
emerging threats to markets and give regulators more emergency
powers to avoid future taxpayer-funded bailouts of too-big-to
fail firms.  
 The bill’s limits on proprietary trading by banks will hurt
the market for U.S. financial services jobs, Calomiris said.  
 “It will either push a lot of  U.S. banks  to be employing
people abroad or it will push a lot of business to foreign
banks, away from U.S. banks totally,” he said. “Either way,
New York for example loses big time.”  
 Banks have learned that the “universal banking” approach
to clients, where firms attempt to offer every kind of financial
service from life insurance to trading securities, works, “but
it has to be structured around a type of client,” Calomiris
said.  
 Calomiris’s Account  
 “You don’t want to be all things to all people, you want
to be all things to a target client base,” Calomiris said.
“And that is why, for example, JPMorgan Chase has been very
successful.  
 One firm that has thrived because of increased attention to
the needs of consumers is the former Cherry Hill, New Jersey-
based Commerce Bancorp Inc., which was acquired by Toronto-based
 Toronto-Dominion Bank  in 2007.  
 The firm’s branches are open seven days and during evening
hours, Calomiris said. “I switched my account over there for
that very reason,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        