-- Fischer Keeps Israel's Key Interest Rate Unchanged at 1.5% For Third Month
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-06-28T14:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/fischer-keeps-israel-s-key-interest-rate-unchanged-at-1-5-for-third-month.html

          
          
             The Bank of Israel held its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a third month as growth
slows and the European debt crisis threatens the global
recovery.  
 Governor  Stanley Fischer  left the rate at 1.5 percent, the
Jerusalem-based central bank said today. Ten of 18 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg had predicted the decision, while eight
expected a quarter-point increase.  
 “Taking into account the increased uncertainties in the
global economy, and in Europe in particular, and the effect
these have on Israel’s economy, the governor has decided to
leave the interest rate unchanged this month,” the central bank
said in its statement.  
 Economic growth  eased to 3.6 percent in the first quarter
from 4.5 percent in the previous three months as an expansion in
exports slowed. Exports account for almost 50 percent of
Israel’s gross domestic product. Fischer has increased the key
rate by a percentage point since August as the economy recovered
from the impact of the worst global recession since the Great
Depression.  
 Israel’s shekel weakened to 3.8772 against the dollar as of
5:32 p.m. in Tel Aviv after the decision was announced.  
 The Bank of Israel is in the process of gradually bringing
interest rates back to a more “normal” level that reflects the
recovery in economic activity and that is required to place
inflation firmly in the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target range, the bank said in minutes of the last rate-setting
meeting, released on June 7.  
 Rate ‘Normalization’  
 “Essentially, Governor Fischer delayed the ‘normalization’
of the rate on the back of concerns surrounding weakness in
Euroland as well as recent signs of moderation in domestic
demand,” said  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for Turkey, the
Middle East and North Africa at Morgan Stanley in London.  
 The Finance Ministry on June 6 lowered its growth forecast
for the year to 3.6 percent, citing the debt crisis in Europe,
the market for about one-third of Israeli exports. A month
earlier, Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  had predicted growth of
between 3.7 percent and 4.3 percent for the year.  
 ‘Slower Pace’  
 The Bank of Israel’s state of the economy composite index
had its smallest gains in more than a year in April and May,
indicating a “slower pace” of recovery, the central bank said
on June 17.  
 Israel’s  benchmark TA-25 stock index  has slid by about 11
percent in the past three months. The decline was led by
Discount Investment Corp., a holding company with interests in
banking and telecommunications, which dropped by about 35
percent.  
 Fischer was the first central bank governor to raise rates
in response to signs of a recovery and Israel is still one of
only a handful of countries to have increased borrowing costs.
Others include Australia, India and Norway.  
 The  inflation  rate was unchanged at 3 percent in May,
remaining within the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target
range for a second month. Inflation has gradually declined from
3.9 percent in December.  
 The central bank is likely to raise rates to 2 percent by
the end of the year, and 2.75 percent in the next 12 months,
said Rafael Gozlan, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based Leader
Capital Markets Ltd.  
 Fischer, who currently has sole responsibility for setting
rates, was appointed for a second term as governor on March 17.
He is in the process of implementing a new law that calls for
the creation of a six-member Monetary Policy Committee to make
rate decisions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        