-- Florida Insurance Fraud Climbs on 58% Surge in Intentional Auto Crashes
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-06-28T15:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/florida-insurance-fraud-jumps-on-surge-in-intentional-crashes-group-says.html

          
          
             Insurance fraud jumped in Florida as
policyholders crashed their cars on purpose to generate medical
claims, an industry group said.  
 Staged accidents surged 58 percent to 1,999 in 2009, the
National Insurance Crime Bureau said today in a  statement . Tampa
led the increase as intentional crashes quadrupled to 487, the
group said.  
 “South Florida used to be the focal point of these
deliberate crashes,” NICB President  Joe Wehrle  said in the
statement. “While the Miami and Hialeah areas continue to show
increased activity, the criminals have expanded their operation
northward and Tampa is now at the epicenter of this crime.”  
 U.S. car insurers, a group led by State Farm Mutual Auto
Insurance Co., Allstate Corp. and  Warren Buffett ’s Geico, are
seeking to identify doctors who handle the greatest number of
claims suspected of fraud. Auto insurance fraud for coverage of
bodily injury cost the industry $4.8 billion to $6.8 billion in
2007, and the expense has climbed since at least 2002, said
David Corum,  Insurance Research Council  vice president.  
 Florida had the highest rates for bodily-injury and
personal-injury-protection fraud in the review of 12 states
which allow people to be reimbursed for accidents without proof
of fault, the bureau said. The number of questionable claims for
all insurance fraud jumped 15 percent in the state to 7,447 in
2009, compared with the year earlier, the group said.  
 The economic slump in the state may contribute to fraud,
according to the group.  Florida’s unemployment rate  of 11.7
percent in May compares with a  national rate  of 9.7 percent, and
is near the highest in the state in three decades.  
 ‘Way out in Front’  
 “Florida is way out in front of the rest of the
country in the number of questionable claims submitted,” said
Ron Poindexter, director of operations for the NICB in the
southeast U.S. “There is a link between the downturn in
the economy and the increase in all types of insurance fraud.”  
 Nationwide, reports of casualty claims from staged
accidents climbed  43 percent  in 2009, according to a February
statement by the NICB.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        