-- Ford May Signal Weakness Funding Retiree Health Care With Stock
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-06-28T20:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/ford-may-signal-weakness-making-859-million-health-fund-payment-in-stock.html

          
          
             Ford Motor Co.  may make part of its
required $859 million payment to a union health-care fund this
week in stock, a sign of potential weakness in the shares as the
U.S. auto sales recovery stalls, analysts said.  
 Ford must pay the United Auto Workers Retiree Medical
Benefits Trust by June 30 to fund benefits for former hourly
workers. Ford has the option to pay as much as $610 million in
stock under an agreement reached with the union last year, and
the second-largest U.S. automaker may choose shares in order to
conserve  cash , said  Brian Johnson , a Barclays Capital analyst.  
 If Ford issues stock to pay the fund, investors may see it
as a sign the company considers its shares overvalued in a sales
environment that the head of its Americas unit described as
“flat-lined.”  
 “Investors look at this as an indication of whether
management sees their stock as cheap or expensive,” said
Chicago-based Johnson, who has a neutral rating on Ford common
shares. “If it’s cheap, they use cash. If it’s expensive,
they’ll use stock.”  
 John Stoll , a Ford spokesman, declined to comment on how
the automaker will pay the trust.  
 “We’ll meet our obligation,” Stoll said in an interview.
“We’re not in a position to talk about an amount or how exactly
we’ll pay for it.”  
 December Cash  
 Ford used cash for its first payment of $610 million in
December and pre-paid an additional $500 million with its shares
in the midst of a fourfold annual gain. The company said at the
time that it paid in cash because the stock’s volume-weighted
average share price in the period before the payment, which
determines the price of the stock it issues to the trust, was
$9.13, less than the $10 the stock closed at on Dec. 31.  
 The stock  closed June 25 at $10.75, a 6.2 percent discount
to the average of about $11.46 in the previous 30 trading days.
The company has 3.34 billion shares outstanding.  
 The shares fell 32 cents, or 3 percent, to $10.43 at 4:15
p.m. in composite  trading  on the New York Stock Exchange.  
 “I see this going equity because of the 30-day share price
and the number of new shares would only represent 1.5 percent of
total shares in circulation,” said  Kristin Dziczek , director of
the labor and industry group at the Center for Automotive
Research in Ann Arbor, Michigan. “That’s not a whole lot of
dilution.”  
 Ford should pay in cash as it did last time, said  Bernie McGinn , president of McGinn Investment Management, which owns
320,000 Ford shares.  
 Story Unchanged  
 “They didn’t want to pay in stock last time because of the
potential for the stock to rise, and that story hasn’t
changed,” said McGinn, whose company is based in Alexandria,
Virginia. “The people at Ford should be feeling pretty
confident now.”  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week forecast “sluggish”
auto sales, saying buyers are hesitant to borrow in an economy
with high unemployment.  
 U.S. auto sales have “flat-lined,” showing no improvement
since the third quarter of last year, said  Mark Fields , Ford’s
president of the Americas. The annualized light vehicle sales
rate of 11.2 million through May is at the low end of Ford’s
forecast for the year.  
 “The consumer is feeling a bit better, but not enough to
go out and go back to the old ways of spending,” Fields said on
June 23. “It gives us pause because of the tight labor market
and the overall situation in the credit markets.”  
 Cash Choice  
 Paying in stock means Ford could deploy the cash it saves
to reduce its debt and improve its balance sheet, Barclays’s
Johnson said. The shares are more likely to gain if Ford pays in
cash because investors won’t face any dilution in their
holdings, he said.  
 After Ford paid cash on Dec. 31, the shares rose 45 percent
to peak at $14.46 on April 26. They have since fallen 28
percent. Ford is up 4.3 percent this year.  
 Ford has $22.3 billion in automotive gross cash after
paying $3 billion on its revolving  credit line  in April, Fields
said. Ford also has $31.3 billion in automotive debt, higher
than rivals such as General Motors Co., the largest U.S.
automaker, he said.  
 Ford borrowed $23 billion in late 2006, giving it a cash
cushion that helped it withstand losses and avoid the
bankruptcies that befell its U.S. rivals last year. The company
was able to develop new models as the U.S. auto market fell to
its lowest level in 27 years in 2009. Ford has said the  debt
load  now puts it at a disadvantage against GM and Chrysler,
which had their obligations cut in bankruptcy.  
 “Clearly, we have more debt than our competitors,” Fields
said last week at the Deutsche Bank 2010 Industrials Conference.
“Improving our  balance sheet  is a very key priority, and I want
to assure you we have a plan to do that.”  
 VEBA Trusts  
 The UAW, GM, Ford and the predecessor of Chrysler Group LLC
agreed in 2007 to create retiree health-care trusts to remove
those liabilities from their labor costs. Prior to the payments
Ford has made, the company owed $13.2 billion to the union-run
health-care trust, also known as a Voluntary Employee
Beneficiary Association, or VEBA. Ford has annual payments
scheduled through June 2022, according to company filings.  
 Ford’s U.S. sales have risen 30 percent this year, almost
twice as much the overall gain in industry sales. Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  expanded the namesake brand and
improved quality, helping the company earn $2.7 billion last
year after three years of losses. Mulally has said the automaker
will be “solidly profitable” this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Detroit at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ford Motor Co. CEO Alan Mulally  
                       
                         
                           Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ford Motor Co. CEO Alan Mulally speaks to the media following the company's annual shareholders meeting in Wilmington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ford Motor Co. CEO Alan Mulally speaks to the media following the company's annual shareholders meeting in Wilmington. Photographer: Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Betty Liu reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
