-- Foxconn Plans Plant With 300,000 Workers in Central China's Henan Province
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-28T04:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/foxconn-plans-factory-with-300-000-workers-in-central-china-s-henan-prov-.html

          
          
             Foxconn Technology Group, the
contract maker of  Apple Inc.  iPhones and  Hewlett-Packard Co. 
computers, plans to establish a factory with 300,000 workers in
central China’s  Henan province , the local government said.  
 The company is looking to hire 100,000 workers in the near-
term from Henan province that will be sent for training at
Foxconn’s facilities in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen,
the government of the city of Hebi, in Henan, said in a
statement on its website. After completing training, the workers
will have the option of returning to work in Henan, according to
the June 25 statement.  
 Foxconn’s plans for the Henan factory come after at least
10 of its employees in Shenzhen committed suicide this year,
spurring the company to hire counselors, install netting on
buildings and double pay for its workers in the southern Chinese
city. The Taipei-based company last week hired outside managers
to run employee dormitories in Shenzhen in what it called a
shift to a “more open” style of management.  
 Of the 800,000 workers Foxconn has in China, 157,000 of
them are from Henan, the Henan Daily, based in the province,
reported June 24, citing an unidentified provincial government
official. Henan, China’s largest province by population, is home
to almost 100 million people.  
 Individuals hired by Foxconn will work eight hours a day,
five days a week, according to the statement on the Hebi
government’s website. Workers may work a maximum of three hours
overtime each day and must have at least one day per week off,
according to the statement.  
 Basic Salary  
 The minimum basic salary for new workers will be 1,200 yuan
($177) a month, which will increase to 2,000 yuan after three
months if individuals pass an examination, the statement said.  
 The statement on the Hebi government’s website didn’t say
where the Foxconn factory would be located, when it may begin
operations or any other details about the plans. Calls to
Foxconn spokesman  Edmund Ding  seeking comment today weren’t
immediately answered.  
 Shares of flagship unit Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.
increased  0.4 percent  to NT$121 in Taipei trading as of 12:33
p.m. local time.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories about Foxconn:
NSE "FOXCONN TECHNOLOGY GROUP" IN WIRE: BN <GO>
China economic statistics :ECST CH <GO>
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA <GO>  
          
          


  


        