-- Franc Reaches Record Versus Euro; Central Banker Says Deflation Risk Gone
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-06-28T15:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/franc-reaches-record-versus-euro-central-banker-says-deflation-risk-gone.html

          
          
             The Swiss franc strengthened to a
record against the euro as a member of the nation’s central bank
said deflationary tensions “practically disappeared,” fueling
speculation policy makers won’t act to restrain the currency.  
 The franc rose for a fifth day versus the dollar, reaching
its strongest level since May 3. Governing Board member  Jean- Pierre Danthine  said in an interview with  L’Agefi  that the bank
“would be able to react very quickly” if there was a need to
increase interest rates. The  central bank  said last week it
would take necessary measures to ensure price stability should
the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area “lead to a renewed
threat of deflation.”  
 “The conclusion is that the SNB is pleased with the
situation and the market is concluding that there is no fear of
new intervention,” said  Niels Christensen , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “Looking at the
Swiss economy, it’s very solid.”  
 The franc appreciated as much as 1.4 percent to 1.3329
against the euro, the strongest level since the 16-nation common
currency’s 1999 debut, and was at 1.3355 as of 3:50 p.m. in
London. That pushed its gains this year so far to 10 percent.
Against the dollar, the Swiss currency gained 0.9 percent to
1.0987 today.  
 The Zurich-based SNB started selling the franc in March
2009 to ward off deflation and revive the economy amid the worst
global financial crisis since World War II.  
 Pressure on the currency to appreciate increased as the
Swiss economy emerged from a recession and investors sought the
franc as a haven after the euro tumbled on concern that
countries from Greece to Portugal would default on their debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        