-- French Soccer Head Jean-Pierre Escalettes Quits After World Cup `Fiasco'
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-06-28T15:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/french-soccer-head-jean-pierre-escalettes-quits-after-world-cup-fiasco-.html

          
          
             Jean-Pierre Escalettes , president of
the  French Football Federation , quit after the national soccer
team was eliminated in the first round of the World Cup, a
sporting setback that was compounded by a players’ strike.  
 “I assume my part of the responsibility,” Escalettes said
in a statement today. “I remain available to all to analyze
without bias the reasons for the fiasco of the French team in
South Africa.”  
 The French, champions in 1998 and finalists at the World
Cup four years ago, exited this year’s tournament after losing
2-1 to hosts South Africa and 2-0 to Mexico and drawing 0-0 with
Uruguay.  
 The loss became a political matter because of the refusal
of the players to train after striker  Nicolas Anelka  was sent
home June 20 for insulting coach  Raymond Domenech  at halftime of
the defeat to Mexico. The scene of the players staying on the
team bus while captain  Patrice Evra  went to tell Domenech of
their decision not to train, and then almost coming to blows
with the trainer, was carried live on French television.  
 After the final game against South Africa, Domenech refused
to shake hands with the South Africa’s coach,  Carlos Alberto Parreira , who guided Brazil to the 1994 World Cup title.  
 French Health Minister  Roselyne Bachelot-Narquin , who
counts sports within her portfolio, said in an interview on RTL
radio last week that Escalettes’ resignation was
“unavoidable.” That comment elicited a response from FIFA, the
sport’s governing body.  
 “The federation is autonomous, and anytime there is
political meddling, FIFA will intervene,” FIFA General
Secretary  Jerome Valcke  said at a press conference last week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@Bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        