-- G-20 Responds to European Debt Crisis With Deficit-Cutting Goal
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-06-28T08:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/g-20-aims-to-boost-confidence-amid-europe-crisis-with-budget-cutting-goals.html

          
          
             Group of 20 leaders responded to the
European debt crisis with  deficit -reduction targets and agreed
to pursue higher capital requirements for banks once economic
recoveries take hold.  
 Advanced G-20 economies will aim to halve deficits by 2013
and start to stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016, the
group said in a statement yesterday after a meeting in Toronto.
Leaders said nations can move at their own pace and also pledged
to fulfill existing stimulus plans.  
 While President  Barack Obama  is pushing his counterparts to
focus on spurring growth, leaders in the U.K. and Germany are
already tightening spending to bolster investor confidence. U.S.
and European stocks both had their biggest weekly drops in more
than a month last week as investors renewed concerns that
countries may be unable to repay debts.  
 “The view of the business community is that we need fiscal
restraint in order to ensure confidence and therefore
sustainable economic growth,”  Gordon Nixon , chief executive
officer of Toronto-based  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
biggest bank, said in a telephone interview. “These targets are
very important.”  
 Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said his country
could meet the targets, which as chairman of the meeting he had
proposed earlier this month, as soon as next year. The agreement
still amounted to a compromise that lacks strength, said  Stephen Roach , Morgan Stanley’s Asia chairman.  
 ‘Underwhelmed’  
 “I am underwhelmed,” said Roach in an e-mail. “By
attempting to finesse the trade-off between America’s call for
ongoing stimulus and Europe’s penchant for fiscal consolidation
the G-20 has come up with a multi-purpose recipe with no
enforcement mechanism.”  
 U.S. Treasury two-year yields were near the lowest level
this year after the G-20’s pledge to cut deficits. The two year
note yielded 0.66 percent as of 7:35 a.m. in London, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The U.K.’s announcement last week about its planned budget
cuts spurred an increase in gilts and the pound, and led Fitch
Ratings Ltd. to say Britain would keep its AAA credit rating.  
 “With respect to deficits, markets are giving Europe
direction, and markets are more powerful than words from
President Obama,” said  Tony Fratto , who served as a White House
and U.S. Treasury official under President  George W. Bush .  
 ‘Unacceptable Levels’  
 G-20 leaders called the global recovery “uneven and
fragile,” noting that  unemployment  remains at “unacceptable
levels” in many nations. In the U.S., economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News expect the Labor Department to report that in
June employment fell for the first time this year.  
 Concerns about the global recovery have added to stress in
the credit markets. Company debt offerings declined 3.8 percent
last week to $38.6 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Renault SA , France’s second-biggest carmaker, reduced
a bond sale by 20 percent, citing “more difficult” market
conditions.  
 “To sustain recovery, we need to follow through on
delivering existing stimulus plans, while working to create the
conditions for robust private demand,” the G-20 statement said.
“At the same time, recent events highlight the importance of
sustainable public finances.”  
 The balance struck by the G-20 means “everyone can sell it
at home as a victory,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at
ING Group in Brussels. “The announcement to halve fiscal
deficits by 2013 is huge.”  
 ‘Draconian’  
 The leaders addressed resistance to the deficit-reduction
goals by limiting them to advanced economies. Brazil’s Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  on June 26 said the targets were
“draconian.” Mantega represented Brazil at the meeting because
President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva stayed home after floods
ravaged the northeastern part of his country.  
 The phrasing meant “we are going to treat President Lula
of Brazil with respect,” said  John Kirton , director of the G-8
Research Group and co-director of the G-20 Research Group at the
University of Toronto. “It’s the advanced industrial economies
that have the problems, so the G-20 agrees that those with the
problem have got to do the solution.”  
 “It’s a powerful statement,” said  Craig Alexander , chief
economist of Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-largest bank
by assets. “The emphasis now is on fiscal restraint.”  
 Bank Tax  
 The G-20, which accounts for about 85 percent of the global
economy, replaced the G-8 last year as the world’s foremost
international policy-coordinating forum. The larger group means
developed and emerging economies are trying to find common
ground amid differences in prosperity that vary from the U.S.’s
$46,400 in  GDP per capita  to India’s $3,100.  
 The G-20 leaders said banks need to have “significantly
higher” capital, while giving lenders more flexibility to
implement the changes. Countries should adopt the new standards
by the end of 2012, and banks will be allowed to phase in
capital increases during a transition period.  
 Leaders said they will seek final agreement at a summit in
Seoul in November when the Basel Committee of Banking and
Supervision, made up of international central bankers, will
propose a road map. The U.S. pushed for stricter new capital
rules while Europeans stressed the need for a phase-in period.  
 The group didn’t support the implementation of a bank tax,
whose backers include the U.K.  
 “Some countries are pursuing a financial levy,” the G-20
said. “Other countries are pursuing different approaches.”  
 Banking Industry  
 Royal Bank of Canada’s Nixon called the statement “quite
positive,” saying, “I don’t think there’s any surprises to the
 banking industry .”  
 The group agreed to refrain from increasing or imposing new
barriers on trade until the end of 2013 and reiterated support
for the Doha round of World Trade Organization talks. Even so,
both the G-20 and the G-8 stopped short of calling for
completion of the Doha trade accord by a certain date, and the
G-8 emphasized the need for regional and bilateral agreements.  
 G-8 leaders also sounded warnings on international
political issues. G-8 officials singled out Iran for a
“continued lack of transparency regarding its nuclear
activities” and said they “deplore” the March 26 attack on
the South Korean warship Cheonan. An international panel blamed
the attack on North Korea.  
 Neither the G-8 nor the G-20 mentioned China’s currency,
though the G-20 did call for “greater exchange rate flexibility
in some emerging markets.” China indicated on June 19 that it
was scrapping the yuan’s two-year-old peg to the dollar and
reiterated the aim at a media briefing on June 26.  
 Security Fence  
 “Our Chinese friends don’t like to be singled out within a
communique,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters.  
 Outside the security fence that surrounded the meeting,
protests turned violent for both days of the summit. Protesters
set fire to cars, smashed store windows and threw rocks at First
Canadian Place, headquarters of the  Bank of Montreal . Police
have detained more than 500 people since June 18, said Tim
Garland, a spokesman with the Integrated Security Unit, a
coalition of police forces providing security for the summit.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Toronto at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stephen Harper, Canada's prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Norm Betts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper speaks at a news conference during the Group of 20 summit in Toronto. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper speaks at a news conference during the Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Former Bank of England Deputy Governor John Gieve talks about the deficit-reduction targets determined during the Group of 20 leaders summit.
     Advanced G-20 economies will aim to halve deficits by 2013 and start to stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016, the group said in a statement yesterday after a meeting in Toronto. Gieve speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Colin Bradford, senior fellow at the Brookings Institute, talks about the Group of 20 summit and global growth outlook.
     Bradford talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the Group of 20 leaders' plan to cut deficits and pursue higher capital requirements for banks once their economic recoveries take root.
     Kirkegaard, speaking from Washington, also discusses the shift in China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
