-- G-20's Phased-in Bank Capital Increase May Disadvantage Canadian Lenders
-- Sean B. Pasternak
-- 2010-06-28T15:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/g-20-s-phased-in-bank-capital-increase-may-disadvantage-canadian-lenders.html

          
          
             The Group of 20 agreement to push
for gradual increases in bank capital may put Canadian lenders
at a disadvantage by creating an unlevel playing field relative
to other countries, a banking group said.  
 “I don’t think we want jurisdictions that have behaved
well, like Canada, to be forced to move in and adopt the rules
before other countries that may be in worse shape,” Canadian
Bankers Association Chief Executive Officer  Nancy Hughes Anthony 
said in an interview. “What we’re all looking for is a level
playing field.”  
 Group of 20 leaders meeting in Toronto yesterday said
countries should adopt “significantly higher” capital
standards by the end of 2012, though banks can phase in capital
increases during a transition period that takes into account
each country’s “circumstances.”  
 “That is potentially a real issue for Canada; that’s a
little bit of a wrinkle,” Bank of Montreal deputy economist
 Doug Porter  said.  
 European and U.S. banks would be in “no rush whatsoever”
to build up to the stronger capital levels of Canadian lenders
under a phase-in approach, Porter said.  
 “That might allow them to play on a slightly tilted
playing field,” Porter said. “Canada would be in a much
stronger shape from a competitive standpoint over the next few
years, but it’s not clear that’s going to be a case since other
countries will be allowed to phase in new rules over a fairly
long period.”  
 Korea Summit  
 Leaders said they will seek final agreement on capital
rules at a summit in Seoul in November when the  Basel Committee
of Banking and Supervision , made up of international central
bankers and other officials, will propose a road map.  
 “The rules, whatever they’re going to be, have to be
consistently applied,” Hughes Anthony said. “I don’t think
good performance should be penalized when it comes to
implementing these new rules.”  
 The Basel committee is racing against a December deadline
set by G-20 nations, and banks faced with raising what UBS AG
estimates may be $375 billion of fresh capital are appealing to
nationalist sentiments to ease the pain.  
 The G-20 didn’t agree on a global bank levy that was
promoted by countries including the U.S., France and Germany,
and opposed by nations whose banks fared better in the financial
crisis, such as Canada and Brazil. The G-20 statement mentioned
the tax as an option for some countries, while other countries
could pursue different measures.  
 The G-20 statement “is an endorsement of the key
principles of reducing systemic risk, which are capital and
leverage, and keeping away from red herrings like bank taxes,”
Royal Bank of Canada CEO  Gordon Nixon  said.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        