-- German Lawmakers Soften Financial Instrument Ban Bill, Approve BaFin Role
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-06-28T14:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/german-lawmakers-soften-financial-instrument-ban-bill-approve-bafin-role.html

          
          
             The German parliament’s  Finance
Committee  today changed draft legislation that would have given
the Finance Ministry a “blank check” to ban financial market
instruments it deems harmful, the HIB parliamentary  newsletter 
said.  
 Germany’s BaFin regulator will instead be empowered to ban
financial market instruments for a maximum of 12 months, after
which lawmakers have to get involved, said the HIB newsletter
which is an official publication of parliament. The  Finance
Ministry  won’t be able to make decisions on banning market
instruments under the revamped draft bill.  
 The Finance Committee still backed the Cabinet-approved ban
on naked short-selling of bonds, credit-default swaps on euro-
area government bonds and stocks of German companies, the
newsletter said. Intraday-trading will not be affected by the
ban, the newsletter said.  
 “In future there can be no more attempts to throw a wrench
in the works of financial markets by means of naked short
selling,”  Leo Dautzenberg , a lawmaker for Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We’re at the cutting edge in Europe and a model for
further international measures.”  
 The draft is a “signal toward markets and also toward
Europe,” the newsletter cited the parliamentary group of
Merkel’s CDU and Bavarian Christian Social Union ally as saying.
German had to move ahead to spur European legislation, it said.  
 European Commission president  Jose Barroso  and Financial
Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  on June 2 promised to
accelerate their plans to regulate credit-default swaps. Bans
may be considered in case of “adverse developments which
constitute a serious threat to financial stability or to market
confidence,” the commission said June 14.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        