-- Ghana Stocks May Jump 40% as Oil Spurs World's Highest Growth, Exotix Says
-- Janice Kew
-- 2010-06-28T10:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/ghana-stocks-may-jump-40-as-oil-spurs-best-growth-next-year-exotix-says.html

          
          
             Ghana’s main stock index, the best
performer in Africa this quarter, may soar another 40 percent
this year as the start of oil production spurs the world’s
fastest pace of economic growth, Exotix Ltd. said.  
 Exotix, the London-based brokerage that gets a quarter of
its revenue from African securities and three quarters from
frontier markets, said buy orders for Ghanaian stocks are up
more than 50 percent from the start of the year, even after a
9.8 percent rally since March 31 drove valuations above the
average for emerging markets. The country’s  All-Share Index  has
a further 20 to 40 percent “upside” in 2010, according to
 Ashley Bendell , New-York-based frontier and emerging market
equity broker at Exotix.  
 The west African nation’s equity market has been the most
volatile globally. It soared 58 percent in 2008, beating all 93
national equity gauges tracked by Bloomberg, after its discovery
of oil in 2007 and as crude jumped to a record $147.27 a barrel.
The measure plunged 47 percent last year, the world’s worst
slump, when crude tumbled to as little as $32.70 a barrel and
Ghana’s currency depreciation triggered 20 percent inflation and
a $1 billion International Monetary Fund bailout.  
 “The oil find has without a doubt brought a lot of
interest,” Bendell said in an interview in Johannesburg.  
 Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius  said in his
 blog  on June 24 that he’s looking at Ghana along with South
Africa, Nigeria, Egypt, Kenya, Botswana, Morocco and Tunisia for
investment.  
 Too Small  
 Ghana’s index is rising as the IMF predicts a surge in
economic growth to 20.1 percent in 2011, triple the average 6.5
percent for developing nations. The cocoa and gold exporter is
scheduled to start pumping oil in the fourth quarter of this
year. Oil has gained 75 percent since the beginning of last year
to $78 a barrel.  
 The market remains too small to allow larger fund managers
to buy and sell stocks, said  Bryan Collings , who manages $1
billion in London-based Hexam Capital Partners LLP’s Global
Emerging Markets fund. He has no holdings in Ghana and favors
China and Brazil.  
 “I don’t think Ghana’s all that brilliant, the market
isn’t liquid and there are often concerns about getting money in
and out,” Collings said. “For us, it’s key to stay relatively
liquid.”  
 Banks, Oil Stocks  
 The market value of shares listed on the Ghana Stock
Exchange is $12.8 billion, according to data from the bourse, a
fraction of South Africa’s All Share Index at $590 billion,
based on Bloomberg data. Average trading volume is about 650,000
shares a day, compared with an average 215 million in South
Africa.  
 The lower trading volume in Ghana means it can take months
to carry out orders for share trades, Bendell at Exotix said.
Ghana’s pension-reform program may help boost trading by
allowing private brokers to manage company retirement plans for
the first time, he said.  
 Ghana Commercial Bank Ltd. , the country’s biggest lender
with 157 branches, and  Ghana Oil Co. , which runs a network of
filling stations in the West African nation, may be among the
biggest gainers, Bendell said. Ghana Commercial’s stock has
doubled this year, while Ghana Oil has rallied 59 percent.  
 Tullow Oil Plc , which owns a 34.7 percent stake in the
Jubilee field off Ghana’s western coast, said production will
start at 120,000 barrels a day. The field, with as much as 1.8
billion barrels, will make Ghana one of the world’s top 50 oil
producers, according to Tullow. Shares in Tullow jumped 98
percent last year and are down 18 percent this year.  
 Gold, Cocoa  
 Ghana’s stock rally this quarter has lifted valuations to
15.1 times estimated earnings from 9 times on March 31,
Bloomberg data show. Valuations on the  MSCI Emerging Market
Index  have fallen in the same period to 11.5 times expected
earnings from 13.  
 “The stock-market valuations are relatively attractive
versus sub-Saharan and emerging-market peers, given the
country’s growth outlook and political stability,” Bendell
said. “There’s a lot of focus on how government will spend its
oil income.”  
 Ghana was the first sub-Saharan African nation to gain
independence from Britain, in 1957, and has become the world’s
second-biggest cocoa grower and Africa’s largest gold producer
after South Africa. President  John Atta Mills , who took office
in January 2009, served as former military leader  Jerry Rawlings ’ vice president from 1997 to 2001.  
 Inflation has slowed from a five-year peak of 20.7 percent
in June 2009 to 10.7 percent last month, the 11th consecutive
monthly decline. The rate is the lowest since December 2007. The
central bank reduced its benchmark interest rate to 15 percent
in April and has cut a total of 3.5 percentage points since
November.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janice Kew  in Johannesburg at 
 jkew1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s Mark Mobius said in his blog on that he’s looking at Ghana along with South Africa, Nigeria, Egypt, Kenya, Botswana, Morocco and Tunisia for investment. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
