-- Gilat Satellite Seeks Defense Acquisitions, Boosts Development Spending
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-06-28T08:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/gilat-satellite-seeks-defense-acquisitions-boosts-development-spending.html

          
          
             Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd. , whose
clients include oil companies and lottery operators, is seeking
acquisitions and investing in development to expand in the
faster-growing defense market, Chief Executive Officer  Amiram Levinberg  said.  
 “We are looking for additional acquisitions in this field,
in defense, be it companies which have relevant technology or
companies which have access to the market,” Levinberg said in
an interview at the company’s headquarters in Petah Tikva,
Israel.  
 Gilat has spent $30 million of its $145 million in cash on
acquisitions this year, including a March agreement to buy
Raysat Antenna Systems to expand in satellite services for
governments. The government and military market is set to grow
more than the overall broadband market in this decade, according
to telecommunications consulting company Northern Sky Research.  
 The remaining  cash  is available for acquisitions, and the
company is prepared to borrow if the opportunity for a “bigger,
or even much bigger” purchase arises, the CEO said. Levinberg,
who’s also Gilat’s chairman, declined to comment in the June 24
interview on whether he is in active negotiations with any
companies.  
 Gilat’s  first-quarter  revenue fell to $57 million from $61
million a year earlier, while net income almost tripled to
$642,000. Its  shares  have dropped 1.3 percent this year in U.S.
trading to $4.55, compared with a 9.6 percent decline in the
 Nasdaq Telecommunications Index . Gilat has a market value of
$184.1 million.  
 Increased R&D  
 To increase its product line, the company boosted its
development spending by about 20 percent this year to about
$22 million. The investment is likely to add to  profit  by
2012, he said.  
 “In 2009, like many other companies, we were more in a
defensive mode,” Levinberg said. “Now that we can see the
light at the end of the tunnel, we are using 2010 to invest a
lot.”  
 Products  under development now will lead to results in 2011
and 2012, he said. “However, the outcome of acquisitions could
be much faster. That would be reflected into our numbers
obviously much sooner.”  
 Acquisitions, including Raysat, will help it diversify,
said Christopher Baugh, president of Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based Northern Sky Research. Gilat’s top competitor,  Hughes
Communications Inc. , has already broadened its offering, and
“it makes sense to follow that model,” Baugh added.  
 According to Northern Sky, the overall broadband satellite
market, which includes networking, broadband access and network
services, will grow 135 percent to $8.8 billion by 2019. The
government and military satellite market will grow to $9.3
billion in 2018 from $3.5 billion in 2008, it said in a December
report.  
 “Acquisitions are a necessary step,” said  Nir Zonenberg ,
head of buy-side research at Meitav Investment House, who has a
“buy” rating on Gilat. “They have no other option. Their core
market is a dud. The military market is a good area where they
can get leverage from their technology.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        