-- Glaxo Diabetes Drug Avandia Harms Patients, Should Be Pulled, Doctors Say
-- Michelle Fay Cortez
-- 2010-06-28T15:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/glaxo-diabetes-drug-avandia-harms-patients-should-be-pulled-doctors-say.html

          
          
             GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s  Avandia was
linked to heart attacks and other cardiovascular complications
in two new studies that the authors say should prompt U.S.
regulators to pull the diabetes drug from the market.  
 Almost 50,000 elderly Americans died, suffered strokes or
developed heart failure after taking Avandia instead of a rival
medicine since the Glaxo treatment was approved in 1999,
according to a drug safety reviewer at the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration who conducted one study. A second study, from the
scientists who first raised the alarm about Avandia, found one
of every 52 patients taking the drug was harmed.  
 The results, which include information gathered since
Avandia was first linked to heart complications in 2007, may
provide the impulse the agency needs to take action, said  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio and
the second study’s lead author.  
 “You have not one, but two studies that come at the
problem using completely different methods and populations, and
they both fundamentally show a hazard,” Nissen said in a
telephone interview. “I think we’ve got more than enough
evidence to say this drug should not be used.”  
 The research, published in the Journal of the American
Medical Association and the Archives of Internal Medicine, is
part of a push by safety advocates to get Avandia, which
generated $1.1 billion in revenue for Glaxo last year, taken off
the market. A rival medicine,  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. ’s Actos,
lowers diabetics’ blood sugar levels as well as Avandia and
doesn’t raise heart attack risks, according to Nissen.  
 Glaxo’s Own Analysis  
 The results of six rigorous clinical trials have become
available since questions about Avandia were first raised and
they show the drug doesn’t increase the overall risk of heart
attack, stroke or death, said  Mary Anne Rhyne , a spokeswoman for
Glaxo. The company’s own updated analysis combining 52 studies
shows no increase in myocardial ischemia, or reduced blood flow
to the heart, she said in an e-mail. Several new observational
studies suggest patients taking Avandia and Actos have about the
same risk of heart attack, she said.  
 Glaxo fell 1.5 pence, or 0.1 percent, to close at 1,143.5
pence in London trading. The shares have fallen 13 percent this
year.  
 Nissen and  Kathy Wolski , a statistician, updated the
original 2007 analysis that publicized Avandia’s risk. They
combined data from every study on the drug, published on London-
based Glaxo’s website, to determine if it raised heart attacks
or deaths from heart disease. Patients on Avandia had a 28
percent to 39 percent elevated risk of heart attack, though
deaths from heart disease weren’t significantly higher.  
 More Heart Attacks  
 “Any potential benefit from lowering blood sugar modestly
can’t possibly compensate for increasing an event as serious as
a heart attack,” Nissen said.  
 The original analysis found a 43 percent increased risk of
heart attack with Avandia. Sales plummeted after the report was
published, falling from a peak of $3 billion in 2006, when it
was the top-selling diabetes drug in the world.  
 FDA advisors reviewing the data in the summer of 2007
concluded that the evidence suggested a heart risk in diabetics,
though they also said the drug’s benefit outweighed its dangers.
Avandia remained on the market, with an added warning about
potential heart attacks. The outcome of the panel hearing may be
different this time, Nissen said.  
 FDA Debate  
 “A tincture of time has an effect on the way people
think,” he said. What’s more “if we are right and Avandia
increases heart attacks and deaths, and we wait a decade to find
that out, we will kill or harm a huge number of people. If we
are wrong, and you take this drug off the market, there is
another drug that is just as effective.”  
 The new studies have strengths and limitations that need to
be considered as their findings are evaluated, Glaxo’s Rhyne
said, and  company executives  “look forward to participating in
a rigorous scientific discussion of the data on the
cardiovascular safety of Avandia with the FDA Advisory
Committees on July 13 and 14.”  
 In the other study published today,  David Graham , an
official in the FDA’s Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology,
and his colleagues analyzed data on 227,571 Medicare patients
who took Avandia or Takeda’s Actos from July 2006 to June 2009.  
 ‘Losing Side’  
 Avandia patients were 27 percent more likely to have a
stroke, 25 percent more likely to develop heart failure and 14
percent more likely to die. There was an 18 percent increased
risk for all three, plus heart attacks, they found.  
 “We show with a fairly high degree of certainty that
Avandia increases serious risks of cardiovascular disease and
death compared to Actos in older Americans,” Graham said in an
interview. “There is no doubt about it. The real question is
why would anyone, a physician or a patient, choose to be on the
losing end of this equation.”  
 Graham estimated that almost 50,000 elderly Americans died,
suffered strokes or developed heart failure after taking
Avandia, he said in the interview.  
 “These numbers do not reflect reality,” Rhyne, the Glaxo
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “If these numbers
about Avandia were true, we would have seen them clearly in the
long-term studies we have already done. None of these sources
are showing adverse events even remotely comparable to these
numbers.”  
 Avandia Lawsuits  
 More than 4,000 lawsuits have been filed against Glaxo
alleging Avandia causes heart attacks and strokes in some users.
Glaxo in May agreed to pay $60 million in the first settlements
of the litigation, people familiar with the accords said then.  
 Contrary to the Graham analysis,  Nissen’s study  didn’t find
a significantly increased number of deaths in people taking
Avandia. The difference stems from the age of the patients
involved, according to Nissen. The Medicare analysis looked at
older patients who are more likely to die if they have a heart
attack. More than half of Avandia use is in younger patients,
who have a greater chance of surviving a heart attack, he said.  
 “It’s two sides of the same coin,” Nissen said. “It’s
really about how you die and when you die. If you followed the
people in our study long enough, the fact that they had a heart
attacks means they are more likely to die sooner.”  
 The results offer insight into the real world consequences
of drug therapy, wrote David Juurlink, from  Sunnybrook Research
Institute  and the University of Toronto’s department of
medicine, in an editorial that accompanied them in JAMA. It’s
still not clear if the FDA will withdraw the drug, he said.  
 “What I am hoping is that physicians will realize when
they treat their patients with Avandia, they are not doing them
good,” Graham said. “Patients will contact their providers and
ask to be switched to a safer alternative. They can vote with
their feet and save their health and save their lives.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in London at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Glaxo's Avandia should be pulled doctors say  
                       
                         
                           Scott Saltzman/Bloomberg News. 
                         
                         Steven Nissen, head of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio and the second study’s lead author. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Steven Nissen, head of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio and the second study’s lead author.  Photographer:  Scott Saltzman/Bloomberg News.  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
