-- Go Underground for Value Steak, Wines in London: Richard Vines
-- Richard Vines
-- 2010-06-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/go-underground-for-value-steak-wines-in-london-richard-vines.html

          
          
             Restaurants are a lagging economic
indicator. Fancy venues rolled off the production line months
after the U.K. entered recession. Now comes the focus on value.  
 28-50 Wine Workshop and Kitchen, which opened this month a
short stroll from the City, is the brainchild of the team
behind Texture, the Michelin-starred establishment in London’s
West End that combines a Champagne bar with fine dining.  
 The name refers to the latitudes between which most wine
is grown and points to the passion of the French-born co-owner
Xavier Rousset, a former U.K. sommelier of the year. (While
“28-50” sounds more like a holiday company for middle-aged
swingers, let’s set that thought to one side.)  
 The menu has been devised by Icelandic chef Aggi
Sverrisson and the kitchen is headed by Paul Walsh, formerly of
the three-Michelin-star Restaurant Gordon Ramsay. Rousset and
Sverrisson are veterans of Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons.  
 Most starters are less than 7 pounds ($10.40) and mains
below 15 pounds. With wine starting at 17.50 pounds a bottle,
and the entire list available by the glass and carafe, 28-50 is
inexpensive for London.  
 The French-influenced dishes are accomplished at this low-
key eatery, in a basement off Fleet Street. Eating underground
isn’t on most people’s wish list and the space works best at
night, when candles illuminate the bare-brick walls.  
 It’s no great surprise that lunch offers the best value,
at 15.50 pounds for two courses. The current choices include a
rich starter of duck rillettes with toast.  
 Steak, Salmon  
 The mains are onglet (hanger steak) and chips, with enough
flavor for any steak lover, or salmon with tomato vinaigrette.
If you think of salmon as dull, this slightly sweet dish might
help change your mind.  
 Going a la carte, the pan-fried ballotine of ham hock and
black pudding, with potato salad and horseradish isn’t timid.
Neither is the main of pan-fried red mullet, bouillabaisse. Or
how about lamb shoulder, potato puree and new-season garlic?  
 Among the desserts, my favorite is the rhum baba with
Chantilly cream and strawberries, possibly because you get a
small jug of rum on the side. Otherwise it would be the coconut
parfait with coconut sorbet and chocolate sauce. That’s fine
for a summer’s day and avoids the pitfall of excessive
sweetness.  
 The menu is short -- six starters and six mains -- and
entirely suitable for the small kitchen. The cooking is
accurate and the flavor combinations are sure-footed enough not
to be boring. The only letdown for me was the sharing plate of
charcuterie. I’ve tried it twice and its pleasures pass me by.  
 Wine Workshop  
 My other hesitation is over the wine list. It’s well-
chosen and reasonably priced but short on adventure and
excitement for somewhere that calls itself a wine workshop.
However, there is a winemaker of the month section (currently
 Domaine Trimbach ) and there’s a separate reserve list if you
are feeling flush, so it’s not bad. I’d like a wider choice and
more exotic options.  
 Having said that, there are plenty of good wines on there
and the 2004 Pinot Noir, Ferrous, Kooyong, Mornington Peninsula
is a revelation. I normally avoid Australian pinots with the kind
of swerve I otherwise reserve for “Big Issue” sellers and New
Zealand Sauvignon Blanc. All I can say is, G’day Australia.  
 All is OK at the moment because Rousset is there to look
after you, but I wouldn’t necessarily feel confident in
flagging down a passing waiter for a detailed discussion of the
wines. Vinoteca is nearby, so the bar is set very high indeed.  
 28-50 is a work in progress. I’d challenge anyone to fail
to be impressed by the passion and talent of Sverrisson and
Rousset. Texture is one of my favorite London restaurants.  
 If the food business is now celebrating a new era of
austerity, make mine a set lunch and a glass of pinot at 28-50.  
 28-50 Wine Workshop and Kitchen, 140 Fetter Lane, EC4A
1BT. Information: +44-20-7242-8877 or  http://www.2850.co.uk/ .  
 The Bloomberg Questions  
 Cost? Mains range from 12.50 pounds to 18 pounds.  
 Sound level? Not noisy, 70-80 decibels.  
 Inside tip? The set lunch is a bargain.  
 Special feature? The mezzanine private table looks good.  
 Will I be back? Yes.  
 Date place? Not bad.  
 Rating? ***  

 
What the Stars Mean
**** Incomparable food, service, ambience
***  First-class of its kind.
**   Good, reliable.
*    Fair.
0    (no stars) Poor.
 
 ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The dining room at 28-50 in London. The new venue is the creation of the owners of Texture restaurant. Source: Sauce Communications via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Aggi Sverrisson and Xavier Rousset  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Aggi Sverrisson, left, and Xavier Rousset, the men behind the new London eatery 28-50 Wine Workshop and Kitchen. The name refers to the latitudes between which most wine is grown. Photo: Sauce Communications via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Aggi Sverrisson, left, and Xavier Rousset, the men behind the new London eatery 28-50 Wine Workshop and Kitchen. The name refers to the latitudes between which most wine is grown. Photo: Sauce Communications via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       28-50 Wine Workshop and Kitchen  
                       
                         
                           Richard Vines/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The exterior of the restaurant 28-50 in London, housed in a basement off London's Fleet Street. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The exterior of the restaurant 28-50 in London, housed in a basement off London's Fleet Street. Photographer: Richard Vines/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
