-- Japan's Bonds Decline on Speculation Scrutiny Over Fiscal Plan to Increase
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-06-28T07:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/government-bonds-fall-on-concern-scrutiny-over-fiscal-plan-will-increase.html

          
          
             Japanese long-term bonds fell on
speculation political scrutiny over the government’s fiscal
strategy will increase toward next month’s mid-term elections.  
 Twenty-year yields  rose from near the lowest level in more
than a year as a technical indicator signaled their drop last
week was excessive. The government said in a fiscal strategy
released on June 22 it aimed to balance its books within 10
years, restrict debt sales and overhaul the tax system.  
 “People know there’s not enough money to make the
strategy work,” said  Akitsugu Bandou , senior economist in
Tokyo at Okasan Securities Co. “As elections near, people will
find contradictions in the plan. Yields shouldn’t have come
down this much when you think about domestic factors.”  
 The yield on the 2 percent bond due June 2030 increased
1.5 basis points to 1.89 percent at 4:09 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price fell 0.222 yen to 101.594 yen. Twenty-year yields
touched 1.865 percent on June 25, the lowest since February
2009. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Ten-year yields rose half a basis point to 1.15 percent.
Bond futures for September delivery gained 0.03 to 141.09 as of
the afternoon close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 Benchmark yields may rise to 1.2 percent by the end of
September, according to Okasan’s Bandou.  
 20-Year Yields  
 The 14-day  relative strength index  on 20-year yields
dropped below the 30 level last week, suggesting the securities
are poised to change direction.  
 “People are not sure if risk premiums for bond yields
will actually disappear,” said  Takashi Nishimura , an analyst
in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a
unit of Japan’s largest lender by assets. “Declines in long-
term yields were too much, setting them up for a rebound.”  
 Group of 20 leaders said in a statement released yesterday
that advanced economies will aim to at least halve deficits by
2013 and stabilize debt-to-output ratios by 2016.  
 “Japan got special treatment in the deficit-cutting plan,
singled out for the fact that the nation just unveiled a
strategy to cut the primary fiscal deficit ratio to gross
domestic product in half in five years,” said  Shinji Nomura ,
chief debt strategist at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “Still,
the feasibility of the strategy, including the target to
balance the budget by fiscal 2020, is questionable.”  
 Slowing Recovery  
 Bond losses were limited after reports showed the nation’s
retail sales grew at the slowest pace since January and the U.S.
economy expanded at a lower rate than previously estimated.  
 “The global outlook is deteriorating as market
participants try to grasp how Europe’s fiscal crisis will harm
economies,” said  Akito Fukunaga , Tokyo-based chief rates
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Yields will
struggle to rise.”  
 The Commerce Department said on June 25 that U.S. gross
domestic product expanded at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, smaller than the median forecast of 79
economists in a Bloomberg News survey and compared with a 3
percent estimate issued last month. Ten-year Treasury yields
fell 11 basis points last week.  
 Japanese retail sales advanced 2.8 percent in May from a
year earlier, the Trade Ministry said today in Tokyo. The gain
was smaller than the 4.8 percent median estimate of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        