-- Government May Auction Visas for Work as It Seeks Controls on Immigration
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-06-28T09:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/government-may-auction-visas-for-work-as-it-seeks-controls-on-immigration.html

          
          
             The U.K. government is considering
auctioning visas for businesses wishing to employ foreign
migrants, part of a plan to set an annual cap on immigration,
Home Secretary  Theresa May  said.  
 Beginning a 12-week consultation on its proposals, the  Home
Office  said it is considering offering a “pool” of work visas
on a quarterly basis or operating a first-come, first-served
system for applications.  
 “We are always in the business of trying to operate with
as little bureaucracy as possible,” May told a news conference
in London today. She said she would invite businesses and
London’s financial district to respond and say which option they
prefer.  
 May will ask the independent Migration Advisory Committee
to examine at what level an annual cap on immigration from non-
European Union countries should be set. The home secretary said
she hopes the measures will eventually bring net migration down
to the levels of the 1990s.  
 The consultation will be held after reports that some
Cabinet ministers are worried that a cap may hamper employers’
ability to attract talented staff from abroad. Business
Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat, told the BBC’s Sunday
AM program yesterday that the proposal “has to be implemented
in a flexible way.”  
 According to a Financial Times report on June 25,
Universities Minister  David Willetts  and Schools Secretary
 Michael Gove , both Conservatives, have  concerns  that too low a
cap might hurt the competitiveness of London’s financial
district, alongside universities and colleges.  
 The Conservative mayor of London,  Boris Johnson , also
warned that any “ crude cap ” would be detrimental to the free
flow of workers, according to a statement by his spokesman on
June 26.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        