-- Governor Zeti Says Malaysia Inflation Isn't Concern, Market News Reports
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-06-28T06:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/governor-zeti-says-malaysia-inflation-isn-t-concern-market-news-reports.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s central bank Governor
 Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said inflation this year will be within the
bank’s forecast range and isn’t a concern that needs to be
addressed, Market News International reported.  
 Malaysia’s economy is gaining momentum as private
consumption and investment strengthen, even as events in the
U.S. and Europe have led to “uncertainty” for growth, Zeti
said yesterday in an interview in Basel, Switzerland, according
to Market News. The central bank will study the outlook for the
domestic and global economy in assessing whether it will pause
in raising borrowing costs, she was cited as saying.  
 “Malaysia’s economic strength will allow the central bank
to continue to normalize interest rates at its next meeting even
though inflation is not likely to be an issue,” said Alvin
Liew, an economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore. Liew
expects Zeti to raise the benchmark rate by 0.25 percentage
point at the next meeting before keeping it steady for the rest
of the year.  
 Rising exports and production helped Southeast Asia’s
third-largest economy expand at the fastest pace in a decade
last quarter, allowing the central bank to raise interest rates
ahead of most of its Asian neighbors. Inflation is forecast to
average 2 percent to 2.5 percent this year, accelerating from
0.6 percent in 2009, according to the central bank.  
 Bank Negara Malaysia doesn’t foresee any “intensifying
inflationary pressures” this year, Zeti was quoted as saying.  
 The central bank raised rates by a quarter of a percentage
point at each of the past two meetings, bringing the overnight
policy rate to 2.5 percent from 2 percent. The level of
borrowing costs hasn’t hurt demand for loans for investments,
Zeti was cited as saying.  
 The Malaysian ringgit is Asia’s best performer against the
dollar and euro this year, according to Bloomberg data. The
currency’s appreciation is orderly and reflects the nation’s
“improving economic conditions,” Zeti was quoted as saying.  
 The central bank will make its next monetary policy
decision on July 8.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        