-- Greeks Walk Off Job to Protest Overhaul to Pensions, Labor Laws
-- Natalie Weeks
-- 2010-06-29T11:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/greeks-stage-national-strike-to-protest-overhaul-to-pensions-labor-laws.html

          
          
             More than 9,000 protesters marched
through Athens today as Greek unions staged their fifth general
strike of the year to challenge government plans to cut pension
benefits and loosen labor laws.  
 The walkout halted state services including public
transport and tax offices and disrupted some hospitals. The 24-
hour stoppage hit ferry lines at Piraeus, Greece’s largest port,
as the Panhellenic Union of Merchant Marine Engineers demanded
changes to “anti-social measures.”  
 “We are faced with almost the total destruction of
Greece’s social security and labor system,”  Spyros Papaspyrou ,
chairman of ADEDY union for civil servants, said by telephone
before the march. “We remain committed to this struggle.”  
 Greece is in the midst of its biggest upheaval since
joining the euro nine years ago after being forced to take
action to avoid a debt default. Reforms to pensions and the way
workers are hired and fired are required by the European Union
and International Monetary Fund in return for the 110 billion
euros ($135 billion) of emergency loans agreed in May.  
 About 1,000 police officers were on duty in Athens to
monitor the marches, though no incidents had been reported, a
police spokeswoman said.  
 ‘Usual Routine’  
 The backlash against austerity measures in Greece has been
evident all year. Three people were killed on May 5 after
demonstrators set fire to a bank in Athens as protests and
strikes became a daily event in the country.  
 A day later in parliament, three of Prime Minister George
Papandreou’s lawmakers rebelled over a package of cuts, leading
the premier to expel them from his Pasok party. That left him
with 157 lawmakers in the 300-seat chamber.  
 Tomorrow, catering and tourist-industry employees plan
another 24-hour strike. Tourism is Greece’s largest industry,
accounting for about 16 percent of gross domestic product and
one in five jobs, the  World Travel and Tourism Council  said.  
 “It’s the usual routine,” said Elina Zaroulia, 25, who
does fashion public relations for Hugo Boss in Athens and didn’t
join strikers today. “Protesters, banners, slogans, but if you
work in the private sector you go to work, it’s the way it is
and definitely now that it is a time of crisis.”  
 Market Reaction  
 Markets in Greece were little affected today. The  ASE  stock
index was down 0.7 percent as of 2:18 p.m. in Athens, on course
for a sixth day of losses. Ten-year Greek government bonds
yielded 812 basis points more than comparable German debt today,
the  spread  widening from 800 basis points yesterday.  
 Papandreou, whose union-backed Pasok party prevailed in
elections last October, has reduced wages for state workers,
trimmed some retirement benefits, and raised sales, fuel and
alcohol taxes. The 58-year-old argues the measures, to tame a
budget deficit of 13.6 percent of economic output, are needed to
prevent the country from defaulting on its debts.  
 Greek pensioners on average live on 96 percent of the
salary they had when they worked, more than twice the proportion
of earnings as Germans, according to the  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development . The Paris-based group
called the system a “fiscal time bomb.”  
 Companies are prevented from dismissing any more than 2
percent of their workforce in any given month, just as the Greek
economy is mired in its first recession since 1993.  
 ‘Doing Our Job’  
 “Striking is an irremovable right of the Greek people and
of every worker, but we are steadily doing our job,” government
spokesman  George Petalotis  said in an e-mailed transcript of
comments made in Athens yesterday. Reforms must be pushed
through “as the situation had really reached its limits.”  
 Pension reforms include increasing the retirement age to 65
from 60 for women, curtailing early retirement, increasing the
number of contribution years and calculating payments over a
longer period of employment. The bill will be the first enacted
since the May 6 package that pledged 30 billion euros of wage
and pension cuts and tax increases over the next three years.  
 When it comes to the job market, the  Labor Ministry  plans
to allow companies to fire 5 percent of their workers. Newcomers
would be paid 84 percent of the minimum wage in a bid to boost
employment among those aged between 15 and 29.  
 The unemployment rate for that group was more than 22
percent in the first quarter of this year compared with 18.5
percent last year. Greece’s main jobless rate rose in the first
quarter to a 10-year high of 11.7 percent.  
 “The main target of the new labor-market law is to improve
the flexibility in a market that’s considered, together with
Portugal and to some extent France, as the most inflexible in
the euro area,” said Nicholas Magginas, an economist at
National Bank of Greece SA.  
 The  General Confederation of Labor, or GSEE , Greece’s
largest union group for workers at private companies, called
plans to cut severance pay, abolish terms of collective-
bargaining agreements and raise the ceiling on firing employees
an “assault” on staff.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Greeks strike to protest pensions  
                       
                         
                           Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Protestors with banners march through the centre of Athens. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Protestors with banners march through the centre of Athens. Photographer: Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Nicole Itano reports from Piraeus Port, near Athens, on Greece's fifth general strike of the year today, halting ferries, public transport and other state services. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Communist-affiliated strikers march through the port of Piraeus outside Athens to prevent ferries from leaving the harbor during a 24-hour general strike. Photographer: Louisa Gouliamaki/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Greeks walk off job to protest overhaul to pensions  
                       
                         
                           Peter Foley/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Greece's prime minister George Papandreou. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Greece's prime minister George Papandreou. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
