-- G-20 Calls for Higher Bank Capital to Avert Financial Crisis
-- Rebecca Christie
-- 2010-06-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/group-of-20-nations-agree-on-higher-bank-capital-to-avert-financial-crisis.html

          
          
             The Group of 20 countries said banks
need “significantly higher” capital to avert another financial
crisis, while granting member nations more flexibility to meet
the new requirements.  
 Leaders meeting in Toronto yesterday said countries should
adopt higher capital standards by the end of 2012, though banks
can phase in capital increases during a transition period.  
 “This issue of balance is in there,” said  Royal Bank of
Canada  Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon . “We need more
capital, we need more leverage, but we also have to ensure that
it is not to such an extent that it kills economic growth.”  
 Financial firms around the world have racked up $1.78
trillion in losses since the third quarter of 2007 and have
since raised $1.5 trillion in new capital, according to
Bloomberg data. U.S. firms account for $1.2 trillion in losses
and $812 billion in fresh capital.  
 “The financial crisis has imposed huge costs,” the G-20
statement said. “This must not be allowed to happen again.”  
 Leaders said they will seek final agreement on capital
rules at a summit in Seoul in November when the  Basel Committee
of Banking and Supervision , made up of international central
bankers and other officials, will propose a road map.  
 Withstand Shock  
 The G-20 also reiterated its support for a leverage ratio
to accompany the capital framework known as Basel III. The G-20
called for banks to increase common equity as a percentage of
their so-called Tier 1 capital to allow them to withstand
another shock “of a magnitude associated with the recent
financial crisis” without significant government support, the
statement said.  
 “The amount of capital will be significantly higher and
the quality of capital will be significantly improved,” the
final statement said.  
 G-20 nations will be allowed to phase in the increased
capital to take into account each country’s “circumstances,”
and is “consistent with sustained recovery and limits market
disruption.”  
 “We should provide transition arrangements that enable
movement to robust new standards without putting recovery at
risk, rather than allow concerns over the transition to weaken
the standards,” Financial Stability Board Chairman  Mario Draghi 
said. The stability board was created last year to advise
international banking regulators.  
 ‘Ambitious’ Standard  
 The transition periods need to be internationally
consistent, a U.S. official told Bloomberg News. The official
said today’s agreement means banks may be held to the ambitious
standard of being able to withstand a shock similar to the
recent crisis.  
 As the new rules take effect, regional differences should
be “narrowing over time as countries converge to the new global
standard,” the statement said.  
 “What we’ve been trying to emphasize in these debates and
discussions is the recognition that the banking industry was
undercapitalized going into the crisis,”  said Nixon , who leads
Canada’s largest bank. “There’s no question that increased
capital requirements are not only coming, they’re important, as
are leverage limits.”  
 The G-20’s endorsement of transition periods could
complicate efforts to move to international standards on capital
levels, said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels, in a telephone interview.  
 No G-20 Standard  
 “If we go back to national regulation, there is the risk
that it’s going to be very chaotic. This is going to be
tricky,” Brzeski said. “It’s a pity that we don’t have a G-20
strategy.”  
 Global leaders also supported the Basel committee’s work to
consider the role of contingent capital to help banks shore up
their finances. Under the contingent capital proposal backed by
Canada, subordinated debt and preferred shares sold by lenders
may be converted to capital in the event of a crisis.  
 The U.S. official said the idea of contingent capital for
the biggest banks would need a lot of work to be feasible. The
U.S. is open to considering the issue if it can be shown to be
effective, the official said.  
 The Basel committee is racing against a December deadline
set by G-20 nations, and banks faced with raising what UBS AG
estimates may be $375 billion of fresh capital are appealing to
nationalist sentiments to ease the pain.  
 Rewriting Rules  
 The current round of changes was spurred by G-20 leaders
who urged the committee to improve the quantity and quality of
bank capital, strengthen liquidity requirements and discourage
excessive leverage.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  urged their counterparts to join the push for higher
capital requirements. This effort gained momentum after American
lawmakers agreed last week on legislation to overhaul the U.S.
financial system.  
 The G-20 didn’t support the implementation of a global bank
tax policy, which has the backing of countries including France
and Germany.  
 “We recognized that there are a range of policy
approaches” to ensure the financial sector pays for any
government bailouts, the statement said. “Some countries are
pursuing a financial levy. Other countries are pursuing
different approaches.”  
 French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said the Group of 20
nations views a tax on banks to pay for bailout costs as a
legitimate policy.  
 “The possibility to tax banks is recognized as legitimate
by the G-20,” Sarkozy told reporters.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Toronto at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       G-20 Calls for higher bank capital  
                       
                         
                           Norm Betts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gordon Nixon of Royal Bank of Canada calls for more capital and leverage. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gordon Nixon of Royal Bank of Canada calls for more capital and leverage.
Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Guido Ravoet, secretary general of the European Banking Federation, talks about banking regulation proposals from the Group of 20 summit.
     Leaders meeting in Toronto yesterday said countries should adopt higher capital standards by the end of 2012, though banks can phase in capital increases during a transition period. He speaks from Brussels with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the Group of 20 leaders' plan to cut deficits and pursue higher capital requirements for banks once their economic recoveries take root.
     Kirkegaard, speaking from Washington, also discusses the shift in China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Colin Bradford, senior fellow at the Brookings Institute, talks about the Group of 20 summit and global growth outlook.
     Bradford talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Luke Templeman of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker about the Group of 20 meeting in Toronto and Europe's debt woes. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Silva on Stocks, Brzeski on European Debt Crisis 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
