-- Guinness Peat Fires Executive Director Gibbs After Demerger Disagreement
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-28T21:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/guinness-peat-fires-executive-director-gibbs-after-demerger-disagreement.html

          
          
             Guinness Peat Group Plc, the London-
based investor, fired  Tony Gibbs  as an executive and removed him
from the board after he published his personal view opposing the
planned demerger of the company’s Australian unit.  
 The action reflected “increasing difficulties” with Gibbs
and was unavoidable, Guinness Peat Chairman  Ron Brierley  said in
a statement sent to the New Zealand stock exchange. Gibbs has
been an executive director, based in New Zealand, for nearly 20
years, the company said.  
 Guinness Peat , which owns Coats Plc, the world’s biggest
thread maker, is listed in London, Australia and New Zealand and
most of its shareholders are in New Zealand. On June 16, the
board unanimously agreed to create GPG Australia as a separate
company and offer shares to existing investors as part of a
proposal to return more value to shareholders.  
 The stock fell to an 11-month low on June 22 as investors
objected to the plan.  
 Gibbs on June 25 said he had advised his board colleagues
the proposal should be abandoned because it was clear it didn’t
have shareholder support and wouldn’t succeed. The company
should instead make a cash distribution and prepare to sell
Coats, Gibbs said in a statement.  
 Guinness Peat was disappointed Gibbs expressed his views
publicly without consulting with the board, Brierley said today.
Gibbs’ alternative proposal is “inappropriate” because it
ignores complexities in the Guinness Peat structure and other
factors, including liabilities and tax matters that complicate
the ability to make distributions, he said.  
 Still, the company will review the proposal and plans to
appoint three, non-executive directors to be part of a board
committee that will consult with shareholders and consider
modifications, Brierley said.  
 Goldman Sachs JBWere Ltd. and Greenhill Caliburn are
advising the company, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        