-- States Must Honor Gun Rights, U.S. High Court Says
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-28T21:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/gun-rights-must-be-honored-by-states-cities-high-court-says-in-5-4-vote.html

          
          
             A divided  U.S. Supreme Court  said
the constitutional right to bear arms binds states and cities,
as well as the federal government, in a decision that raises
questions about gun laws around the country.  
 The ruling, while not creating an unlimited right for
individuals to carry weapons, restricts the power of cities and
states to regulate firearms. A 5-4 majority said Chicago went
too far by banning handguns even for self-defense in the home.
The Chicago ordinance is now unenforceable, its mayor said,
though the law stays in effect pending lower court proceedings.  
 The ruling said states and cities can ban possession by
convicted felons and mentally ill people and enforce laws 
against bringing guns into schools or government buildings.  
 Chicago is the only major city with a blanket handgun ban,
after a 2008 Supreme Court decision struck down a similar ban in
Washington, D.C., a federal enclave. Jurisdictions with narrower
weapons restrictions, including New York City, may now face new
legal challenges.  
 The right to bear arms “is fully binding on the states and
thus limits (but by no means eliminates) their ability to devise
solutions to social problems that suit local needs and values,”
Justice  Samuel Alito  wrote for the court.  
 Right to Bear Arms  
 The justices said a constitutional amendment approved after
the Civil War protects the right to bear arms as a key freedom,
shielding it from state and local interference.  
 “It is clear that the framers and ratifiers of the 14th
Amendment counted the right to keep and bear arms among those
fundamental rights necessary to our system of ordered liberty,”
Alito wrote.  
 Today’s ruling broadens the sweep of the court’s 2008
ruling interpreting the Constitution’s Second Amendment as
protecting the rights of individuals, rather than just those of
state-run militias. It’s a victory for the National Rifle
Association, which joined a group of Chicago residents in
challenging the city’s laws.  
 The ruling “is a vindication for the great majority of
American citizens who have always believed the Second Amendment
was an individual right and freedom worth defending,”  Wayne LaPierre , the group’s executive vice president, said in a
statement.  
 Gun Control Advocates  
 Gun control advocates said the ruling isn’t likely to lead
to the widespread invalidation of gun laws.  
 “The gun lobby and gun criminals will use it to try to
strike down gun laws, and those legal challenges will continue
to fail,” said  Paul Helmke , president of the Brady Center and
Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence.  
 Chicago Mayor  Richard M. Daley  said he was “disappointed
but not surprised.” He said the ruling made his city’s 28-year-
old ban “unenforceable.”  
 New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in a statement that
the two high court rulings mean that “we can work to keep guns
out of the hands of criminals and terrorists while at the same
time respecting the constitutional rights of law-abiding
citizens.” The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  
 Today’s decision, which came on the last day of the court’s
nine-month term, divided the justices along lines that have
become commonplace. Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices
 Antonin Scalia ,  Anthony Kennedy  and  Clarence Thomas  joined Alito
in the majority.  
 Breyer’s Dissent  
 In dissent, Justice  Stephen Breyer  faulted the majority for
“transferring ultimate regulatory authority over the private
uses of firearms from democratically elected legislatures to
courts or from the states to the federal government.”  
 Justices  John Paul Stevens ,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Sonia Sotomayor  also dissented.  
 The high court’s 2008 decision said the right to bear arms
had limits. Alito wrote that today’s decision reaffirmed those
limits, saying the ruling “does not imperil every law
regulating firearms.”  
 Like the rest of the Bill of Rights, the Second Amendment
was originally aimed only at the federal government. The Supreme
Court in the 19th century refused to apply the Second Amendment
to the states.  
 More recently, the court has said that some, though not
all, of the rights in the first eight amendments are so
fundamental that they are “incorporated” into the 14th
Amendment’s due process clause, which binds the states.  
 ‘Fundamental Rights’  
 “Given that other fundamental rights - the freedom of
speech, the freedom of religion, and so on - limit both state
and national governments, it would have been strange for the
court to rule otherwise here,” said Rick Garnett, associate
dean and constitutional law professor at the University of Notre
Dame in South Bend, Indiana.  
 In saying that the Second Amendment is incorporated as
well, the court declined to usher in a major doctrinal shift, as
some litigants had sought. Advocates across the ideological
spectrum urged the justices to rely on the privileges-or-
immunities clause, a long dormant provision in the 14th
Amendment.  
 Such a step might have reinforced established
constitutional rights including abortion and opened the door to
broader protection of other guarantees, including property
rights.  
 The case “is likely the last great incorporation battle,”
said Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the
University of California at Los Angeles. “In one sense, this is
the last battle of the Civil War. The 14th Amendment was
designed to ensure that all Americans enjoyed the same
fundamental rights, including the right to bear arms. Now the
Second Amendment applies to everyone.”  
 The Chicago ban was challenged by four residents, including
Otis McDonald, a 76-year-old homeowner in the Morgan Park
neighborhood on the city’s South Side.  
 McDonald, who says his home has been broken into at least
three times, says he wants to keep a handgun by his bed for
protection.  
 The case is McDonald v. City of Chicago, 08-1521.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Supreme Court ruling will open a new front in the fight over gun rights. Photographer: Joe Raedle/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
