-- Iberdrola Is Downgraded to 'Neutral' at UBS on Regulatory Risk, Rate Delay
-- Joao Lima
-- 2010-06-28T09:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/iberdrola-is-downgraded-to-neutral-at-ubs-on-regulatory-risk-rate-delay.html

          
          
             Iberdrola SA ’s stock rating was
downgraded at UBS AG, which cited the prospect of “regulatory
risk” weighing on shares of Spain’s biggest utility during the
next few months after a power-rate increase was delayed.  
 “The Spanish government decided to freeze the July
electricity tariff increase and announced a thorough review of
the entire remuneration system, jointly with the opposition
party,”  Alberto Gandolfi , an analyst at UBS, said today in a
research note. “This creates regulatory instability, which will
weigh on Iberdrola shares until the review is over, which we
expect, at best, by October.”  
 Gandolfi reduced the rating to “neutral” from “buy.”
Iberdrola’s shares have declined about 26 percent this year,
reducing the company’s market value to 26 billion euros ($32
billion). The stock rose 5 cents, or 1 percent, to 4.99 euros in
Madrid as of 11:08 a.m. local time.  
 Industry Minister  Miguel Sebastian  on June 24 said Spain
will suspend an increase in the price consumers pay for
electricity due to take effect in July. Three days ago, a
spokesman for Sebastian said the government postponed its plan
to cut the price earned by renewable power plants after the main
opposition party agreed to negotiate a broader accord on energy
policy.  
 The government opted to delay the decision so subsidies for
solar and wind energy can be included in talks aimed at securing
an energy agreement with the People’s Party, the spokesman said
in a telephone interview.  
 Iberdrola, the world’s largest owner of wind parks, now
generates more than half its power  outside Spain  and almost two-
thirds of its planned gross investment through 2012 will be in
the U.S. and the U.K.  
 Bilbao-based Iberdrola said Feb. 24 that net investment
from 2010 through 2012 may total 16 billion euros.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        