-- Micron Posts Net Income After Gain From Acquisition
-- Ian King
-- 2010-06-28T23:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/micron-posts-third-quarter-net-income-after-acquisition-gain-shares-drop.html

          
          
             Micron Technology Inc. , the largest
U.S. maker of computer-memory chips, posted a profit of $939
million on one-time accounting gains. The shares dropped as much
as 6.2 percent in late trading.  
 Third-quarter  net income  was 92 cents a share, after a loss
of $301 million, or 39 cents, a year earlier, Boise, Idaho-based
Micron said today in a statement. Sales in the period ended June
3 doubled to $2.29 billion.  
 Micron and its competitors are benefiting from stronger
pricing after a two-year glut forced them to slash spending on
new factories and sell some products below cost. Still, last
quarter’s performance was partly due to a nonrecurring $488
million gain from the acquisition of Numonyx BV, a purchase that
added inventory to Micron.  
 “People are concerned about Numonyx and the $700 million
in inventory,” said  Betsy Van Hees , an analyst for Wedbush
Securities in San Francisco. She has an “outperform” rating on
Micron shares and doesn’t own them. “We remain very positive
and see this as a buying opportunity.”  
 Micron fell as low as $9.40 in  extended trading  after the
results were released. It had climbed 56 cents, or 5.9 percent,
to $10.02 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
The shares have  fallen  5.1 percent this year.  
 Memory Chips  
 Micron  makes dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips
that provide the main memory in personal computers. The company
also makes Nand flash memory chips used in portable music
players like Apple Inc.’s iPod and in memory cards for digital
cameras.  
 Demand for those chips is still strong and inventory is
lean, Chief Operating Officer  Mark Durcan  said in an interview.  
 “Demand is very robust in every segment,” he said.
“Everyone is essentially asking for more than they can get
right now.”  
 Sales of DRAM increased 10 percent in the period from the
second quarter, buoyed by a 9 percent gain in average selling
prices, the company said. The price jumped 54 percent from a
year earlier. Nand flash revenue rose 16 percent. The 21 percent
increase in Nand sales volume was offset by a 4 percent drop in
average selling prices.  
 Some investors were disappointed by the relatively slow
pace at which Micron is increasing output to take advantage of
strong pricing, said  Daniel Amir , an analyst for Lazard Capital
Markets in San Francisco. He recommends buying the stock, which
he doesn’t own.  
 “You really don’t have growth in the DRAM business or the
Nand,” he said. “It’s unfortunate.”  
 Expansion Plans  
 Micron’s Durcan said that while his company is lagging
behind the expansion plans of rivals this year, he will reverse
that situation and increase market share next year.  
 The company completed its purchase last month of Rolle,
Switzerland-based Numonyx, which makes a different type of flash
chip for mobile phones. There is little competition in that
market, meaning that Micron probably will be able to sell all of
the inventory it acquired, Wedbush’s Van Hees said.  
 Micron has reported an  annual profit  in only four of the
past 10 years. The memory industry suffers from unpredictable
swings in demand, making it hard to adjust production levels
quickly enough.  
 Analysts projected $2.11 billion in third-quarter sales,
the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        