-- Lilly's Effient Tied in Study to Higher Rate of Cancer Risk Than Plavix
-- Ellen Gibson
-- 2010-06-28T23:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/lilly-s-effient-tied-in-study-to-higher-rate-of-cancer-risk-than-plavix.html

          
          
             Eli Lilly ’s blood-thinner Effient
was linked to higher rates of cancer than  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. ’s rival product Plavix, research published today found.  
 Patients taking Effient had a 43 percent higher rate of
solid tumors, excluding some skin cancers and brain tumors, than
those who received Plavix, according to the analysis of
previously unpublished data that appeared today in the  Archives
of Internal Medicine . The rate of solid tumors, other than brain
and some skin cancers, was 1.4 percent of Effient patients
compared with 0.9 percent of those on Plavix.  
 Indianapolis-based Lilly is counting on Effient to replace
lost revenue after its top-seller, the antipsychotic Zyprexa,
faces generic competition in 2011. However, initial sales of the
drug have been “disappointing,” wrote  Christopher Schott , a
pharmaceuticals analyst at JPMorgan Chase Bank, in a note today
to investors today. Effient pulled in $29 million in revenue
last year. Plavix, the world’s second-biggest selling medicine,
generated $9.5 billion in global sales for New York-based
Bristol-Myers and Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA .  
 “Some of the enthusiasm for the drug has already worn off,
but this is very concerning,” said James Floyd, a postdoctoral
fellow in cardiovascular health at the  University of Washington 
in Seattle and one of the paper’s authors, in a telephone
interview. “The main message to the FDA is, let’s make sure
this thing doesn’t cause cancer if you’re going to keep it on
the market.”  
 Previous Letters  
 The analysis looked at data from a trial called Triton-Timi
38 that had been submitted to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration as Lilly applied for approval to sell Effient.  
 Victor Serebruany , the paper’s second author and an adjunct
professor at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore, was involved
in early studies of the drug and was paid for a related patent,
according to his disclosure that accompanied the research.
Serebruany criticized the Triton study in a June 2009 editorial
in the journal Cardiology.  
 “The hypotheses by Serebruany have been previously
presented and published as well as reviewed, discussed at length
and addressed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,” Lilly
said in a statement released today in response to the analysis.
“The FDA concluded that a causal link was unlikely.”  
 Effient received U.S. clearance in July 2009 for use in
preventing blood clots in people getting  angioplasty  to repair
or unblock blood vessels. The Triton study found the Lilly drug
reduced cardiovascular deaths, heart attacks and stroke by 19
percent compared with Plavix.  
 Blood Platelets  
 Effient works by preventing  blood platelets  from sticking
together, activity that may help explain the cancer link, Floyd
said. Platelets provide “natural defenses against tumor
growth” by trapping tumor cells in blood vessels and helping
them stick to vessel walls.  
 The 16-month duration of the study suggests Effient didn’t
trigger new cancers because that process usually takes longer,
the authors wrote. Instead, the medicine probably led small or
contained cancers that were already present to grow, the report
said.  
 FDA officials were aware of a potential association between
Effient and cancer at the time the drug was approved, Floyd
said. Thomas Marciniak, an FDA medical reviewer, performed a
detailed analysis of adverse events including solid tumors.
Agency reviewers disagreed about what types of cancers should be
counted and whether the higher incidence seen with Effient could
be due to chance, Floyd said.  
 Staff Review  
 In a January 2009 staff  review  outlining the rationale for
that decision, Ellis Unger, deputy director of the FDA’s
cardiovascular products division, wrote that the agency was
“lacking definitive data” regarding cancer risk.  
 An editorial accompanying today’s report urges further
study, adding that the postmarketing trials the company is
required to run aren’t large enough to rule out a cancer link.  
 “Sufficient credible evidence has emerged to raise
concerns about a potential risk,” wrote  Sanjay Kaul , a
cardiologist at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, and  George Diamond ,
a cardiologist at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Until further study is done, they recommend that Effient use
should be limited to “weeks rather than months.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        