-- IMF Tells Russia Not to Oppose Gains in Ruble That Help Contain Inflation
-- Michael Heath
-- 2010-06-29T01:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/imf-says-russia-may-need-to-allow-stronger-ruble-to-rise-to-curb-inflation.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund said
that Russia may need to let its currency rise to curb inflation
and that the government should begin withdrawing its “huge”
fiscal stimulus.  
 “A return to a policy of resisting nominal ruble
appreciation could send inflation back to double-digit levels,”
the IMF said in a  statement  after discussions with officials in
Moscow. “Monetary policy should focus firmly on inflation
control in the context of a more flexible exchange rate.”  
 Russia’s central bank, which has “sharply reduced” the
extent to which it steers the ruble to lessen the effects of
currency moves on producers, still prioritizes exchange-rate
stability over inflation, according to Bank Rossii Chairman
 Sergey Ignatiev .  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said June 18 that inflation
in the world’s largest energy supplier shouldn’t exceed 5
percent to 7 percent in the coming three years.  
 Russia doesn’t have a strategy for the removal of stimulus
and doing so “will not be possible without reinvigorating long-
delayed public-sector reforms,” the Washington-based IMF said.
International comparisons suggest the nation can make
significant savings in health and social protection, it said,
adding that the pension system isn’t financially viable without
a comprehensive overhaul, including a gradual increase in the
retirement age.  
 Extraordinary Measures  
 The Bank for International Settlements said yesterday that
central banks and governments should consider withdrawing
extraordinary measures to avoid skewing investment decisions and
delaying companies’ recording of losses,  
 Russia’s authorities previously expected to start
withdrawing stimulus this year, and to gradually lower the non-
oil budget deficit to 9.5 percent of gross domestic product by
2012, from 13.75 percent of GDP in 2009, the IMF said.  
 “However, with the recent supplementary budget, there is
instead a small further expansion in 2010, and the authorities
also appear to be revisiting the planned pace of consolidation
over the medium term,” it said.  
 Russia’s GDP is projected to increase 4.25 percent in 2010
and inflation to remain relatively subdued, reaching 6 percent
at the end of the year, the IMF said. “Still, with limited
prospects for further increases in oil prices over the medium
term, the nexus of strong growth in investment, productivity,
real wages, and consumption that powered the pre-crisis growth
is unlikely to materialize any time soon,” it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        