-- India's Scrapping of Fuel Price Regulation to Boost Inflation, Refiners
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-06-28T11:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/india-s-scrapping-of-fuel-price-regulation-may-boost-inflation-refiners.html

          
          
             India’s scrapping of price controls
on gasoline and diesel after more than seven years, a move aimed
at cutting a 6.9 percent budget deficit, will boost inflation
and increase profits at refiners including  Indian Oil Corp.  and
 Reliance Industries Ltd.  Their shares rose for the second day.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government removed
subsidies on auto fuels, helping state-run refiners to increase
gasoline prices 7.3 percent to 51.43 rupees ($1.1) a liter in
New Delhi and diesel 5.2 percent. The decision, announced by Oil
Secretary  S. Sundareshan  on June 25, will stoke inflation by
almost a percentage point, the finance ministry said, adding to
pressure on the central bank to raise interest rates.  
 India is trying to cut its budget deficit from a 16-year
high by slashing its $5.5 billion oil subsidy, which is about
2.5 percent of government spending. The move will also boost
profits at state-run refiners, which had to sell fuel at a loss,
and may tempt private operators such as Reliance and  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc  to re-enter the retail market.  
 “Cutting the budget deficit is the government’s biggest
concern now and higher inflation is only a short-term risk,”
said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC Capitals
Ltd. in New Delhi. “Refiners will now finally have some
breathing space. These are listed companies and there are
investors who want profits.”  
 Reliance gained 2.6 percent to 1,090.15 rupees, the highest
since April 13, in Mumbai today and  Essar Oil Ltd. , Essar
Energy’s unit, rose 2.4 percent to 140.90 rupees.  
 Political Opposition  
 Indian Oil, the nation’s biggest state-owned refiner,
soared 5.2 percent to a record 397.60 rupees.  Bharat Petroleum
Corp.  gained 3.5 percent and Hindustan Petroleum Corp. surged
7.7 percent. The benchmark  Sensitive Index  rose 1.1 percent.  
 The increase in fuel prices is being opposed by political
parties including  Mamata Banerjee ’s Trinamool Congress, an ally
of the ruling Congress party. The main opposition Bharatiya
Janata Party and the communist parties are among groups that may
together hold a country-wide strike in protest, the Press Trust
of India reported June 27, citing unidentified people.  
 Banerjee, who is also railway minister, wants the price
increases to be rolled back, Press Trust reported the same day.  
 “It’s a good move despite the risk of political
backlash,” said Thunuguntla of SMC Capitals.  
 The government hasn’t decided how frequently gasoline
prices may be changed. State refiners won’t revise rates at
fixed intervals to prevent hoarding, Sundareshan said.  
 Private Refiners  
 Bharat Petroleum may change gasoline prices every 15 days
or monthly, Chairman  Ashok Sinha  told reporters in New Delhi
June 25.  
 India last freed prices of oil products from government
control in April 2002, allowing state-owned refiners to set
retail prices twice a month. That stopped in December 2003 after
the then Bharatiya Janata Party-led government barred them from
raising rates before the May 2004 elections.  
 The government’s decision to allow gasoline and eventually
diesel to be sold at market prices will help private refiners to
tap rising demand in the world’s second-most populous nation,
where per capita fuel consumption of passenger vehicles is
forecast to double in the next 20 years.  
 The $1.2 trillion economy may expand 9 percent next year,
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said on June 23, boosting the
country’s energy needs.  
 Reliance, Shell and Essar Energy Plc may revive plans to
add retail fuel outlets in India after Asia’s third-biggest
energy consumer scrapped subsidizing gasoline and diesel.  
 Reliance, Essar  
 Essar will “significantly” increase the number of outlets,
said  Naresh Nayyar , chief executive officer of Essar Energy. The
three companies run less than 20 percent of the 10,849 pumps the
government has allowed them to operate. Reliance, owner of the
world’s biggest refining complex, and Essar shut filling
stations after failing to match prices offered by subsidized
state-run rivals as crude soared to a record in 2008.  
 Shell runs 70 out of the 2,000 stations it has approvals to
set up, according to a list on its website.  
 “We are pleased with any move that creates a level playing
field and enhances competitiveness in the industry,”  Deepak Mukarji , spokesman for Shell in India, said by telephone.  
 Reliance Industries, controlled by  Mukesh Ambani , Asia’s
richest man, should gain “as it has 1,500 outlets ready to tap
gasoline marketing margins” and may revisit its strategy to
build 5,000, Morgan Stanley analysts  Vinay Jaising  and  Rakesh Sethia  said in a note to clients on June 26. The company said
Jan. 22 it had reopened more than 600 outlets.  
 Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for Reliance, declined to
comment on the company’s retail fuel marketing plan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     S. Sundareshan, secretary of India's Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, speaks during an interview in New Delhi. Photographer: Keith Bedford/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Adrian Loh, associate director at DnB NOR ASA in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Australia's proposed tax on mining profits and its impact on the resources industry.
     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s willingness to compromise on a mining tax proposed by her predecessor may prevent opposition leader Tony Abbott from reaping gains in elections likely to be held later this year.  (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
