-- India Says Global Climate Accord Must Include Principle of Carbon Budget
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-06-28T07:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/india-says-global-climate-accord-must-include-principle-of-carbon-budget.html

          
          
             A global climate accord must include
the principle of a climate budget that is shared between nations
based on their historical emissions, India’s environment 
minister said.  
 “In the next six months in the run-up to Cancun, India
will take the leadership role on the issue of a global carbon
budget,”  Jairam Ramesh  told reporters in Mumbai today,
referring to an overall limit on emissions of greenhouse gases.  
 World leaders should devise a treaty that limits
temperature increases to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit)
since the 1800s, protects tropical forests and creates a
“revolution” in energy infrastructure, scientists including 20
Nobel Prize winners said last month. A carbon budget is needed
to measure greenhouse gas output in 2020 and 2050, the
scientists said. Developed countries should aim to cut emissions
by 25 percent to 40 percent by 2020, they said.  
 How much countries are entitled to emit within that budget
should be determined “equitably” and account for what they’ve
historically already released into the atmosphere, Ramesh said.  
 “India cannot and will not accept any international
agreement in which equity is absent, in which equitable access
to global atmospheric space is absent,” he said.  
 China, South Africa and Brazil support India on this
concept and will be discuss it next month at their meeting in
Rio de Janeiro, he said.  
 The United Nations is aiming to broker a global climate
treaty in December in Copenhagen. The agreement should ensure
carbon-dioxide output peaks by 2015 and are cut to half the 1990
levels by 2050, the scientists said in a two-page memorandum.  
 Top climate negotiators from more than 190 countries will
meet in the Mexican seaside resort of Cancun in November in a
renewed bid to craft a treaty on greenhouse-gas emission
reductions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        