-- India's Largest Fund to Boost Investments by 4% This Year as Premiums Rise
-- Arijit Ghosh
-- 2010-06-28T04:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/india-s-largest-fund-to-boost-investments-by-4-this-year-as-premiums-rise.html

          
          
             Life Insurance Corp. of India , the
country’s largest money manager, plans to increase investments
in stocks and bonds by about 4 percent this fiscal year as its
premium collections climb.  
 The Mumbai-based insurer may boost investments in stocks
and bonds to 2 trillion rupees ($43 billion) in the fiscal year
ending March 31, 2011, said Thomas Mathew, managing director of
the government-owned insurer with $237 billion of assets.  
 “The India story is quite strong and the economy is
looking good,” Mathew said in an interview on June 25. “We
hope to improve our yields this year and strengthen our risk
management systems.”  
 Life Insurance Corp. booked 94 billion rupees in profits
from stock holdings in the year ended March 31, Mathew said,
reaping a 50 percent return after India’s benchmark stock index
surged 81 percent in 2009, its biggest rally in 18 years.  
 Indian stocks were a “big buy” in the latter part of 2008
and the market gave the company an opportunity to book profits
in the last fiscal year, Mumbai-based Mathew said. The insurer’s
investment income from stocks, bonds, dividend and interest rose
28 percent to 706.72 billion rupees, he said.  
 Life Insurance Corp., which manages more money than all
Indian mutual funds combined, bought the nation’s equities in
2008 as overseas investors shunned emerging-market assets in the
midst of the global credit crisis, resulting in the largest fund
outflows from Indian stocks that year and their biggest annual
slump.  
 Economic Growth  
 The insurer increased holdings of stocks by 50 percent to
614 billion rupees in the year ended March 31, Mathew said. It
bought bonds issued by companies worth 267 billion rupees in the
period, he said.  
 The country’s $1.2 trillion economy expanded 8.6 percent in
the three months through March, the fastest pace after China and
Brazil among major economies. The nation’s growth rate may be
“8.5 percent plus” this year and reach 9 percent next year,
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said on June 23.  
 India’s decision this month to allow life insurers to offer
unit-linked plans has allayed concerns that rule changes would
drastically impact this product, said Mathew.  
 Life Insurance Corp. would like to increase the share of
traditional insurance policies and reduce unit-linked plans to
60 percent of the product mix from 65 percent currently, he
added.  
 Rule Changes  
 India changed a rule to allow life insurance companies to
offer unit-linked plans, the Press Information Bureau said in an
e-mailed statement on June 19. Unit-linked products are
insurance plans which invest the money in equity and debt
markets. The government has also set up a panel to decide on the
jurisdiction of hybrid financial products, according to the
statement.  
 The  Security & Exchange Board of India , the stock market
regulator, on April 9 barred 14 life insurers from selling the
products, saying they were like mutual-fund plans and were sold
without obtaining the equity-market regulator’s approval. The
insurance regulator on April 10 countered the ban, telling
insurers to keep selling the product.  
 The regulators had asked the court to rule on the issue
before the government changed the rules.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        