-- Iran Denounces CIA Chief's Remarks on Nuclear Program as Psychological War
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-06-28T11:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/iran-denounces-cia-chief-s-remarks-on-nuclear-program-as-psychological-war.html

          
          
             Iran said comments made yesterday by
 Leon Panetta , head of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, that
Iran has enough low-enriched uranium for two atomic bombs amount
to “psychological war.”  
 Iran’s nuclear activities don’t have a military purpose and
the U.S. intelligence agency is aware of that,  Ramin Mehmanparast , Foreign Ministry spokesman, said today in a
telephone interview from Tehran. He described the comments as
propaganda intended to allow the U.S. to avoid nuclear
disarmament.  
 “What Iran is pursuing is only in the framework of the
rights that its membership of the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  entitles it to,” Mehmanparast said. “The real concern
is disarmament and non-proliferation.”  
 Panetta said yesterday that Iran has amassed enough low-
enriched uranium to produce two nuclear weapons within two
years. The Persian Gulf country needs a year to enrich its
uranium further, and another year to develop a weapon, he said
on ABC’s “This Week” program.  
 Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian purposes such
as power generation and has rebuffed United Nations Security
Council demands to suspend uranium enrichment. The Security
Council imposed a fourth set of sanctions on Iran on June 9,
backed by Russia and China, while Congress approved U.S.
sanctions last week.  
 Gasoline, Banks  
 The U.S. legislation punishes companies that sell gasoline
to Iran and blocks banks that do business with the country from
using the U.S. financial system.  
 Group of Eight leaders said Israel may decide to take
action against Iran out of concern that it is building nuclear
weapons, Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said June 26.  
 Since “Iran is not guaranteeing a peaceful production of
nuclear power, the members of the G-8 are worried, and believe
absolutely that Israel will probably react preemptively,”
Berlusconi told reporters in Huntsville, Ontario, after a two-
day meeting with other G-8 leaders. He didn’t elaborate.  
 “You will take the wish to your grave that you will stop
Iran’s nuclear program,” parliament Speaker  Ali Larijani  was
cited by the state-run  Fars  news agency as saying today. “The
era when you could change the situation in Iran by force is
over.”  
 Mehmanparast said the focus should be on the peaceful uses
of Iran’s low-enriched uranium.  
 “Why don’t they say that the uranium can be used in the
Tehran reactor that has medical uses?” Mehmanparast said,
referring to the facility in the capital that will require
refueling to continue producing isotopes. The approach to Iran’s
low-enriched uranium is political and will not bear any results,
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        