-- Iranian Trade With Dubai Is Squeezed by UN Sanctions, Business Group Says
-- Henry Meyer
-- 2010-06-28T09:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/iranian-trade-with-dubai-is-being-hit-by-sanctions-says-business-group.html

          
          
             Trade between Iran and Dubai, a key
source of imports for the Islamic Republic, is being squeezed by
sanctions over the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program, an
Iranian business group said.  
 Customs authorities over the past few months have adopted a
new system to check every shipment that passes via the emirate
to Iran, said  Morteza Masoumzadeh , a director of the Dubai-based
Iranian Business Council, a group that promotes economic ties.  
 “What we see is Dubai customs is being very strict,” he
said in an interview yesterday. “These sanctions will have a
negative impact on trade.”  
 The United Nations  Security Council  on June 9 approved a
fourth round of sanctions on Iran, including restrictions on
financial transactions, a tighter arms embargo and authority to
seize cargo suspected of being used for Iranian nuclear or
missile programs. The U.S. and European Union are also imposing
energy and financial sanctions.  
 The level of trade between Iran and Dubai may decline to
about $6 billion this year from $8 billion in 2009, said
Masoumzadeh, who owns a shipping company that transports goods
between the two destinations. Dubai, the second largest of the
seven sheikhdoms in the United Arab Emirates, lies 160
kilometers (100 miles) across the Gulf from the Iranian port of
Bandar Abbas. Trade had earlier reached a peak of as much as $12
billion in 2008, he said.  
 Cash Only  
 Masoumzadeh said his firm and other traders can no longer
use letters of credit issued by Iranian banks to buy goods from
suppliers in Europe and Asia because of the sanctions regime.
With U.A.E. banks refusing to deal with Iranian enterprises, all
transactions are now on a cash basis, which has cut his shipping
company’s business by 70 percent over a period of about two
years, he said.  
 Over the past year, the number of Iranian-owned businesses
in Dubai has fallen to 8,000 from 8,400 because of the effect of
the financial crisis and sanctions, according to the business
council.  
 The U.A.E. has closed down more than 40 companies in a
crackdown on money-laundering and sales of equipment with
possible military uses linked to Iran, the  Gulf News  reported
June 21, citing an unidentified official.  
 The central bank has also asked banks and financial
institutions in the federation to freeze 41 accounts linked to
Iran’s ballistic missile and nuclear programs,  Emirates Business
24/7  reported today, citing a circular by the bank.  
 The bank said the move was made in compliance with the
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929 of June 9 and
listed 41 individual and company names provided by the UN, the
newspaper reported.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        