-- Israel May Leave Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged on `Softening' Economy
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-06-28T06:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/israel-may-leave-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-on-softening-economy.html

          
          
             Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  may leave the benchmark interest  rate  unchanged for a
third month as economic growth slows.  
 Fischer is likely to leave the rate at 1.5 percent,
according to 10 of 18 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The
other eight expect a quarter-point increase. The decision by the
Jerusalem-based bank will be announced at 5:30 p.m. local time
today.  
 “There is a softening of economic activity, and if he
raises the rate, that could cause further damage,”  Victor Bahar , deputy manager of Bank Hapoalim Ltd.’s economics
department, said in a telephone interview. “Also, Europe and
the U.S. aren’t expected to raise rates until mid-2011.”  
 Fischer has increased the key rate by a percentage point
since August as the economy recovered from the impact of the
worst global recession since the Great Depression. Israeli
growth slowed to 3.6 percent in the first quarter from 4.5
percent in the previous three months, as an expansion in exports
slowed. Exports account for close to 50 percent of gross
domestic product.  
 The Finance Ministry lowered its growth forecast for the
year due to the European debt crisis, Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  said June 6. The economy is likely to expand 3.6
percent this year, according to the forecast. Steinitz had said
on May 6 that growth was likely to be between 3.7 percent and
4.3 percent for the year. About one-third of Israeli exports are
sold to Europe.  
 ‘Slower Pace’  
 The Bank of Israel’s state of the economy composite index
had its smallest gains in over a year in April and May,
indicating a “slower pace” of recovery, the central bank said
on June 17.  
 Israel’s benchmark TA-25 stock index has slid by about 12
percent in the past three months. The decline was led by
Discount Investment Corp., a holding company with interests in
banking and telecommunications, which dropped by about 35
percent.  
 A decision to raise the interest rate would strengthen the
shekel, making it harder for exporters to compete, Bahar said.
The shekel has strengthened about 13 percent against the euro
this year, and was trading at 4.7891 as 9:20 a.m. It has
weakened by about 2 percent against the dollar during the same
period.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        