-- Israeli Gaza Inquiry to Call Netanyahu to Testify
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-06-28T13:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/israeli-commission-meets-to-outline-work-plan-for-gaza-flotilla-raid-probe.html

          
          
             The head of Israel’s probe into a
May 31 raid on a Gaza-bound aid flotilla that left nine people
dead said he will call Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  as the
first witness and determine whether the naval action complied
with international law.  
 Jacob Turkel, a former Supreme Court justice, opened the
first session of the panel today at the  Yitzhak Rabin  youth
hostel in Jerusalem. Netanyahu, Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and
Lieutenant General  Gabi Ashkenazi , the chief of staff, will
appear as witnesses at the first public sessions, said Ofer
Lefler, the commission spokesman. It isn’t clear when they will
testify because of Netanyahu’s travel schedule, he said.  
 “We are all determined that the inquiry will be rigorous
and will thereby make a contribution to peace,” said  David Trimble , the Nobel Peace Prize winner from Northern Ireland who
is a non-voting observer on the panel.  
 Netanyahu’s Cabinet approved the Israeli commission June 14
after United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  called for an
international investigation and Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said the raid was “barbaric.” Israel relaxed
its blockade of the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip in the face of
increased international criticism of the policy following the
deaths of the nine Turks on the flotilla ship.  
 International Law  
 The Turkel Commission, which will hold all its sessions in
the youth hostel’s basement auditorium, also includes 93-year-
old Shabtai Rosenne, a former law school professor, and retired
General  Amos Horev , 86. The other non-voting international
observer is Ken Watkin, former judge advocate general of
Canada’s armed forces. The Israel Defense Forces named Major
General  Giora Eiland  June 8 to lead a separate military
investigation.  
 “We will be looking at whether the government’s actions to
stop the flotilla met the norms of international law,” Turkel
said.  
 All the hearings will be open to the public unless the
panel needs to hear about specific security details that are
secret, Lefler said. “We want to show the world that everything
is open,” he said.  
 The hearings won’t begin until after Netanyahu returns from
his White House meeting with President  Barack Obama , scheduled
for July 6, Lefler said.  
 ‘Laughable’  
 Erdogan said June 12 that having Israel conduct its own
investigation into the raid was “laughable.” A spokesman for
the UN chief said June 14 that he continued to back an
international investigation.  
 Israel imposed its blockade of Gaza after the Islamic Hamas
movement ousted forces loyal to Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah group and seized full control of the
territory in 2007. Hamas, which won Palestinian parliamentary
elections in 2006, is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 Palestinians, backed by the UN and human-rights groups, say
restrictions on food imports and construction materials have
created a humanitarian crisis. Israel denies that such a crisis
exists, saying it restricts imports of building materials to
Gaza because they can be used to build rockets, bunkers or
bombs. Officials said they were also concerned about weapons
being hidden in food packaging.  
 The Israeli government said June 20 it would loosen the
blockade for shipments by road so that all food will be let in
and only weapons and items with a military use are kept out.  
 ‘Armed Conflict’  
 Israel says its blockade is legal because it is in “a
state of armed conflict” with Hamas. Some countries, such as
Turkey, dispute the legality of the blockade. Legal scholars
such as  Robin Churchill , a professor of international law at the
University of Dundee in Scotland, say the legality turns on
whether the conflict is a full-fledged war and whether the
military benefit is proportionate to civilian suffering.  
 Israel said it issued numerous warnings to the Gaza-bound
flotilla to change course for the port of Ashdod and unload
there. It said its soldiers were attacked with knives and clubs
and seven were wounded, including by gunfire, after people
aboard one of the ships managed to grab Israeli firearms.
Activists said they threw the firearms into the sea and that the
Israelis instigated the violence.  
 Israel launched a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the 2008 military operation,
killing one foreign worker in March, the Israeli army said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Jerusalem at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Israel’s prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu will be called as the first witness in the May 31 Gaza inquiry. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
