-- Mitsubishi Aircraft Plans European Push, Challenging Embraer, Bombardier
-- Kiyotaka Matsuda
-- 2010-06-28T03:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/mitsubishi-aircraft-plans-european-push-challenging-embraer-bombardier.html

          
          
             Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp. , the maker
of Japan’s first passenger jet, said it expects 30 percent of
orders for the plane to come from Europe as it challenges
 Bombardier Inc.  and  Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA .  
 “We have a good feeling about Europe,”  Hideo Egawa ,
president of the  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.  unit, said in
an interview in Tokyo on June 25. “A lot of airlines have shown
an interest there.”  
 The planemaker, which has as many as 125 orders so far for
its Mitsubishi Regional Jet, plans to open a sales office in
Europe as early as this year and is considering building a 100-
seat version of the aircraft to win customers in the region.
Chinese and Russian planemakers are also challenging Embraer and
Bombardier with regional jets as part of plans to create global
competitive aerospace industries.  
 Production of the first MRJ is due to begin later this year.
 All Nippon Airways Co. , which has ordered 25 planes, including
10 options, is due to receive the first one in 2014. The first
overseas customer,  Trans States Holdings  placed an order for 100
jets, including 50 options, last year.  
 Mitsubishi Heavy was unchanged at 317 yen as of the morning
close of trading in Tokyo.  
 Mitsubishi Aircraft is making 78- and 92-seater versions of
the MRJ. The aircraft can fly as far as 3,410 kilometers (2,119
miles), enabling it to reach anywhere in the mainland U.S. from
Chicago.  
 The planemaker aims to sell 1,000 regional jets over 20
years, Egawa said. The company estimates global demand for more
than 5,000 planes fitted with 70 to 90 seats in that period.  
 Pratt Engines  
 The MRJ will be powered by engines from  United Technologies
Corp. ’s Pratt & Whitney, which will help make the plane 20
percent more fuel efficient than regional jets currently flying,
according to Mitsubishi Aircraft. This will be a key selling
point, Egawa said.  
 “European airlines have big hopes for new planes that can
limit carbon-dioxide emissions and noise pollution,” he said.  
 Russian military-plane maker  Sukhoi Co.  plans to deliver
its first SuperJet regional aircraft later this year. The
company has orders for 122 planes. Commercial Aircraft Corp. of
China’s 70-seat ARJ 21 should enter service late this year or
early next year, the planemaker said in February. General
Electric Co.’s leasing arm is among customers for the plane.  
 Embraer builds the E-Jet family of  planes , which sit 70 to
122 passengers. European customers include regional units of
Alitalia SpA, British Airways Plc and Deutsche Lufthansa AG.
Customers for Bombardier  CRJ planes  include SAS Scandinavian
Airlines and Lufthansa.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hideo Egawa, president of Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp., poses with a model of the company's Mitsubishi Regional Jet (MRJ) during an interview in Tokyo. Photographer: Akio Kon/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
