-- Japan's Bond Yields Fall to 7-Year Low as Jobless Rate Rises, Output Drops
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-06-29T08:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/japan-s-bonds-may-rise-for-second-day-as-slowdown-signs-buoy-debt-demand.html

          
          
             Japanese bonds rose, pushing 10-
year  yields  to the lowest in seven years, after government
reports showed industrial production and household spending
declined and the jobless rate unexpectedly increased.  
 The nation’s bonds headed for their best first half of a
year since 2005, handing investors a return of 1.8 percent
since Dec. 31, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Ten-year bonds gained the most in a month as
today’s reports added to signs the recovery in the world’s
second-largest economy is losing momentum.  
 “The outlook of the global recovery is becoming less
rosy,” said  Akio Yoshino , chief economist in Tokyo at Societe
Generale Asset Management (Japan) Inc., which manages the
equivalent of $17 billion. “People are more inclined to spend
money on fixed-income securities and stay away from riskier
assets under such circumstances.”  
 The yield on the 10-year bond dropped 5.5 basis points to
1.095 percent, the lowest since August 2003, as of 5:12 p.m. in
Tokyo according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent security due June 2020
rose 0.501 yen to 101.842 yen.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery rose 0.38 to
141.47 at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The
 Nikkei 225  Stock Average fell 1.3 percent.  
 Unemployment Rate  
 The  jobless rate  climbed to 5.2 percent last month from
5.1 percent in April, the statistics bureau said in Tokyo.
Economists  forecast  a drop to 5 percent, a Bloomberg survey
showed. Household spending slid 0.7 percent from a year earlier,
and industrial  production  declined 0.1 percent from the prior
month, separate government reports showed.  
 Bonds also gained on speculation fiscal consolidation
among developed countries will hinder the global recovery after
leaders from the Group of 20 nations agreed on the weekend to
halve their deficits by 2013.  
 “Given growing concerns over the recovery, the underlying
bull trend in the bond market remains intact,” said  Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist in Tokyo at Citigroup Global Markets
Japan Inc., a unit of New York-based Citigroup Inc.  
 An  index  of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the 16
euro nations fell to 98.1 in June from 98.4 a month earlier and
the U.S. Conference Board’s consumer  confidence  index slid to
62.5 from 63.3 in May, according to surveys before reports
today.  
 Fewer Bonds  
 The Finance Ministry said today the government probably
sold fewer bonds than forecast last fiscal year as the economic
recovery spurred  tax revenue .  
 Bond sales likely totaled 52 trillion yen ($586 billion)
for the year ended March 31, about 1.5 trillion yen less than
predicted, the ministry said in Tokyo.  
 Tax revenue in the period likely reached 38.8 trillion yen,
exceeding the government’s estimate by 1.9 trillion yen,
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said at a news conference.
Final calculations are scheduled to be made next month.  
 The gain in bonds was tempered on speculation the central
bank’s Tankan survey later this week will show the economy is
still improving.  
 The Tankan  index  of sentiment at large manufacturers will
climb 10 points to minus 4 in June, the highest level since
September 2008, according to a Bloomberg  survey  before the July
1 report. Companies will project their first spending increase
in three years, the survey of analysts showed.  
 “While concerns are emerging that the momentum of the
global recovery will weaken, it is premature to say this will
result in the eventual loss of growth altogether,” said
 Shinichi Horikawa , who helps to manage the equivalent of $11
billion at Mitsui Sumitomo Kirameki Life Insurance Co., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest non-life insurer. “Current yield
levels are not sustainable.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        