-- Japan Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Rises, Spending Drops
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-06-29T04:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/japan-s-unemployment-rate-unexpectedly-increased-to-5-2-in-may-from-5-1-.html

          
          
             Japan’s  industrial production  and
household spending slipped in May and the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly increased, in signs that the recovery of the
world’s second-largest economy may slow.  
 The figures underscore Japan’s reliance on exports to
propel its rebound, and follow calls by the U.S. for Japanese
policy makers to stimulate domestic demand. For Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan , facing a mid-term election in less than two weeks,
the figures may pose a warning that it’s too soon to tighten
fiscal policy to shrink the nation’s debt.  
 “Today’s reports show Japan’s economy is clearly slowing
down” after growing at an annual 5 percent pace in the first
quarter, said  Kyohei Morita , chief Japan economist at Barclays
Capital in Tokyo. “Consumer spending is weakening because the
impact from government stimulus measures is fading.”  
 The jobless rate reached 5.2 percent in May, the third
straight monthly increase and the highest level since December,
the statistics bureau said in Tokyo. Household spending
retreated 0.7 percent from May 2009, the office also said, a day
after another report showed  retail sales  slowed last month.
 Factory output  dropped 0.1 percent from April, the Trade
Ministry said, compared with the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 24 economists for a flat reading.  
 Japanese stocks dropped along with shares across the region
after a report indicated China’s economic acceleration may have
past its peak. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  lost 0.8 percent to
9,620.55 as of 1:28 p.m. in Tokyo. Asian equities dropped after
the Conference Board corrected its April leading economic index
for China to show the smallest gain since November.  
 Export Driver  
 Exports  have been driving the nation’s recovery from its
worst postwar recession, led by demand from Asia. Spending by
Japanese households has relied on government incentives to
purchase cars and electronic appliances, and been insufficient
to rid the economy of deflation.  
 “Japan’s growth has yet to be sustained by domestic demand
alone,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu
Corp. in Tokyo. “The recovery will continue as long as exports
keep growing.”  
 Companies accumulated stockpiles at the fastest pace in
more than five years in May as shipments fell, the Trade
Ministry said, indicating global demand may be cooling.
Inventories rose 2 percent, the most since August 2004, and
shipments slid 1.7 percent. Still, businesses plan to increase
production by 0.4 percent in June and 1 percent in July,
according to the report.  
 Tackling Deficits  
 The worldwide recovery may slow as governments worldwide
begin to tackle their debt burdens. Group of 20 leaders meeting
in Toronto last weekend endorsed targets to cut fiscal deficits
even as they said the recovery remains “uneven and fragile.”  
 “The global economy is gradually heading toward an exit”
from stimulus measures,  Hiroshi Watanabe , a senior economist at
the Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo, said before today’s
reports. “With global growth moderating, Japan’s production is
coming to a plateau.”  
 Economists had expected the jobless rate to fall to 5
percent from 5.1 percent, according to the median estimate of
analysts surveyed. The gain was driven by young people who
couldn’t find work, with the unemployment rate for 15-24 year-
olds soaring to 10.5 percent, the highest level since June 2003.  
 The economy lost 240,000 workers in May from a month ago,
bringing the seasonally adjusted number of those with work to a
two-decade low. Sectors including manufacturing, research and
education lost jobs, month-on-month breakdowns show.  
 Cost Cutting  
 “Businesses are trying to curb hiring to keep down their
fixed costs,” said Maruyama at Itochu. “Instead, they’re
trying to cope with a recovery of demand for labor by extending
hours for workers already on the payroll.”  
 The export-led recovery is at least beginning to spur
income for  workers . Wages increased for a second month in April
as employers had staff work more overtime.  
 A separate report today showed that the  ratio  of jobs to
applicants rose to 0.50 in May, meaning there are 50 positions
for every 100 candidates. The measure climbed to its highest
level in more than a year.  
 Exporters such as  Toshiba Corp.  are still benefiting from
overseas demand. Toshiba said last week that it will boost
production of motors for hybrid cars and aim for annual auto-
related sales of 700 billion yen by the year ending March 2016.  
 The Bank of Japan’s  Tankan  business survey on July 1 will
show sentiment among large manufacturers climbing to a seven-
quarter high, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Companies will project their first
spending increase in three years, the survey of analysts showed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A man searches job listings on a computer at Ikebukuro Hello Work, a job center in the Toshima Ward, in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
