-- Kagan Hearing Offers Stage for Framing November Election Debate
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/kagan-senate-hearings-may-lead-to-first-u-s-high-court-with-three-women.html

          
          
             When the Senate opens confirmation
hearings for  Elena Kagan ’s nomination to the  U.S. Supreme Court 
today, November’s midterm elections may dominate the discussion
as much as the nominee’s legal record.  
 With both Republicans and Democrats predicting that Kagan
will be confirmed, senators may use the televised forum of the
Senate Judiciary Committee as a venue to frame the issues in
fall contests that will determine control of Congress and the
sweep of President Obama’s agenda.  
 “The Supreme Court nominations have become highly
politicized,” said Wayne Steger, a political science professor
at  DePaul University  in Chicago. “It’s the one area where the
whole culture wars come out. We don’t see it anywhere near as
much in any other issue.”  
 Kagan’s confirmation by the full Senate would place three
women on the Supreme Court for the first time in its 221-year
history.  
 She is a heavy favorite to become the court’s 112th justice,
with lawmakers predicting confirmation barring a major gaffe
during this week’s hearings. Kagan will make an opening
statement today after the 12 Democrats and seven Republicans on
the  Senate Judiciary Committee  have an opportunity to speak.  
 Kagan, Obama’s second nominee to the high court, would
become the fourth woman to serve on the court. She has never
been a judge and worked for four years in the White House when
 Bill Clinton  was president. Republicans say they will question
her lack of judicial experience and seek to portray her as a
partisan activist with a liberal agenda.  
 ‘So Much Unknown’  
 “There’s so much unknown about her,” said Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican and Judiciary Committee
member who has praised her qualifications while saying he hasn’t
decided how he will vote. “You’re one sound bite away from
creating problems for yourself. So the hearings really matter.”  
 Kagan, 50, is solicitor general at the Justice Department,
the Obama administration’s chief courtroom lawyer and the first
woman in that position.  
 Obama voiced confidence in his nominee’s prospects in the
Senate. “As I examine some of the arguments that have been
floated against her,” Obama said of Kagan at the close of the
G-20 summit in Toronto, “It’s pretty thin gruel.”  
 Democrats say Kagan, a former dean of  Harvard Law School ,
would be a refreshing addition to a court made up entirely of
justices who served on lower courts. Obama called her a
“trailblazing leader” and “an acclaimed legal scholar” when
he nominated her in May.  
 ‘Understands the Constitution’  
 “Here’s a woman who understands the Constitution,
understands the law, understands the effect of their decisions
on ordinary, hard-working Americans,” said Senate Judiciary
Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat.  
 Democrats control 59 of the Senate’s 100 seats, and a few
Republicans such as Graham and  Susan Collins  of Maine have said
she is qualified for the court. Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah
Republican, said last month she probably will be confirmed.  
 Other leading Republicans are ready to attack.  
 “This is no time for a stealth candidacy to the court,”
said Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, the ranking Republican on
the Judiciary Committee. “We know her political views are
leftist and progressive. That is clear from her record.”  
 A New York native, Kagan was approved by the Senate 61-31
to be solicitor general. If confirmed, she would replace
retiring Justice  John Paul Stevens . Kagan’s confirmation almost
certainly wouldn’t affect the court’s ideological balance, which
tilts 5-4 for conservatives on most of the divisive issues.  
 Sotomayor’s Confirmation  
 Obama’s first high court nominee,  Sonia Sotomayor , was
confirmed last year 68-31, with nine Republicans supporting her.  
 Carl Tobias , a law professor at the University of Richmond
in Virginia, said the Judiciary Committee may be even more
polarized than the full Senate. It includes  Richard Durbin  of
Illinois and  Charles Schumer  of New York, the second- and third-
ranking Senate Democratic leaders. On the other side are  Jon Kyl 
of Arizona, the No. 2 Republican leader, and  John Cornyn  of
Texas, chairman of the  Senate Republicans’ fundraising arm.  
 “It makes for a very partisan group,” Tobias said.  
 Republicans say Kagan can expect tough questions about
recently released documents from her White House years. She
served as an associate counsel to Clinton in 1995 and 1996 and a
deputy assistant for domestic policy from 1997 to 1999.  
 Many of the records reflect an aide searching for pragmatic
solutions for a Democratic president wrestling with a
Republican-led Congress on issues such as a ban on a procedure
opponents call partial-birth abortion. In one memo she said a
federal law banning assisted suicide by doctors would be a
“fairly terrible idea.”  
 Memos Sent  
 Republicans will also focus on memos she wrote as a law
clerk to former Justice  Thurgood Marshall . In one 1987 memo, she
urged Marshall to vote against hearing a Washington man’s appeal
in a gun control case. She said she was “not sympathetic” to
his claim his rights were violated when he was convicted for
carrying an unlicensed pistol.  
 Sessions has challenged her decision as Harvard law school
dean, a job she held from 2003 to 2009, to bar military
recruiters from the campus in protest of the Pentagon’s ban on
openly gay troops. Kagan backed a lawsuit seeking to overturn
the withholding of federal funds from schools that blocked the
recruiters.  
 Democrats say they will use the hearings to examine the
court’s record under Chief Justice  John Roberts , who was
appointed by Republican President  George W. Bush .  
 Campaign Finance Ruling  
 Obama and the Democrats have criticized the court’s 5-4
ruling this year in Citizens United v. Federal Election
Commission, which overturned limits on corporate election
spending. Another target: a 2008 decision that cut a $2.5
billion punitive damage award against Exxon Mobil Corp. for the
1989 Valdez disaster to $507.5 million.  
 In announcing Kagan’s nomination, Obama said she “has
repeatedly defended the rights of shareholders and ordinary
citizens against unscrupulous corporations.”  
 Democratic Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse  of Rhode Island, a
Judiciary Committee member, said Roberts hasn’t lived up to his
confirmation hearing promise to be an impartial umpire.  
 “It seems the strike zone for individual plaintiffs is a
lot smaller in this court than the strike zone for the big
corporations,” Whitehouse said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, talks about the confirmation hearings for Elena Kagan's nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court.
     Leahy, speaking with Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu," also discusses the death of West Virginia Senator Robert Boyd and its implications for legislation to overhaul financial regulation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
