-- Kagan's Experience, Impartiality Debated at Senate Hearing
-- Catherine Dodge
-- 2010-06-28T20:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/kagan-says-she-ll-hear-every-case-impartially-if-confirmed-to-top-court.html

          
          
               Elena Kagan ’s nomination to the
 U.S. Supreme Court  prompted partisan bickering over her
qualifications as a Senate committee began hearings on President
 Barack Obama ’s choice to become the nation’s 112th justice.  
 Democrats said Kagan has had an outstanding and varied
career and would moderate a court that is favoring big business
over legal precedent.  
 Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont
Democrat, said Kagan’s “legal qualifications are unassailable”
and that she has “excelled during every part” of her career.
He said Americans will find Kagan’s views “well within the
legal mainstream.”  
 Republicans accused Kagan, 50, the Obama administration’s
chief courtroom lawyer, of political activism and a lack of
judicial experience. They said the burden is on her to prove she
would set aside any political agenda if confirmed.  
 Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, the ranking Republican on
the committee, said “there are serious concerns about this
nomination.” Kagan has “less real legal experience” than any
nominee in at least 50 years and has “barely practiced law,”
he said.  
 In her opening statement, Kagan said she will do her best
to “consider every case impartially, modestly.”  
 The court’s motto of “equal justice under law” promises
that the justices will provide “a fair shake for every
American,” Kagan told the panel after listening to about three
hours of statements from lawmakers on her nomination.  
 The high court must be “properly deferential to the
decisions of the American people and their elected
representatives,” Kagan said. “I will listen hard to every
party before the court and to each of my colleagues.”  
 Policy and Politics  
 Sessions and other Republicans on the panel said most of
Kagan’s background is in policy and politics and that they will
be looking for assurances she won’t be a rubberstamp for a
political agenda.  
 “The burden is on the nominee to show that her record
demonstrates that she can be a fair and impartial justice rather
than one who would have an outcome-based approach,” said
Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican.  
 Kagan’s confirmation by the full Senate would place three
women on the Supreme Court at once for the first time in its
221-year history. Kagan is solicitor general at the Justice
Department, the administration’s top courtroom lawyer and the
first woman in that position.  
 She is a heavy favorite to become the court’s next justice,
with lawmakers predicting confirmation barring a major gaffe
during this week’s hearings.  
 Fourth Woman  
 Kagan would become the fourth woman to serve on the court.
She has never been a judge and worked for four years in the
White House when Democrat  Bill Clinton  was president.  
 Obama’s first high court nominee,  Sonia Sotomayor , was
confirmed last year 68-31, with nine Republicans supporting her.  
 The week-long hearings for Kagan take place months before
the November midterm congressional elections. With Republicans
and Democrats predicting she will be confirmed, senators may use
the televised forum to frame some of the issues in campaigns
that will determine control of Congress and the sweep of Obama’s
agenda.  
 “The Supreme Court nominations have become highly
politicized,” said Wayne Steger, a political science professor
at  DePaul University  in Chicago.  
 Democrats say Kagan, a former dean of  Harvard Law School ,
would be a refreshing addition to a court made up entirely of
justices who served on lower courts.  
 ‘Eminently Confirmable’  
 “I believe that you are eminently confirmable,” said
 Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat.  
 Democrats control 58 out of 99 votes in the Senate, which
has one vacancy after today’s death of West Virginia Democrat
 Robert Byrd . Some Republicans, such as  Lindsey Graham  of South
Carolina and  Susan Collins  of Maine, have said Kagan is
qualified for the court.  
 “I look forward to trying to better understand how you
will be able to take political activism, association with
liberal causes, and park it when it becomes time to be a
judge,” Graham told Kagan.  
 Kagan, a New York native, was approved by the Senate 61-31
to be solicitor general. If confirmed, she would replace
retiring Justice  John Paul Stevens . Kagan’s confirmation almost
certainly wouldn’t affect the court’s ideological balance, which
tilts 5-4 for conservatives on most of the divisive issues.  
 Republicans say Kagan can expect tough questions about
recently released documents from her White House years. She
served as an associate counsel to Clinton in 1995 and 1996 and a
deputy assistant for domestic policy from 1997 to 1999.  
 ‘Liberal Positions’  
 Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, told Kagan
those writings showed she “forcefully promoted liberal
positions and offered analyses and recommendations that often
were more political than legal in nature.”  
 Many of the records reflect an aide searching for pragmatic
solutions for a Democratic president wrestling with a
Republican-led Congress on issues such as a ban on a procedure
opponents call partial-birth abortion.  
 Republicans will also focus on memos she wrote as a law
clerk to former Justice  Thurgood Marshall . In one 1987 memo, she
urged Marshall to vote against hearing a Washington man’s appeal
in a gun-control case. She said she was “not sympathetic” to
his claim that his rights were violated when he was convicted
for carrying an unlicensed pistol.  
 Sessions challenged her decision as Harvard law school
dean, a job she held from 2003 to 2009, to bar military
recruiters from the campus in protest of the Pentagon’s ban on
openly gay troops. Kagan backed a lawsuit seeking to overturn
the withholding of federal funds from schools that blocked the
recruiters.  
 Roberts Court  
 Democrats are using the hearings to examine the court’s
record under Chief Justice  John Roberts , who was appointed by
Republican President  George W. Bush .  
 “For all the talk of umpires and balls and strikes, at the
Supreme Court the strike zone for corporations gets better every
day,” said Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse , a Rhode Island Democrat.  
 Obama and the Democrats have criticized the court’s 5-4
ruling this year in Citizens United v. Federal Election
Commission, which overturned limits on corporate election
spending. Another target: a 2008 decision that cut a $2.5
billion punitive damage award against Exxon Mobil Corp. for the
1989 Valdez disaster to $507.5 million.  
 “Elena Kagan has great potential to moderate a court that
is veering out of the mainstream,” said Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Supreme Court nominee Elena Kagan listens to opening statements at her confirmation hearing in Washington on June 28, 2010. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, talks about the confirmation hearings for Elena Kagan's nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court.
     Leahy, speaking with Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu," also discusses the death of West Virginia Senator Robert Boyd and its implications for legislation to overhaul financial regulation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
