-- Kier Tells Court Fine in U.K.'s Biggest Cartel Probe Should be Reduced
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-06-28T16:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/kier-group-challenges-27-million-fine-in-britain-s-biggest-cartel-probe.html

          
          
             Kier Group Plc , the builder fined
17.9 million pounds ($27 million) last year following the
biggest cartel investigation by a U.K. antitrust regulator, told
an appeals court that the penalty was “discriminatory.”  
 Britain’s  Office of Fair Trading  should be made to reduce
the fine because it didn’t account for Kier’s low profit margin
or the builder’s early admission that it rigged bids, lawyers
for the company said today at a hearing at the  Competition
Appeal Tribunal  in London.  
 “The fine was inflicted above levels necessary for
deterrence,”  Mark Brealey , Kier’s lawyer with the firm Brick
Court Chambers in London, said at the hearing. He compared the
penalty with a motorist getting their hand chopped off as a
punishment for breaking the speed limit.  
 The fines , the most levied by the watchdog in an antitrust
probe, capped a five-year inquiry into efforts to stamp out low
bids and inflate costs. Many of the appeals claim the OFT’s
process of raising fines to deter would-be infringers is
calculated wrongfully using a percentage of a company’s global
revenue instead of U.K. sales alone.  
 “This appeal, if successful, could have a major impact on
the OFT’s fining policy and, in particular, on the application
of the minimum deterrence threshold,” said Ros Kellaway, who
leads the competition group at the law firm  Eversheds LLP  in
London. The challenge “could impact on other cases currently
under appeal as well as future infringement decisions.”  
 Challenging Liability  
 The regulator in September 2009 levied fines totaling 129.5
million pounds against 103 companies, including  Balfour Beatty
Plc  and  Carillion Plc , the U.K.’s two biggest builders. Twenty-
five of the firms appealed the size of the fines, including six
that are also challenging liability in the case.  
 Interserve Plc  received the second-biggest fine of 11.6
million pounds, while  Galliford Try Plc  received a penalty of
8.3 million pounds. Balfour and Carillion were fined 5.2 million
pounds and 5.4 million pounds, respectively.  
 Last month, the OFT’s first criminal antitrust trial
against four current and former British Airways Plc executives
collapsed, and in April a lack of evidence forced the OFT to
reduce fines against supermarkets and food companies who
admitted colluding on dairy prices.  
 Recent problems for the OFT highlight “conflicting roles”
it holds in the investigatory process, said  Frances Murphy , the
head of Jones Day LLP’s London antitrust practice, who is
representing two other builders challenging liability and
penalties in the case.  
 ‘Considerable Strain’  
 “The appeals will put considerable strain on the OFT
because they will once again bring under the spotlight the way
in which the OFT manages investigations, deals with
whistleblower evidence and levies its fines,” Murphy said today
in an interview.  
 Jonathan Marciano , a spokesman for the OFT, said today that
the agency would “vigorously” defend the fines.  
 Kier, based in Bedfordshire, England, already had its fine
reduced by 5 percent because the company started a compliance
program, court records show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        