-- King, J&J Won't Need to Register Users of Painkillers, U.S. Regulators Say
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2010-06-28T20:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/king-j-j-won-t-need-to-register-users-of-painkillers-u-s-regulators-say.html

          
          
             Drugmakers including  King
Pharmaceuticals Inc.  and  Johnson & Johnson  won’t need to
register doctors or patients as part of a plan to minimize the
risks of long-acting painkillers, U.S. regulators said.  
 The Food and Drug Administration proposed the first
standardized restrictions, aimed at fostering safety while
ensuring patients keep access to the medicines, in a notice
posted today on the agency’s website. The recommendations will
be reviewed at a July 22-23  meeting  of the FDA’s advisory
committees on drug safety and anesthetic and life-support drugs.  
 Makers of 24 extended-release pain pills and patches were
ordered by the FDA in February 2009 to help devise a plan to
restrict use of the products to instances in which benefits
exceed risks. The program would affect more people than any
risk-management measure adopted to date by the FDA, and the
agency is leaning toward an education-focused plan, with
voluntary training by the companies and patient handouts.  
 “Nearly 4 million patients are prescribed long-acting or
extended-release opioids annually, and enrolling this many
patients in a patient registration system would be an enormous
undertaking with unpredictable effects on patient access,” FDA
staff members said in a 374-page report released for the panels’
review.  
 King, of Bristol, Tennessee,  rose  11 cents, or 1.4 percent,
to $8.03 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The company sells a long-acting morphine drug called
Embeda and is developing new painkillers to deter abuse. J&J,
the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based maker of the Duragesic pain
patch,  rose  75 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $59.45.  
 Other long-acting painkillers include OxyContin, made by
closely held Purdue Pharma LP in Stamford, Connecticut; and
Opana, from  Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc.  in Chadds Ford,
Pennsylvania.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        