-- Kinky Friedman, Texas Troubadour, Boots Politics for Music Tour
-- Daniel Taub
-- 2010-06-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/kinky-friedman-texas-troubadour-boots-politics-for-music-tour.html

          
          
             Richard “Kinky” Friedman , the
country singer and detective novelist who has twice run for
Texas governor, says he’s through with politics.  
 “It’s finally dawned on me that it’s a far better thing to
be a musician than it is to be a politician,” Friedman says,
smoking an ever-present cigar at his ranch about an hour’s drive
from San Antonio. “If you’ve ever been in a room with a bunch
of musicians, they’re decent people. And you can’t say that
about politicians.”  
 The sprawling, hill-country ranch is home to a collection
of cabins used by a summer camp that’s been in operation since
1953, when his parents bought the property and ran the camp for
a time, and to the  Utopia Animal Rescue Ranch , which typically
has about 50 dogs up for adoption.  
 The ranch’s main house, where Friedman lives and works, has
one bedroom, a tiny bathroom, an office with a framed White
House letter from former President Bill Clinton on the wall, and
dog biscuits scattered about the floors for two aging mutts he
calls “The Friedmans.”  
 Friedman, 65, ran for state  agriculture commissioner  this
year, which he calls a mistake, and says he won’t run for office
again. Now he’s focused on his first West Coast concert tour in
almost two decades, “Go West Young Kinky,” which starts July
26 in Vancouver.  
 He’s also resuming his column for Texas Monthly magazine,
which drops Friedman when he runs for office, and he’s writing a
book with his friend  Billy Bob Thornton , the actor.  
 “It’s about philosophy -- his philosophy, mine -- just a
couple of guys putting a book together about what we think about
stuff,” says Thornton, the star of “Sling Blade” and “Bad
Santa.” “Kinky’s sort of in charge of this. I’m just a guy
sitting around spouting off philosophy and stories.”  
 ‘Ride ‘Em Jewboy’  
 Friedman attracted a cult following starting in the early
1970s with his band the  Texas Jewboys . The group performed a mix
of such satirical songs as “They Ain’t Makin’ Jews Like Jesus
Anymore” and serious ones, including “Ride ‘Em Jewboy,” a
rare country song about the Holocaust.  
 In the 1980s, Friedman began writing detective novels
featuring a character named Kinky Friedman who solved fictional
crimes involving members of the Jewboys, singer  Willie Nelson 
and other actual people. In recent years, Friedman has focused
on nonfiction books, including last year’s “Heroes of a Texas
Childhood,” with essays on statesman Sam Houston, former Texas
Governor  Ann Richards  and others who inspired him.  
 Friedman ran for governor for the first time in 2006, as an
independent, and received  12.4 percent  of the vote, placing him
fourth in a field of six. One of his campaign slogans was “How
Hard Could It Be?” In the Democratic primary for agriculture
commissioner in March -- Friedman’s slogan was “No Cow Left
Behind” -- he received almost 48 percent of the vote while
losing to Hank Gilbert.  
 Nazi-Hunting  
 Friedman’s also writing a book on the real-life Nazi-
hunting, missing-person and homicide cases of Steve Rambam, a
 private investigator  who, like Friedman’s other friends,
regularly appeared as a character in his novels.  
 “I’ve never machine-gunned four Colombians in an elevator,
but I am a real investigator,” Rambam says. “And Kinky and I,
over the years, have talked about most of the cases I’ve really
done. And it’s time for a book.”  
 Even with his various projects, Friedman remains fixated on
politics. He’s dismayed that Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who
defeated Friedman in 2006 and is running for re-election this
year, and his Democratic rival,  Bill White , both support the
death penalty in Texas, which leads the U.S. in executions.  
 Friedman points to the case of Cameron Todd Willingham,
convicted of the 1991 arson murder of his three daughters and
executed in 2004. Perry wouldn’t grant him a stay, and doubt has
since been cast on the evidence against Willingham.  
 ‘Killed in This State’  
 “People have been killed in this state -- executed -- that
were innocent,” Friedman says. He believes Texas should end the
 death penalty  and that Perry’s “got some blood on his white,
Christian, churchgoing hands.”  
 Opinions are mixed on whether Friedman can stay out of
politics. Jimmy Kessler, a Galveston rabbi who has known
Friedman since childhood, and Cleve Hattersley, who first met
him in 1976 and books his  gigs , both say he’s unlikely to make
another run. Marcie Friedman, his sister, disagrees.  
 “There’s a chance that he would run,” she says. “It’s
clear that the state needs something, and the people need
something, so I wouldn’t rule it out.”  
 For now, Friedman spends most of his time at the ranch,
where he writes his books and columns on an electric typewriter
because, he says, computers make revisions too tempting.
Friedman, who has never been married, is kept company by Brownie
and Chumley, his two elderly dogs, and a rotation of friends and
relatives who stay at the ranch.  
 “I’ve got a pretty good life,” he says. “Get to hang out
with Willie Nelson, go on vacation to Hawaii, have a number of
attractive young women in your life. Very nice.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Taub  in Los Angeles at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kinky Friedman  
                       
                         
                           Kinky Freidman via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Author and musician Kinky Friedman. Friedman ran for state agriculture commissioner late last year, which he calls a mistake and says he won't run for office again. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Author and musician Kinky Friedman. Friedman ran for state agriculture commissioner late last year, which he calls a mistake and says he won't run for office again. Source: Kinky Freidman via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kinky Friedman  
                       
                         
                           George Brainard/Simon and Schuster via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Author and musician Kinky Friedman.  Friedman ran for state agriculture commissioner late last year, which he calls a mistake and says he won’t run for office again. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Author and musician Kinky Friedman.  Friedman ran for state agriculture commissioner late last year, which he calls a mistake and says he won’t run for office again.  Photographer: George Brainard/Simon and Schuster via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
