-- Kumba Iron Ore Refuses Imperial Crown Mine Access During Court Dispute
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-06-28T17:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/kumba-iron-ore-refuses-imperial-crown-mine-access-during-court-dispute.html

          
          
             Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , a unit of Anglo
American Plc, refused to grant access to South Africa’s Sishen
mine while it challenges a government decision to hand over part
of the prospecting rights at the site to Imperial Crown Trading.  
 Imperial Crown asked for a meeting over “their intention
to start prospecting,” a Kumba spokeswoman who declined to be
identified said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  
 The company would have to halt production for Imperial
Crown to access the site,  Sake24  reported today, citing a court
document filed by Kumba. Imperial Crown is seeking to enter the
mine to investigate how to exercise its prospecting rights, the
news site said, citing controlling shareholder  Jagdish Parekh .  
 Kumba is challenging the award of rights in court. The 21.4
percent stake had been owned by ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd.
until it reverted to the state after the steelmaker failed to
renew its rights in time, according to the Department of Mineral
Resources. The state rejected Kumba’s application to take up the
rights, instead handing them to Imperial Crown.  
 Kumba, which supplies  ArcelorMittal South Africa  with two-
thirds of its ore needs, said in a separate e-mail that South
Africa should have rejected Imperial Crown’s application for
rights at the mine in the country’s Northern Cape province.  
 Department of Mineral Resources spokesman  Jeremy Michaels 
declined to comment because the matter was before the courts.
The department said on March 22 it would seek an “internal
review” of the award of the prospecting license. Parekh, a 50
percent owner of Imperial through Pragat Investments, wasn’t
available for comment when Bloomberg called his office.  
 Sishen Iron Ore is in arbitration with ArcelorMittal South
Africa after ending a nine-year-old ore supply contract with the
steelmaker that sold the raw material at cost plus 3 percent.  
 The mine was opened for operation in 1947 and produced 34.2
million metric tons of iron ore in 2009, Kumba said on Feb. 18.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        