-- Kyrgyzstan to Be Central Asia's First Parliamentary Democracy After Vote
-- Jonathan Tirone
-- 2010-06-28T10:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/kyrgyzstan-to-be-central-asia-s-first-parliamentary-democracy-after-vote.html

          
          
             Kyrgyzstan is on course to become
Central Asia’s first parliamentary democracy after voters
approved a new constitution yesterday following two months of
unrest.  
 More than 90 percent of voters supported the constitution,
with 98.8 percent of the votes counted, the central election
committee in Bishkek, the capital, said today. Turnout was
almost 70 percent, the Associated Press reported, citing the
elections committee.  
 The interim government of President  Roza Otunbayeva  went
ahead with the referendum, which shifts the country away from
presidential rule, after clashes between ethnic Kyrgyz and Uzbek
citizens killed as many as 2,000 people two weeks ago.
Otunbayeva’s government blamed former President  Kurmanbek Bakiyev , who was ousted in April, for inciting the violence.  
 “We are now moving toward democracy,” said Ulan
Turdaliyev, a 31-year-old banker in Osh, the southern city where
this month’s violence was centered. “We’re moving toward a
parliamentary republic. Imagine that in Central Asia where there
are khans everywhere,” he said, using the local term for ruler.
“It’s a big step.”  
 All of the other Central Asian states -- Kazakhstan,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan -- have presidential
forms of government.  
 Under terms of the referendum, parliamentary elections will
be held Oct. 10, and Otunbayeva will remain caretaker president
until next year.  
 Russian Concern  
 While Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  welcomed the vote,
he said parliamentary government in Kyrgyzstan may lead to
repeated shakeups in the legislature and the uncontrolled
transfer of authority in the former Soviet Republic.  
 “I do not see very well how the model of parliamentary
republic would work in Kyrgyzstan,” Medvedev told reporters in
Toronto, where he attended Group of 20 summit. “Would it not, in
the end, help extremist forces come to power?”  
 Russia and the U.S. maintain air bases in Kyrgyzstan. The
U.S. relies on the Manas base outside Bishkek to support
military operations in Afghanistan.  
 The provisional government succeeded in creating peaceful
voting conditions, observers from the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe said today in a statement.  
 “The citizens of Kyrgyzstan turned out in large numbers to
vote for a new, democratic and peaceful future for their
country,” the Vienna-based OSCE said. “It is now up to all
political forces to work together to improve the electoral
framework ahead of the upcoming parliamentary elections.”  
 Turdaliyev said the government should call elections as
soon as possible, not waiting for the October date set out in
the referendum.  
 “People are tired,” he said. “Everybody wants peace and
stability.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joanna Lillis  in Osh, through the London newsroom at +44-
   joannalillis123@gmail.com .
 Jonathan Tirone  at   jtirone@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        