-- Brazil Beats Chile 3-0 at World Cup to Advance; Dutch Win 2-1
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-06-28T23:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/netherlands-beats-slovakia-2-1-to-reach-quarterfinals-of-soccer-world-cup.html

          
          
             Record five-time champion Brazil
beat Chile 3-0 to set up a World Cup quarterfinal against the
Netherlands, which defeated Slovakia 2-1.  
 Juan,  Luis Fabiano  and  Robinho  scored in Johannesburg last
night after Brazil withstood early pressure.  Arjen Robben  and
 Wesley Sneijder  scored for the Netherlands in Durban before
 Robert Vittek  pulled a goal back with a last-second penalty
kick.  
 Brazil, the only nation to have won soccer’s biggest prize
outside its own continent, advanced to its fifth straight
quarterfinal as it seeks its first world title since 2002.  
 “Chile played very well, they had a lot of possession and
passed and attacked well,” Brazil coach  Carlos Dunga  told
reporters. “But we maintained a balanced approach in attack and
defense. In these World Cup games you have to attack and play
open football, and that’s what we did today.”  
 He said the Netherlands will be a “very difficult”
opponent on July 2 in Port Elizabeth. The teams have played
three times at the World Cup, with Brazil triumphing in a
penalty shootout in their most-recent meeting in 1998.  
 “They’re technically very able, and they play a similar
style to South American teams,” Dunga added.  
 Today, Paraguay takes on Japan in Pretoria for a place in
the quarterfinals, while Spain plays Portugal in Cape Town in
the late match.  
 Brazil Scoring  
 In Johannesburg, Brazil defender Juan jumped above a crowd
of players to head Maicon’s corner into the roof of the net
after 34 minutes. Fabiano took the ball around Chile goalkeeper
Claudio Bravo for the second four minutes later after collecting
 Kaka’s  pass in the penalty area.  
 Man of the match Robinho made it 3-0 in the second half by
firing in after a layoff by Ramires, who had dribbled 30 yards
down the middle.  
 Chile put up late resistance and midfielder Jorge Valdivia
hit a 20-yard volley just over the bar after 65 minutes.
Humberto Suazo turned Brazil captain Lucio and forced a save
from goalkeeper  Julio Cesar .  
 “I don’t think it was as much of a one-sided game as the
result suggests,” Chile coach  Marcelo Bielsa  said. “We had
chances, but we didn’t have the punch to convert possession into
danger.”  
 The Netherlands, the runner-up at the 1974 and 1978 World
Cups, eliminated Slovakia from its first tournament since the
breakup of Czechoslovakia in 1993. Slovakia had ousted defending
champion Italy with a 3-2 win to advance from their group.  
 Robben’s Goal  
 Robben scored after 18 minutes, cutting inside the defense
and firing in a left-foot shot from 20 yards. It was his first
start of the tournament following a hamstring injury.  
 “We’re delighted to be through, but I think we’ll have to
improve for the quarterfinals,” Robben told reporters after the
game. “If it’s Brazil, it’ll need to be a little bit better
than today.”  
 Slovakia goalkeeper  Jan Mucha  dived to divert another shot
by Robben after 50 minutes. He blocked Joris Mathijsen’s eight-
yard shot a minute later, the ball smashing into his face.  
 Mucha took another blow when he collided with  Dirk Kuyt  as
he punched out  Robin van Persie’s  free kick.  
 Slovakia, which had three shots on goal to the Netherlands’
nine, almost leveled when midfielder Miroslav Stoch cut inside
and had his 12-yard shot pushed over the crossbar by goalkeeper
 Maarten Stekelenburg .  
 The Dutch goalie then came off his line and dived to block
Vittek’s effort from 10 yards.  
 Sneijder made it 2-0 after 84 minutes, side-footing into an
empty net after Mucha came out of goal and failed to clear. Kuyt
supplied the cross to Sneijder.  
 Vittek converted the penalty kick in the fourth minute of
added time after Stekelenburg brought down Martin Jakubko.  
 “We’re now with the last eight in the world,” said
Netherlands coach  Bert van Marwijk . “I think we can be happy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robinho of Brazil celebrates scoring during the Round of Sixteen match between Brazil and Chile at Ellis Park Stadium. Photographer: Clive Mason/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
