-- New Jersey Republicans End Holdout, Back Governor Christie's Budget Plan
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-28T22:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/new-jersey-republican-holdout-may-support-christie-s-29-4-billion-budget.html

          
          
             New Jersey ’s two Republican holdouts
in the Assembly said they’ll support Governor  Chris Christie ’s
$29.4 billion budget, clearing the way for passage.  
 Christie needs the support of all 33 Republicans and at
least eight Democrats in the lower legislative chamber for the
spending plan to pass. One holdout, Assemblyman  Michael Patrick Carroll , 52, of Morristown, said that while the proposal remains
flawed, it would be worse if Christie were forced to add
spending to entice greater support from Democrats.  
 Assemblywoman  Alison Littell McHose , 45, a Republican from
Sparta, who also had indicated she would vote against Christie’s
budget, has changed her plans. Today she said on the Assembly
floor that she would vote for it. She had disputed the allotment
of $7.9 billion in aid to local school districts.  
 Earlier, the assemblywoman met for more than an hour today
with Christie, 47, the state’s first Republican governor since
1997. He was elected in November after campaigning to rein in
state spending as property-tax bills climbed 72 percent in 10
years, to the highest average in the U.S. Christie’s budget
reduces school funding and municipal aid to avoid raising taxes.  
 Christie’s spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , declined to specify
the substance of the governor’s meeting with McHose.  
 “This is a bad deal, but I understand why the governor had
to do some of the things he had to,” Carroll said. “If the
choice is between standing on my honor and doing what I think is
right, or making it worse, what choice is that really?”  
 Democrat Majorities  
 Democrats control the Assembly with 47 seats. In an accord
reached last week, eight lawmakers from the majority party
agreed to support Christie’s  budget  to prevent a government
shutdown in the absence of a fiscal 2011 spending plan. The
fiscal year begins July 1.  
 Christie’s plan contains $10 billion in spending reductions
and lowers aid to public schools by $820 million. It also cuts
funds for municipalities and puts off a $3 billion pension
payment.  
 “We expect to have all of the Republican votes in both the
Assembly and Senate,” said Assemblyman  Jon Bramnick , a
Republican from Westfield who is his party’s conference leader.
“It really wasn’t about two people. Discussions are never
perfect.”  
 In the Senate, where Democrats hold an edge of 23-17,
Minority Leader  Tom Kean , a Republican from Westfield, said he
expects all lawmakers in his party to vote for the plan. He also
said there was enough Democrat support for passage.  
 Assemblyman  Louis Greenwald , a Democrat from Cherry Hill
who chairs the budget panel, said Republicans in Christie’s
office or the Legislature haven’t asked his party to provide
additional votes.  
 “We’ve got those eight votes in the Assembly and we’re
ready to get this done,” Greenwald said in Trenton. “They’ll
put their votes up and we’ll have to go from there.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        