-- New York's New Counterterror Chief Says Public Spaces Most Likely Targets
-- Chris Dolmetsch
-- 2010-06-28T19:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/new-york-s-new-counterterror-chief-says-public-spaces-most-likely-targets.html

          
          
             The New York police’s new
counterterrorism chief said the city’s subways and open public
spaces are the most likely targets for future terrorist attacks.  
 Rather than focusing on any single location, the New York
City Police Department needs to take a “comprehensive,
aggressive approach” to combating terror, said  Richard Daddario , 59, who was named deputy commissioner of
counterterrorrorism last week.  
 “Bombs or bombers or attacks can take place anywhere in
the city,” Daddario said today in a conference call with
reporters from Moscow, where he’s serving as the U.S. Justice
Department’s attaché. “Of course they’re going to try for the
most vulnerable places. Subways are of concern, open public
spaces are of concern.”  
 Daddario succeeds  Richard Falkenrath , who left the
department in April to join the Chertoff Group, a security
advisory firm led by former Homeland Security Secretary Michael
Chertoff. An assistant U.S. attorney in the Southern District of
New York since 1996, Daddario has served as the Justice
Department’s attaché to the U.S. Embassy in Moscow since
September 2009, and will assume his NYPD duties in August.  
 Counterterrorism Training  
 Daddario will be responsible for detectives assigned to the
Joint Terrorism Task Force, led by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, as well as police counterterrorism training. He
is also in charge of programs, including security initiatives in
lower and midtown Manhattan that call for installing networks of
cameras, license plate readers and weapons sensors.  
 His appointment to the largest U.S. police department came
the same week that Faisal Shahzad, a naturalized U.S. citizen
from Pakistan, pleaded guilty to driving a bomb-laden car into
New York’s Times Square in what he said was a plan to avenge the
killing of Muslims abroad by the U.S.  
 So-called homegrown terrorists such as Shahzad pose a
“real problem,” and the NYPD needs a “robust” program to
prevent them from attacking, as studies have shown that they can
seem to be well-adjusted people from middle-class backgrounds
with family, friends and income, Daddario said.  
 “It can really affect a wide range of people,” Daddario
said. “I don’t have an answer for you right now as to what is
the solution to the problem. To some extent you can preach
against terrorism, you can preach against violence as much as
you want but these people have heard that message and yet they
have chosen to go down the road of terrorism.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        