-- New Zealand Prime Minister Key Eyes Panda-for-Kiwi Exchange in China Visit
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-28T05:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/new-zealand-prime-minister-key-eyes-panda-for-kiwi-exchange-in-china-visit.html

          
          
             New Zealand Prime Minister  John Key 
heads to South Korea, China and Vietnam next week for trade
talks, with the possible bonus of helping seal an exchange of a
pair of flightless kiwis for two Chinese pandas.  
 Key leaves on July 5 for the trip and will attend New
Zealand’s national day at the Shanghai Expo on July 9, he told
reporters in Wellington today. He will attend dinners hosted by
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  and Vice President  Xi Jinping .  
 China this year became New Zealand’s second-biggest market
for exports after Australia, and two nations signed a free trade
agreement in 2008. New Zealand also wants to develop broader
links with China, and one way to achieve that is exchanging
animals that are of national significance, Key said.  
 “We have been having some preliminary discussions with the
Chinese authorities,” he said. “I think it is a good idea and
I am keen to try and advance it.”  
 The kiwi, a nocturnal bird, is the national symbol of
New Zealand. The nation’s citizens are often referred to as
kiwis and the currency is called the kiwi by traders.  
 New Zealand may be able to reduce the cost of the 10-year
leasing arrangement by offering the kiwi birds in exchange, Key
said, without providing further details. The costs will also be
recovered by the tourist appeal of the pandas, he said.  
 “The economic stimulus from a pair of pandas is quite
significant,” he said.  
 Before arriving in China, Key will meet Korean President
 Lee Myung-bak  in Seoul for trade talks. They will also discuss
security on the Korean Peninsula, he said.  
 New Zealand is negotiating a free-trade agreement with
South Korea and there are sticking points, particularly around
agriculture, Key said without providing details.  
 The meeting “will try and put some political emphasis
behind the talks, he said. “I’m confident we can make
progress.”  
 Key will meet with Vietnamese officials including Prime
Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung  during his first visit to that nation.
He returns to New Zealand on July 12.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        