-- New Zealand's Business Confidence Declined in June After Rate Increases
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-28T03:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/new-zealand-business-confidence-fell-in-june-after-interest-rate-increase.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s business  confidence 
declined in June after the central bank raised interest rates
and a sovereign-debt crisis escalated in Europe.  
 A net 38.5 percent of companies surveyed expect sales and
profits will increase over the next 12 months, down from 45.3
percent in May, according to a survey by  ANZ National Bank Ltd. 
released in Wellington today. The net figure subtracts the
number of pessimists from the number of optimists.  
 Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  on June 10 raised the
official cash rate for the first time in three years and said he
is likely to increase borrowing costs gradually this year and
next as growth accelerates. Business confidence fell from an 11-
year high in May and is consistent with economic growth of at
least 4 percent over the next year, ANZ National said.  
 “This is respectable growth, but does not portend of a
sizeable cyclical rebound given the size of the downturn,” said
 Khoon Goh , senior economist at ANZ National in Wellington. “The
hope is the recovery remains consistent with this and the
Reserve Bank doesn’t have to take away the punchbowl in fear of
the party really starting to rock.”  
 Last month, European finance ministers committed to a 750
billion-euro ($929 billion) aid package to prevent a repeat of
the Greece-fueled sovereign-debt woes amid concerns the crisis
may slow global growth and curb trade.  
 The New Zealand dollar was little changed after the report.
It bought 71.16 U.S. cents at 3:13 p.m. in Wellington trading
from 71.14 cents immediately before the report was published.  
 Company Profits  
 A net 19 percent of the 479 companies surveyed predicted
profits will rise, down from 24 percent last month, today’s
survey showed. Employment intentions fell, with 13 percent
expecting to hire more workers.  
 Even so, a net 39 percent of firms expect to raise prices
in the next three months, up from 28 percent in the last survey.  
 A net 40.2 percent expect the  broader economy  will improve,
down from 48.2 percent in the May survey.  
 “The message is clearly down, but from a robust level,”
said Goh.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        