-- New York State Legislators Approve Their Budget Bills, Reject Governor's
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-28T23:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/new-york-lawmakers-pass-their-version-of-budget-bills-reject-governor-s.html

          
          
             The  New York  Legislature approved
its version of budget bills that its leaders say close a $9.2
billion  deficit  and eliminate the threat of a government
shutdown that has loomed over Albany this month.  
 The measures passed even after threats by Governor  David Paterson  to veto parts because the plan didn’t balance the
budget and assumes the state will receive federal money for
Medicaid. Lawmakers refused to accept a bill from Paterson that
would have cut  education  more than they want.  
 The legislators’ budget “is at least $400 million out of
balance,” said Morgan Hook, a spokesman for Paterson. The gap
will grow depending on how much the federal government reduces
an annual $1.06 billion payment for the Medicaid health-care
program, Hook said.  
 After passing the budget in pieces, with partial bills
consisting of hundreds of pages of itemized appropriations,
there is no compilation of the spending measures to show how
much the state plans to spend in the year that began April 1.  
 “We do not have a number,” said Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Carl Kruger , when asked the size of the budget during
debate on the Senate floor. Even so, the state’s spending and
revenue would be balanced, said Kruger, a Democrat from
Brooklyn. Lawmakers can’t vote on tax changes that are part of
their plan until tomorrow, when the bill will have been on their
desks for the necessary three days.  
 Medicaid Payment  
 Lawmakers in the Senate and Assembly assumed the full
federal Medicaid payment would be received, as did Paterson in
his  February budget update . Earlier this month, the U.S. Senate
refused to approve the spending, leading Paterson to propose in
his plan a 10 percent cut in agency budgets to fund a special
reserve for any reduction in the Medicaid payment.  
 By appropriating money for parts of state government not
covered by earlier, piecemeal budget measures, the Legislature
has ended the threat of a government shutdown if they didn’t
pass Paterson’s weekly emergency spending bills, according to
Senate Democratic Leader  John Sampson  of Brooklyn.  
 Paterson agreed that the  bills  would eliminate the chance
of a shutdown. He said yesterday he would veto more than $500
million of spending lawmakers countered with, as well as 6,800
so-called member items totaling $193 million which legislators
can give to nonprofit and other groups in their district.  
 New York, the nation’s third-most populous state, has
operated under emergency spending measures since its fiscal year
began April 1, after lawmakers and the governor failed to agree
on how to close the $9.2 billion deficit in a $135 billion
spending plan Paterson proposed in January.  
 In the absence of a comprehensive budget, the governor has
shuffled funds between accounts and delayed payments to schools
and contractors.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        