-- Fed Adjusts $1.25 Trillion Plan to End Mortgage-Bond Purchases on Supply
-- Caroline Salas
-- 2010-06-28T21:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/new-york-fed-will-start-using-coupon-swaps-for-mortgage-bond-settlements.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve, seeking to wrap
up its $1.25 trillion program to buy mortgage securities, will
begin using “a limited amount” of trades that change what it
acquires after the central bank’s unprecedented  purchases  of the
debt contributed to a lack of supply.  
 The New York Fed will offset its outstanding contracts to
purchase  Fannie Mae ’s 30-year home-loan securities carrying 5.5
percent coupons with ones to sell that debt, through so-called
coupon swaps, the bank said today in a  statement . At the same
time, the Fed will enter into contracts to buy agency mortgage
bonds with different coupons that are “more readily available
for settlement.”  
 The Fed is adjusting the final stage of its  program  to buy
mortgage-backed securities, which officially ended in March,
after the bank and Treasury Department sapped supply from the
$5.2 trillion market, making certain bonds difficult to find,
causing unsettled trades to soar to records and boosting values.
The  Fed  started the initiative in January 2009 to bolster
housing and financial markets.  
 The central bank “will begin conducting a limited amount
of agency mortgage-backed security coupon swap operations in
order to facilitate the timely settlement of the Federal
Reserve’s agency MBS purchases,” according to the statement.  
 Prices of higher-coupon agency mortgage securities have
been bolstered by speculation that there’s limited supply of the
relatively safe debt and that refinancing and other sources of
prepayments will stay low. Agency mortgage bonds are guaranteed
by government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or federal
agency Ginnie Mae.  
 Unsettled Trades  
 The U.S. central bank hasn’t yet taken delivery of $17
billion of securities it’s entered contracts to buy, though its
holdings totaled only $1.13 trillion as of June 23 because some
of the debt has paid down, according to its weekly  disclosures .  
 The Fed will start its coupon swap operations as soon as
tomorrow and doesn’t expect to do more than $9.2 billion, the
amount of its unsettled Fannie Mae 5.5 percent bond trades,
according to the statement. A coupon swap is a trade in which an
investor enters into a contract to buy mortgage bonds with one
coupon and sell mortgage bonds with a different coupon.  
 Fannie Mae’s 5.5 percent securities climbed to a record
107.8 cents on the dollar before the Fed’s 10 a.m. announcement
in New York, up from 105.31 cents on March 31, before tumbling
to 107.3 cents within 20 minutes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bonds were one of only two Fannie Mae securities
that underperformed Treasuries today, the data show. The debt
fell less than 0.1 cent to 107.5 cents as of 5 p.m., while
Fannie Mae’s 4 percent bonds climbed 0.5 cent to 101.3 cents.  
 Values ‘Too High’  
 Lenders aren’t packaging new  mortgages  into Fannie Mae’s
5.5 percent securities, and creating new supply, because they
use the current-coupon bonds trading closest to face value to
sell off new loans. Higher-coupon securities are backed by
mortgages with higher rates.  
 Values of higher-coupon mortgage debt have gotten “too
high” because, while a plunge in home  prices  and tighter credit
will reduce prepayments, the effects of the housing slump will
fade in coming years,  Andrew Davidson , head of New York-based
Andrew Davidson & Co., said in an interview last week. His
company provides consulting services and risk analytics for
mortgage- and asset-backed bonds.  
 A total of $1.55 trillion of agency mortgage-bond trades
failed in the week ended June 16, near the  record high  reached
last month, according to the latest data on activity by the 18
primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  
 Dollar Rolls  
 Since the Fed’s mortgage-buying program ended in March, the
central bank has been entering trades to buy and sell the same
amount of similar securities, so-called dollar-roll
transactions.  
 The New York Fed’s entered into $8.35 billion of  those
trades  in the week ended June 9, and none in the following week,
according to data on its  website . The Fed hasn’t entered
contracts to buy Fannie Mae 5.5 percent bonds without pairing
them with sales since last year, according to its disclosures.  
 In the dollar-roll market, an investor seeking to borrow
money enters into contracts to sell mortgage securities one
month and then buy similar bonds the next month; a lender would
undertake the opposite trades. Investors entering into
transactions for other reasons may be on either side of the
contracts.  
 The Fed has been using dollar rolls to delay taking
delivery of debt that it has contracts to buy. The New York Fed
said today that it “may continue to arrange dollar-roll
transactions as needed to facilitate settlement” for its
program, without saying it would use dollar rolls or coupon
swaps to address the broader disorder in the market.  
 Next Step  
 More demand for than supply of contracts for near-term
delivery of certain mortgage bonds has driven the implied cost
of dollar-roll financing for Fannie Mae’s 5.5 percent securities
to negative levels, including approximately negative 1 percent
at one point last week, according to Barclays Plc’s estimates.
That means debt investors are essentially being paid to borrow
rather than paying lenders.  
 Prices for some securities have “benefited substantially”
from such “roll specialness,”  Nicholas Strand , an analyst in
New York at Barclays, wrote in a June 18 report.  
 “For now, the Fed has restricted itself to solving its own
fail problems through coupon swaps,” he wrote in a note to
clients today. “However, if it wants to alleviate MBS liquidity
issues (as it has committed to), the logical next step would be
to offer up bonds for delivery in coupons that have no float,
with 5.5s being the prime example.”  
 The Treasury Market Practices Group, an industry group that
the New York Fed helped form in 2007, said in March that it
would expand its role to agency debt and agency mortgage bonds,
and would be “likely to consider the issues associated with
settlement fails in these markets.”  
 The Treasury Department bought $220 billion of Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac mortgage securities through last year, after the
U.S. seized the companies in September 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        