-- News Corp.'s Sky Italia Reduces Movie, Italian Soccer Package Price by 26%
-- Chiara Remondini
-- 2010-06-28T14:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/news-corp-s-sky-italia-reduces-movie-italian-soccer-package-price-by-26-.html

          
          
             News Corp. ’s Italian satellite-
broadcasting division said it’s cutting the entry-level price
for packages of movies and soccer and other sports channels by
26 percent as competition with  Mediaset SpA  increases.  
 The  Sky Italia  unit will offer channel groupings at 29
euros a month, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Mockridge  said at a
press conference in Milan today. That compares with the 26-euro
list price, excluding promotions, that the  Mediaset Premium  pay-
television service offers for packages that include soccer
channels. Sky Italia’s plan will be available starting July 5.  
 Customer have been leaving Sky Italia since late last year,
with subscriber numbers dropping by 63,000 in three months ended
December 2009 and by 39,000 in three months through March
compared with the previous quarters, Sky Italia said.
Subscribers totaled 4.7 million clients at the end of March,
according to a May 4 statement by  News Corp. , the New York-based
media company owned by billionaire  Rupert Murdoch .  
 “This brings the pricing of Sky Italia closer to that of
Mediaset,”  Tamsin Garrity , a London-based analyst at UBS AG,
wrote today in a research report. “Sky Italia has recently seen
a significant slowdown in net adds, whilst Mediaset has seen
strong growth continue as it moves away from a pay-per-view
model toward a subscriptions-based model.”  
 World Cup  
 The World Cup soccer championship has led in the quarter
ending today to “strong sales growth and much lower churn” of
customers leaving, Mockridge said. “The new pricing is a
response to the recession and difficulties that many Italian
people have.”  
 Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  controls  Mediaset .
His government doubled the sales tax on pay subscriptions in
2008 to 20 percent, hurting Sky Italia.  
 Sky Italia will operate 35 high-definition channels by
August and 50 in about a year, Mockridge said. The package
presented today includes high-definition programming of films
and soccer games in Italy’s Serie A league. “HD is growing
phenomenally among our clients,” he said.  
 The company, which operates the Sky TG24 news channel,
“will oppose in any way” a bill being debated in Italy’s
parliament that will limit the use of phone recordings and press
coverage of criminal probes, Mockridge also said.  
 “Any law which protects corruption, threatens to fine the
publisher or send to jail reporters who expose corruption is
wrong and an attack to free speech, which is a fundamental
right,” the CEO said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        