-- Noble Will Use Credit Lines, Bridge Loans to Finance Purchase of Frontier
-- David Wethe
-- 2010-06-28T20:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/noble-to-buy-norwegian-drilling-company-fdr-holdings-for-2-16-billion.html

          
          
             Noble Corp., the world’s second-
largest offshore oil driller based on fleet size, agreed to buy
FDR Holdings Ltd. from a private equity fund managed by the
Carlyle Group and Riverstone Holdings LLC, valuing the drilling
company at $2.16 billion.  
 The purchase is expected to add immediately to Noble’s cash
flow and is likely to boost its  earnings  starting in 2011 when
two so-called Bully-class rigs are expected to start working,
the Geneva, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today.  
 The acquisition takes advantage of current low prices for
drilling companies because of uncertainty around U.S. standards
for deep-water drilling, said  Philip Weiss , an analyst with
Argus Research Co. in New York. Weiss has a “buy” rating on
Noble, with a target price of $55 a share, and owns shares.  
 “Prices are cheap, and Noble’s a  strong financial company ,
so it’s trying to take advantage of its position while prices
are low,” he said. “I don’t think there’s anybody who thinks
that deep-water activities are going to stop.”  
 The federal government suspended deep-water drilling for
oil and natural gas after the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded on
April 20 and sank two days later, causing the biggest oil spill
in U.S. history. The rig was owned by Geneva-based Transocean
and leased to BP Plc.  
 Noble rose 72 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $30 as of 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Noble has fallen 26
percent this year.  
 Adding Rigs  
 Noble, the largest supplier of jack-up rigs to Mexico, will
gain six floating drilling rigs in the acquisition, including
two joint-venture-owned Bully-class drillships, according to the
statement.  
 The purchase of FDR, formerly known as Frontier Drilling,
will give Noble an Arctic-class drillship and floating
production vessel, which they do not currently have in their
fleet, said Weiss. FDR, a Cayman Island-based company, bought
all shares in Frontier Drilling in 2004, removing it from the
Oslo Stock Exchange and making it a closely held company.  
 After the deal’s expected closing by the end of July, Noble
will still have less than half the number of rigs in Transocean
Ltd.’s fleet, according to Noble’s presentation slides today.  
 Noble is still looking for more acquisitions, said Chief
Executive Officer  David Williams .  
 “There’re still opportunities out there,” he said today
on a conference call with analysts and investors. “We’re not
done by any means.”  
 The FDR deal is an extension of Noble’s mid- and deep-water
presence and positions it for growth in new market segments, he
said.  
 Transaction Terms  
 Noble said it will pay cash for the company, using its
existing bank credit facility and an $800 million bridge credit
line. The $2.16 billion price includes Frontier’s debt. Frontier
currently has approximately $311 million of non-recourse project
financing, and construction obligations on the two Bully rigs.  
 Noble ended the first quarter with no net debt, Weiss said.  
 “They’re using their balance sheet to expand their fleet
when it’s a good time to be doing it,”  Lewis Kreps , an analyst
at C.K. Cooper & Co. in Dallas who rates Noble shares “buy”
and doesn’t own any, said in a telephone interview. “The
combination with Shell and Frontier, all of it meshed together
quite well.”  
 If the purchase of FDR is completed, Noble said it has
agreements with Royal Dutch Shell Plc for 10-year contracts for
two ultra-deepwater drillships.  
 Contract Suspensions  
 One is Noble’s Globetrotter drillship under construction
and set for delivery in the second half of 2011. The other could
be a newly built ship or one that Noble acquires from another
contractor or from a ship yard, Williams said.  
 Shell will be able to immediately suspend the contracts, if
necessary, on any rigs operating in the Gulf of Mexico during
U.S. limitations on deep-water drilling, according to Noble’s
statement. As it stands today, that would impact a total of
three rigs for Noble and FDR, Williams said on the call.  
 Shell will pay Noble a suspension rate, should the drilling
plans be put on hold.  
 Noble was advised by Simmons & Co., Barclays Capital and
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. Goldman Sachs acted as financial
adviser to FDR and FBR Capital Markets acted as adviser to
certain shareholders of FDR, according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                           June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Joe Hill, an analyst for Tudor Pickering Holt & Co., talks about Noble Corp.'s agreement to buy FDR Holdings Ltd. in a transaction that values the drilling company at $2.16 billion.
      Hill speaks with Betty Liu and Adam Johnson on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
