-- Nokia Technologist and Symbian Veteran Davies Leaves Company for TomTom
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-06-28T14:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/nokia-technologist-and-symbian-veteran-davies-leaves-company-for-tomtom.html

          
          
             Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest
maker of mobile phones, said Charles Davies, an early leader of
the Symbian operating system project, will leave the company
for navigation device maker TomTom NV.  
 “Charles Davies has decided to pursue opportunities
outside of Nokia,”  Doug Dawson , a spokesman for the Espoo,
Finland-based  company  said in an e-mail. “His duties have been
taken over by other Nokia experts, including Rich Green, our
recently appointed chief technology officer.”  
 Davies became CTO of Symbian Ltd., an industry joint
venture to develop a smartphone software platform, in 2003.
When Nokia bought Symbian in 2008 and set it up as a foundation
to maintain the platform for itself and handset vendors, it
hired Davies as a strategy and architecture manager.  
 The smartphone market share of Symbian, which is used
mostly by Nokia, declined 4.5 percentage points to 44.3 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, according to research
firm Gartner Inc.  
 TomTom, based in Amsterdam, has hired Davies and will
announce his new job in the next few days, spokeswoman Kristina
Nilsson said by telephone.  
 Green, whose appointment as chief technology officer was
announced in May, was previously executive vice president of
software at Sun Microsystems Inc. He reports to Anssi Vanjoki,
head of the smartphones division.  
 On June 24, Nokia said future devices in its N series line
will use the Linux-based MeeGo software platform it is
developing with Intel Corp. The move comes after Nokia has
struggled to roll out a credible competitor on the Symbian
platform to Apple Inc.’s iPhone while other Linux-based mobile
systems such as Google Inc.’s Android and Palm Inc.’s Pre have
gained support.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        