-- North Korea Says U.S. Building Up Arms, Threatens to Boost Nuclear Program
-- Bomi Lim
-- 2010-06-28T06:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/north-korea-says-u-s-building-up-arms-threatens-to-boost-nuclear-program.html

          
          
             North Korea accused the U.S. of
introducing heavy weapons to an area close to the border in what
it said was a “premeditated provocation” that would prompt
countermeasures, the official Korean Central News Agency said.  
 The Korean People’s Army sent a message of protest about
the arms build-up and demanded that they be removed, KCNA
reported. “Various types” of heavy weapons were assembled near
the Panmunjom Conference Hall at 7:25 a.m. on June 26, KCNA said.  
 North Korea threatened earlier today to bolster its nuclear
program in a “newly developed way to cope with the U.S.
persistent hostile policy.” A Foreign Ministry statement
carried by KCNA didn’t elaborate on how the nuclear program will
be strengthened.  
 The threats came as U.S. President  Barack Obama  urged that
the world community must confront the communist country over its
“belligerent behavior” in sinking a South Korean warship. The
U.S. is backing South Korea’s push for United Nations Security
Council condemnation of North Korea for the alleged attack on
March 26 on the 1,200-ton Cheonan that killed 46 sailors.  
 “The introduction of heavy weapons to the area around the
conference hall where armed forces of both sides stand in acute
confrontation is a premeditated provocation aimed to spark off a
serious military conflict,” KCNA said today. If the U.S.
doesn’t remove the weapons, North Korea will “take strong
military countermeasures,” the report said, without elaborating.  
 A U.S. military spokesman in Seoul wasn’t immediately able
to comment when called today.  
 The U.S. yesterday agreed to delay a planned handover of
“wartime control” to South Korea to December 2015 from April
2012. The U.S., which fought on South Korea’s side during the
1950-1953 Korean War, has about 28,500 troops in the Asian
country. South Korea remains technically at war with the North
since the war ended in a cease-fire that was never replaced by a
peace treaty.  
 North Korea is already under UN Security Council sanctions
after it tested nuclear weapons in 2006 and May 2009. The so-
called six-party talks on North Korea’s nuclear weapons program
were last held in December 2008 and South Korea has said the
disarmament negotiations shouldn’t resume until the Cheonan
incident is resolved.  
 “This is not an issue where you’ve got two parties of
moral equivalent who are having an argument,” Obama said
yesterday at a news conference in Toronto, Canada where he
attended the Group of 20 summit. “This is a situation where you
have a belligerent nation that engaged in provocative and deadly
acts.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Richardson  at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net 
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        