-- Tobacco Company Bond Risk Eases as Supreme Court Rejects Bid for Damages
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-06-28T22:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/tobacco-company-bond-risk-eases-as-supreme-court-rejects-bid-for-damages.html

          
          
             The cost to protect against losses
on bonds of Altria Group Inc. and Reynolds American Inc. fell
the most in at least a year after the  U.S. Supreme Court 
rejected a Justice Department bid for as much as $280 billion in
tobacco company profits.  
 Credit-default swaps on  Altria Group  and  Reynolds American ,
the largest cigarette makers, dropped after the high court’s
refusal to hear an Obama administration appeal made it likely
the racketeering suit first pressed during  Bill Clinton ’s
administration won’t produce financial penalties against
Altria’s Philip Morris USA and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.  
 Altria and Reynolds are “the biggest movers by a mile
after the Supreme Court ruling on damages,”  Tim Backshall ,
chief strategist at Credit Derivatives Research LLC in Walnut
Creek, California, wrote in an e-mail.  
 The benchmark Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index climbed 2.1 basis point to a mid-price of 116.2 basis
points as of 6:01 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group
Ltd. Investors use the index to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness. Credit swaps
on most of the 125 companies in the CDX index, which trade
independently of the index itself, fell today. Only six of the
companies increased more than a basis point.  
 Swaps on Altria fell 59 basis points to 169, and contracts
on Reynolds lost 50 basis points to 187, the biggest drop since
April 2009, according to CMA DataVision.  
 European Index Falls  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 1.6 basis points to 124.5,
Markit prices show. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-
default swaps on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit
ratings dropped 3.6 basis points to 545, Markit prices show. The
contracts are down from 633.2 basis points June 8.  
 Altria’s  $1.5 billion of 10.2 percent bonds due in 2039
rose to the highest level in more than five weeks. The bonds of
Richmond, Virginia-based Altria, the largest U.S. tobacco
company, rose 8.76 cents to 133.76 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bonds traded at
134.1 cents on the dollar on May 18, Trace data show.  
 This is the second time the Supreme Court has refused to
hear government arguments in the case. The court also rejected a
group of industry appeals aimed at overturning a trial judge’s
finding that the cigarette makers defrauded the public about the
dangers of smoking for more than 50 years.  
 U.S. District Judge  Gladys Kessler ’s ruling could open
companies to continuing judicial oversight and impose more
stringent limits on their business practices than the 2009 law
that let the FDA regulate tobacco.  
 ‘Ill-Gotten Gains’  
 The government appeal, filed by U.S. Solicitor General
 Elena Kagan , argued that judges have authority to order the
return of “ill-gotten gains” under the 1970 U.S. Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, known as RICO.  
 “Congress vested district courts with full equitable
authority to award complete relief for violations of RICO,
including orders to disgorge ill-gotten gains,” argued Kagan,
now President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to the high court. Her
Senate confirmation hearings begin today.  
 The cost to protect  BP Plc ’s bonds against default fell for
the first time in more than a week after the company stood by
its August timeline for plugging the leak causing the biggest
U.S. oil spill on record, sticking with a plan that may set the
company up to beat its own schedule.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to BP fell 5.6 basis points to
583.1 basis points, according to CMA DataVision prices. The
price of swaps on London-based BP, which rises as investor
confidence in the company’s creditworthiness deteriorates, has
soared more than 12 times the level of April 20, the day of the
rig explosion that triggered the spill that has cost BP $2
billion in cleanup costs.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        