-- Obama Focuses Revised Space-Exploration Policy on Partnerships, Technology
-- Julianna Goldman
-- 2010-06-28T20:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/obama-focuses-revised-space-exploration-policy-on-partnerships-technology.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  called for
greater international cooperation for space exploration and
bolstering U.S. companies that build spacecraft.  
 Obama vowed to maintain the U.S. competitive edge in space
exploration and in systems that support national security
operations. At the same time, the president said, U.S. policy
must recognize that the world has changed since the end of the
Cold War.  
 “No longer are we racing against an adversary,” Obama said
in a  statement . “In fact, one of our central goals is to
promote peaceful cooperation and collaboration in space, which
not only will ward off conflict, but will help to expand our
capacity to operate in orbit and beyond.”  
 The policy follows up Obama’s April announcement that he is
retooling the focus of NASA to deep space exploration and
extending the role of private companies in the space program.  
 Obama said today he’s committed to investing in the
domestic aerospace industry, which includes  Boeing Co ., of
Chicago, and Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp ., and
to promoting the purchase and use of U.S. commercial space goods
and services as part of the international agreements.  
 Among the smaller companies at the center of Obama’s plans,
closely held Space Exploration Technologies Corp., commonly
known as SpaceX, will carry out test flights in the next five
years to show it can haul cargo and possibly astronauts to the
Earth-orbiting International Space Station.  
 International Collaboration  
 The administration will look to other nations to
collaborate on areas including earth exploration, climate-change
research, sharing environmental data and monitoring and removing
of space debris, the administration said.  
 “Above all, this policy is about the boundless
possibilities of the future,” Obama said. “That is why we seek
to spur a burgeoning commercial space industry, to rapidly
increase our capabilities in space while bolstering America’s
competitive edge in the global economy.”  
 Obama in February announced an end to NASA’s Constellation
program, developed under former President  George W. Bush ’s
administration, which would have built rockets and spacecraft
for a return to the moon by 2020.  
 Instead, Obama directed the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration to focus on developing rocket systems that might
eventually take humans into deep space. In his April 15 address
at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, Obama said eventual
space destinations must reach beyond the moon to land an
astronaut on an asteroid and eventually go to Mars.  
 Those plans were criticized by legislators including
Democratic Senator  Bill Nelson  of Florida, who heads the
Commerce, Science and Transportation subcommittee that oversees
NASA, and Republican Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas, who
has introduced a bill that would extend funding for the shuttle
as work continues on the next generation of space vehicles. Two
of NASA’s major installations are in Florida and Texas.  
 Neil Armstrong , the first person to walk on the moon, told
a Senate panel May 12 that Obama is putting U.S. space dominance
at risk because his plan for NASA relies on unproven startup
companies.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Toronto at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        