-- Obama Said to Seek Doubling Airwaves for Smartphones, Internet
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-06-28T17:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/obama-said-to-seek-doubling-of-u-s-spectrum-for-smartphones-internet.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  proposed
today almost doubling the airwaves available for smartphones,
laptop connections to the Internet and new wireless devices.  
 Obama signed a memorandum that commits the U.S. to free up
500 megahertz of government and commercial spectrum in the next
10 years, to meet demands for mobile access to broadband
services.  
 The proposals may face resistance from television station
owners such as  CBS Corp.  and  News Corp. ’s Fox Broadcasting that
gave up airwaves as part of their switch to digital signals last
year, and have sought to keep their remaining allocation.
Wireless carriers led by  AT&T Inc.  are seeking more spectrum.  
 Obama’s proposals embraced the National Broadband Plan
offered in March by the Federal Communications Commission, led
by Obama appointee  Julius Genachowski . It called for providing
more spectrum for services such as mobile phones. The capacity
of U.S. wireless networks has been strained by the proliferation
of devices such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone.  
 “America’s future competitiveness and global technology
leadership depend, in part, upon the availability of additional
spectrum,” Obama said in the memorandum. “The world is going
wireless, and we must not fall behind.”  
 The president’s plan, which requires legislation, would
draw on airwaves the administration considers underutilized.
Revenue from auctioning the freed-up spectrum would help build a
mobile broadband system for public-safety agencies as well as
for deficit reduction, according to a White House statement.  
 ‘Catalyze Investment’  
 “This initiative will catalyze private-sector
investment,”  Lawrence Summers , Obama’s National Economic
Council director, said today in a Washington speech. The
proposal will add to economic growth, raise government revenue
and “help to create hundreds of thousands of jobs,” he said.  
 The administration has no estimate of revenue from an
auction, Summers said. Experts project revenue “could well
reach into the tens of billions of dollars,” he said.  
 The FCC’s broadband plan calls for deploying “the fastest
and most extensive wireless networks” of any nation by 2020, to
ensure wider service and spur competition with cable and
telephone companies. The plan seeks $12 billion to $16 billion
to build and operate the network for emergency workers, with
some costs covered by revenue from airwave auctions.  
 “While more spectrum should be good for wireless carriers,
it’s possible the FCC might try to direct some of the new
spectrum into the hands of carriers other than AT&T and
Verizon,”  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst with Concept
Capital’s Washington Research Group, said today in an e-mail. He
said  Sprint Nextel Corp. ,  Deutsche-Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile,
 MetroPCS Communications Inc.  and  Leap Wireless International
Inc.  may benefit from such an FCC decision.  
 Network Builders  
 The clearest winners are wireless infrastructure companies
such as  American Tower Corp. ,  Crown Castle International Corp. 
and  Alcatel Lucent , Gallant said.  
 The agency wants to persuade TV stations to give up some of
their airwaves for wireless Web use, in return for payment from
an auction that Congress would be asked to authorize. If such
sales fail to free enough airwaves, the FCC should consider
having broadcasters “on a voluntary or involuntary basis”
change how their transmission towers work, or require channel
sharing, the agency said.  
 Broadcasters have said they need their current swath of
airwaves to offer viewers multiple, simultaneous programs, and
to expand into services such as mobile TV.  
 ‘Jeopardizing’ TV Stations  
 Congress should authorize a search for unused spectrum,
 Dennis Wharton , spokesman for the Washington-based  National
Association of Broadcasters , said today in an e-mailed
statement. Policy makers can bolster mobile Web service
“without jeopardizing the future of free and local TV service
to tens of millions of viewers,” Wharton said.  
 In April,  Gordon Smith , president of the association
representing stations and the four broadcast networks --CBS,
Fox,  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC and  General Electric Co. ’s NBC
Universal -- called the plan “the great spectrum grab” and
said it was an “unnecessary government intervention.”  
 Obama’s proposal is a “win for all Americans as it will
drive innovation” and will lead to billions of dollars in
investment for spectrum and networks,  Steve Largent , president
of  CTIA-The Wireless Association , a Washington-based trade
group, said today in a statement.  
 Since releasing its broadband plan in March the FCC has
declared the wireless industry isn’t sufficiently competitive,
and it has restricted the rights to bid on some spectrum by the
largest U.S. mobile companies  AT&T  and Verizon Wireless, which
is owned by  Verizon Communications Inc.  and  Vodafone Group PLC .  
 “The administration’s strong actions on wireless broadband
will move us significantly towards sustainable economic success,
robust investment, and global leadership in innovation,”
Genachowski said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama will propose almost doubling airwaves available for smartphones, laptop connections to internet and new wireless devices. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- President Barack Obama proposed today almost doubling the airwaves available for smartphones, laptop connections to the Internet and new wireless devices. Obama signed a memorandum that commits the U.S. to free up 500 megahertz of government and commercial spectrum in the next 10 years to meet demands for mobile access to broadband services. Bloomberg's Gigi Stone reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
