-- Obama to Release Comprehensive AIDS Policy as Waiting Patients Top Record
-- Tom Randall
-- 2010-06-28T11:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/obama-to-release-comprehensive-aids-policy-as-waiting-patients-top-record.html

          
          
             The White House is poised to release
the country’s first comprehensive domestic strategy against
AIDS, as funds to prevent infections have failed to halt the
epidemic in those most at risk of the disease, AIDS groups said.  
 Release of the  National AIDS Strategy  may come as early as
today, fulfilling Obama’s campaign pledge to unify priorities
among federal agencies and state partners, said  Mitchell Warren ,
executive director of the New York-based  AIDS Vaccine Advocacy
Coalition , a nonprofit advocacy group.  
 HIV is contracted by about 56,000 Americans each year, and
the mounting tally of people living with the disease shows no
sign of stopping,  according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention . While the U.S. attack on AIDS overseas
has been led by the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief,
or PEPFAR, domestic efforts are a patchwork of programs with
little oversight, said  Chris Collins , director of Public Policy
at the American  Foundation for AIDS Research , or  amfAR .  
 “Our response to the global epidemic is squarely focused
on outcomes, and we need to get to that point in our domestic
responses,” Collins said. “In the United States we have a
concentrated epidemic among a few populations but we don’t have
a response that fits our epidemic.”  
 Obama’s new AIDS strategy needs to focus more on gay men
and blacks, among whom new HIV infection rates outweigh other
groups, Collins said.  
 Proposed Budget  
 The administration’s proposed 2011 fiscal year budget
called for an estimated  $27.2 billion  in total spending for
domestic and international efforts against AIDS, according to a
report by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a Menlo Park,
California-based nonprofit health research group. The foundation
lists more than 20 U.S. programs or agencies that receive money
to prevent the disease or help patients cope with it.  
 The number of poor patients on waiting lists to receive
AIDS drugs rose to a record 1,781 patients on June 24, topping
the previous high of 1,629 in 2004, according to the  National
Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors . The U.S.
strategy to be announced by the White House aims to ensure that
prevention and treatment programs reach those who need them most
and show measurable results, AVAC’s Warren said.  
 State governments facing budget crises have curtailed
funding for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program, or ADAP, just as
U.S. guidelines were broadened to start treatment earlier,
according to the alliance of state directors. About 125,479
patients received medicine from the program last year.  
 Cutting Costs  
 The shortfall is greatest in North Carolina, with 769
patients waiting for drugs to combat the disease, and Florida,
with 361 patients, the agency said in an e-mail. Other states
have capped enrollment, reduced reimbursements made it more
difficult to qualify for assistance, the alliance said.  
 This year Gilead Sciences Inc., the world’s biggest maker
of AIDS drugs, expanded its assistance programs to cover as much
as $2,400 a year in out-of-pocket patient expenses and extended
pricing freezes to mitigate the shortfall in funding, according
to Citibank analyst  Yaron Werber . About 22 percent of Gilead’s
U.S. sales come from the state-run funds, he said in a note to
clients on June 4.  
 “It’s kind of amazing that more than 25 years into it,
we’ve been operating without an AIDS strategy,” Warren said in
a June 25 telephone interview. “Overall, people are going to
see this as a great strategy. The tough part is going to be when
we get into the implementation: How big is the budget, what’s
the implementation plan and who is leading it?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S.  Domestic Strategy Against AIDS  
                       
                         
                           Alex Ogle/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         The White House displays a large red ribbon for World AIDS day in 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The White House displays a large red ribbon for World AIDS day in 2009. Photographer:  Alex Ogle/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
