-- Obama Discovers One More Crisis for a Toxic Tax: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-06-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/obama-discovers-one-more-crisis-for-a-toxic-tax-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             Last week, while oil was still
gushing into the Gulf of Mexico at a rate that may be as high as
60,000 barrels a day, President  Barack Obama  proposed that
Congress reinstate taxes for the  Superfund , the federal program
that finances the cleanup of toxic sites.  
 While the step might seem like a logical one, in fact, the
Superfund has almost nothing to do with the oil spill. Obama has
once again decided not to let a crisis go to waste, making this
move a defining example of how partisan and petty his
administration has become.  
 The Superfund was set up in 1980 by  Jimmy Carter  in a lame-
duck session, and was designed to provide the Environmental
Protection Agency with the authority to remediate toxic sites.
The law requires polluters to pay for cleaning up their own
messes if they could be identified. In orphan cases, where the
polluter couldn’t be identified or no longer exists, the law set
up a trust fund to finance the cleanup, paid for by taxes on oil
and chemical companies.  
 While nobody disputes that hazardous sites exist and should
be addressed, there has been significant disagreement concerning
the performance of the Superfund and the advisability of the
targeted Superfund taxes.  
 Flawed Assumptions  
 Independent analysis of the activities of the EPA
authorized by the Superfund found that the fund used public
safety concerns as justification for excessively expensive risk
reductions. For example, a study by the free-market think tank
 National Center for Policy Analysis  found that, “To establish
risk at one abandoned site, the EPA relied on the following
scenario: A child was assumed to eat 200 milligrams of dirt per
day, 350 days a year for 70 years, while playing in the soil.
More than 90 percent of all estimated cancer risks at Superfund
sites are dependent upon such outlandish scenarios or highly
speculative land use changes.”  
 Such assumptions may have been common in the early years of
the fund precisely because the targeted taxes gave the EPA so
much money to play with. There is no limit to the amount of
mischief that bureaucrats with unlimited funds can do.  
 Because of cost-benefit analyses like this and others,
Congress allowed the taxes to expire in 1995, and the trust fund
ran out of money in 2003. Ever since, Superfund activities at
orphan sites have been funded with general revenue, something
critics of the early approach prefer, since it requires EPA
funding requests to meet a higher standard in order to gain
approval. Some Democrats, though, still think wistfully of the
days when the EPA had so much money to play with.  
 Policy Misdirection  
 Looking through the arguments on all sides, it seems clear
that the Superfund may well have shrunk too much, and that
funding for cleanups generally should be increased. But it is
also clear that the Superfund has nothing whatsoever to do with
the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 After all, the fault for the Deepwater Horizon oil spill
mainly lies with its owner,  BP Plc . As such, BP will be held to
account for the damages. Since BP is flush with  cash , it seems
likely that it will be able to fund the massive environmental
cleanup that is necessary.  
 President Obama even says this, promising from the Oval
Office earlier this month, “We will make BP pay for the damage
their company has caused.”  
 That raises the question Obama doesn’t want Americans to
ask. If you are going to make BP pay for everything, why do we
need the new Superfund taxes? (The cleanup costs are separate
from the many lawsuits BP might face, which could put it at risk
of bankruptcy.)  
 The answer is, of course, that apart from some moralizing
green-power Democrats we don’t want such a tax. Aside from the
political climate being an opportune one, the issues are
unrelated.  
 But the answer doesn’t dismiss the problem. The Superfund
proposal has kicked off a predictable partisan squabble, the
legislative equivalent of scraping off a scab.  
 Same Calculus  
 The calculus that argues for such a move is identical to
the calculus that suggests that it is sensible to radically
change the U.S. health-care system at a time when  joblessness  is
close to its highest level in decades. Obama’s team seems to
believe that even though doubts over new regulations and higher
taxes may undercut job creation, the sacrifice is worth it
because Democrats get a legislative win.  
 Precisely at the time when policy makers should be focusing
on the spill and marshalling all of our resources in a
bipartisan effort to devise effective ways to limit the
environmental damage associated with it, Obama decides to settle
an old score and try to revive a long-dead tax that was neither
prudent or necessary.  
 Sadly, citizens of the Gulf states are about to learn what
economists following Obama’s policies already know. The more the
Obama administration attends to not letting a crisis go to
waste, the worse the crisis gets.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        