-- Obama's `Reset' Pays Off as Russian Approval Ratings Reach 12-Year High
-- Ilya Arkhipov
-- 2010-06-28T10:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/obama-s-reset-pays-off-as-russian-approval-ratings-reach-12-year-high.html

          
          
             Russians like the U.S. government
more than they have since before  Boris Yeltsin  ceded the
presidency to  Vladimir Putin , indicating  Barack Obama ’s
“reset” is paying off, a poll published today shows.  
 Fifty-nine percent of Russians have a “good” or “very
good” opinion of the U.S., up from 46 percent a year ago and 22
percent in September 2008, the month after Russia waged a five-
day war with U.S. ally Georgia, the Moscow-based All-Russian
Center for the Study of Public Opinion said in a statement.  
 The percentage of Russians who have a “bad” or “very
bad” opinion of the U.S. fell to 27, less than half the 65
percent recorded in September 2008 and the lowest since 1998,
according to  VTsIOM , as the Moscow-based center is also called.
The poll of 1,600 people was conducted May 1-2, before President
 Dmitry Medvedev ’s state visit to California’s Silicon Valley and
Washington, and had a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  
 “The ‘reset’ in people’s heads is happening,” said VTsIOM
Deputy Director Olga Kamenchuk by phone today. “The media
coverage of U.S. and Russian relations has become much more
positive, so the opinions polls are following this trend.”  
 Since Obama called to “reset” relations with Russia last
year, the former Cold War rivals have signed a nuclear arms
treaty and increased cooperation in Afghanistan and on sanctions
against Iran. Last week, during Medvedev’s visit to Silicon
Valley and Washington, the two leaders agreed to build on their
political agreements and switch the focus of their relations to
commercial ties.  
 More “lighthearted” events like Obama taking Medvedev out
for an unscheduled hamburger in a Washington suburb will lead to
even more favorable opinions of the U.S. leader in Russia,
Kamenchuk said.  
 “The Obama factor is definitely here, though there’s no
‘Obama-mania’ in Russia,” Kamenchuk said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        