-- Obama's Budget Office Puts $3 Billion in U.S. Technology Contracts on Hold
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-06-28T12:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/obama-budget-office-puts-3-billion-in-u-s-technology-contracts-on-hold.html

          
          
             The Obama administration is putting
$3 billion in information technology contracts on hold and is
examining more than $10 billion worth of other projects as part
of an overhaul of spending on such services and equipment.  
 White House budget director  Peter Orszag  is ordering a
review of the $80 billion the government spends annually on
technology to determine whether lax oversight has led to cost
overruns, delays and the implementation of obsolete systems.  
 “For the most part we don’t get a good return on that $80
billion,” said  Jeffrey Zients , the government’s chief
performance officer. “We need to become better, smarter
customers.”  
 The U.S. government is the world’s largest buyer of
information technology. Among the companies with contracts that
will fall under the broader review are  Accenture Plc ,
 International Business Machines Corp .,  Oracle Corp . and  SAP AG ,
according to  Danny Werfel , the controller at the Office of
Management and Budget. None of the companies were singled out
for special scrutiny.  
 The initiative is part of a larger effort by President
 Barack Obama  to pare the budget deficit, which is projected to
be a record $1.55 trillion this year, or about 10.6 percent of
U.S. gross domestic product. Obama already has ordered a three-
year freeze in non-defense and national security programs in his
budget released Feb. 1 and ordered some agencies to reduce their
2012 budget requests by five percent.  
 More With Less  
 “We need to do more, in effect, with less money,” Zients
said. “And technology is the primary enabler of doing more with
less.”  
 The government lags behind the private sector in getting
systems in place to reap the benefits from information
technology advances, said  Vivek Kundra , Obama’s chief
information officer.  
 Kundra cited as an example a Department of Defense effort
to consolidate payroll and personnel records. The project went
on for more than a decade and cost $1 billion, only to be killed
this year after Admiral  Michael Mullen , the chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, called it a “disaster.”  
 About $27 billion worth of government projects are
currently behind schedule or over budget, Kundra said.  
 “This is what we’re facing in terms of some of the
structural, systemic problems,” Kundra said.  
 The most troubled projects are those aimed at overhauling
financial and budget systems, such as the canceled military
project, which regularly face delays and excessive spending,
Werfel said.  
 Spending Halted  
 Spending is being immediately halted on about 30 of those
projects, which represent about $3 billion in spending annually
and are worth a total of $20 billion.  
 In addition, Kundra will review more than $10 billion in
other high-risk projects and will require agencies to submit
improvement plans for contracts that are behind schedule or
over-budget.  
 Zients will lead a 120-day review of contracting policies
to create rules where underperforming initiatives are canceled
and projects are completed in fewer than 24 months instead of
over the course of many years.  
 Zients said he hopes the changes will allow the government
to start benefitting from productivity gains seen at many
companies over the past decades.  
 “For the most part the federal government has not had
those productivity gains,” he said. “Technology has been at
the center of that.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        