-- Moelis & Co. Is Said to Be Planning to Hire UBS Investment Banker Leaman
-- Zachary R. Mider
-- 2010-06-28T20:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/moelis-co-is-said-to-be-planning-to-hire-former-ubs-banker-rick-leaman.html

          
          
             Moelis & Co., the investment bank
founded by  Kenneth Moelis,  plans to hire  Richard Leaman , the
chairman and former head of UBS AG’s investment-banking
department, a person briefed on the matter said today.  
 In joining New York-based Moelis, Leaman, 47, would be
reunited with his former boss at  UBS . Moelis, 52, worked at the
Zurich-based company until 2007, when he quit as president of
the investment bank to start his own firm.  
 Pen Pendleton , a Moelis spokesman, and  Doug Morris , of UBS,
said they had no immediate comment. The Deal magazine reported
the move earlier. The person briefed on the matter spoke on
condition of anonymity because it hasn’t been announced yet.  
 Leaman is one of UBS’s top dealmakers, having advised
companies such as International Paper Co., Vodafone Group Plc,
 Duke Energy Corp.,  Genzyme Corp., and Eli Lilly & Co. on
takeovers. He worked at UBS or predecessor firms for at least 15
years, according to records on the website of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 Leaman helped hire more bankers and shore up the firm after
Moelis departed in 2007 with a group of colleagues, including
 Jeffrey Raich , co-head of mergers and acquisitions, and  Navid Mahmoodzadegan,  head of media investment banking. He faced the
same task again last year, when UBS cut its 2008 bonus pool by
more than 80 percent and almost the entire health-care
investment banking group defected to Jefferies Group Inc.  
 Leaman was named co-head of the investment-banking
department, which advises companies on mergers and helps them
raise money, in 2005. Earlier this year, he became chairman,
leaving management of the unit to new co-heads  James Neissa  and
 John Wall .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        