-- Togolese Labor Unions Threaten General Strike Over Increase in Fuel Prices
-- Etonam Akakpo-Ahianyo
-- 2010-06-28T06:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/togolese-labor-unions-threaten-general-strike-over-increase-in-fuel-prices.html

          
          
             Togolese  labor unions and consumer-
rights activists called for a nationwide general strike this
week unless the government reverses an increase in fuel prices.  
 “We have informed Togo’s government that we have given them
a five-day ultimatum to cancel the increase in the fuel price,”
Aladjou Agouta, spokesman for the Togolese Consumers’
Association, said in a phone interview on June 25 from the
capital, Lome. “If not, we will hold a general strike across the
country on July 1.”  
 The government on June 19 raised gasoline prices by 15
percent to 580 CFA francs ($1.09) per liter (0.26 gallons) and
diesel by the same margin to 575 francs. The increase led to
protests last week by taxi drivers in Lome. Three people died in
the demonstrations, according to the opposition Union of Forces
for Change party, which blamed the country’s security forces.
Assih Abalo, Togo’s deputy director of public security, didn’t
answer his mobile phone when called for comment.  
 Togo is one of the world’s poorest countries, with gross
domestic product per capita of $240, compared with the sub-
Saharan African average of $580, according to the  World Bank .
The United Nations Development Programme’s  Human Development
Index , which measures life expectancy, literacy and standards of
living, ranks the West African nation 159th out of 182
countries.  
 The government says it raised fuel prices because of the
higher cost of crude on international markets.  
 “We are protesting over this increase because it doesn’t
take into account the living standards in the country and it
will compromise living conditions,” Agouta said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Etonam Akakpo-Ahianyo in Lome via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        