-- Oil Pares Gains After Rising to Seven-Week High on Weaker Dollar, Storm
-- Ann Koh
-- 2010-06-28T08:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/oil-pares-gains-after-rising-to-seven-week-high-on-weaker-dollar-storm.html

          
          
             Crude oil fell from a seven-week
high as the dollar gained against the euro, reducing the appeal
of commodities as an inflation hedge.  
 Prices also fell before reports this week that are expected
to show U.S. consumer confidence waned and manufacturing growth
slowed this month. Oil rose earlier today on concern that an
Atlantic storm will disrupt production as it moves into the
southwestern Gulf of Mexico. Tropical Storm Alex may become a
hurricane within 48 hours, according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center.  
 “At the moment, the crude market is not particularly
tight,” said  David Moore , a commodity strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “The market will
be quite sensitive to economic data flow, particularly with
respect to the strength of the U.S. economy. Markets are
watching developments with the tropical depression Alex.”  
 Oil for August delivery fell as much as 47 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $78.39 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
It was at $78.43 at 3:39 p.m. Singapore time. Earlier, it rose
as much as 0.7 percent to $79.38, the highest since May 6.  
 The U.S. currency was at $1.2357 to the euro at 3:33 p.m. in
Singapore, after strengthening to $1.2349 earlier today.  
 G-20 Meeting  
 Group of 20 leaders endorsed targets to cut deficits and
agreed to pursue higher capital requirements for banks once
their economic recoveries take root, according to a statement
released as a meeting in Toronto yesterday.  
 Advanced economies will aim to at least halve deficits by
2013 and stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016, the
statement said. The G-20 also pledged to maintain existing
stimulus plans and take “concerted actions” to sustain the
recovery.  
 “The G-20 are trying to give some certainty to markets
that fiscal issues will be dealt with,” said Moore at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. “But how those things are going
to balance, I’m not entirely sure yet.”  
 Brent crude for August delivery was at $77.73 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, down 39 cents, at
3:34 p.m. Singapore time. On June 25, the contract gained $1.65,
or 2.2 percent, to $78.12, settling higher for a second day.  
 Storm Alex  
 Tropical Storm Alex has so far spared efforts by BP Plc to
contain and clean up the largest oil spill in U.S. history. The
company expects to plug the gusher, which is spewing as much as
60,000 barrels a day of crude, by August.  
 Alex, packing maximum sustained winds of 45 miles (72
kilometers) per hour, was about 60 miles west-southwest of
Campeche in Mexico and moving west-northwest at 7 mph, the
hurricane center said in an advisory on its website posted at 10
p.m. Miami time yesterday. There are no coastal watches or
warnings in effect, it said.  
 The Atlantic hurricane season, which runs from June 1
through Nov. 30, is closely monitored by the energy and
agriculture industries because of the potential impact of storms
on production areas.  
 Florida is the world’s largest orange grower after Brazil.
The Gulf is home to about 30 percent of U.S. oil and 12 percent
of its natural gas production. It also has seven of the 10
busiest U.S. ports, according to the Army Corps of Engineers.  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long position in New York crude-oil futures in the
week ended June 22, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  
 OPEC Meeting  
 Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 39,635 contracts on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the Washington-based commission said in its
Commitments of Traders report. Net-long positions rose by 6,705
contracts, or 20 percent, from a week earlier.  
 OPEC, the producer of about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
sees no need to change output levels before the group meets
again in October as the current price of crude oil is
“comfortable.”  
 “The economic recovery is sluggish, unemployment is still
high and the debt crisis is causing a lot of uncertainty, so if
you look at all these factors, the current price is
comfortable,” Secretary General  Abdalla El-Badri  told reporters
yesterday in Brussels. “I don’t see any change in the
production and I don’t see a meeting coming before October,” he
added. The group is due to meet on Oct. 14 in Vienna.  
 OPEC announced a record limit on production in December
2008 as global demand collapsed. The group’s adherence to the
cut of 4.2 million barrels a day, capping output at 24.845
million, slipped as prices rebounded 78 percent last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        