-- Oil Forecast to Decline in Second Half on Sinking Demand: Energy Markets
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-06-29T20:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/oil-to-fall-in-second-half-as-slowing-growth-curbs-demand-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Oil, heading for its first quarterly
decline since the end of 2008, may fall in the second half on
signs that the economic recovery in developed countries is
slowing.  
 Crude slipped 9.3 percent since the end of March to settle
at $75.94 a barrel today on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The U.S. Labor Department is expected to report July 2 that the
economy may have lost jobs in June, the first decline since
December, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 51 analysts.  
 “Getting out of the worldwide recession was always going
to be a long slog,”  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in Washington, who forecast oil will average
$65 a barrel in the third quarter and $70 in the fourth, said in
an interview. “It’s always been our view that the second half
of 2010 was going to be a tough period.”  
 The U.S. Energy Department trimmed its crude-oil demand
and price forecasts for 2010 this month. World consumption will
average 85.51 million barrels a day this year, down from the
85.55 million predicted in May, the department said June 8. West
Texas Intermediate oil, a global benchmark blend, will average
$78.75 this year, down from $82.18 forecast in May, the
department said.  
 Dollar Gains  
 Crude has declined as the dollar strengthened, reducing the
investment appeal of commodities. The Dollar Index, which gauges
the currency against those of six major U.S. trading partners,
gained more than 10 percent this year amid concern European
nations will default. The European Union put together a 750
billion-euro ($921 billion) rescue package on May 10 to stop the
crisis from spreading.  
 “We did avoid a financial meltdown in Greece and Spain but
otherwise the picture in Europe is grim,” said  David Kirsch , a
Paris-based analyst with PFC Energy, an energy strategist to
companies and governments. “We’re looking for poor demand
throughout the OECD. The U.S. only looks good in comparison with
the EU and Japan.”  
 Oil consumption among the 30 industrialized nations that
belong to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development will average 45.4 million barrels a day in 2010,
down 8.3 percent from a record 49.5 million in 2006, according
to the Energy Department.  
 Hurricane Season  
 Prices may rise in July and August because of U.S. gasoline
demand and the Atlantic hurricane season, said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. U.S. consumption of the motor fuel peaks from the
Memorial Day weekend in late May to Labor Day in early
September. The hurricane season began June 1 and ends on Nov.
30.  
 “By the end of the next quarter the driving season will
have come to an end and it looks like it will be a rather anemic
one at that,” Lynch said. “The hurricane season is the one
thing that will give the market support.”  
 U.S. gasoline consumption fell in May to the lowest level
for the month since 2003, the American Petroleum Institute said
in a June 18 report. Deliveries of gasoline, a measure of
demand, averaged 9.05 million barrels a day, down from 9.09
million in May 2009, the industry-funded group said.  
 Tropical Storm Alex, the first named system of this year’s
Atlantic season, is likely to become a hurricane today, with
winds of 70 miles-per-hour (110 kilometers-per-hour), as it
approaches landfall near the Texas-Mexico border late tomorrow
or early July 1, according to the U.S. National Hurricane
Center. Crude declined 0.8 percent yesterday on signs the storm
will miss most producing areas in the Gulf of Mexico, which
accounts for about 30 percent of U.S. oil output.  
 Surplus Stockpiles  
 U.S. crude  oil supplies rose  0.6 percent to 365.1 million
barrels in the week ended June 18, leaving stockpiles 11 percent
above the five-year average for the period, according to the
Energy Department.  
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries lifted
crude output by 0.6 percent to 29.372 million barrels a day in
May, a Bloomberg News survey showed. The increase left the 12-
member group with about 5.5 million barrels a day of spare
capacity.  
 “The underlying fundamentals haven’t changed,” said  Rick Mueller , director of oil markets at Energy Security Analysis
Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts. “There will remain a
tremendous amount of crude available. Once demand lets up in
September we should see a correction in prices.”  
 Crude climbed to $87.15 on the New York Mercantile Exchange
on May 3, the highest level since Oct. 9, 2008, before trading
as low as $64.24 on May 20.  
 Risk of Lows  
 “There’s a significant risk that we’ll test the low levels
that were touched in late May,” PFC’s Kirsch said. “Prices
will probably average in the mid-$60s during the third quarter.
There won’t be a seasonal run-up during the fourth quarter
unless OPEC significantly reduces supply, which doesn’t look
likely.”  
 U.S. government attempts to restrict deepwater drilling may
reduce oil output following the sinking of the BP Plc-leased
Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf on April 22. The government in
May extended a moratorium on deepwater drilling permits by six
months. A federal judge lifted the order on June 22.  
 “I have had to take a new look at the market since the
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig,” said  Stephen Schork , president of consultant Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
Pennsylvania. “We are now looking at a deficit in supply, the
scope of the deficit is a question.”  
 U.S. crude output will drop by an average 26,000 barrels a
day in the fourth quarter of this year and 70,000 barrels a day
in 2011 should the moratorium be reinstated, according to the
Energy Department.  
 “Supplies are certainly adequate given the weakness in
Europe and elsewhere in the OECD,” said  Addison Armstrong ,
director of market research at Tradition Energy, a Stamford,
Connecticut-based procurement adviser. “Whatever will be lost
here because of the moratorium, which is only set to last six
months, will be more than offset by OPEC spare capacity.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        