-- Oil Falls From Seven-Week High as Storm Skirts North Gulf Production Area
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-06-28T12:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/oil-falls-from-seven-week-high-as-storm-skirts-north-gulf-production-area.html

          
          
             Crude oil fell from a seven-week
high on speculation that crude-oil production in the Gulf of
Mexico will be unaffected by a tropical storm in the region.  
 Prices also declined before reports this week that may show
U.S. consumer confidence waned and manufacturing growth slowed
this month. Futures are heading for a quarterly decline of 6.1
percent. Oil rose earlier today on forecasts that Tropical Storm
Alex in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico will become a hurricane
in the next 48 hours.  
 “Alex’s direction seems headed towards Mexico and not the
north, where all the rigs and refineries are located,” said
 Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu , chief investment officer at Archbridge
Capital in Zug, Switzerland. “Though Mexico also has some
production in the region, the real danger is off the coasts of
the U.S., where production and refining are more concentrated.”  
 Oil for August delivery dropped as much as 84 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $78.02 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
It was at $78.32 at 12:45 p.m. London time. Brent crude for
August delivery was at $77.37 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange, down 75 cents.  
 Crude climbed as high as $79.38 a barrel in New York
earlier today, the highest level since May 6. The commodity has
gained 5.9 percent this month, narrowing its second-quarter loss
to 6.5 percent and its year-to-date decline to 1.3 percent.  
 “At the moment, the crude market is not particularly
tight,” said  David Moore , a commodity strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “The market will
be quite sensitive to economic data flow, particularly with
respect to the strength of the U.S. economy. Markets are
watching developments with the tropical depression Alex.”  
 G-20 Meeting  
 Group of 20 leaders endorsed targets to cut deficits and
agreed to pursue higher capital requirements for banks once
their economic recoveries take root, according to a statement
released at a meeting in Toronto yesterday.  
 Advanced economies will aim to reduce deficits by at least
half by 2013 and stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016,
the statement said. The G-20 also pledged to maintain existing
stimulus plans and take “concerted actions” to sustain the
recovery.  
 “The G-20 are trying to give some certainty to markets
that fiscal issues will be dealt with,” said Moore at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. “But how those things are going
to balance, I’m not entirely sure yet.”  
 Tropical Storm Alex  
 Alex has so far spared BP Plc as the company tries to
contain and clean up the largest oil spill in U.S. history. The
company expects to plug the gusher, which is spewing as much as
60,000 barrels a day of crude, by August.  
 Alex, packing maximum sustained winds of 45 miles (72
kilometers) per hour, was about 60 miles west-southwest of
Campeche in Mexico and moving west-northwest at 7 mph, the
hurricane center said in an advisory on its website posted at 10
p.m. Miami time yesterday. No coastal watches or warnings are in
effect, it said.  
 The Atlantic hurricane season, which runs from June 1
through Nov. 30, is closely monitored by the energy and
agriculture industries because of the potential impact of storms
on production areas.  
 The Gulf is home to about 30 percent of U.S. oil and 12
percent of its natural gas production. It also has seven of the
10 busiest U.S. ports, according to the Army Corps of Engineers.  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long position in New York crude-oil futures in the
week ended June 22, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  
 Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 39,635 contracts on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the Washington-based commission said in its
Commitments of Traders report. Net-long positions rose by 6,705
contracts, or 20 percent, from a week earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        