-- Feinberg Said to Weigh Six-Month Payments for Spill Victims
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-06-30T17:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/oil-fund-chief-feinberg-said-to-weigh-six-month-payments-for-spill-victims.html

          
          
             A $20 billion fund for victims of  BP
Plc ’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill will make initial payments equal
to six months of reimbursement after criticism the process is
too slow, claims administrator  Kenneth Feinberg  said.  
 Elected officials in the region have said month-to-month
payments to small business are insufficient to help companies
stay in business, Feinberg told the House Small Business
Committee today in Washington. Calculating the payments may be
complicated as long as the leak continues, he said.  
 “It sure would help if the oil would stop,” Feinberg said
in his first congressional testimony since being named to run
the independent claims facility. “It’s very hard to come up
with lump-sum payments in total satisfaction of your loss when
you don’t know if the oil is going to continue to spread and
reach your business.”  
 Lawmakers such as Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana
Democrat, have criticized the pace of BP’s payments to
businesses and individuals damaged financially by the biggest
U.S. oil spill. After touring Gulf states last week, Feinberg
said one of his goals was to speed payments to victims.  
 BP has said it has paid more than $128 million in claims as
of the end of last week. Feinberg has praised BP’s efforts while
pledging to improve the process. BP has hired 750 adjusters and
set up 32 local facilities to help process claims.  
 Indirect Damage  
 Feinberg, 64, said determining whether to pay businesses
and individuals that didn’t suffer direct damage is among the
most difficult issues as the claims facility is created.  
 Companies that lost revenue because tourists stayed away,
thinking a beach would be damaged, may be ineligible for
reimbursement, Feinberg said. Such indirect claims may not “be
compensatory,” he said.  
 Representative  Vern Buchanan , a Florida Republican, said
tourists are staying away from beaches near Sarasota even though
oil hasn’t yet washed ashore. Buchanan said the state laws
Feinberg is relying on may be an insufficient guide in
determining eligibility.  
 Businesses or property owners along the Gulf coast may be
harmed by public misperceptions of the spill, and a decision on
resolving such claims remains to be made, Feinberg said.  
 “Property value has diminished as a result of the spill,”
Feinberg said. “Let’s assume that’s right. That doesn’t mean
that every property is entitled to compensation.”  
 “It’s a thorny issue,” he told reporters after the
hearing.  
 Zones Considered  
 After the Sept. 11 attacks, Feinberg said the victims’
fund that he also administered established “small, geographic
areas” near the World Trade Center within which individuals
could be compensated for health ailments.  
 Feinberg said his Gulf Coast claims facility may set zones
of eligibility for certain claims when the damage suffered isn’t
physical.  
 Local communities and the states of Louisiana, Alabama,
Mississippi and Florida can seek reimbursement from the $20
billion account for their cleanup costs, Feinberg said, noting
he will not make decisions on the states’ claims.  
 BP and the Obama administration haven’t designated an
administrator for a separate, $100 million account to pay rig
workers idled by a six-month drilling moratorium, Feinberg said,
backing away from comments suggesting he will run the wage fund.  
 Feinberg said he would visit the Gulf region once or twice
a week to encourage people to file claims. Eligibility will be
clarified in the next few weeks, not months, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
 Lizzie O’Leary  in Washington at 
 loleary2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Feinberg Plans Six-Month Payments for Victims of Gulf  
                       
                         
                           Jay Mallin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Kenneth Feinberg, administrator of the $20 billion fund for victims of BP Plc's Gulf of Mexico oil spill, testifies at a House Small Business Committee hearing in Washington, D.C. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Kenneth Feinberg, administrator of the $20 billion fund for victims of BP Plc's Gulf of Mexico oil spill, testifies at a House Small Business Committee hearing in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Feinberg, administrator of the $20 billion fund for victims of BP Plc’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill, said the fund will make initial payments equal to six months of reimbursement after criticism the process was too slow. Feinberg spoke before the House Small Business Committee today. Bloomberg's Brian Weiss reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
