-- Oil Pares Gains After Rising to Seven-Week High on Weaker Dollar, Storm
-- Ann Koh
-- 2010-06-28T05:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/oil-trades-near-79-after-rising-on-concern-alex-may-disrupt-gulf-output.html

          
          
             Crude oil was little changed in New
York after rising to a seven-week high as the dollar’s decline
bolstered speculative demand for commodities and amid concern an
Atlantic tropical storm will disrupt production.  
 Oil traded near $79 a barrel as Tropical Storm Alex, the
first named storm of this year’s Atlantic hurricane season,
moved into the southwestern Gulf of Mexico. It may become a
hurricane within 48 hours, according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center. The dollar fell before reports this week that
economists said will show U.S. consumer confidence waned and
manufacturing growth slowed this month.  
 “Crude prices will remain variable,” said  David Moore , a
commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd. in
Sydney. “At the moment, the crude market is not particularly
tight although inventories remain relatively high. Markets are
watching developments with the tropical depression Alex.”  
 Oil for August delivery was at $78.80 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, down 6
cents, at 1:11 p.m. Singapore time. Earlier, it rose as much as
0.7 percent to $79.38, the highest since May 6. Futures, up 10
percent in the past year, are set to lose 1.5 percent between
April and June, the first quarterly decline in three.  
 The dollar fell for a fourth day against the 16-nation euro,
boosting the investment appeal of commodities as a hedge against
inflation. The U.S. currency was $1.2381 to the euro at 1:10 p.m.
in Singapore, after slipping to $1.2398. It also dropped to the
lowest level in almost eight weeks against Switzerland’s franc.  
 G-20 Meeting  
 Group of 20 leaders endorsed targets to cut deficits and
agreed to pursue higher capital requirements for banks once
their economic recoveries take root, according to a statement
released as a meeting in Toronto yesterday.  
 Advanced economies will aim to at least halve deficits by
2013 and stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016, the
statement said. The G-20 also pledged to maintain existing
stimulus plans and take “concerted actions” to sustain the
recovery.  
 “The G-20 are trying to give some certainty to markets
that fiscal issues will be dealt with,” said Moore at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. “But how those things are going
to balance, I’m not entirely sure yet.”  
 Brent crude for August delivery was at $78.20 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, up 8 cents, at 1
p.m. Singapore time. On June 25, the contract gained $1.65, or
2.2 percent, to $78.12, settling higher for a second day.  
 Storm Alex  
 Tropical Storm Alex has so far spared efforts by BP Plc to
contain and clean up the largest oil spill in U.S. history. The
company expects to plug the gusher, which is spewing as much as
60,000 barrels a day of crude, by August.  
 Alex, packing maximum sustained winds of 45 miles (72
kilometers) per hour, was about 60 miles west-southwest of
Campeche in Mexico and moving west-northwest at 7 mph, the
hurricane center said in an advisory on its website posted at 10
p.m. Miami time yesterday. There are no coastal watches or
warnings in effect, it said.  
 The Atlantic hurricane season, which runs from June 1
through Nov. 30, is closely monitored by the energy and
agriculture industries because of the potential impact of storms
on production areas.  
 Florida is the world’s largest orange grower after Brazil.
The Gulf is home to about 30 percent of U.S. oil and 12 percent
of its natural gas production. It also has seven of the 10
busiest U.S. ports, according to the Army Corps of Engineers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Adrian Loh, associate director at DnB NOR ASA in Singapore, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Australia's proposed tax on mining profits and its impact on the resources industry.
     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s willingness to compromise on a mining tax proposed by her predecessor may prevent opposition leader Tony Abbott from reaping gains in elections likely to be held later this year.  (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
