-- Crude Oil Falls Below $78 as Storm Avoids Gulf of Mexico Production Areas
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-06-29T05:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/oil-falls-a-second-day-as-tropical-storm-alex-skirts-gulf-production-area.html

          
          
             Crude oil fell below $78 a barrel in
New York on concern slower economic growth may curb demand and
as a tropical storm avoided Gulf of Mexico production areas.  
 Oil dropped from a seven-week high yesterday as U.S.
forecasters projected that Tropical Storm Alex will move across
the southern Gulf and make landfall as a hurricane July 1 in
Mexico. Group of 20 leaders responded to the European debt
crisis during their weekend summit in Toronto with deficit-
reduction targets.  
 “Most of the rhetoric from the G20 meeting is for
continued fiscal austerity in the big developed economies and
that means weaker growth going forward,” said  Ben Westmore , a
minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Melbourne. “What seems to have supported oil prices has been
the news of storms in the Gulf, tightening some of the supply
side of the market. Supply is looking more positive now.”  
 Oil for August delivery fell as much as 71 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $77.54 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $77.60 at 1:16 p.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract dropped 61 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $78.25. Futures have declined 1.6 percent this year.  
 Crude is heading for its first quarterly decline since the
end of 2008 on signs that the economic recovery in developed
countries is slowing.  
 Crude has slipped 6.6 percent since the end of March. The
U.S. Labor Department is expected to report July 2 that the
economy may have lost jobs in June, the first decline since
December, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 51 analysts.  
 Crude Supplies  
 Japan’s industrial production and household spending
slipped in May and the unemployment rate unexpectedly increased,
in signs that the recovery of the world’s second-largest economy
may slow.  
 “Oil was probably oversold towards the end of May, early
June,” National Australia Bank’s Westmore said. “Now we’re
getting to a point around the high $70s which is probably in
line with what you’d expect, based on the fundamentals.”  
 U.S. crude oil supplies  probably fell  900,000 barrels last
week from 365.1 million the prior week, according to the median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. It would be the first drop in
three weeks.  Gasoline inventories  probably slipped 400,000
barrels from 217.6 million the prior week.  
 Tropical Storm  
 Tropical Storm Alex, is “strengthening” with maximum
sustained winds of 65 miles per hour, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said in an advisory. A hurricane warning has
been issued for the coast of Texas south of Baffin Bay, it said.
The system’s track should take it south of production areas.  
 The Gulf is home to about 30 percent of U.S. oil and 12
percent of its natural gas production. It also has seven of the
10 busiest U.S. ports, according to the Army Corps of Engineers.
The region accounts for about half of U.S. refining capacity,
according to the Energy Department.  
 BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the biggest oil producers
in the Gulf, yesterday started evacuating crews from some
offshore platforms in the region as a safety precaution.  
 BP removed non-essential workers from its Atlantis, Mad Dog
and Holstein oil-production platforms in the western part of the
Gulf, company spokesman  David Nicholas  said. Output wasn’t
halted, he said. London-based BP’s response to a record U.S. oil
spill, located in northern and eastern parts of the Gulf, also
is unaffected.  
 “Even if production is ‘lost’ because of this, crude
stocks are high, so we do not expect any crude price impact”
Societe Generale analysts, led by  Michael Wittner , said in a
note yesterday.  
 Brent crude for August delivery fell as much as 56 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to $77.03 a barrel on the ICE exchange in London.
It was at $77.04 at 1:13 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, the
contract fell 53 cents, or 0.7 percent, to settle at $77.59.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        