-- Supreme Court's Chicago Ruling Challenges Gun Restrictions Across Country
-- Carlyn Kolker
-- 2010-06-28T21:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/top-court-s-chicago-gun-ruling-challenges-weapons-restrictions-across-u-s-.html

          
          
             Chicago and other big cities began
wrestling with how to reshape their handgun laws after the  U.S.
Supreme Court  placed limits on such local ordinances.  
 The justices, voting 5-4 in a challenge to Chicago’s
handgun ban, ruled that the city went too far in prohibiting
guns even for self-defense in a home, though the court left
room for some restrictions. It said the constitutional right to
bear arms binds states and local governments, just as it does
federal officials.  
 The ruling was a blow to Mayor  Richard M. Daley , who has
long campaigned against the prevalence of guns on Chicago’s
streets. The nation’s third-largest city passed its ordinance,
among the strictest in the U.S., seven years before Daley was
elected in 1989.  
 “Chicago’s current handgun ban is unenforceable, so we
are working to rewrite our ordinance in a reasonable,
responsible way to protect Second Amendment rights and to
protect Chicagoans from gun violence,” Daley said at a news
conference, where he was joined by family members of firearm
victims.  
 Daley said he was disappointed but not surprised by the
court’s ruling. The city will “publicly propose a new
ordinance very soon,” he said, with a goal being the
protection of police and emergency workers who respond to
service calls at homes.  
 ‘A Long Shadow’  
 The Chicago case returns to a lower court while
jurisdictions with narrower weapons restrictions, including New
York City, may now face legal challenges.  
 “It certainly casts a long shadow over New York City’s
gun control laws,” said  James Jacobs , a law professor at New
York University and an author of a book on gun control. “This
is a serious, serious challenge to the policy of restricting
access to weapons.”  
 The ruling will force some cities and states to make it
easier for people to possess firearms and to have licenses to
carry them, Jacobs said.  
 “There are only a few jurisdictions which place
significant restrictions on ownership and possession and
carrying weapons,” he said. “The prominent ones are in New
York, Massachusetts and San Francisco. All of those will be
subject to challenge.”  
 New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who with Boston Mayor
 Thomas Menino  founded  Mayors Against Illegal Guns , a group of
more than 500 mayors lobbying for stricter regulation of gun
sales, said in an e-mailed statement that the ruling won’t stop
the organization’s efforts “to keep guns out of the hands of
criminals and terrorists.”  
 Law-Abiding Citizens  
 The coalition supports measures “respecting the
constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens,” Bloomberg
said.  
 “The court’s decision today and its decision in 2008 in
District of Columbia v. Heller both make clear that we can work
to keep guns out of the hands of criminals and terrorists while
at the same time respecting the constitutional rights of law-
abiding citizens,” Bloomberg said in a separate statement.
“That’s what New York City has always done. And I will
continue to collaborate with mayors across the country to
pursue common-sense, constitutional approaches to protecting
public safety.”  
 The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  
 Drastic Change  
 The court’s decision may strip the power of police chiefs
in Massachusetts cities and towns to oversee the issuance of
gun permits, said Jim Wallace, executive director of the Gun
Owners’  Action League  in Northborough.  
 “This will change things drastically here,” Wallace
said. “Chiefs’ discretion has to go because law enforcement
does not have discretion when it comes to civil rights, which
is what this ruling says.”  
 In a related issue, Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick 
is pushing a proposal to limit gun purchases to one a month.
The idea is to cut down on so-called straw purchases made by
those with a clean record for those whose criminal records
would disqualify them from buying.  
 The Supreme Court ruling isn’t expected to affect efforts
to get it passed, said Nancy Robinson, executive director of
Boston-based Citizens for Safety, which supports the
legislation.  
 ‘Vast Implications’  
 “We are focused on getting guns out of the hands of
criminals, which is what this proposal does,” she said.  
 Wallace, of the gun owners’ league, said the one-gun-a-
month limit would be difficult to uphold after today’s ruling.  
 “I think this would have vast implications on the
governor’s ability to put lawful citizens in prison,” he said.
“I don’t think the law would hold up.”  
 The ruling could invalidate gun-control laws in California
as well, said Sam Paredes, executive director of the Folsom-
based advocacy group  Gun Owners of California .  
 “We’re going to have a field day in California,” Paredes
said, citing a ban on 50-caliber rifles and on so-called
assault weapons.  
 Paredes said his group will also challenge a state
ammunition regulation law that goes into effect Feb. 1.  
 “We think that’s an infringement of our rights,” he
said. “We fully anticipate we’re going to sue and overturn
most of the major anti-gun laws on the books.”  
 NRA Challenge  
 In Seattle, the King County Superior Court in February
invalidated a ban on guns in city parks after it was challenged
by the National Rifle Association, the Second Amendment
Foundation and other groups. King County Superior Court Judge
Catherine Shaffer said the city can’t preempt state law with
the gun rules, which were put in place by former Mayor  Greg Nickels .  
 The decision broadens the sweep of the court’s 2008 ruling
in the case involving Washington, D.C., that interpreted the
Constitution’s Second Amendment as protecting the rights of
individuals, rather than just those of state-run militias.  
 Chicago’s ordinance was challenged by four city residents,
including Otis McDonald, a 76-year-old homeowner in the Morgan
Park neighborhood on the city’s south side.  
 McDonald, who keeps a shotgun in his house, said he wants
a handgun by his bed for protection because criminals have
repeatedly broken into his home.  
 The ruling was also a victory for the  National Rifle
Association , the leading U.S. gun-rights organization, which
challenged the ordinances in Chicago and one of its suburbs.  
 More Than Words  
 “We have our sights set on making sure that the decision
today is implemented,” said  Chris W. Cox , chief lobbyist for
the NRA. “Moving forward in the United States Congress, all 50
state legislatures, countless city councils and courtrooms all
across America, the National Rifle Association will work
tirelessly to make sure this right is more than just words on a
piece of paper.”  
 Daniel Vice, a senior attorney at the Washington-based
 Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence , said new gun-ordinance
disputes can be overcome.  
 “The courts will overwhelmingly reject those
challenges,” he said, adding that after the Supreme Court’s
decision in the District of Columbia case about 240 state and
local laws were challenged, and almost all were dismissed.  
 After the 2008 ruling, Vice said Washington enacted a
broad range of gun restrictions that have survived challenges.  
 “They regulated assault weapons, storage and license, and
the court upheld that law,” he said. “That gives Chicago a
clear road map on tough gun laws it can enact that pass
constitutional muster.”  
 The case is McDonald v. City of Chicago, 08-1521.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Carlyn Kolker  in New York at 
 ckolker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The ruling was a blow to Mayor Richard M. Daley, who has long campaigned against the prevalence of guns on Chicago’s streets. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
