-- Hopewell Highway Said to Plan Issue of Yuan-Denominated Bonds Next Month
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-28T03:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/hopewell-highway-said-to-plan-issue-of-yuan-denominated-bonds-next-month.html

          
          
             Hopewell Highway Infrastructure Ltd. ,
controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Gordon Wu , will issue two-
year yuan-denominated bonds as soon as July, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  
 The bonds will be issued to institutional investors in Hong
Kong and Bank of China (Hong Kong) Ltd. is the sole arranger,
the company said in a statement yesterday.  
 The notes will be the first yuan bonds sold offshore by a
non-financial Hong Kong-based company, Hopewell Highway
Infrastructure spokeswoman Sukyi Yau said by telephone. China,
the world’s third-largest economy, is seeking to promote the
yuan as a global currency and increase its use in cross-border
trade.  
 The sale “is part of the move to promote more
international use of the yuan,”  Frances Cheung , a strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, said in a telephone interview.  
 Hopewell Highway Infrastructure, which develops and
operates roads, tunnels, bridges and other infrastructure
projects in China’s Guangdong province and the Pearl River Delta
region, will meet with institutional investors from today until
July 7, according to one of the people. The issue size will
depend on investor response, the person said.  
 The funds could be used for the third phase of the
company’s Western Delta Route, an expressway linking Zhongshan
to the coastal city of Zhuhai, according to yesterday’s
statement.  
 The planned sale “marks a milestone” for the yuan bond
market in Hong Kong,  He Guangbei , vice chairman and chief
executive of Bank of China (Hong Kong), said in the statement.
The sale helps diversify yuan bond offerings and deepens the
local bond market, He said.  
 Yuan deposits at Hong Kong banks climbed 14 percent in
April to 80.9 billion yuan ($11.9 billion), the biggest increase
in a year, according to figures from the city’s monetary
authority.  
 -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  Ed Johnson ,  Tom Kohn   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        