-- Toronto's Financial Sector Returning to Work After Violent G-20 Protests
-- Sean B. Pasternak
-- 2010-06-28T15:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/toronto-s-financial-sector-to-return-to-work-after-violent-g-20-protests.html

          
          
             Businesses in Toronto’s financial
district started returning to normal after a weekend of violent
Group of 20-related protests led to 900 arrests and left police
cars burned and windows smashed.  
 “We hope to start getting the area back to as normal as is
possible,” Stuart Green, a spokesman for Toronto Mayor  David Miller , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “But it’s not
going to be immediate; it’s not going to be overnight.”  
 Demonstrators set fire to at least four police cars, spray-
painted obscenities on walls and damaged the windows of stores
and office buildings, including the headquarters of  Bank of
Montreal  and  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce . Police arrested
more than 900 people across the city as leaders gathered in a
protected zone around the Metro Toronto Convention Centre.  
 Protests have been a feature of high-level global meetings
since riots broke out in Seattle at the World Trade Organization
talks in 1999. Clashes with demonstrators in Pittsburgh at the
G-20 summit in September led to  83 arrests , The Associated Press
reported, and 111 people were taken into custody during the 2009
G-20 summit in London.  
 Toronto’s downtown is home to Canada’s five largest banks
and two of its biggest insurers. About 223,000 financial-
services employees work in the district, the third-most of any
city in North America, according to Toronto Financial Services
Alliance.  
 Banks Re-Opening  
 Most downtown bank branches began to re-open today. At
least three dozen branches closed their doors on June 24. Some
office employees at the banks will continue to work from
alternate locations, Maura Drew-Lytle, a spokeswoman for the
Canadian Bankers Association, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  
 The Toronto Transit Commission resumed regular bus and
streetcar service today, after suspending some services on the
weekend. There were no major disruptions to service this
morning, according to a statement on the TTC’s  website .  
 The violence on June 26 followed five days of largely
peaceful rallies to coincide with the G-20 and the Group of
Eight summit, which was held in Huntsville, Ontario, a lakeside
resort about 230 kilometers (143 miles) north of Toronto.  
 “We’re talking about a few hundred that decided to go on a
foolish rampage of destruction and vandalism for seemingly no
good reason,” said Green, who estimated about 10,000 protesters
took part in demonstrations on June 26. The city was working on
an estimate of property damage, he said.  
 Swiss Army Knife  
 Yesterday’s protests were less disruptive as police ramped
up arrests, including of a man who was taken into custody while
carrying a Swiss Army knife near a downtown rally.  
 “I’m really upset,” said Jennifer Booth, the man’s
girlfriend. “There’s a lot of abuse of police powers.”  
 About 120 protesters remain in custody as of this morning,
said Constable Michelle Murphy of the  Integrated Security Unit ,
which coordinates local and federal police forces. She declined
to say how many charges have been laid.  
 Protesters and police officers have been treated for minor
injuries, Murphy said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        