-- Most Asian Stocks Decline; Japanese Banks Drop on Mizuho's Share-Sale Plan
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-06-28T08:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/most-asian-stocks-drop-led-by-japanese-banks-newcrest-rises-on-bullion.html

          
          
             Most Asian  stocks  fell as a weekend
meeting of Group of 20 leaders failed to reassure investors
about the strength of the global economic recovery. Japanese
banks declined, while energy producers advanced.  
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s No. 3 bank by market
value, sank 2.6 percent in Tokyo on plans to raise money to meet
new capital rules.  China Coal Energy Co.  lost 6.4 percent in
Hong Kong after the Chinese government told producers to keep
prices of the fuel “stable” to help control inflation. Oil &
Natural Gas Corp., India’s largest state-controlled oil explorer,
extended its advance for a second day after the government
allowed fuel prices to rise.  
 About five stocks declined for every four that advanced in
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index , which was little changed at 115.48
as of 5:11 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge has risen 6.1 percent since
dropping to a 10-month low on May 25. The measure swung between
gains and losses at least 11 times as G-20 leaders pledged to
maintain existing stimulus plans and take “concerted actions”
to sustain the recovery following their meeting in Toronto.  
 “The market lacks positive factors since the results of
the G-20 meeting weren’t surprising,” said  Naoteru Teraoka ,
general manager in the investment unit of Tokyo-based Chuo
Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees about $22 billion.  
 Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.5 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.7 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi advanced 0.1 percent.  
 Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dipped 0.1
percent. The gauge gained 0.3 percent on June 25 as
congressional negotiators agreed on financial reform that
doesn’t ban hedge-fund and buyout-fund investing.  
 Capital Requirements  
 Global efforts to tighten banking oversight have gained
momentum, U.S. President  Barack Obama  said following the G-20
meeting. Group leaders yesterday agreed to pursue higher capital
requirements for banks once their economic recoveries take root.
The leaders endorsed targets to cut deficits by at least half by
2013 and stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016.  
 Mizuho sank 2.6 percent to 149 yen. The bank may sell up to
6 billion new  shares , half in Japan and the remainder overseas,
according to a June 25 statement. The offering adds to 3.8
trillion yen ($42.5 billion) in new equity raised by the bank
and its two largest rivals since December 2008.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest bank
by market value, lost 1.9 percent to 411 yen. Shinsei Bank Ltd.
slumped 4.9 percent to 78 yen.  
 Coal Prices  
 In Sydney,  Macquarie Group Ltd. , Australia’s biggest
investment bank, dropped 1.4 percent to A$38.95 after brokerages
including Morgan Stanley and UBS AG cut ratings or share-price
forecasts, and senior bankers quit.  
 China Coal, a unit of the nation’s second-biggest producer
of the fuel, fell 6.4 percent to HK$10.50 in Hong Kong.  Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co. , the fourth-biggest supplier, declined 7.2
percent to HK$15.74. Both stocks dropped more than 1.5 percent
in Shanghai.  
 China’s coal companies were ordered to keep prices stable
as the government seeks ways to manage inflation, the National
Development and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planner,
said on June 25. Consumer prices rose 3.1 percent in May, the
quickest pace in 19 months, according to government data
released June 11.  
 “This amounts to a cap on coal prices and this has affected
sentiment for coal stocks,” said  Michelle Leung , an analyst at
CIMB-GK Securities in Hong Kong. “Coal companies are still
making good profits, but there’s no indication as to how long
they may have to cap prices, which raises concerns about future
margins.”  
 Caltex Downgrade  
 Growing concern over China’s measures to control property
prices and over Europe’s debt crisis helped drag the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index down by 11 percent from its high this year on
April 15. The retreat has brought down the average price of
shares in the gauge to about 14.3 times estimated earnings.  
 Caltex Australia Ltd. , the nation’s biggest oil refiner,
fell 3.2 percent to A$9.35 in Sydney after the stock was cut to
“hold” from “buy” at Deutsche Bank AG.  
 Oil & Natural Gas surged 2.9 percent to 1,299.55 rupees
following India’s decision to lift subsidies on gasoline and
diesel.  Bharat Petroleum Corp.  gained 3.1 percent to 639.7
rupees, extending a 13 percent surge, while  Hindustan Petroleum
Corp.  increased 7 percent to 430.45 rupees. Both companies were
raised to “buy” from “hold” by  Amit Rustagi , an analyst at
Antique Stock Broking.  
 Oil, Metals  
 Other commodity-related companies gained after crude-oil
futures jumped 3.1 percent on June 25 to settle at $78.86 a
barrel in New York. The London Metal Exchange Index of six
metals including copper and zinc increased 1.1 percent. Gold for
immediate delivery fell 0.2 percent in London trading after
gaining 0.8 percent on June 25. Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest
offshore oil explorer, rose 2.5 to HK$13.84.  
 Tokyo Steel Manufacturing Co.  advanced 0.9 percent to 1,013
yen. The company started supplying steel sheets to auto-parts
makers affiliated with Toyota Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co.,
the Nikkei newspaper reported.  
 In Kuala Lumpur, Berjaya Corp., a property, insurance and
gaming group, tumbled 13 percent to 1.23 ringgit, the biggest
fall on the Asia Pacific gauge. The government decided not to
re-issue a sports-betting license to Ascot Sports Sdn., a
company in which Berjaya had planned to buy a 70 percent stake.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mizuho Financial Group President and CEO Takashi Tsukamoto  
                       
                         
                           Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mizuho Financial Group Inc. President and CEO Takashi Tsukamoto speaks during a news conference in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mizuho Financial Group Inc. President and CEO Takashi Tsukamoto speaks during a news conference in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
