-- Movie Futures Based on Lion's Gate's Stallone Action Film Backed by Panel
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-06-28T22:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/movie-futures-based-on-lion-s-gate-s-stallone-action-film-backed-by-panel.html

          
          
             Cantor Fitzgerald LP today won U.S.
approval to offer a contract on movie box-office sales of  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp. ’s  “The Expendables,”  starring
 Sylvester Stallone .  
 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved by a 3-2
vote a request from the New York trading firm to sell contracts
on ticket sales in the four weeks after the scheduled August
opening of the movie, according to an agency statement.  
 “A broad range of participants in the film industry would
benefit” from the contract approved by the commission,  Richard Jaycobs , president of Cantor Exchange, said in an e-mailed
statement. The commission on June 14 let  Veriana Networks Inc. ’s
 Trend Exchange  offer box-office contracts to institutional
investors, the first market built on box-office ticket sales.  
 The  Motion Picture Association of America , representing
studios, and theater owners oppose the contracts as “wagers
susceptible to manipulation,” according to a letter to the
commission. Witnesses from film-financing companies told the
agency last month the contracts could help attract capital.  
 The regulator approved the Cantor Fitzgerald contract three
days after a ban on trading in movie futures was included in
legislation regulating derivatives that cleared a House-Senate
committee June 25. Congressional leaders said they plan to send
the bill for President  Barack Obama ’s signature by July 4.  
 “We look forward to Congress passing the proposed ban on
these contracts,” Elizabeth Kaltman, a motion-picture
association spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 ‘Assess Options’  
 Veriana’s plans remain unchanged and it’s not commenting on
congressional action, Stephanie DiIorio, a spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mail. Cantor “is continuing to assess its
options,” Jaycobs said.  
 The exchanges probably would be forced to shut once the ban
is signed into law,  Craig Pirrong , a finance professor at the
University of Houston, said today in an interview.  
 “They die before they’re ever really born,” Pirrong said.  
 The Cantor contract is based on a commodity, isn’t
susceptible to manipulation and can be used for hedging, the
agency said today in a statement.  
 Democratic Commissioner  Bart Chilton  dissented, saying the
contracts are “subject to disruptive trading and manipulation
because movie studios have a tremendous influence on box office
returns.” Republican Commissioner  Jill Sommers  also dissented.  
 The commission approved the Veriana and Cantor exchanges in
April, and is reviewing each type of contract proposed by the
exchanges to deter speculative instruments.  
 The agency must approve the applications unless it finds
the proposed instruments would violate the law governing futures
contracts, Richard Shilts, director of the commission’s division
of market oversight,  said  May 19.  
 The motion-picture group represents  Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount
Pictures, Sony’s filmed entertainment division,  News Corp .’s
Twentieth Century Fox,  General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal,
 Walt Disney Co.  and  Time Warner Inc. ’s Warner Bros. Pictures.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        