-- Paterson Threatens to Veto New York Lawmakers' Spending Plans in Budget
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/paterson-threatens-to-veto-n-y-lawmakers-spending-bills-on-medicaid-loss.html

          
          
             New York  Governor  David Paterson 
said he will veto parts of spending bills proposed by leaders of
the Legislature if they don’t add a plan to cope with a possible
$1 billion loss of federal funding for Medicaid health care.  
 Paterson’s threat came after lawmakers obeyed his call for
a special session last night, then adjourned in less than five
minutes without voting or debating any bills to close the
state’s $9.2 billion  deficit . The legislators’ spending plan,
which they plan to vote on today, assumes full federal funding
of Medicaid.  
 “It’s as if they stick their head in the sand” and ignore
that the U.S. Senate has failed three times to approve the
additional federal Medicaid funding, Paterson said at a press
conference in Albany. New York, along with 30 other states and
New York City, included the Medicaid money in their budgets.  
 Besides Medicaid funds, the biggest difference between
Paterson and lawmakers is state aid to local school districts,
said Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver , a Democrat from Manhattan.
He said lawmakers would provide schools about $200 million more
than the governor, a Democrat who isn’t running for re-election
in November.  
 Paterson said his veto threat covered $519 million of
spending lawmakers added to the  budget  he proposed four months
ago, mostly aid to education, and all 6,800 “member items,”
totaling $193 million, that lawmakers are allowed to give to
not-for-profit and other groups in their districts.  
 ‘Balance the Budget’  
 The vetoes “won’t shut the government down, but it will
balance the budget,” Paterson said.  
 New York, the nation’s third-most-populous state, has
operated under emergency spending measures since its fiscal year
began April 1. Lawmakers and the governor haven’t agreed on how
to close the $9.2 billion deficit in a $135 billion spending
plan Paterson proposed in January.  
 In the absence of a comprehensive budget, the governor has
shuffled funds between accounts and delayed payments to schools
and contractors as cash dwindled.  
 By passing appropriations for wages and expenses for the
parts of government not covered by earlier measures, the
Legislature would end the threat of a shutdown if they don’t
approve the governor’s bills.  
 This year’s budget is the latest since 2004, when a
spending plan wasn’t approved until August, a record 133 days
late.  
 Negotiating Position  
 By introducing their own appropriations bills and removing
the shutdown threat if they don’t pass the governor’s versions,
lawmakers are in a position “to negotiate not from a position
of weakness but from a position of strength,” Senate Democratic
Leader  John Sampson  of Brooklyn said before Paterson’s press
conference.  
 Sampson and Silver said their budget bills will pass today,
even without the governor’s prior agreement.  
 “I prefer to work with the governor, negotiate with the
governor and have a three-way agreement with the governor,
myself and the Speaker,” Sampson said.  
 The budget plan prepared by the Legislature is short of
balancing the state’s budget by “at least $500 million,” said
Peter Kiernan, counsel to Paterson.  
 Silver said the plan is in balance and doesn’t need
provisions for the possible loss of Medicaid money. The
legislators’ bills don’t include borrowing to close the budget
gap, contrary to proposals from the Senate and Assembly in
March.  
 The Assembly and Senate revenue  plan  would impose the
state’s 4 percent sales tax on clothing purchases of less than
$110, to raise $330 million. Another $140 million of savings
would come from reductions in a state program to lower school
property tax assessments on homeowners.  
 Tax Credits  
 Capping tax credits at $2 million per year per business
would save about $100 million, as would reducing the
deductibility of charitable contributions by those earning over
$10 million, to 25 percent from 50 percent.  
 Another $100 million of one-time revenue would come from
shortening the time needed for the state to claim money from
dormant assets such as non-bank money orders.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        