-- New Planes Must Show Ability to Withstand Icing Under FAA Rule After Crash
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-06-28T15:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/planemakers-must-demonstrate-resistance-to-icing-in-new-models-faa-says.html

          
          
             Aircraft and engine manufacturers
must show their new models can withstand freezing rain and
drizzle, U.S. aviation regulators said today, expanding rules to
cut risks from icing in response to a fatal 1994  crash .  
 Complying with the requirement would cost $71 million,
mostly absorbed by manufacturers such as airplane makers  Boeing
Co.  and Airbus SAS as well as engine manufacturers  General
Electric Co . and  United Technologies Corp. ’s Pratt & Whitney,
the Federal Aviation Administration said in the proposed  rule  to
be published in tomorrow’s Federal Register.  
 U.S. air-safety advocates recommended icing rules after a
flight operated by Simmons Airlines for  AMR Corp. ’s American
Eagle unit crashed in Roselawn, Indiana, on Oct. 31, 1994,
killing all 68 people on board. Freezing drizzle led to a ridge
of ice on an Avions de Transport Regional ATR-72, causing the
airplane to lose control after holding at 10,000 feet, the
National Transportation Safety Board concluded in 1996.  
 The NTSB’s final report recommended that the FAA require
manufacturers to ensure new products are tested for all types of
icing conditions the aircraft may encounter in flight. The FAA
hasn’t previously required manufacturers to show how products
can operate in freezing rain and drizzle.  
 The requirement also covers ice crystals, and a mix of the
crystals and freezing rain and drizzle. The FAA reported 14
cases of crystals and mixes causing engine loss between 1988 and
2009, though no fatalities.  
 The Roselawn crash prompted additional requirements. In
2009, the FAA issued a rule requiring that new passenger
aircraft include ice-prevention systems that automatically
activate or alert pilots to turn on the equipment.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        