-- Poland Seeks Bids for Enea as Asset Sales to Fund Budget Deficit Continue
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-06-28T14:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/poland-seeks-bids-for-enea-as-deficit-trimming-state-asset-sales-continue.html

          
          
             Poland called for bids for a
majority stake in  Enea SA , the country’s third-largest utility,
as the Treasury Ministry continues selling power assets to help
finance the budget deficit.  
 Potential investors have until July 28 to bid for 51
percent of the Poznan, Poland-based company, the ministry said
in an announcement in the  Rzeczpospolita  newspaper today. The
bidders may include state-controlled Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA, Poland’s dominant gas company, and Vattenfall
AB, the biggest Nordic utility.  
 The stake is valued at 3.97 billion zloty ($1.2 billion)
after  Enea  shares fell 1.1 percent to 17.65 zloty in Warsaw
trading today.  
 Poland is increasing efforts to sell stakes in the five
power groups it controls, joining other government sales of
utilities in the region, after the sale of Enea failed in 2009.
The ministry sold 16 percent of Enea in February and found
buyers for 52 percent of Tauron Polska Energia SA, the country’s
second-largest power group, in an initial public offering
earlier this month.  
 Enea “will be attractive enough for RWE and Vattenfall,
and Polish companies like PGNiG and Kulczyk,” Dan Kaprisek, an
analyst at UniCredit SpA in Prague, said by phone, saying a
price of about 20 zloty a share was “justifiable.”  
 Gornictwo ‘Analyzing’  
 Polskie Gornictwo, known as PGNiG, is analyzing the
possibility of a bid, spokeswoman  Joanna Zakrzewska  said by
phone.  
 Vattenfall, which already holds 19 percent of Enea, is also
“looking into the process” and at the same time doesn’t have
plans to sell its minority stake, Ewa Pfutzner, a spokeswoman
for the company’s Polish unit, said by phone today.  
 RWE AG , the second-largest German utility, which last year
failed to buy Enea as it disagreed on the price with the
government, doesn’t plan to bid now, spokesman Juergen Frech
said in a telephone interview today.  
 Marta Wysocka of Kulczyk Investments, controlled by Polish
billionaire  Jan Kulczyk , declined to comment.  
 Bulgaria plans to sell its minority stakes in all seven
power distributors that were sold in 2005 and Romania aims to
sell stakes in OMV Petrom SA, the largest oil company, and
Romgaz SA, the biggest gas producer. Turkey aims to sell 10.4
billion liras ($6.6 billion) of assets this year and Russia
seeks to raise 72 billion rubles ($2.3 billion).  
 Smaller Rivals  
 Poland plans to complete sales of Enea’s smaller rivals
Energa SA and ZE PAK SA by the end of November, and cut its
stake in  PGE SA , the country’s biggest utility, by 10 percent
later this year.  
 Proceeds from the sale of stakes in the five power groups
will cover more than half the 36.7 billion zloty Poland wants to
raise from asset sales in the 18 months ending in this December,
Deputy Treasury Minister  Jan Bury  said in 2009. This year alone,
Poland wants to raise 25 billion zloty to help finance its
widening budget gap.  
 Apart from Tauron and Enea, the ministry has already found
buyers for stakes in companies including copper producer KGHM
Polska Miedz SA, insurer PZU SA and coal miner Lubelski Wegiel
Bogdanka SA, raising 11.7 billion zloty so far this year.  
 The ministry aims to close the Enea deal as late as the
beginning of 2011. After RWE placed the only bid for Enea in
2009, this year interest in Polish electricity generation
companies rose with the government shortlisting of four and five
bidders for negotiations to buy PAK and Energa respectively.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        