-- Polish Support May Help PKO Bid for AIB's Bank Zachodni If Price Is Right
-- Marta Waldoch
-- 2010-06-28T09:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/polish-support-may-help-pko-bid-for-aib-s-bank-zachodni-if-price-is-right.html

          
          
             Support from the Polish government
and financial market regulator may help  PKO Bank Polski SA ,
Poland’s largest bank, to take over Allied Irish Banks Plc’s
local unit if it offers a price similar to other bidders.  
 AIB is selling 70 percent of  Bank Zachodni WBK SA , Poland’s
third-biggest bank by  market value , to help meet capital
requirements set by Irish banking regulators. The Polish
government supports state-controlled PKO’s bid to buy the stake,
Treasury Minister  Aleksander Grad  said last week. The
transaction requires approval from financial regulators.  
 “It’s hard to believe that AIB would pick PKO if its offer
is lower,” while official backing “may help PKO if the price
offers are comparable,” said  Marcin Jablczynski , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in Warsaw.  
 BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and OAO Sberbank of
Russia are also among banks considering a bid for Allied Irish’s
stake in Bank Zachodni, three people with knowledge of the
matter said on June 15. The deadline for non-binding initial
bids was 9 a.m. today and AIB plans to shortlist investors by
mid-July, Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita said.  Ronan Sheridan ,
an AIB spokesman in Dublin, declined to comment on the report.  
 “For AIB, price will be the most important, but buyers may
take into account potential problems with getting approval, and
that may be a reason for some of them not to place an offer,”
said  Andrzej Powierza , a Warsaw-based Citigroup Inc. analyst.
“In the global economy’s current condition you can always have
some reservations about any bank’s balance sheet.”  
 Stanislaw Kluza , head of Poland’s financial regulator, said
his office will analyze “many criteria,” including whether the
bidder has taken public aid and whether the acquisition would
“harm the Polish banking industry’s safety and stability.” A
takeover by PKO would be “neutral” for the market, he said.  
 EU Intervention  
 European Union regulators intervened in 2007 when Poland
tried to block the merger of  UniCredit SpA ’s Polish units,  Bank
Pekao SA  and  Bank BPH SA . UniCredit, which bought BPH in 2005 as
part of its takeover of HVB Group, agreed to sell some branches
and the BPH brand name to win approval.  
 Pekao is also analyzing a purchase of Zachodni, Chief
Executive Officer  Alicja Kornasiewicz  said on June 14.  
 “In developed countries about 70 percent of banks are
domestic, while in developing states including Poland this is
reversed, and this may create risks,” Kluza said on June 24,
adding that no bank “will be favored.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        