-- Pound Climbs to 7-Week High Versus Dollar on G-20 Austerity, No Bank Tax
-- Keith Jenkins
-- 2010-06-28T15:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/pound-falls-from-seven-week-high-versus-dollar-after-home-price-gains-slow.html

          
          
             The pound rose to its highest level
against the dollar in seven weeks as Group of 20 leaders
endorsed budget-deficit targets, said they’ll focus on nurturing
growth and avoided taxing banks.  
 Sterling also gained against the euro, reaching its
strongest level in nineteen months, while two-year gilts slipped
as investors prepared to absorb debt sales across Europe.
President  Barack Obama  said the G-20’s goal of cutting deficits
in half by 2013 reflects U.S. targets and takes into account
fiscal and economic needs of each nation. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the U.K.’s austerity budget, unveiled last week,
would help keep “a level of confidence” in the economy.  
 “The G-20 was the classic compromise solution with
something for everyone despite the divergent views,” said  Ian Stannard , senior foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in London. “The fact that banking reform is being pushed a
little bit to the back of the agenda may help sterling at the
margin,” given the finance industry’s importance to the British
economy, he said.  
 The pound gained 0.3 percent to $1.5110 at 4:15 p.m. in
London after reaching $1.5120, its highest level since May 6.
The U.K. currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 81.64 pence per
euro after reaching 81.58 pence, the strongest since Nov. 2008.  
 “We look at the current rebound against the dollar as a
corrective move” after it sank earlier this year, Stannard
said. Sterling has weakened 0.5 percent against the dollar this
quarter, and 6.6 percent this year.  
 Gilt Sale  
 The two-year yield gained two basis points to 0.74 percent.
The 10-year gilt  yield  fell one basis point to 3.37 percent. It
touched 3.36 percent earlier, the lowest since Oct. 9.  
 Concern that economic growth will stall amid Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis has helped gilts return 5.6 percent this
year, compared with gains of 6.7 percent for German government
bonds and 5.2 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  
 The U.K. government plans to sell a 4.25 percent gilt due
2040 through banks this week, following more than $12 billion of
securities being offered today from nations including Italy and
Belgium. Books for the new gilt sale are expected to open
tomorrow, subject to market conditions, according to a banker
involved in the transaction.  
 The Debt Management Office, which handles bond sales for
the Treasury, said June 11 that Barclays Plc, Morgan Stanley,
Nomura International Plc and Royal Bank of Canada Capital
Markets had been asked to sell the securities in a so-called
syndicated transaction.  
 ‘Policy Divergence’  
 Sterling will resume declining against the dollar as fiscal
retrenchment in Europe and the U.K. slows growth relative to the
U.S., according to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.  
 “We would agree with the U.S. stance and find it difficult
to fathom the idea of rushing through fiscal consolidation
measures to appease ratings agencies that played a key role in
orchestrating the onset of the entire financial crisis,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of global currency research, wrote in a
report today. “This policy divergence is likely to mean that
both the euro and the pound will resume their descent against
the U.S. dollar over the coming months.”  
 Sterling slipped earlier today after a report showed house
prices rose the least in five months in June. The average home
price in England and Wales gained 0.1 percent from May to
158,900 pounds ($237,317), London-based property researcher
Hometrack Ltd. said. A separate report from Savills Plc said
second-quarter luxury-home prices in central London, defined as
properties worth more than 1 million pounds, rose by the
smallest amount in five quarters.  
 ‘Fiscal Tightening’  
 Gains by the U.K. pound may be limited as investors bet the
government’s budget cuts will hinder the economic recovery,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  
 “At some stage the impact of fiscal tightening on growth
will become visible and at that stage, weaker demand could
translate into weaker sterling again,” analysts including
 Thomas Stolper  in London wrote in an e-mailed report received
today. “But just how much is tough to say.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        