-- Prostate Cancer Patients Face Yearlong Rationing of Provenge
-- Tom Randall
-- 2010-06-28T20:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/prostate-cancer-patients-face-year-of-rationing-for-dendreon-s-new-vaccine.html

          
          
             Prostate cancer patients seeking
 Dendreon Corp. ’s new tumor-fighting vaccine, Provenge, face
delays of a year or more as hospital waiting lists dwarf the
company’s capacity to produce medicine.  
 Dendreon can only make enough Provenge to treat about 2
percent of eligible patients until manufacturing increases in
mid-2011, said Chief Operating Officer  Hans Bishop . The
 University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center  and Duke
University’s Comprehensive Cancer Center are among hospitals
scrambling to decide who should get the drug. Duke is
considering principles used for high-demand organ transplants.  
 Typically, cancer drugs are first approved for a narrow
group of difficult-to-treat patients, and by the time they’re
widely released, there is sufficient supply. The last time a new
cancer treatment faced similar shortages was in 1992, with
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co .’s Taxol. Investors are also concerned
about shortfalls,  sending Dendreon shares  down 33 percent since
they peaked after Provenge was approved on April 29.  
 “Until the capacity issues can be addressed, this will not
be an effective agent,” said  Chris Logothetis , head of prostate
cancer research at MD Anderson in Houston, in a telephone
interview. “The waiting list -- even as we are telling patients
we’re not starting a waiting list because we are inundated -- is
more than 50 patients. This is going to be a problem.”  
 Dendreon, based in Seattle, rose 15 cents, or less than 1
percent, to $37.15 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading.  
 New Treatment Approach  
 Provenge takes a new approach to treating cancer, drawing
blood from the patient’s body and training the immune system to
attack malignant cells. On average, the medicine helped patients
live an extra four months in testing, or twice the benefit of
chemotherapy and with fewer side effects.  
 More than 27,000 men die of prostate cancer each year in
the U.S. and about 200,000 new patients are identified,
according to the  American Cancer Society . At any given time, as
many as 20 percent of patients may qualify for Provenge,
Logothetis said.  
 It takes about a month to prepare each custom-made course
of doses, Dendreon’s Bishop said. The company plans to make
enough to accommodate 2,000 patients in the first year, falling
short of the  100,000 patients  with advanced tumors who may be
eligible to receive it.  
 Approval Uncertainty  
 The shortages stem from Dendreon’s uncertainty about
whether the U.S. Food and Drug Administration would approve the
drug. The agency had previously denied approval, asking for more
testing. Dendreon couldn’t develop manufacturing facilities and
seek clearance of the plants until the regulators reached a
decision, Bishop said in a telephone interview.  
 Dendreon is producing the initial doses in a single New
Jersey plant. The facility will reach full capacity in early
2011, quadrupling the available vaccine, Bishop said. By the end
of next year, the plant will be joined by facilities in Atlanta
and Los Angeles to churn out medicine each year valued at
between $1.25 billion and $2.5 billion, he said.  
 “It’s an unfortunate reality that there is not enough
manufacturing capacity, but it’s a difficult process,” said
 Kris Jenner , a portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in
Baltimore, which held about  287,000 shares of Dendreon  as of
March 31, according to  regulatory filings .  
 Adding to the Stake  
 Jenner, who manages his company’s $2.2 billion Health
Sciences Fund, said he’s been adding to the stake since the most
recent filing.  
 “The company has to be responsible to the  shareholders 
that made this a reality; they also have to be responsible to
the patients who are in line,” Jenner said in a telephone
interview. “Hopefully after we exit 2011, the availability will
become much better.”  
 Beginning in the next six to eight weeks, MD Anderson will
be allotted enough Provenge to treat two new patients a month,
each of whom will receive three doses, Logothetis said. The
center sees 40 new prostate cancer patients a week, and doctors
may have to resort to a lottery system to make decisions if they
can’t agree on which patients will receive the most benefit, he
said. MD Anderson is one of about 50  treatment centers  to
receive the initial doses.  
 Duke’s cancer center in Durham, North Carolina, looked to
the example of  organ transplants  to come up with its plan for
dealing with the Provenge shortage, said Jeffrey Peppercorn, an
ethics expert and breast cancer specialist who helped craft
Duke’s guidelines.  
 ‘Clinicians Arguing’  
 It convened a group of its genitourinary oncologists, two
bioethicists and an expert in organ transplants to outline
criteria for choosing who will receive the drug, he said.  
 “In oncology, we’re not used to situations where we have a
treatment that may help and we don’t have enough of it,”
Peppercorn said in a telephone interview. “We don’t want to
have clinicians arguing over whose patient should receive it. We
want them all to step back and discuss this as a group.”  
 To meet Duke’s criteria, patients must closely match the
profile of participants in the drug studies; they must have
cancer that has spread beyond the prostate but they don’t yet
show severe symptoms, he said. They should be expected to live
at least six months in order to receive the treatment’s full
benefits. Finally, they must be able to pay the $93,000 price
tag for the medicine.  
 Health insurers  Aetna Inc.  and  Humana Inc.  have said they
will cover Provenge, and other plans are expected to follow,
according to Dendreon. Patients may need to seek outside
assistance to cover the 20 percent co-pay some plans charge.  
 Differing Strategies  
 The rationing strategies at Duke and MD Anderson differ in
some aspects. After other qualifications are considered, Duke
will give the medicine to patients in the order they sign up,
while MD Anderson will shift to a random lottery system. MD
Anderson gives priority to patients who previously enrolled in
clinical trials, while Duke does not.  
 “We think it’s better if the company stays out of deciding
which patient gets it,” Dendreon’s Bishop said. “We discussed
this with patient advocates and clinicians that are expert in
the field, and the overwhelming advice we got was to let doctors
decide, using their clinical judgment.”  
 Dendreon initially applied for approval of Provenge in
2007, and was denied based on a study of 127 men that showed the
drug improved survival and a second study of 98 men that failed
to show a statistically significant benefit. It has since tested
the vaccine in a 512-patient pivotal study.  
 Staying Alone  
 Dendreon, with a  market value  of about $5 billion and no
other marketed products, decided to make Provenge on its own
instead of partnering with a larger drug company. Regulators
must approve each new facility, and the process would take a
similar amount of time for a larger company if Dendreon decided
to license production, Bishop said.  
 “We know more about this product that anyone,” Bishop
said. “We realized that much of the challenge was in an area
that we had strong expertise. If you think about the commercial
infrastructure that a product like Provenge requires, it’s
actually very manageable for a company our size.”  
 Once Dendreon has proven itself in the U.S., the company
may seek sales partners in countries overseas, Bishop said.  
 After a slow start, the drug may generate annual  sales  of
$1.7 billion by 2014, said  Eric Schmidt , an analyst at Cowen &
Co in New York.  
 The shortage “is what it is,” and shouldn’t affect long-
term sales, Schmidt said in a telephone interview. He estimates
the company will process enough of the medicine for 1,500 new
patients a month by the end of next year.  
 “I prefer that they go it alone,” Schmidt said. “I think
the drug will sell itself on its own merits.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Provenge  
                       
                         
                           Dendreon Corp. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Cell separation process during the manufacturing of Dendreon Corp.'s Provenge vaccine for prostate cancer. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Cell separation process during the manufacturing of Dendreon Corp.'s Provenge vaccine for prostate cancer. Source: Dendreon Corp. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
