-- Qatar's Al-Thani Affirms Single Currency Commitment Amid EU Debt Concern
-- Camilla Hall
-- 2010-06-28T13:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/qatar-s-al-thani-affirms-single-currency-commitment-amid-eu-debt-concern.html

          
          
             Qatar’s Central Bank Governor  Sheikh Abdullah bin Saud al-Thani  said Qatar is committed to plans for
a Gulf monetary union and the project is progressing, dismissing
concerns that the European Union debt crisis may derail it.  
 “We are committed,” al-Thani said today in an interview
in Basel, Switzerland. “It’s going forward, we are doing the
homework,” and “we are looking forward to having the currency
as soon as things are ready,” he said. He declined to set a
deadline.  
 The euro sovereign debt crisis is likely to delay the
introduction of a common currency by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar
and Bahrain,  Emirates Business 24/7 reported  last month citing a
survey of economists in the region. It didn’t give details of
the poll. Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed al-Sabah said
problems with the EU currency union may lead to a “pause” in
the Gulf plan, Kuwait News Agency said May 24, and Bahrain has
voiced similar concerns.  
 Saudi Arabia’s central bank Governor  Muhammad al-Jasser ,
who is also chairing the project, said on May 24 there had been
no change in strategy as a result of the Greek debt crisis. The
currency should have been in place this year under the original
timetable. No new date has been set.  
 Al-Thani said he is not concerned about fluctuations in the
euro because Qatar’s reserves are “balanced,” with the largest
denomination in dollars.  
 The governor said there are no current plans to issue more
sovereign bonds after 10 billion riyals ($2.7 billion) were sold
earlier this month. He forecast economic growth of 18 percent
this year, and inflation of 1 percent.  
 Qatar’s banks don’t have “significant” loans to Dubai
World, the state-owned company restructuring $23.5 billion in
debt, and the financial industry’s non-performing loans are
“very stable” at about 1.8 percent of all credit, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in London at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        