-- Realia Business May Sell SIIC de Paris Stake Within Three Months, FCC Says
-- Sharon Smyth
-- 2010-06-28T08:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/realia-business-may-sell-siic-de-paris-stake-within-three-months-fcc-says.html

          
          
             Realia Business SA  may sell part of
its stake in  SIIC de Paris , a French real estate investment
trust, within three months, according to one of the Spanish
company’s biggest shareholders.  
 Realia, a Madrid-based property company that owns about  84 
percent of SICC, must cut the stake to less than 60 percent by
the end of the year to comply with French REIT rules and avoid
the risk of losing tax benefits.  
 “We’ve had many offers, some for the entire company,”
 Baldomero Falcones , chief executive officer of  Fomento de
Construcciones y Contratas SA , said in an interview last week.
“We’re weighing up whether to sell a stake or combine SICC with
another company to dilute our holding.” FCC and Caja Madrid
control Realia.  
 SICC owns 34 buildings in Paris valued at 1.09 billion
euros ($1.4 billion), including properties leased to Sony Corp.,
 Lafarge SA  and Electricite de France SA, according to Realia’s
 website . FCC, a Madrid-based company with businesses ranging
from construction to waste collection, also aims to divest
assets such as 31 underground car parks in Spain to become less
dependent on its home market.  
 Infrastructure Deal  
 The Spanish company, which has a  market value  of 2.3
billion euros, is also in talks with 10 funds in Europe, the
U.S., Canada and Australia to sell as much as 30 percent of
 Global Via Infrastructuras SA , an infrastructure holding company
it owns with Caja Madrid, a savings bank.  
 “We could close a deal before the end of the year, but
it’s not an objective,” 63-year-old Falcones said. “However,
we will sell the stake before we hold an initial public offering
of the unit in two or three years.”  
 FCC, which sold 450 million euros of convertible bonds in
October, has permission from its shareholders to sell another
500 million euros in bonds and an additional 300 million euros
in convertible bonds to refinance debt.  
 “Right now is not a good time, but a window of opportunity
could open up in the second half of the year,” Falcones said.
The company aims to end the year with 7.5 billion euros of net
debt, down from 8.3 billion euros now.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sharon Smyth  in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        