-- U.S. Treasuries Gain; G-20 Deficit-Reduction Vow Fuels Recovery Pessimism
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-06-28T10:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/treasuries-rise-two-year-yield-matches-2010-low-as-g-20-to-trim-deficit.html

          
          
             Ten-year Treasuries rose for a
second day  after Group of 20 leaders endorsed targets to cut
their budget  deficits , fueling concern that the economic
recovery may stall.  
 U.S. securities held gains from last week after the G-20
said advanced economies plan to reduce their deficits in half by
2013, allowing them to curb record bond sales. Economists said a
U.S. report this week will show the nation lost jobs in June,
boosting demand for the safety of government debt.  
 “Deficit cuts will be positive for bond markets,” said
 Orlando Green , an interest-rates strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “The fiscal drag will
add to doubts about the economic recovery.”  
 The 10-year yield declined two basis points to 3.09 percent
as of 6 a.m. in New York, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 3.5 percent note maturing May 2020 gained 6/32,
or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 103 15/32. The two-year  note 
yielded 0.66 percent, after earlier falling to 0.633 percent,
the same level reached June 24, the least since Nov. 27.  
 The two-year yield is approaching the record low of 0.6044
percent set Dec. 17, 2008, after the Federal Reserve cut its
 target  for overnight bank lending to a range of zero to 0.25
percent. The two-year rate peaked this year at 1.176 percent on
April 5 before dropping as a debt crisis in Europe and signs
U.S. inflation is slowing lured investors to the safest
securities.  
 Two-year  yields  are 40 basis points more than the upper
range of the Fed’s target for overnight bank loans, near the
narrowest spread between the two since December 2008. Ten-year
rates, a benchmark for consumer and company borrowing costs,
declined one basis point to 3.10 percent.  
 Mortgage Rates  
 U.S. 30-year average fixed-mortgage  rates  were 4.73 percent
as of June 25, according to Bankrate.com in North Palm Beach,
Florida. They fell to 4.72 percent the day before, the lowest
since Bankrate.com began tracking the figure in 1998.  
 President  Barack Obama  said the goal set by the G-20
nations of cutting deficits reflects U.S. targets and takes into
account the fiscal and economic needs of each country. The White
House projects the U.S. shortfall will be a record of almost
$1.6 trillion this year. The U.S. marketable  debt  has climbed to
an unprecedented $7.96 trillion.  
 “There was a bit more focus on cutting deficits than we
had some time ago,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at
Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “There’s a fairly strong
understanding among leading politicians that they need to act on
deficits.”  
 Payrolls declined by 110,000 this month, according to the
median estimate of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before the Labor Department’s July 2 report.  
 Inflation Slows  
 Separate figures today may show the Fed’s preferred price
gauge, which excludes food and fuel, rose in May at the slowest
pace in eight years. Costs increased 1.1 percent from a year
earlier, the least since September 2001, another Bloomberg
survey showed. Slowing price gains in the economy help preserve
the value of the fixed payments from bonds.  
 Global bonds had their best first half since 2005, raising
speculation the rally is near an end.  
 Investors who piled into Treasuries, bunds, gilts, and
Japanese government debt on speculation that Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis would derail global growth are finding the
securities less appealing with yields at about the lowest on
record. The emerging bearishness may be most apparent in the
 $4.3 trillion-a-day  market for U.S. Treasury repurchase
agreements, where no maturity commands a premium.  
 Not ‘Special’  
 That’s a switch from a year earlier, when investors
resorted to paying interest to borrowers while lending cash just
to obtain Treasuries after the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. None of the securities are what traders call
on “special” in a sign that investors don’t expect Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will curb the global economic recovery,
according to data from GovPX Inc., a unit of ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  
 Ten-year note yields will climb to 3.74 percent and two-
year rates will be 1.46 percent by year-end, according to a
Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies, with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  
 Investors should be “underweight” two-year Treasuries,
analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. led by  Srini Ramaswamy  in New
York wrote to clients on June 25.  
 “Yields are likely floored near current levels,”
according to JPMorgan, one of the 18 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed.  
 Investors in a weekly survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP, another
ICAP unit, became less bearish on outlook on Treasuries for
year-end.  
 The company’s index for Dec. 31 rose to 44 for the seven
days ended June 25 from 43 the week before. A figure less than
50 shows investors expect prices to fall. The company, based in
Jersey City, New Jersey, interviewed 17 fund managers
controlling $1.26 trillion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        