-- Reliance Communications, Oil & Natural Gas Lead as India's Sensex Advances
-- Rajhkumar K Shaaw
-- 2010-06-28T11:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/reliance-communications-ongc-lead-as-india-s-sensitive-index-advances.html

          
          
             India’s stocks advanced for the
first time in three days.  Reliance Communications Ltd.  led gains
amid expectations it will reduce debt after selling a unit.  
 Reliance Communications, the nation’s second-largest
wireless carrier, jumped to the highest in eight months after
selling its mobile-phone towers to GTL Infrastructure Ltd.  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. , the largest state-owned oil explorer,
extended its advance from a record for a second day after the
government increased fuel prices.  Reliance Industries Ltd. , the
most valuable company, gained 2.6 percent after it made its
seventh oil discovery in a block in the Cambay basin in western
Indian state of Gujarat.  
 “It is better to buy companies that have strong
fundamentals and fairly strong elbow room in terms of financial
resources,” said  Avinash Gupta , an analyst at Bonanza Portfolio
Ltd., a New Delhi-based brokerage. “The fuel price increase may
lead to inflationary pressure in the short term, but it may also
bring down the government’s subsidy burden.”  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
gained 199.73, or 1.1 percent, to 17,774.26, its highest in a
week. The S&P CNX  Nifty  Index on the National Stock Exchange
rose 1.2 percent to 5,333.50. The  BSE 200 Index  increased 1.2
percent to 2,255.68.  
 Lower Liabilities  
 Reliance Communications climbed 4.9 percent to 201.65
rupees, its highest close since October. The company will cut
its debt by at least $3 billion by selling the mobile-phone
transmission towers, people familiar with the deal said. GTL
soared 3.9 percent to 47.1 rupees, its highest close since June
2009.  
 “Traders are buying and selling on stock-specific news,”
said  Arun Kejriwal , the Mumbai-based director of Kejriwal
Research & Investment Services Pvt. “All the concerns like
global factors, domestic inflation and an interest-rate hike are
still there.”  
 Oil & Natural surged 3.3 percent to 1,304.85 rupees, its
highest level since the shares were listed in August 1995,
extending a 6.2 percent climb. India on June 25 scrapped price
controls on gasoline and diesel after more than seven years, a
move that will reduce the country’s budget deficit and increase
refiners’ profits. Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest state-
owned refiner, gained 5.2 percent to a record 397.6 rupees,
extending an 11 percent advance.  
 Ratings Raised  
 Bharat Petroleum Corp.  soared 3.5 percent to 642.5 rupees,
extending a 13 percent surge, while  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. 
increased 7.7 percent to 433 rupees. Both companies were raised
to “buy” from “hold” by  Amit Rustagi , an analyst at Antique
Stock Broking.  
 Reliance Industries  gained 2.6 percent to 1,090.15 rupees,
its highest since April 13. Reliance, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
Essar Energy Plc may revive plans to add retail fuel outlets in
India after Asia’s third-biggest energy consumer scrapped
subsidizing gasoline and diesel. Essar Energy will
“significantly” increase the number of outlets, said  Naresh Nayyar , chief executive officer of Essar Energy.  
 Reliance Industries should gain from the government’s
decision to lift subsidies on gasoline and diesel and may
revisit its strategy to build 5,000 fuel outlets, Morgan Stanley
analysts  Vinay Jaising  and  Rakesh Sethia  said in a June 26 note
to clients.  
 Fanning Prices  
 India’s decision to allow fuel prices to rise may spur the
 inflation  rate, which was 10.16 in May, by almost a percentage
point, the finance ministry said. That may increase pressure on
the central bank to increase borrowing costs.  
 Still, removing subsidies will pare the government’s $5.5
billion oil subsidy that accounts for about 2.5 percent of its
budget. The move comes as global investors heighten scrutiny of
government finances in the aftermath of the European sovereign-
debt crisis.  
 “Though the immediate impact of this policy will be to
increase inflation, in six to nine months we will have lower
prices than would have happened in the absence of this much-
needed reform,”  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser at the
finance ministry, said on June 25.  
 Overseas  funds  purchased a net  12.4 billion rupees  of
Indian equities on June 24, taking their total investments in
the stocks this year to 307 billion rupees, according to the
nation’s market regulator.  
 Inflows from overseas reached a record 834.2 billion rupees
in 2009, exceeding the high set two years ago in local currency
terms, as the biggest advance in 18 years lured foreign funds.
They sold a record 529.9 billion rupees of shares in 2008,
triggering a record annual decline.  
 The following were among the most active on the exchange:  
 Essar Oil Ltd.  (ESOIL IN) advanced 2.4 percent to 140.9
rupees. The second-biggest non-state refiner won four coal-bed
methane blocks, it said in a statement to the Bombay Stock
Exchange. The largest private fuel retailer is also set to
benefit “significantly” from India’s decision to partially
deregulate fuel prices,  Nitin Sharma , an analyst at JP Morgan
Cazenove Ltd., wrote in a note to clients.  
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.  (MM IN) climbed 1.6 percent to
622.85 rupees. The biggest maker of tractors plans to invest 2.5
billion rupees in its aerospace business, Vice Chairman  Anand Mahindra  said at a news conference in Bangalore on June 26.  
 Tata Motors Ltd.  (TTMT IN) rose 2.7 percent to 789.25
rupees, snapping four days of losses. Tata Group is close to
buying an automotive company in Mexico, Business Line reported,
citing  Lorenza Martinez , Mexico’s undersecretary for industry
and commerce. Tata Motors’ Vice Chairman  Ravi Kant  couldn’t
immediately be reached at his office telephone for comment on
the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        