-- Reserve Bank May Raise Key Rates Anytime, Deputy Governor Chakrabarty Says
-- Unni Krishnan
-- 2010-06-28T13:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/reserve-bank-may-raise-key-rates-anytime-deputy-governor-chakrabarty-says.html

          
          
             India’s central bank may raise
interest rates “anytime,” Deputy Governor  K.C. Chakrabarty 
said after the government allowed fuel prices to increase.  
 “The possibility of a rate hike is always there,”
Chakrabarty told reporters in Mumbai today. “It can happen
anytime. It can probably happen before the policy or even in the
policy.” He was referring to the Reserve Bank of India’s next
monetary policy meeting scheduled for July 27.  
 India’s inflation rate may climb by almost a percentage
point after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government June 25
allowed gasoline and diesel prices to rise, said Kaushik Basu,
chief economic adviser in the finance ministry. The benchmark
wholesale-price  inflation  index rose 10.16 percent in May.  
 “An inter-meeting rate hike is now a close call,” said
 Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura Holdings Plc.
“But with the severe tightening of liquidity conditions, our
base case is that the Reserve Bank will wait until July 27 and
will hike rates by 50 basis points instead of 25 basis points.”  
 The government permitted state refiners to set prices of
gasoline higher by about 3.5 rupees (7.5 cents) a liter and that
of diesel by 2 rupees, as it sought to cut subsidies and trim
the budget deficit from a 16-year high.  
 Reserve Bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao , who has raised
interest rates twice since mid-March by a quarter percentage
point each time, said June 18 he would tighten monetary policy
in a “calibrated” manner, given the cash squeeze in the
economy and risks to growth posed by Europe’s debt woes.  
 Cash Shortage  
 Indian lenders are short of cash after telecommunication
companies including  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  paid $14.6 billion of
license fees for wireless phone services and businesses withdrew
money to pay taxes.  
 The cash crunch has resulted in “some automatic
tightening” in borrowing costs, Subbarao said on June 18.  
 Overnight  interbank rates  advanced as much as 5.5 percent
in Mumbai today, higher than the central bank’s benchmark
repurchase rate of 5.25.  
 India’s government bonds gained today on speculation an
increase in fuel prices will help the government trim the budget
deficit and reduce borrowings.  
 The yield on the 10-year bond fell six basis points to 7.59
percent as of the 5:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the
central bank’s trading system.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        