-- Rio CEO Albanese Says Quarterly Iron-Ore Pricing May End If Mills Default
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-06-28T14:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/rio-ceo-albanese-says-quarterly-iron-ore-pricing-may-end-if-mills-default.html

          
          
             Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, said the new quarterly pricing system
for iron-ore sales may be scrapped if steel mills opt to buy
cheaper spot cargoes of the raw material.  
 “If the spot price drops below quarterly pricing and the
steel mills basically force us to sell at that lower spot price,
that will probably be the end of quarterly pricing,”  Tom Albanese , Rio’s chief executive officer, said in an interview at
the Fortune Global Forum in Cape Town yesterday.  
 Vale SA , Rio Tinto and  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
biggest exporters of the ore used to make steel, this year ended
a 40-year custom of pricing supplies annually. London-based Rio,
which reported iron-ore sales of $12.6 billion last year, is
selling almost 50 percent of its supply on quarterly contracts,
with most of its Asian customers signed on.  
 The quarterly price for the period starting July 1, based
on the average spot price for the three months from March, may
rise about 30 percent to $152 a metric ton, Sanford C. Bernstein
Ltd. analysts said in a June 14 report.  
 The  spot price  declined 1.5 percent to $139.70 a ton today,
according to The Steel Index. That’s an 8 percent discount to
the estimated quarterly price. Cash costs dipped below annual
prices in 2009 and some mills ignored contracts in favor of
cheaper spot cargoes, Albanese said in the interview.  
 “The customers were viewing that long-term contract as a
one-way option,” Albanese said. “That wasn’t something that
would be commercially acceptable from our perspective.”  
 Rio Tinto  is the world’s second-largest exporter of iron
ore, the largest raw-material expense in steel production.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        