-- Robert Byrd, Longest Serving U.S. Senator, Dies at 92
-- Lisa Lerer
-- 2010-06-28T16:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/robert-byrd-longest-serving-u-s-senator-dies-at-92.html

          
          
             Robert Byrd , the U.S. senator who
set records for longevity in Congress while becoming known for
his powerful oratory and mastery of legislative rules and
traditions, has died. He was 92.  
 Byrd died at a suburban Washington hospital early today,
according to his spokesman,  Jesse Jacobs . He was hospitalized
for symptoms of heat exhaustion and dehydration last week as
temperatures in the region were in the upper 90s. Doctors
subsequently discovered other, more serious conditions, his
office said.  
 The West Virginia Democrat’s death leaves his party with 58
votes in the Senate, two shy of the number necessary to overcome
Republican opposition to financial regulatory overhaul and the
confirmation of Supreme Court nominee  Elena Kagan . The seat
likely will stay in Democratic hands as West Virginia Governor
 Joe Manchin , a Democrat, has authority to appoint a replacement.  
 The longest-serving member of Congress in history, with six
years in the House followed by 51 years in the Senate, Byrd was
a throwback to the days when lawmakers delivered fist-pounding
speeches and unapologetically steered money to their home state.  
 President  Barack Obama  called Byrd “true champion” for
West Virginia and “a voice of principle and reason” for the
country.  
 A ‘Profound Passion’  
 “He had the courage to stand firm in his principles, but
also the courage to change over time,” Obama said in a
statement. “His profound passion for that body and its role and
responsibilities was as evident behind closed doors as it was in
the stemwinders he peppered with history.”  
 West Virginia Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a fellow Democrat,
said it had been his “greatest privilege” to serve in the
Senate with Byrd.  
 “I looked up to him, I fought next to him, and I am deeply
saddened that he is gone,” Rockefeller said in a statement.
“He leaves a void that simply can never be filled.”  
 Vice President  Joe Biden , a former senator, called Byrd a
“dear friend” and mentor, saying the Senate is “a lesser
place for his going.”  
 Byrd led the  Senate Appropriations Committee , which
controls funding for government agencies, during Democratic
majorities between 1989 and 2009. He turned over the chairman’s
gavel at the start Obama’s term, remaining a member of the
committee. “A new day has dawned in Washington, and that is a
good thing,” he said in a statement announcing the move.  
 As the Senate’s  president pro tempore , Byrd was  third in
line  to the U.S. presidency, after the vice president and
speaker of the U.S. House.  
 Rewarding Constituents  
 Byrd entered the Senate on Jan. 3, 1959, when  Dwight D.
Eisenhower  was president. He would serve with 10 more presidents
by winning re-election to eight more terms, and he rewarded his
constituents by bringing billions of dollars in federal projects
to the state. He won 64 percent of the vote in his last race.  
 Byrd  was an unofficial caretaker of Senate customs, a
guardian of precedents and procedures. He wrote a four-volume
Senate history and kept a dog-eared copy of the  U.S.
Constitution  in the three-piece suits he typically wore in the
Capitol.  
 His so-called  Byrd rule , adopted in 1985, prohibits the
Senate from tacking on “extraneous matter” to spending bills.
He strongly opposed the line-item veto power that Congress
granted to the president in 1996. “I don’t think he ever
forgave me for signing the bill,”  Bill Clinton  wrote of Byrd in
his  memoir . The presidential veto was overturned in court two
years after it was enacted.  
 Byrd’s Oratory  
 Opponents sometimes derided his lengthy speeches, studded
with references to noble Romans and ancient history. Yet even
when he developed a tremor and walked with canes late in life,
Byrd used rhetoric as a weapon to hammer policies and people he
opposed.  
 Hours before the U.S. attack on Iraq in 2003, Byrd
denounced President  George W. Bush ’s war strategy in a much-
quoted  speech .  
 “Today I weep for my country,” he said. “No more is the
image of America one of strong, yet benevolent peacekeeper.
Around the globe, our friends mistrust us, our word is disputed,
our intentions are questioned.”  
 Byrd had made clear his opposition months earlier, when
Bush sought advance Senate approval to attack Iraq. In a 2,200-
word speech, Byrd declared the president was rushing Congress to
back a “new Bush doctrine of preemptive strikes.”  
 Iraq War Vote  
 He later said his vote against invading Iraq was the best
one he ever cast. In a 2004  book , Byrd wrote, “For a long while
I have viewed with dismay each and every assault on the
separation of powers, and the continual grasping and groping for
more and more power by presidents of both political parties. But
never with such alarm as now.”  
 A champion of impoverished workers in his state, Byrd vowed
to steer $1 billion in federal projects to West Virginia when he
became Appropriations chairman in 1989. His promise came true
within two years. His dedication to the Senate was surpassed
only by his commitment to channel federal money to a state where
median annual household income in 2006 was $29,700.  
 The money built highways, bridges and  buildings , many
affixed with the name  Robert C. Byrd . It also brought federal
offices and jobs to West Virginia, including outposts of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Federal Aviation
Administration and the Coast Guard.  
 Caustic Questioning  
 Byrd could be caustic with those who came before the
committee. At a 2002 hearing, he derided then-Treasury Secretary
 Paul O’Neill  as a corporate executive with “millions of dollars
in trust accounts.” In contrast, Byrd said, “I grew up in a
coal miner’s home. I married a coal miner’s daughter.”  
 O’Neill responded, “I started my life in a house without
water or electricity. So I don’t cede to you the high moral
ground of not knowing what life is like in a ditch.”  
 Robert Carlyle Byrd  was born on Nov. 20, 1917, in North
Wilkesboro, North Carolina. His original name was Cornelius
Calvin Sale Jr. After his mother died in the 1918 flu pandemic,
he was renamed by the aunt and uncle who raised him in West
Virginia.  
 Valedictorian of his high school class, Byrd worked as a
butcher, produce salesman and welder before being elected in
1946 to West Virginia’s House of Delegates and then to the state
Senate. He was elected to the U.S. House in 1952 and served
three terms there until he won the first of his nine consecutive
U.S. Senate elections in 1958.  
 Byrd’s congressional career stretched from the early civil
rights era and war in Vietnam to the age of international terror
and the Iraq war.  
 Klan Membership  
 On some issues, he changed with the times. As a young man
in West Virginia, he joined the Ku Klux Klan, the white
supremacist group that terrorized blacks and supporters of civil
rights. In 1964 he filibustered against the landmark Civil
Rights Act, blocking action with a 14-hour speech at one point.  
 Over the years, Byrd repeatedly apologized for his earlier
involvement with the Klan. He also spent years repudiating his
stance against civil rights laws and said his vote against the
1964 act was one of the few he regretted. Other regrets were
supporting the 1964 Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, which expanded
the war in Vietnam, and the USA Patriot Act, enacted after the
2001 terror attacks.  
 On other issues, Byrd stood firm, such as his opposition to
allowing openly gay people to serve in the U.S. military.
According to the memoir of his close friend,  Edward Kennedy ,
Byrd once explained his understanding that ancient Rome had had
a problem “with young military boys turned into sex slaves.”  
 Majority Leader  
 Byrd, majority leader of the Senate’s Democrats for 12
years, helped push the Panama Canal treaty through Congress
during President  Jimmy Carter ’s administration. The treaty
transferred canal ownership to Panama as of Dec. 31, 1999.  
 Byrd became the  longest-serving  senator in U.S. history on
June 12, 2006, when he logged his 17,327th day in office. “I
love the Senate -- and it has been my love for 48 years,” Byrd
said in an interview that year. “I have a feeling of gratitude
to the people of West Virginia who never failed in showing their
faith and confidence in me.”  
 By July 2007, he had cast 18,000 votes, more than any of
the other 1,890 senators who had served since the chamber’s
inception in 1789.  
 On Nov. 18, 2009, he became the longest-serving member of
Congress, with 20,774 cumulative days -- 56 years, 320 days --in
the House and Senate.  
 “It is an extraordinary record of service, dedication and
patriotism to the country,” Senator  Jack Reed , a Rhode Island
Democrat, said in a tribute to Byrd that day. “No one knows
this body better than Robert Byrd, and nobody’s served with the
same energy and tenacity.”  
 His wife, Erma Ora James Byrd, who was his high school
sweetheart, died in 2006 after 68 years of marriage. They had
two daughters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim O’Connell  in Washington at 
 joconnell3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia, a fiery orator, died aged 92. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Byrd, the U.S. senator who set records for longevity in Congress while becoming known for his powerful oratory and mastery of legislative rules and traditions, has died. The West Virginia Democrat was 92. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton and Peter Cook report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, talks about the confirmation hearings for Elena Kagan's nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court.
     Leahy, speaking with Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu," also discusses the death of West Virginia Senator Robert Boyd and its implications for legislation to overhaul financial regulation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senator Robert Byrd in 1970  
                       
                         
                           Consolidated News Pictures/Getty Images 
                         
                         American Senator and Democratic politician Robert Byrd, circa 1970. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     American Senator and Democratic politician Robert Byrd, circa 1970. Photographer: Consolidated News Pictures/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
