-- Roddick Ousted by 82nd-ranked Lu in Fourth Round at Wimbledon
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-28T20:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/roddick-ousted-by-82nd-ranked-lu-in-fourth-round-at-wimbledon.html

          
          
             Andy Roddick  was upset by 82nd-
ranked Yen-Hsun Lu in the fourth round of Wimbledon, a year
after the fifth-seeded American lost the final in an epic five-
set match.  
 Roddick was beaten 4-6, 7-6 (7-3), 7-6 (7-4), 6-7 (5-7), 9-
7 by Lu of Taiwan.  
 Roddick lost 16-14 in the fifth set of last year’s final
against top seed  Roger Federer , who also beat him in the 2004
and 2005 championship matches. Roddick was ousted in the second
round two years ago.  
 “I fight until the end,” Lu said in an interview with the
British Broadcasting Corp. “It’s a dream. I could not imagine
this moment.”  
 Lu had lost in the first round of Wimbledon for four
straight years. Coached by six-time Wimbledon doubles champion
 Mark Woodforde , he’s the first Asian man to make a major
quarterfinal since 1995.  
 It also was the first time Lu had beaten a top-10 player
since he upset  Andy Murray  of Britain in the first round of the
2008 Beijing Olympics.  
 “He was switching directions, keeping me off balance, not
letting me get set,” Roddick, who had beaten Lu in straight
sets in their three previous matches, said in a news conference.
“I thought he served better than he has against me before.”  
 Good Start  
 Roddick had a good start to the year. After making the
quarterfinals at the Australian Open, he reached the finals of
Indian Wells in the U.S., and went on to win the title in Miami.
That marked the first time since 2003 that Roddick had reached
the finals of back-to-back Masters events on the men’s tour.  
 Formerly ranked No. 1 in the world, Roddick struggled
during the European clay-court season, losing in the third round
of the French Open to 114th-ranked qualifier  Teimuraz Gabashvili 
of Russia.  
 The last American man to have won a major, at the 2003 U.S.
Open, Roddick hadn’t played any clay-court matches before Roland
Garros. He didn’t compete in Rome because he wanted to spend
more time with his wife, Brooklyn, and was forced to pull out of
the Madrid Masters because of illness.  
 His preparation on grass also wasn’t ideal. He lost to
Israel’s  Dudi Sela  in the round of 16 at a Wimbledon warm-up
event at Queen’s Club in London, two weeks before the start of
the grass-court major. A four-time champion at Queens, it was
Roddick’s worst result at the event since 2001.  
 Missed Chances  
 Watched by his wife on Court 2, Roddick had chances to
break Lu’s serve in the fifth set. Lu overcame two break points
at 2-2, and another serving at 4-4. Serving to stay in the match
at 8-7 down, Roddick lost as Lu produced a passing shot on his
first match point.  
 Lu will play third-seeded  Novak Djokovic  next.  
 “Also a very great player,” he said of the Serb, a former
Australian Open champion. “I don’t know how far I can play. I
cannot tell you. But I can tell you if I have a chance to step
on the court, I will fight until the end.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        