-- Rolex Names Artists to Work With Kapoor, Eno in Mentor Program
-- Lili Rosboch
-- 2010-06-28T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/rolex-names-artists-to-work-with-anish-kapoor-brian-eno-in-mentor-program.html

          
          
             The Rolex Mentor and Protege Arts
 Initiative  named the six 2010-11 artists who will receive
financial support while working with a leader in their field for
a year.  
 U.S. poet Tracy K. Smith was selected from three literature
finalists and will be paired with Germany’s Hans Magnus
Enzensberger, a provocative essayist also regarded as his
country’s most important contemporary poet.  
 “I was about eight months pregnant with my daughter and I
got an e-mail from Rolex saying that I had been nominated,” said
Smith, 38, in a telephone interview. “I had never heard of it,
so I was a little bit intrigued.”  
 The mentors chose the artist they will work with. Trisha
Brown selected Australian dancer and choreographer Lee Serle,
28.  Brian Eno , a musician and composer known for his ambient
music and producing albums for Talking Heads and U2, will mentor
Ben Frost, 30, an Australian-born composer based in Reykjavik,
Iceland.  
 South African artist Nicholas Hlobo, 34, will work with
 Anish Kapoor . Maya Zbib, a 29-year-old Lebanese theater and
performance artist will get mentoring from director  Peter Sellars . Palestinian filmmaker and poet Annemarie Jacir, 36,
will be guided by Chinese movie director  Zhang Yimou .  
 Proteges will have individually tailored programs, the only
rule being to spend a minimum of 30 working days with their
mentor.  
 As part of the Rolex initiative, each mentor receives an
honorarium of $50,000. Proteges receive $25,000 plus help with
travel and accommodation, and they are eligible for another
$25,000 at the end of the year to undertake an independent
project.  
 Scorsese’s Editing Room  
 Past mentors have included  John Baldessari ,  David Hockney 
and  Stephen Frears .  Martin Scorsese ’s protegee, Celina Murga,
spent two months with him on the set of his film “Shutter
Island” and was eventually invited to his famously off-limits
editing room.  
 “The mentors that are chosen, they’re not only great
artists but they have to be generous and interested in young
people,” said Rebecca Irvin, the program’s director, in a phone
interview.  
 When Irvin started the program in 2002, she wanted Rolex to
do something unique in the arts that would have a significant
impact on culture and contribute to the world’s artistic
heritage.  
 ‘Life and Art’  
 Smith, who graduated from  Harvard  and  Columbia 
universities, has been an assistant professor of creative
writing at  Princeton  University since 2005. Born in Falmouth,
Massachusetts, she has published two poetry collections and has
a third coming out in 2011. She will now undertake a prose
project with Enzensberger’s guidance.  
 “I have the opportunity to work with someone who has 50
more years of experience in life and art,” Smith said. “I want
to use his guidance to do something new for myself as a
writer.”  
 Mentors and proteges will gather in New York late next year
for a gala celebration, at which details on the next cycle of
the program will be announced.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lili Rosboch  in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hans Magnus Ensensberger and Tracy K. Smith  
                       
                         
                           Tina Ruisinger/Rolex via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mentor Hans Magnus Enzensberger with protege Tracy K. Smith. On Saturday, poems by Smith and Enzensberger will be set to music by soprano Jolle Greenleaf, as part of the Rolex Arts Weekend. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mentor Hans Magnus Enzensberger with protege Tracy K. Smith. On Saturday, poems by Smith and Enzensberger will be set to music by soprano Jolle Greenleaf, as part of the Rolex Arts Weekend. Photographer: Tina Ruisinger/Rolex via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Protege Ben Frost and mentor Brian Eno. The Rolex Mentor and Protege Arts Initiative is an international philanthropic program that seeks out rising artists from around the world and brings them together with great masters, for a year of creative collaboration in a one-to-one mentoring relationship. Photographer: Kirsten Holst/Rolex via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Anish Kapoor and Nicholas Hlobo  
                       
                         
                           Hugo Glendinning/Rolex via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mentor Anish Kapoor with protege Nicholas Hlobo. Kapoor will take part in a discussion with Peter Sellars and Brian Eno, moderated by Paul Holdengraber, at the New York Public Library on Sunday, as part of the Rolex Arts Weekend. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mentor Anish Kapoor with protege Nicholas Hlobo. Kapoor will take part in a discussion with Peter Sellars and Brian Eno, moderated by Paul Holdengraber, at the New York Public Library on Sunday, as part of the Rolex Arts Weekend. Photographer: Hugo Glendinning/Rolex via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Peter Sellars and Maya Zbib  
                       
                         
                           Marc Vanappelghem/Rolex via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mentor Peter Sellars with protege Maya Zbib. "The Music Box," a one-woman show created by Zbib, will be at the New York Public Library on Sunday, as part of the Rolex Arts Weekend. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mentor Peter Sellars with protege Maya Zbib. "The Music Box," a one-woman show created by Zbib, will be at the New York Public Library on Sunday, as part of the Rolex Arts Weekend. Photographer: Marc Vanappelghem/Rolex via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Zhang Yimou and Annemarie Jacir  
                       
                         
                           Hideki Shiozawa/Rolex via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mentor Zhang Yimou with protege Annemarie Jacir. On Saturday, as part of the Rolex Arts Weekend, Jacir will speak with producer Danny Glover, Abu Dhabi Film Festival executive director, Peter Scarlet and others in the film industry. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mentor Zhang Yimou with protege Annemarie Jacir. On Saturday, as part of the Rolex Arts Weekend, Jacir will speak with producer Danny Glover, Abu Dhabi Film Festival executive director, Peter Scarlet and others in the film industry. Photographer: Hideki Shiozawa/Rolex via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Trisha Brown and Lee Serle  
                       
                         
                           Bart Michiels/Rolex via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mentor Trisha Brown with protege Lee Serle. The world premier of "P.O.V," choreographed by Serle, will take place in the New York Public Library's Astor Hall on Sunday, as part of the Rolex Arts Weekend. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mentor Trisha Brown with protege Lee Serle. The world premier of "P.O.V," choreographed by Serle, will take place in the New York Public Library's Astor Hall on Sunday, as part of the Rolex Arts Weekend. Photographer: Bart Michiels/Rolex via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
