-- Samsung Plans Galaxy Smartphone Launch to Compete With IPhone, BlackBerry
-- Cliff Edwards
-- 2010-06-28T15:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/samsung-plans-galaxy-smartphone-launch-to-compete-with-iphone-blackberry.html

          
          
             Samsung Electronics Co. , the second-
largest maker of mobile phones, plans to launch its Galaxy S
smartphone at four major U.S. wireless carriers in a bid to gain
ground in that market on  Apple Inc.  and  Research In Motion Ltd.   
 The Suwon, South Korea-based company will start selling the
phone, which runs on  Google Inc. ’s Android software, at  AT&T
Inc. ,  Sprint Nextel Corp. ,  Verizon Wireless  and T-Mobile USA
this summer. The near-simultaneous launch at all four major
carriers is unusual in North America, where carriers have moved
away from such deals as they seek exclusive access to phones
such as the iPhone sold by AT&T, said wireless analyst  Ramon Llamas  of the market research firm IDC.  
 “It’s pretty much unheard of,” Llamas said. “It’s going
to put Samsung manufacturing in a good position to push more
devices out the door.”  
 Samsung holds 22 percent of the worldwide market for mobile
phones, second only to  Nokia Oyj , according to IDC. Its share of
the more lucrative and faster-growing smartphone market is just
4 percent, according to the company’s own estimates.  
 With the Galaxy and other devices, Samsung intends to more
than double its market share for smartphones to more than 10
percent by the fourth quarter,  Lee Donjoo , senior vice president
of the company’s Mobile Communications Division, said in an
interview. The company plans to reveal additional details about
carrier-branded versions of the phone at an event on June 29.  
 Android smartphones have become more competitive with
Research In Motion’s BlackBerry and Apple’s iPhone. Android’s
share of the global smartphone market hit 9.6 percent in the
first quarter from 1.6 percent a year ago, according to market
researcher Gartner Inc.  
 Custom Phones  
 Samsung is winning worldwide carrier support for the Galaxy
S, with 110 mobile operators offering it around the world, by
customizing features and software for different carriers.  
 The Galaxy S phone Samsung unveiled in March offered a 4-
inch high-definition display, 1GHz processor, 5-megapixel camera
with high-definition video recording, gyroscope and
accelerometer. A version for Sprint, the third-largest mobile-
phone carrier, adds a full slide-out keyboard and includes the
ability to connect to the next-generation so-called 4G data
network, according to a statement today.  
 Sprint’s version of the Galaxy S, called the Epic 4G, will
be the second device to run on the so-called fourth-generation
network that Sprint owns with  Clearwire Corp.  It joins the  HTC
Corp.  EVO, which can download content about 10 times faster than
third-generation technology, allowing users to make video calls
and watch World Cup soccer matches live, Sprint said.  
 Boost Revenue  
 T-Mobile’s version of the phone, Samsung Vibrant, will come
pre-loaded with content, including the movie ‘Avatar,’ the
carrier said in a statement today.  AT&T  said in a statement June
17 that its Samsung Captivate will automatically connect at no
charge to its national Wi-Fi wireless network and include
software to sync contacts wirelessly with a computer.  
 Samsung plans to use the Galaxy S and other phones in
development to boost its revenue, company executives said. The
average selling price for Samsung handsets in the first quarter
was $118, while Apple sells its new iPhone 4 to AT&T Inc. for
about $610, estimates Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst  Gene Munster .  
 Smartphones represent the largest growth opportunity within
mobile devices. They will grow to 50 percent of all sales by
2014 from 21 percent this year, according to Yankee Group.  
 Samsung could benefit if carriers continue to shift away
from exclusive deals for what the industry calls “hero
devices” to emphasize fast data download times or movie and
television services that are only available on their networks,
Yankee Group analyst  Carl Howe  said.  
 “There’s a growing recognition that everybody has a hero
device,” Howe said. Carriers “may have just recognized maybe
it’s better to focus on our value to the consumer, getting the
brand and service in front of them instead of focusing on the
hardware maker.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        