-- Sands China Seeks Chinese Airline Partner for Low-Cost Flights to Macau
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-28T11:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/sands-china-has-more-than-sufficient-financing-to-complete-macau-resort.html

          
          
             Sands China Ltd. , Asia’s most
valuable listed casino operator, may team up with a Chinese
airline flying to Macau to start low-budget travel deals,
boosting tourism to the world’s biggest gambling hub.  
 “We are very hopeful that we will see a new carrier
service coming to Macau within the next 12 months,” Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jacobs  said in an interview in Beijing.
“There are quite a few low-cost airlines that would love to
come to Macau.”  
 Sands China , the Hong Kong-listed unit of billionaire
 Sheldon Adelson ’s casino company, seeks partnerships with travel
agents and may start two-to-four day package deals to Macau, he
said in a speech in Beijing. About half of the company’s rooms
are sold to families, he said.  
 While about 70 percent of the city’s  revenue  comes from
gamblers placing high-limit bets, Adelson has said he plans to
recreate the Las Vegas Strip on Macau’s 1.8-mile Cotai Strip and
trigger a jump in the non-gambling portion of casino operators’
earnings. About 85 percent of Sands China’s customers come from
mainland China -- which excludes Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau.  
 Sands China  fell 2 percent to HK$11.66 in Hong Kong
trading, while the benchmark Hang Seng Index rose 0.2 percent.
The  stock  has surged 23 percent this year.  
 Jacobs didn’t specify which airlines he had discussions
with.  Air China Ltd. ,  China Eastern Airlines Corp. ’s Shanghai
Airlines, Air Macau and Xiamen Airlines are among the carriers
that have flights to Macau from mainland China.  
 Entertainment and Business  
 The company’s tour of 13 Chinese cities focused on Macau’s
entertainment, hotel, and business facilities, Jacobs said. His
speech in Beijing did not mention gambling.  
 Jacobs also said financing for a new resort in Macau is
“more than sufficient” to complete a new 6,000-room project in
the third quarter of 2011.  
 Sands China  last year raised $2.5 billion in an initial
public offering and $600 million in a convertible bond sale. It
is using $500 million from the listing for the resort complex as
well as a $1.75 billion loan signed on May 17, he said.  
 Parent  Las Vegas Sands Corp. , which Adelson has described
as “an Asian company with a presence in Las Vegas and the
U.S.,” last year derived 73 percent of its $4.56 billion
revenue in Macau. The proportion of revenue Las Vegas Sands
earns in Asia is set to increase further after the $5.5 billion
Marina Bay Sands opened in Singapore in April.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        