-- Sanlam to Sell Insurance in Nigeria Through Partnership With First Bank
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-06-28T07:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/sanlam-to-sell-insurance-in-nigeria-through-partnership-with-first-bank.html

          
          
             Sanlam Ltd.,  the largest South
Africa-based insurer, said it will team up with  First Bank of
Nigeria Plc  to sell insurance products in the West African
nation.  
 While Sanlam’s rivals such as  Old Mutual Plc  and banks like
 FirstRand Ltd.  seek to eventually gain ground in the Nigerian
market, which is also the continent’s most populous nation, the
insurer may start selling its products as early as next month.  
 “About 60 percent of all our potential clients in Nigeria
bank with First Bank,” Sanlam Chief Executive Officer  Johan van Zyl  said in an interview at the  Fortune Global Forum  in Cape
Town yesterday. “We can get the money in from those clients
fairly easily and quickly.”  
 Sanlam, with operations in 12 African countries and a
business in India, is chasing growth after doubling its profit
last year even as other insurers reported losses in the wake of
the global financial crisis. First Bank is Nigeria’s largest
bank by number of customers.  
 “We have 35 percent of the arrangement and it’s a simple
model where we’ll roll out 30 to 50 branches this year,” Van
Zyl said. With First Bank having more than 400 branches, the CEO
said the first year of partnership is akin to “opening a tap
and feeling the water.”  
 “If it works we can do a hell of a lot in the next 18
months to two years,” he said.  
 Sanlam said yesterday it will spend as much as 1.5 billion
rand ($197 million) expanding its business in Africa and India
and may look for a European insurance partner. The insurer rose
0.6 percent to 24.14 rand as of 9:27 a.m. in Johannesburg
trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        