-- Supreme Court Leaves Sarbanes-Oxley Intact
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-28T22:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/sarbanes-oxley-audit-board-must-have-more-sec-oversight-high-court-rules.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Supreme Court  left intact
the centerpiece of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act while ruling that the
executive branch should have more authority over members of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.  
 The 5-4 decision released today said the 2002 law passed in
response to accounting frauds at  Enron Corp.  and  WorldCom Inc. 
didn’t give the president enough say over the board created by
the act. The Securities and Exchange Commission must have
unfettered power to fire the board’s chairman and members in
order for it to adhere to separation of powers provisions in the
Constitution, the high court ruled.  
 “No one doubts Congress’s power to create a vast and
varied federal bureaucracy,” Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote
in the majority decision. “But where, in all this, is the role
for oversight by an elected president?”  
 Concern that the Supreme Court would issue a more sweeping
ruling had prompted the SEC to put together contingency plans to
take over some of the accounting board’s duties if it was
dissolved. The decision gives the SEC broader authority to
remove members without requiring any further action by
regulators or lawmakers, said  Christopher Bartolomucci , a
partner at Hogan Lovells in Washington.  
 “The effect of the court’s decision is quite limited,” he
said. “The board will continue to exist and its regulatory
powers will be the same.”  
 SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , in a statement, said she’s
“pleased that the court has determined that the board’s
operations may continue.” The accounting board, in a statement,
said no legislation is needed to make the board’s structure
constitutional.  
 Enforcement Actions  
 Congress created the five-member board to replace a system
in which the accounting industry policed itself. The Washington-
based board writes rules for audits of public companies,
inspects firms and has authority to bring enforcement actions.  
 The SEC oversees the board by appointing its chairman and
members, approving its budget and signing off on its rules. The
SEC can only terminate a board member for cause.  
 Beckstead and Watts LLP, a Henderson, Nevada-based
accounting firm, and a group advocating for limited government
challenged the board’s constitutionality in a lawsuit. Lawyers
for the plaintiffs argued that because the president lacked
control, the board “and all power and authority exercised by
it” violated the constitution.  
 “We reject such a broad holding,” Roberts wrote.
“Instead, we agree with the government that the
unconstitutional tenure provisions” don’t undermine the entire
Sarbanes-Oxley law.  
 The decision divided the court along ideological lines.
Justices  Antonin Scalia ,  Clarence Thomas ,  Samuel Alito  and
 Anthony Kennedy  joined Roberts’s majority opinion.  
 Kagan Case  
 The Obama administration defended the accounting board,
saying the SEC exercised comprehensive control over the board’s
activities, including the auditing standards it issues and the
enforcement actions it takes. U.S. Solicitor General  Elena Kagan , now a Supreme Court nominee, argued the case for the
government.  
 In dissent, Justice  Stephen Breyer  said the majority’s
reasoning raised constitutional questions about a myriad of
other government entities.  
 The decision “will create an obstacle, indeed pose a
serious threat, to the proper functioning of that workable
government that the Constitution seeks to create,” Breyer
wrote.  
 Justices  John Paul Stevens ,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Sonia Sotomayor  also dissented.  
 Fees  
 The accounting board has issued a series of auditing
standards and taken 25 enforcement actions since opening its
doors in 2003. The board funds its work by imposing fees on
public companies.  
 Congress set salaries for board members that exceed the pay
of most public officials to make the jobs competitive with
accountants working in the private sector. The chairman receives
$672,676 a year and board members get $546,891.  
 President  Barack Obama  makes $400,000 and Schapiro receives
$165,300. SEC commissioners are paid $155,500 annually.  
 Among rules drafted by the accounting board is a standard
stemming from Sarbanes-Oxley that outlines what auditors must do
to ensure companies have adequate safeguards to prevent
financial misstatements and fraud. The board revised the rule in
2007 after companies complained that audits were saddling them
with unnecessary compliance costs.  
 Congress went a step further last week in negotiating
financial regulation legislation to respond to the 2008 crisis.
Lawmakers exempted all companies with market values below $75
million from having to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley audit rules.  
 The case is Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board, 08-861.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John G. Roberts speaks during a conference in Washington Photographer: Chris Greenberg/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Harvey Pitt, former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission chairman and now chief executive officer of Kalorama Partners LLC, talks about the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling that Congress violated the Constitution when it set up an auditing board after the Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc. collapses.
     The 5-4 decision stopped short of ordering the work of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to stop, instead saying the SEC must have unfettered power to fire the board’s members. Pitt speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Greg Stohr reports on the latest Supreme Court rulings, including one that said Congress violated the Constitution when it set up an auditing board under the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley law. In other decisions, the high court rejected the Justice Department's bid for as much as $280 billion in tobacco company profits and put limits on business method patents. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
