-- Serena Williams' Serve, Power Help Defeat Maria Sharapova at Wimbledon
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-28T18:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/serena-williams-serve-power-help-defeat-maria-sharapova-at-wimbledon.html

          
          
             A booming serve helped defending
champion  Serena Williams  put away another former Wimbledon
winner, who said there’s little chance of stopping the top-
seeded American if she maintains her power game.  
 Williams, the women’s top seed, had  19 aces  and won 84
percent of the points off her successful first serve today in a
7-6 (11-9), 6-4 victory over  Maria Sharapova  on Centre Court at
the All England Club in London to reach the quarterfinals.  
 It was their first meeting at Wimbledon since Sharapova,
then 17, defeated Williams in 2004 for the first of her three
Grand Slam titles. The signs favor a 14th major championship for
the 28-year-old American this time, the Russian said.  
 “If she’s consistently serving and hitting those spots
with that speed, I think it’s pretty tough,” Sharapova said in
a news conference, when asked if anybody could beat Williams on
Wimbledon’s grass courts this week.  
 Williams’s aces today gave her a  tournament-leading  62,
more than twice the 27 for the second-best server, her older
sister  Venus Williams . Her fastest serve was clocked at 125 
miles an hour.  
 “I served well today,” Serena Williams said in a news
conference. “I had a little bit of a hiccup. But she returned
really well. It forced me to serve really well.”  
 She leads Sharapova in their career meetings, 6-2.  
 Williams is seeking her fourth title at the only major
played on grass. She won her 12th Grand Slam championship at the
start of the year at the Australian Open, tying the record of
her mentor,  Billie Jean King .  
 ‘Great Serving’  
 “I thought I played really well and I thought I had my
chances,” Sharapova, a former top-ranked player, said. “If it
was not for her really great serving, I certainly had a real
good look at winning the match.”  
 Sharapova had three set points in the tiebreaker and wasted
them all.  
 A Williams backhand in the net handed Sharapova her first
two set points at 6-4. The Russian dumped a forehand in the net
on the first one, while Williams forced a baseline error with a
shot deep in Sharapova’s forehand corner on the second.  
 Williams got her first set point at 7-6 as Sharapova missed
a passing shot. The defending champion failed to convert as she
hit a backhand return into the net off a high Sharapova kick-
serve. Facing a third set point at 8-7 down, Williams produced a
service winner.  
 The American dumped a backhand return into the net on her
second set point at 9-8. Serving at 9-9, Sharapova handed
Williams a third set point with her fifth double fault. The
American clenched her fist and screamed ’’Yes’’ as she won the
set with her 13th ace.  
 Final Error  
 She wrapped up the victory as Sharapova hit a backhand wide
on match point. Both women got a standing ovation from the
Centre Court crowd.  
 Williams’ serve also played a crucial role last year at
Wimbledon, when she was a game away from her first defeat in a
major semifinal since the 2003 French Open against Russian  Elena Dementieva . Serving at a set and 5-4 down, Williams produced two
aces to even the score at 5-5. She went on to win the match, and
then beat her elder sister in the final.  
 “I don’t serve like this too often,” Williams said today.
“I don’t know what it is about this court that makes me serve
well.”  
 Williams is wary of her  quarterfinals  opponent, Australian
Open semifinalist Li Na. The No. 9 seed from China defeated
Poland’s  Agnieszka Radwanska  6-3, 6-2 in the fourth round.  
 “I’m playing another tough player,” said Williams, who
leads their career series 4-1. “Li Na always gives me a run for
my money. Just be positive and play more consistent.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        