-- Shell, Reliance May Revive Plans for Fuel Outlets as India Cuts Subsidies
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-06-28T07:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/shell-reliance-may-revive-plans-for-fuel-outlets-as-india-cuts-subsidies.html

          
          
             Reliance Industries Ltd. ,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc  and  Essar Energy Plc  may revive plans to add
retail fuel outlets in India after Asia’s third-biggest energy
consumer scrapped subsidizing gasoline and diesel.  
 Essar will “significantly” increase the number of outlets,
said  Naresh Nayyar , chief executive officer of Essar Energy.
“We are pleased with any move that creates a level playing
field and enhances competitiveness in the industry,”  Deepak Mukarji , spokesman for Shell in India, said by telephone.  
 Prior to the government’s decision the three companies
operated less than 20 percent of the 10,849 pumps for which they
have permission. Reliance, owner of the world’s biggest refining
complex, and Essar shut filling stations after failing to match
prices offered by subsidized state-run rivals as crude soared to
a record in 2008. Shell, the only foreign company with the right
to sell fuel in India, runs 70 out of the 2,000 approved
stations, according to its website.  
 “This has brought ‘into the money’ the value and growth
options” of Essar Energy’s fuel marketing business,  Nitin Sharma , an analyst at JP Morgan Cazenove Ltd. in London, said in
a note to clients on June 25. Essar’s 2.5 percent market share
“could grow significantly,” he said.  
 Reliance Industries , controlled by  Mukesh Ambani , Asia’s
richest man, should gain “as it has 1,500 outlets ready to tap
gasoline marketing margins” and may revisit its strategy to
build 5,000, Morgan Stanley analysts  Vinay Jaising  and  Rakesh Sethia  said in a note to clients on June 26. The company said
Jan. 22 it had reopened more than 600 outlets.  
 Vehicles Doubling  
 Reliance and Essar are the only non-state refiners in India
and the decision will allow them to tap rising demand in the
world’s second-most populous nation where per capita fuel
consumption for passenger vehicles is forecast to double in the
next 20 years. The $1.2 trillion economy may expand 9 percent
next year, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said on June 23,
boosting the country’s energy needs.  
 “We are well placed to capture additional sales for fuel
and non-fuel items and expect to see significant growth in both
areas,”  Nayyar  of Essar Energy, whose India-listed unit  Essar
Oil Ltd.  runs the biggest non-state network of 1,342 outlets,
said in an e-mailed statement. “This decision reinforces our
belief in India’s market potential.”  
 Non-state refiners sold gasoline and diesel at about 2
rupees more a liter than state-run refiners before the fuel
price increase,  Vinay Nair , a Mumbai-based analyst with
Khandwala Securities Ltd., said today. Gasoline prices in New
Delhi rose 7.3 percent to 51.43 rupees a liter after subsidies
were removed.  
 Reliance Exports  
 Reliance has been reducing the share of fuel it exports
from its 1.24 million-barrel-a-day Jamnagar complex in favor of
more sales in India, where primary oil demand is forecast to
grow faster than any other region at 3.9 percent per year to
2030, according to the International Energy Agency.  
 The U.S. Energy Information Administration projects India’s
energy consumption for passenger transportation will double to
1.5 million British thermal units per person by 2030.  
 Growing incomes in Asia’s largest economy after Japan and
China helped  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , India’s biggest carmaker,
record the highest-ever monthly sales in May. Hero Honda Motors
Ltd., India’s biggest motorcycle maker, sold 14 percent more
units last month from a year ago.  
 Reliance’s domestic sales as a share of output rose to 47
percent in the nine months ended Dec. 31, compared with 33
percent a year earlier, according to data released by the
company in January, the most recent available.  
 Kerosene, Cooking Gas  
 Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for Reliance declined to comment
on the company’s retail fuel marketing plan.  
 Oil Secretary  S. Sundareshan  announced on June 25 diesel
prices would rise by two rupees a liter for now and later be
freed from state control. India stopped capping prices of petrol
immediately and tariff at the pump rose by about 3.5 rupees a
liter. Kerosene and cooking gas prices, which more directly
affect India’s poor, were also raised even as price caps
remained.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government’s move will help
it cut its subsidy bill by about 43 percent to $8 billion a year,
assuming crude oil prices average $75 a barrel, the Morgan
Stanley analysts said.  
 India last freed prices of oil products from government
control in April 2002, allowing state-owned refiners to set
retail prices twice a month. That stopped in December 2003 after
the then Bharatiya Janata Party-led government barred them from
raising rates before the May 2004 elections.  
 Gasoline for July delivery traded near a six-week high at
$2.16 a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 12:18 p.m.
Mumbai time. Heating oil for July delivery fell 1.21 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $2.1001 a gallon at the same time. Crude oil for
August delivery was near a seven-week high at $78.74 a barrel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        