-- Silicon Laboratories, ASCAP, Gucci's Granddaughter: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-28T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/silicon-laboratories-ascap-gucci-s-granddaughter-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Silicon Laboratories Inc. , a
designer of chips for Apple Inc.’s iPod Nano and Garmin Ltd.’s
GPS devices, was accused of infringing patents for Bluetooth
technology owned by the University of Washington.  
 Washington Research Foundation , which licenses intellectual
property owned by the state’s public universities and nonprofit
research institutions, claims Silicon Labs is infringing at
least two patents and refuses to pay royalties, according to the
lawsuit filed in federal court in Seattle June 24. The
foundation is seeking an unspecified amount of cash and an order
blocking further use of its inventions.  
 The patents relate to radio frequency technology used in
Bluetooth and data communication systems for FM radio, according
to the complaint. Other devices using chips from Silicon Labs
include  Motorola Inc.  mobile phones and  SanDisk Corp.  media
players, the foundation said.  
 “SiLabs knew that use of such chipsets by its customers
and by consumers in its customers’ products were both patented
and infringed,” the Seattle-based group said in the filing.  
 Dale Weisman, a spokesman for Austin, Texas-based Silicon
Labs, didn’t immediately return messages seeking comment.  
 The case is Washington Research Foundation v. Silicon
Laboratories Inc., 10cv1050, U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Washington (Seattle).  
 Mass General Fights Back Against Scientists’ Patent Allegations  
 Massachusetts General Hospital , the medical center
affiliated with Harvard Medical School, is rejecting two medical
researchers’ claims they are the true inventors on patents
related to the detection of a genetic disorder affecting
Ashkenazi Jews.  
 Drs.  Berish Rubin  and Sylvia L. Anderson sued the hospital
in federal court in Boston in January 2009, claiming they are
the inventors of the technology covered by patents 7,388,093 and
7,407,756.  
 The scientists, whose work was supported by the Dor
Yeshorim Committee for the Prevention of Genetic Diseases, were
researching the genetic mutations associated with  Familial
Dysautonomia .  
 The disease, which is seen almost exclusively in Jews of
Eastern European origin, is fatal to about 50 percent of those
affected by the time they are 30.  
 The researchers claimed their work led to discovery of the
gene mutations responsible for the disorder. Before their
research was published in a scholarly journal, they identified
competing scientists to whom they didn’t wish their article sent
for peer review.  
 “Blatantly contrary to the explicit request and condition
imposed” by the author, the journal sent either the manuscript
or a summary to one of the scientists who is a named inventor on
the patents, and to whom they asked their work not be shown
prior to publication, according to court papers.  
 They claim the patents are based on what was revealed in
the scholarly article and that either they should to be added as
inventors, or the patents should be invalidated.  
 Dor Yeshorim spokesman Avrom Eliyahu, in a June 25 e-mail,
said the organization is supporting the suit even though it
doesn’t believe in gene patenting.  
 “If Dr. Rubin wins, our organization and he will not
charge anything for anyone to use the IP,” Eliyahu said.  
 Dor Yeshorim seeks control of the patent “only to stop
anyone from charging for its use,” Eliyahu wrote.  
 In a court filing June 25, the hospital said the two
scientists are falsely claiming they are under threat of an
infringement suit, and that their evidence is “irrelevant and
immaterial.”  
 Drs. Rubin and Anderson are represented by  Peter I.
Bernstein  and  Richard L. Catania  from  Scully, Scott, Murphy &
Presser PC  of Garden City, New York.  
 The hospital is represented by  Brian M. Gaff ,  Catherine J.
Toppin , and  M. Melissa Hunter-Ensor  of Boston’s  Edwards Angell
Palmer & Dodge LLP , and in-house counsel Paul G. Gushin of
 Partners Healthcare System Inc. , also of Boston.  
 The case is Rubin v. The General Hospital, 1:09-cv-10040-
PBS, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  
 HTC Says It’ll ‘Fully Defend’ Against Apple’s Latest Lawsuit  
 HTC Corp.  said it will “fully defend itself” against the
latest patent complaint filed by Apple Inc., as the legal battle
between the rival smartphone makers intensifies.  
 “HTC disagrees with Apple’s actions,” the Taiwanese
company said in a  statement to the Taiwan stock exchange  June
25. “This latest litigation raised by Apple is predictable and
believed to be a usual litigation strategic move.”  
 Apple filed a new suit against HTC at a district court in
Delaware on June 21, more than three months after the filing of
an initial case against the Taiwanese company, the maker of
 Google Inc. ’s Nexus One smartphone. The latest complaint
includes allegations that two additional patents were breached,
while Apple dropped two patents that were part of the original
case, according to HTC.  
 Last month, HTC fired back at Apple in a patent-
infringement complaint with the U.S. International Trade
Commission that sought to halt U.S. imports of the iPhone, iPad
and iPod.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 ASCAP Seeks Member Contributions to Fight ‘Copyleft’ Movement  
 ASCAP , the American Society of Composers, Authors and
Publishers, has sent out  a fund-raising letter  asking its
members to donate to a fund aimed a halting the so-called
“copyleft” movement.  
 Copyleft , according to the Free Software Foundation, is a
method of making a program or other content free.  
 ASCAP, which collects royalties on behalf of U.S.
composers, songwriters, lyricists and music publishers, said its
opponents are the  Creative Commons  movement, the Washington-
based  Public Knowledge  public-interest advocacy group, San
Francisco’s  Electronic Frontier Foundation  digital rights group
and “technology companies with deep pockets.”  
 In the letter, which is posted on the P20net.net website,
ASCAP claims these groups’ “mission” is to “spread the word
that our music should be free.”  
 ASCAP is asking its members for donations of $5 or more to
support its Legislative Fund for the Arts. “We cannot afford to
lose the support of our legislators either at this time or into
the future,” ASCAP said in the letter.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Gucci Sues Founder’s Granddaughter Over Branded Hotel in Dubai  
 Elisabetta Gucci’s plan to open a global chain of hotels
under her name may be blocked by the luxury goods company that
her great-grandfather founded.  
 Gucci Group NV,  owned by France’s  PPR SA , filed a lawsuit
last week in Florence, Italy, against Elisabetta Gucci and her
partners “seeking injunctive relief in order to protect its
rights,” Gucci Group said in an e-mail.  
 The daughter of late fashion mogul Paolo Gucci, who
designed the Italian brand’s trademark stirrup, plans to open an
87-suite property in Dubai’s Media World district by the end of
the year, according to Lorens Ziller, managing director of her
EG Hotels company. Branded EG Hotels by Elisabetta Gucci, it
will showcase furniture designed by her and built by Formitalia.  
 “Elisabetta Gucci is doing her job,” Ziller said in a
June 23 interview. “She cannot cancel her name or her
background. If she has a famous name or a famous background,
that’s not her fault and we are not trying to use it as much.”  
 The Dubai hotel will be the first of 40 to open across the
world in the next 15 years, according to Ziller. Gucci’s partner
is Baitek International Investment, owned by Saudi Arabian
investor Abdulla Al Sayegh. The website of Elisabetta Gucci,
born in 1952, states that she has no connection with the fashion
house.  
 “Gucci wants to make clear that it has no relationship to
Elisabetta Gucci Hotels and that it is not involved in any
project whatsoever with Elisabetta Gucci Hotels,” the company
said in the e-mail. “If necessary, Gucci will take any needful
step to protect its rights.”  
 Ziller, contacted by Bloomberg June 25, said he spoke with
Elisabetta Gucci the night before and she has no comment to make
on the lawsuit at this time.  
 Italian fashion houses are opening branded accommodation in
Dubai at a time when hotels have been hurt by a glut of rooms.
 Armani Group  in April opened Armani Hotel Dubai in Burj Khalifa,
the world’s tallest building. Palazzo Versace, a 213-room
property incorporating the designer  Gianni Versace SpA’s  brand,
is 60 percent complete, Arabian Business reported in March,
citing developer Emirates Sunland Group.  
 EB Hotels is counting on drastically lower hotel rates than
those charged at Armani Hotel, Ziller said. Daily rates at
Elisabetta Gucci’s hotel would start at 1,500 dirhams ($408)
compared with 4,000 dirhams per night at Armani.  
 PPR, then called Pinault-Printemps-Redoute SA, completed
its $9 billion purchase of Gucci in 2004.  
 Constellation’s Franciscan Blocks ‘Black Raven’ Trademark  
 Constellation Brands Inc. ’s Franciscan Vineyards blocked a
suburban Seattle craft microbrewery from registering “ Black
Raven Brewing Company ” as a trademark.  
 Franciscan had claimed the mark would infringe its
Ravenswood, Ragin Raven and Ravens trademark used for wines and
related products produced by its Sonoma County, California
 Ravenswood Winery .  
 In a June 21 ruling a trademark appeal board said that
while beer and wine aren’t identical, they’d be offered to the
same customers, and that “confusion is likely to result if the
goods are sold under similar marks.” The board refused to
permit registration of the mark.  
 The brewery, which applied for the mark in 2007, posted a
 statement  on its website June 23, saying that while it didn’t
agree that its mark would infringe, it “doesn’t ask for nor
support any boycott or negative action towards Franciscan,
Ravenswood or Constellation Brands.”  
 Black Raven Brewing “has the utmost respect for
intellectual property and has never had the desire to mislead or
confuse consumers,” according to the statement.  
 The brewery was represented by  Justin D. Park  of  Romero
Park & Wiggins P.S.  of Bellevue, Washington. Constellation’s
Franciscan Vineyards unit was represented by  Stephen L. Baker  of
Raritan, New Jersey’s  Baker & Rannells PA .  
 The case is Franciscan Vineyards Inc., v. BeauxKat
Enterprises LLC, Opposition No. 011881755 to application Serial
No. 7722344, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Trademark Trial
and Appeal Board.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Del Mar Claims Trader, White Bay, Misappropriated Trade Secrets  
 Del Mar Asset Management LP sued a former trader and his
new employer, White Bay Advisor USVI LLC, alleging breach of
contract and misappropriation of trading models.  
 Bret Chesney learned New York-based Del Mar’s trading
models and strategies while working as a senior trader on the
firm’s index-trading desk, Del Mar said in the suit filed June
25 in New York state Supreme Court. Before he resigned June 16,
he e-mailed proprietary materials reflecting Del Mar’s
strategies and research to his personal and White Bay accounts,
according to the complaint.  
 White Bay, a U.S. Virgin Islands company, wasn’t involved
in index trading before hiring Chesney, who began to actively
trade on the firm’s behalf on June 17, the day after he
resigned, according to the suit.  
 “By virtue of these brazen acts, the defendants have
effectively usurped Del Mar’s index trading business and,
overnight, put White Bay in the index trading business,” Del
Mar said in the complaint.  
 Del Mar sued for breach and interference with Chesney’s
contract, breach of the duty of loyalty, aiding and abetting
that breach, and misappropriation of trade secrets.  
 Elli Ausubel, who answered the telephone at a New York-area
number for White Bay, said the firm had no immediate comment. A
message he took for Chesney wasn’t immediately returned.  
 The case is Del Mar Asset Management LP v. Bret Chesney,
650729/2010, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        