-- Deutsche Bank, SocGen, Credit Suisse, BP, Del Mar, CPC, Akzo in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-28T11:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/socgen-creation-credit-suisse-del-mar-cpc-group-akzo-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG  salesman Jon-Paul
Rorech didn’t illegally disclose information on a bond sale to a
hedge-fund manager, a judge ruled in U.S. regulators’ first
lawsuit alleging insider trading of credit-default swaps.  
 U.S. District Judge John G. Koeltl in Manhattan ruled
yesterday there was no evidence that Rorech and Renato Negrin, a
former Millennium Partners LP portfolio manager, violated laws
against insider trading. Information exchanged by the pair in
telephone calls, presented by the Securities and Exchange
Commission as evidence, wasn’t confidential, Koeltl said.  
 The SEC accused Rorech, 39, of illegally feeding Negrin,
47, information so he could buy credit-default swaps and profit
from the announcement of a debt restructuring by Dutch media
company VNU Group BV, according to the complaint filed last
year. Negrin reaped $1.2 million profit on the deal.  
 “While the SEC attempts to attribute nefarious content to
those calls through circumstantial evidence, there is, in fact,
no evidence to support this inference,” Koeltl said in his 122-
page ruling. “The SEC has also failed to present any evidence
that Mr. Rorech had any motive to provide ‘inside information’
to Mr. Negrin.”  
 “The court’s decision is a complete vindication,” Richard
Strassberg, Rorech’s attorney, said in a statement. “Trial
proved what Mr. Rorech always maintained -- at all times, he
acted consistently with Deutsche Bank’s policies and with
industry practice.”  
 In a statement provided June 25 by his lawyer, Lawrence
Iason, Negrin said: “As I stated from the outset, I did nothing
wrong and I never traded on inside information. Today I’m
finally vindicated.”  
 The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Rorech,
1:09-cv-04329, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kerviel Was SocGen ‘Creation,’ Should Be Cleared, Lawyer Says  
 Jerome Kerviel was a “creation” of  Societe Generale SA 
and should be cleared of charges related to the bank’s 4.9
billion-euro ($6 billion) loss, the former trader’s lawyer told
a Paris court June 25.  
 “Jerome Kerviel is not a fraudster,” said Olivier
Metzner, delivering closing arguments for his 33-year-old
client. He “was trained, formatted by Societe Generale,
reformatted if you will. Jerome Kerviel is nothing but the
creation of Societe Generale.”  
 Kerviel is accused of abuse of trust, faking documents and
hacking the bank’s computers. The trading loss occurred as the
bank unwound 50 billion euros in positions he’d built up by
January 2008 and concealed with faked hedges and forged orders.
The court will give its judgment Oct. 5, Judge Dominique Pauthe
said at the end of the trial.  
 “Everything that he did was seen, known and if not
encouraged, allowed,” Metzner said, arguing that while Kerviel
admitted to the deeds upon which the charges are based, they
didn’t qualify as crimes. “That is why I plead for a
dismissal.”  
 Metzner acknowledged that there were grounds for the charge
of hacking, defined as wrongfully entering information into a
computer system. He turned responsibility for Kerviel’s actions
back on the bank. “The bank gave him tacit accord,” he said.  
 The trial has featured more than 30 witnesses, including
Kerviel’s bosses, colleagues and bank controllers. Daniel
Bouton,  Societe Generale’s  chief executive officer at the time
of the loss, called the former trader’s conduct a
“catastrophe” for the bank.  
 Kerviel faces as long as five years in prison and a
375,000-euro fine.  
 The bank asked to be awarded the 4.9 billion euros it lost
in damages, with lawyer Jean Veil saying “we could have asked
for much more.”  
 Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Avoids Prison During Appeal  
 Ex- Credit Suisse Group AG  broker Eric Butler can remain
free while he appeals his securities-fraud conviction, a judge
ruled, overturning another judge’s previous decision.  
 U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein in Brooklyn, New
York, granted Butler his freedom June 25 as the appeals court in
Manhattan considers his conviction for fraudulently selling
securities that cost investors more than $1.1 billion.  
 Weinstein reversed an April decision by U.S. Magistrate
Judge Ramon Reyes, who revoked Butler’s bail and ordered him to
prison, saying he didn’t raise any issues that showed his
conviction might be reversed. Weinstein allowed the broker to
stay free during a review of that decision.  
 Butler was found guilty in August of securities fraud,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit
wire fraud. Weinstein sentenced him to five years imprisonment
in January.  
 Lawyers in U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch’s office, which
prosecuted him, opposed Butler’s request.  
 The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 SEC Sues Second ICP Manager for Trades That Benefited Client  
 U.S. regulators sued a second employee at ICP Asset
Management LLC, the investment firm accused by the Securities
and Exchange Commission of defrauding investors as it bolstered
an account held by “an important client.”  
 That client was Moore Capital LLC, the New York-based hedge
fund that manages about $14 billion, an official confirmed June
25, declining to comment further. Moore Capital hasn’t been
accused of any wrongdoing.  
 The SEC sued Aamer Abdullah, 34, a former money manager at
New York-based ICP, four days after the agency claimed that ICP
founder Thomas Priore made trades at artificially high prices on
behalf of collateralized debt obligations he managed.  
 The SEC’s June 21 suit against ICP claimed it made more
than $1 billion of trades at inflated prices for CDOs that were
in part insured by American International Group Inc. Some of the
trades profited an account at ICP held by Priore, 41, and the
unidentified client, the SEC said in its suit.  
 A phone call to Lawrence Gerschwer, an attorney listed in
court documents as representing Abdullah at Morrison & Foerster
LLP in New York, wasn’t returned.  
 For more, click here.  
 Chef Sues BP Over Damages to Restaurants Selling Gulf Seafood  
 Chef Susan Spicer, of  Bayona  restaurant in New Orleans and
a judge on “Top Chef,” sued  BP Plc  for damages to restaurants
that can’t access their customary supplies of fresh seafood from
the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Spicer filed a proposed class action on behalf of chefs
“whose occupation was destroyed and/or adversely and
detrimentally affected” by the worst oil spill in U.S. history,
caused by the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig off the
Louisiana coast in April.  
 “Much of the plaintiff’s business is based on the unique
quality of Louisiana seafood, as well as the chain of delivery
of that resource from the initial harvester,” said Serena
Pollack, one of Bayona’s lawyers, in papers filed June 25 in New
Orleans federal court. “Because this chain of delivery cannot
be maintained, plaintiff’s business has been and continues to be
materially damaged.”  
 BP spokesman Mark Salt declined to comment on the suit.  
 Spicer judged a recent  “Top Chef”  competition on Bravo TV
and is an occasional panelist on the Food Network’s “Iron Chef
America” cooking challenge. She received the  James Beard
Foundation  Award as best chef in the southeastern U.S. in 1993,
and is a consultant for the HBO series “ Treme ,” about life in
post-Katrina New Orleans.  
 Bayona, in New Orleans’s French Quarter, has earned four
stars in the Mobil travel guide. The Zagat Survey has ranked
Bayona among the city’s top five restaurants since 1995.  
 The lawsuit is Bayona Corp. v. Transocean Ltd., 2:10-cv-
01839, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 BP Former Employee Sues Over Loss to Retirement Plan  
 BP Plc  was sued by a former employee over losses to the
company’s retirement plan caused by the explosion of a deep-
water oil rig and subsequent Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 Ralph Whitley sued London-based BP, its  board , the Savings
Plan Investment Oversight Committee of BP Corp. North America
and the administrator of the plan June 24 in federal court in
Manhattan. The suit asks for unspecified damages.  
 Whitley seeks to represent a class of plan participants and
beneficiaries, from Jan. 1 to now, whose accounts held BP
American depositary  shares . BP stock has lost about half its
value since the April 20 blast. According to the complaint, the
shares were one of the retirement savings options in the plan.  
 “The plan suffered millions of dollars in losses in plan
benefits because substantial assets of the plan were imprudently
invested or allowed to be invested by defendants in BP ADSs
during the class period, in breach of defendants’ fiduciary
duties,” Whitley said in the complaint.  
 The case is Whitley v. BP Plc, 10-CV-4935, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Del Mar Sues Trader, White Bay Over Contract Breach  
 Del Mar Asset Management LP sued a former trader and his
new employer, White Bay Advisor USVI LLC, alleging breach of
contract and misappropriation of trading models.  
 Bret Chesney learned New York-based Del Mar’s trading
models and strategies while working as a senior trader on the
firm’s index-trading desk, Del Mar said in the suit filed June
25 in New York state Supreme Court. Before he resigned June 16,
he e-mailed proprietary materials reflecting Del Mar’s
strategies and research to his personal and White Bay accounts,
according to the complaint.  
 White Bay, a U.S. Virgin Islands company, wasn’t involved
in index trading before hiring Chesney, who began to actively
trade on the firm’s behalf on June 17, the day after he
resigned, according to the suit.  
 “By virtue of these brazen acts, the defendants have
effectively usurped Del Mar’s index trading business and,
overnight, put White Bay in the index trading business,” Del
Mar said in the complaint.  
 Del Mar sued for breach and interference with Chesney’s
contract, breach of the duty of loyalty, aiding and abetting
that breach, and misappropriation of trade secrets.  
 Elli Ausubel, who answered the telephone at a New York-area
number for White Bay, said the firm had no immediate comment. A
message he took for Chesney wasn’t returned.  
 The case is Del Mar Asset Management LP v. Bret Chesney,
650729/2010, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here. For the latest lawsuits news,
click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Merck Loses $8 Million Verdict in Trial Over Fosamax  
 Merck & Co.  lost the second trial to reach a verdict over
claims its osteoporosis drug Fosamax causes so-called jaw death.
The jury set damages at $8 million.  
 A jury in New York ruled against Merck June 25 in the case
of Shirley Boles, 72, of Fort Walton Beach, Florida, awarding $3
million more than the $5 million her lawyers had asked for.
Boles claimed she developed osteonecrosis of the jaw, or ONJ,
from taking Fosamax. The first Fosamax case resulted in a Merck
victory in May.  
 Boles “took on a giant and won,” said Timothy O’Brien,
one of her lawyers.  
 U.S. District Judge John Keenan, who is overseeing federal
Fosamax litigation, scheduled three so-called bellwether trials
that may point the way to out-of-court settlements and show each
side the other’s strategy. The third case is to be tried in
November.  
 “We believe the jury verdict was a result of plaintiff’s
counsel’s inflammatory and prejudicial remarks,” Paul F.
Strain, a lawyer for Merck, said in a statement.  
 Strain said in a phone interview that the jury’s findings
and the amount awarded aren’t consistent with the evidence
introduced in the trial. Merck will ask Keenan to throw out the
verdict and, if necessary, will appeal, he said.  
 Fosamax plaintiffs claim Merck misrepresented the drug’s
safety and failed to warn doctors and patients that it might
hamper blood flow to the jaw, causing jawbone-tissue death.  
 The case is Boles v. Merck & Co., 06-cv-09455, and the
lawsuits are combined in In Re Fosamax Products Liability
Litigation, MDL 1789, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Candy’s CPC Group Wins Trial Against Qatari Diar  
 The real-estate investment arm of Qatar’s sovereign-wealth
fund wrongfully backed out of a deal to redevelop London’s
landmark Chelsea Barracks site after the plan was opposed by
Prince Charles, a judge ruled.  
 Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. breached its
contract with U.K. developer  CPC Group Ltd. , controlled by real-
estate entrepreneur Christian Candy, and must pay damages in an
amount to be determined later, Judge Geoffrey Vos ruled June 25.
CPC is seeking as much as 81 million pounds ($121.1 million).  
 Vos backed CPC’s claim that the site plan application was
withdrawn in June 2009 because the emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad
Bin Khalifa Al-Thani, wanted to avoid upsetting the Prince of
Wales, who had complained about the site’s modern design. The
judge disagreed with claims that Qatari Diar acted in bad faith.  
 Christian Candy declined to comment after the ruling.  
 A joint venture of CPC and Qatari Diar paid 959 million
pounds for  Chelsea Barracks  in January 2008. In November of that
year, Qatari Diar bought out CPC’s stake for an initial payment
of about 38 million pounds and agreed to make 81 million pounds
in deferred payments, CPC said.  
 The contract allowed Qatari Diar to withdraw the planning
application if London Mayor Boris Johnson indicated he would ask
the city council to refuse it. Vos disagreed with Qatari Diar’s
claim that Johnson intended to do so.  
 CPC lawyer Neil Kitchener said the company would consider
Vos’s suggestion that the developer and Qatari Diar find a way
to work together on the project.  
 The case is CPC Group Ltd. v. Qatari Diar Real Estate
Investment Company, case no. 4260/09, High Court of Justice,
Chancery Division (London).  
 For more, click here.  
 Akzo Unit Wins 20% Cut in Antitrust Fine at EU Court  
 Akzo Nobel NV’s Imperial Chemical Industries unit won a 2
million-euro ($2.5 million) reduction in a 10 million-euro
European Union antitrust fine.  
 The  European Union General Court , the EU’s second-highest
court, cut the fine for Imperial Chemical by 20 percent to 8
million euros in Luxembourg June 25, saying the EU’s antitrust
regulator “was wrong to find that an aggravating circumstance
existed in the applicant’s case” that justified a higher fine.  
 The European Commission in 2000 re-imposed a 10 million-
euro fine on London-based Imperial Chemical, a few months after
an EU court threw out the original penalty. The EU antitrust
agency also reinstated a 23 million-euro fine on  Solvay SA ,
accusing both companies of abusing their dominant positions in
the market for soda ash, used to make glass for cars and
buildings.  
 Solvay and Imperial Chemical in 2008 both challenged the
re-adopted fines, saying they came too late after the alleged
breaches were committed.  Akzo , the world’s biggest maker of
paints,  bought  Imperial Chemical in the same year.  
 Lawyers for Amsterdam-based Akzo “will have to study the
ruling first before making a decision on a possible appeal,”
said spokesman Oskar Bosson by telephone.  
 Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission’s antitrust
unit, didn’t respond to calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  
 The case is  T-66/01  Imperial Chemical Industries v
Commission.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Ex-Prosecutor Daddario to Head New York Police Terrorism Units  
 Richard C. Daddario, a federal prosecutor in New York for
13 years, was named head of the New York Police Department’s
anti-terrorism units.  
 Daddario, 59, was appointed deputy commissioner of
counterterrorism, the NYPD said June 24 in a statement. He
succeeds Richard Falkenrath, who left in April to join the
Chertoff Group, a security advisory firm led by former U.S.
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff.  
 Daddario, as an assistant U.S. attorney in the Southern
District of New York since 1996, led the general crime,
narcotics and organized-crime divisions and served as deputy
chief of the unit that oversaw organized crime and terrorism,
the police department said. He has been the U.S. Justice
Department’s attaché in Moscow since September 2009 and will
assume his new duties in August, said Paul Browne, a police
spokesman.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        