-- South Africa Willing to Help End ArcelorMittal Ore Dispute, Minister Says
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-06-28T09:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/south-africa-willing-to-help-resolve-arcelormittal-kumba-iron-ore-dispute.html

          
          
             South Africa’s government said it is
willing to help resolve a dispute between  ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd. , a unit of the world’s largest steelmaker, and  Kumba
Iron Ore Ltd.  over a supply agreement.  
 “If there had to be suggestions that we need to be
involved in that, we would entertain those suggestions, but so
far, we haven’t been approached,” Trade Minister  Rob Davies 
said in an interview in Cape Town yesterday, where he is
attending the  Fortune Global Forum .  
 Kumba, which supplies two-thirds of ArcelorMittal South
Africa’s iron ore needs, in March canceled a nine-year old
supply agreement, in which the steelmaker bought ore at 3
percent above production costs. ArcelorMittal then imposed a
surcharge on steel products to offset rising costs, prompting
Davies to request the Competition Commission to investigate the
company for anti-competitive behavior.  
 “Domestic price of steel is a factor raised consistently
by downstream manufacturers as something that makes it difficult
for them to be competitive,” Davies said. “We are concerned
about the potential for a further price increase in steel
products arising from the announcement by ArcelorMittal to
impose a levy.”  
 Davies has said previously that the government won’t get
involved in the matter as it sees it as a commercial one. The
dispute is in arbitration and could take as long as 18 months to
resolve, ArcelorMittal South Africa’s Chief Executive Officer
 Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita , said on April 29.  
 South Africa is also looking at other options to help bring
down steel prices in the country, including attracting more
investment in the industry, Davies said.  
 “We’re looking at a number of options, which don’t just
include engaging with ArcelorMittal,” said Davies. “We are
looking at a number of options to ensure there are more
reasonable prices for steel products for downstream
manufacturers in the country. Certainly we’d like to see more
competition in the steel industry. Any potential investors we’d
be happy to entertain discussions with.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        