-- Sovereigns Are Poised for Longest Winning Streak Since 2008: Canada Credit
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-06-28T04:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/sovereigns-are-poised-for-longest-winning-streak-since-2008-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Canada’s sovereign bonds are headed
for a third straight monthly gain, the longest consecutive
advances since the three months through December 2008, amid
heightened concern the global economic recovery is faltering.  
 The C$347 billion ($335 billion) government-bond market is
poised to return 0.93 percent, including reinvested interest,
after making investors 1.92 percent in April and 0.22 percent in
May, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  
 Canada last week reported a larger-than-expected drop in
 retail sales  and a slower inflation rate, and the U.S. reduced
its estimate of first-quarter economic growth. Investors have
also bought more Canadian government bonds on concern that some
European governments will struggle to finance deficits, and
spending cuts will slow the euro region’s growth.  
 “The flight-to-quality and risk-aversion trade is coming
back on and might be here for the foreseeable future,” said  Ric Palombi , a portfolio manager in Calgary at MacLean & Partners,
which oversees more than C$1 billion.  
 Yields on 3- and 4-year Canadian government bonds could
fall another 10 basis points to 20 basis points, Palombi said.
Two-year bond yields may not decline as investors bet the Bank
of Canada may keep raising interest rates, he said.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own Canadian provincial rather than federal government
debt declined to 63 basis points on June 25 from 64 basis points
the previous day, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. The gap was 71 basis points May 21. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 Corporate Bonds  
 For corporate bonds, investors demanded an extra 149 basis
points to hold those securities over Canadian federal government
bonds on June 25 versus 150 points the day before, according to
the Bank of America Merrill data. The gap was as narrow as 114
basis points in March.  
 Central bank Governor  Mark Carney  raised the  benchmark
lending rate  to 0.5 percent from a record low 0.25 percent June
1, and said further moves would weigh the domestic recovery
against the risk from an uneven global expansion.  
 “The Bank of Canada hasn’t fully committed to an
aggressive tightening cycle,” which is helping government
bonds, said  Kam Bath , a fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Toronto. Canada is also seen as a “safe haven,”
compared with Europe, Bath said.  
 “Any further negative developments on the fiscal front
would help support Canada bonds,” Bath said, referring to
changes in Europe.  
 Canadian government bonds have lagged the 1.1 percent
return on U.S. Treasuries so far this month. U.S. bonds have
benefitted more as investors sought the most widely traded and
highest-rated securities to invest, Bath said.  
 End to Rally  
 At the same time, economists are predicting an end to the
Canada government bond rally next year. The benchmark 10-year
bond yield will increase to 4.1 percent in the second quarter of
2011, according to the median of nine estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. The yield was 3.20 percent June 25.  
 Canada reports April gross domestic product on June 30, and
economists predict the economy expanded 0.2 percent from the
previous month, based on the median of 15 estimates gathered by
Bloomberg News.  
 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the country’s fifth-
biggest bank, sold $1.25 billion of five-year covered bonds June
25, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 2.6 percent
notes priced to yield 73.2 basis points more than similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at   gquinn1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        