-- Soybean Prices Flat as Drier Weather May Increase Potential of U.S. Crop
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-06-28T15:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/soybean-prices-flat-as-drier-weather-may-increase-potential-of-u-s-crop.html

          
          
             Soybeans were flat for the second
consecutive session as a forecast for drier weather in the
Midwest may boost the yield potential for crops in the U.S., the
world’s largest grower and shipper.  
 Dry weather into July will firm soils for any remaining
soybean sowing and improve conditions for recently planted crops
in the Midwest, said  Allen Motew , a meteorologist for QT Weather
in Chicago. Rains from Tropical Storm Alex may moisten dry soils
across the southern U.S., Motew said. Wet, cool weather may
benefit most crops into the middle of July, he said.  
 “The weather forecasts are improving, and that is the main
drag on soybean prices,” said  Jeff Beal , a market consultant
for the Gulke Group Inc. in Rockford, Illinois. “Two weeks of
dry, warm weather will do wonders for the crop.”  
 Soybean futures for November delivery were flat at $9.12 a
bushel at 10:49 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade, after
gaining 0.5 percent to $9.1675. The most-active contract dropped
2 percent last week, the eighth decline in nine weeks.  
 Prices also were constrained by speculation that demand for
soy-based animal feed will slow this year, Beal said.  
 The hog-breeding herd totaled 5.788 million sows on June 1,
3 percent fewer than a year earlier, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said June 25 after markets closed in Chicago.  
 “The hogs report confirmed there will be reduced numbers
of pigs to feed this year,” Beal said.  
 Soybean meal for December delivery rose 20 cents, or 0.1
percent, to $261.30 for 2,000 pounds. Before today, the most-
active futures lost 15 percent this year on forecasts for a jump
in production in Argentina and Brazil, the biggest shippers of
the animal feed.  
 The soybean crop in the U.S. was valued at $31.8 billion
last year, second only to corn at $48.6 billion, government
figures show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        