-- Sri Lanka Plans Biggest Budget-Deficit Reduction in Eight Years After War
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-06-29T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/sri-lanka-may-focus-on-narrowing-budget-gap-after-26-year-civil-war-ends.html

          
          
             Sri Lanka unveiled plans to slash
its budget deficit by the most in eight years and pledged to cut
taxes to spur economic  growth  after a 26-year civil war.  
 The island nation will narrow the budget shortfall to 8
percent of gross domestic product in 2010 from 9.9 percent in
the previous year, Deputy Finance Minister  Sarath Amunugama  said
in his budget  speech  in Colombo yesterday. The proposed
reduction is the biggest since 2002.  
 “The government proposes in the medium term to bring down
excessive tax rates on personal and corporate income as well as
financial institutions and do away with ad hoc and unproductive
tax concessions,” Amunugama said, without elaborating. “Our
tax system is outdated, complex, narrowly focused and
unattractive to investment and business development.”  
 President  Mahinda Rajapaksa ’s coalition is streamlining
taxes and relying on faster growth to boost revenue, as
investors focus on government finances after Europe’s debt
crisis threatened to undermine the global economy. Lower levies
on lenders such as  Hatton National Bank Plc , which pay taxes of
as much as 60 percent, may release more funds for loans and aid
economic expansion.  
 “The government has sent the right signals on the
direction of tax rates in the country,” said  Sarath Rajapakse ,
director of research at Capital Trust Securities Ltd. in
Colombo. “Growth will aid their efforts to cut borrowings.”  
 Tax Structure  
 Personal income tax rates are as high as 35 percent in Sri
Lanka and need to be cut to boost consumption, said  Bimanee Meepagala , a Colombo-based analyst at NDB Aviva Wealth
Management Ltd., the nation’s biggest non-state fund.  
 Amunugama didn’t announce any tax changes in the budget
yesterday, calling it an “interim presentation” of the revenue
and expenditure statement of the government for the six months
through December.  
 This year’s budget has been delayed by about seven months
as presidential and parliamentary elections were called after
the government defeated the separatist Liberation Tigers of
Tamil Eelam in May 2009.  
 Sri Lanka’s benchmark Colombo  All-Share Index  rose 1
percent to 4,617.69 yesterday. It has climbed 36 percent this
year and is the best performer after Mongolia in Asia Pacific.
The Sri Lankan rupee, which has gained about 1.3 percent since
the war ended, closed at 113.53 to the dollar in Colombo.  
 Economic Growth  
 In the run up to the budget, Sri Lanka this month halved
the import tax on cars and cut levies on electronics goods to
spur  growth  to the targeted 7 percent this year, the fastest
pace since 2006.  
 Sri Lanka is betting on faster growth to increase tax
revenue by a fifth to 729 billion rupees ($6.4 billion) in 2010,
Amunugama said. The government’s goal is to raise tax
collections to at least 17 percent of GDP over the medium term,
from 14.5 percent in 2009, he said.  
 The target is achievable if the economy expands at the pace
forecast by the government, said  Saminda Weerasinghe , research
manager at Acuity Stockbrokers Pvt. in Colombo.  
 Sri Lanka’s budget plan has the approval of the
International Monetary Fund, which on June 28 released about
$408 million to Sri Lanka under a $2.5 billion loan program.  
 IMF Help  
 The South Asian nation turned to the IMF in 2009 to
replenish its foreign-exchange reserves, which currently stands
at $5.5 billion, or equivalent to about 6 months of imports.  
 “To promote investment and growth, the authorities plan to
formulate a national investment strategy, which will include
reforms aimed at reducing the current high cost of doing
business in Sri Lanka,” the IMF said in a statement on June 28.  
 Sri Lanka is overhauling its tax rates based on the
recommendations of a panel set up by Rajapaksa, Amunugama said.
The panel will submit its final report in August, he said.  
 The changes come as peace in the Indian Ocean island
attracts overseas companies.  
 Emirates Telecommunications Corp. , the United Arab
Emirates’ biggest phone company, started services this year in
the northern Jaffna peninsula after buying Tigo Pvt., the Sri
Lankan unit of Millicom International Cellular SA.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc opened the first branch by any foreign
bank in Jaffna, the former stronghold of the Tamil Tigers, while
 Minor International Pcl , Thailand’s biggest hotel operator,
announced plans in May to invest in Sri Lanka to tap growing
leisure and business travelers.  
 Tourist arrivals jumped 42 percent in May from a year
earlier, according to the Sri Lanka Tourist Board.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President of Sri Lanka Mahinda Rajapaksa waves prior a meeting in New Delhi. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
