-- Standard Chartered Slides as European Sovereign Debt Crisis Slows Revenue
-- Jon Menon
-- 2010-06-28T15:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/standard-chartered-says-its-revenue-will-increase-at-double-digit-rate.html

          
          
             Standard Chartered Plc  declined in
London trading after the British bank that earns most of its
profit in Asia said the European sovereign debt crisis caused a
“softening” of first-half revenue.  
 The bank recorded the second-biggest fall of the five
British lenders in the  FTSE 350 Banks  Index. It  dropped  1.8
percent to 1710 pence, valuing the stock at 35.4 billion pounds
($53.5 billion).  
 Standard Chartered recorded “slightly slower growth in the
last few weeks” as “market nervousness” over the
“uncertainty of Europe” harmed wealth management and other
income in May and June, Finance Director  Richard Meddings  told
journalists today. The bank on May 4 said it had record profit
and revenue in the first quarter.  
 Standard Chartered  earns more than 88 percent of revenue
from its Asia Pacific, Middle East, India and Africa regions. Of
the bank’s 78,000 employees, about 2,700, or 3.5 percent, work
in Europe.  
 The effect of the European debt crisis on Standard
Chartered is “perhaps a little surprising” since the bank
“should be immune from concerns over euro-zone government
debt,” said  Bruce Packard,  an analyst at Seymour Pierce in
London who has a “hold” rating on the stock. “Momentum
appears to have slowed as the year progresses.”  
 The bank has no direct holdings of sovereign debt in
southern Europe, Meddings said. Revenue gained when compared
with the last six months of 2009, though was “broadly flat” on
the first-half of 2009, the London-based bank said in a
statement today. The bank remains “very comfortable” with
analysts’ consensus estimates for a 2010 pretax profit of $5.9
billion. Its 2009 pretax profit was $5.15 billion.  
 Employees Added  
 Standard Chartered earned 82 percent of profit last year
from corporate banking, led by  Michael Rees , which added 450
employees in sales, support and control roles. The lender raised
$540 million by selling shares last month in India, its second
most profitable market after Hong Kong.  
 Net interest margin, which measure banks’ profitability
from lending, has “fallen fractionally” compared with 2009,
Standard Chartered said today.  
 “Economic conditions continue to improve across our
geographies and business activities levels are increasing,”
said Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands  in the statement. The
group is heading “towards a strong performance in the first
half of 2010,” the statement said.  
 The  bank  has risen 8.6 percent in London this year, the
third-best performer after  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in
the FTSE 350 Banks Index.  
 Unlike other British banks including RBS, Standard
Chartered didn’t need a state-funded bailout during the
financial crisis. Standard Chartered would support the
publication of stress-test results, said Meddings.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Standard Chartered Plc CEO Peter Sands  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Standard Chartered Plc CEO Peter Sands reads notes before a panel discussion during the World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Standard Chartered Plc CEO Peter Sands reads notes before a panel discussion during the World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
