-- Stevie Wonder Celebrates, Fans Burn Out at Rival Rock Festivals
-- Mark Beech
-- 2010-06-28T01:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/stevie-wonder-celebrates-fans-burn-out-at-rival-rock-festivals.html

          
          
             Things were never likely to go to
plan at rock’s greatest show on earth this weekend.  
 That was certain from the moment U2 singer  Bono  suffered a
back injury and had to cancel performances for weeks, including
 Glastonbury . The world’s biggest greenfield festival responded
by finding many surprise guests, including  Kylie Minogue ,  Lou Reed  and  the Edge . “Glasto” took place at the same time as the
rival  Hard Rock Calling  in London 100 miles away -- with some
330,000 people attending one or another.  
 Stevie Wonder  said he was marking his recent 60th birthday
by playing both events. Wonder paid tribute to  Michael Jackson ,
who died a year ago aged 50, and sang “Happy Birthday” for
Glastonbury’s 40th birthday as the weekend ended.  
 The 1,500 hippie revelers at the first Pilton Festival (as
it then was) in 1970 had to pay 1 pound ($1.50). For that, they
got Marc Bolan and a free pint of milk from the cows of  Michael Eavis’s  500-acre Worthy Farm. “Glasto” veterans will remember
how it nearly collapsed 20 years ago as crowds clashed with
security teams.  
 In 2010, there was no sea of mud that we’ve had to endure
in the past. The welly boot stalls were deserted. Silly hats and
sunglasses were flying off the shelves instead. The longest
lines were for phone-charging points. The  Coachella -type heat of
90 degrees was enough to keep many fans seeking shade and a cool
drink. My weekend dashing between town and country left me with
sunburn and a list of tips of acts to watch.  
 Grizzly Bear  
 U.S. band Grizzly Bear more than lived up the hype with a
beautiful set. I missed out on seeing Hot Chip, though a radio
rebroadcast of the band’s live “One Life Stand” was one the
best things all weekend. Florence and the Machine, the Flaming
Lips, Mumford & Sons, Midlake, Laura Marling and  Lissie  all
sounded great.  
 Seasick Steve is always good value for money, and can make
better blues out of an old plank of wood and a bit of wire than
many can with the most expensive Stratocaster.  
 Damon Albarn’s  band Gorillaz had a potentially hard job in
standing in for U2. Its performance was boosted by guest
vocalists Mark E. Smith and Shaun Ryder (providing Mancunian
pride), Reed (craggy cool) and  Snoop Dogg  (turbocharged wit).  
 The Scissor Sisters raced through tracks off the album
“Night Work,” out this week, and capped it with Minogue’s
appearance. The Australian star joined the funky dancing on
“Any Which Way.”  
 Glastonbury’s Saturday night headline act, U.K. band Muse,
was disappointing, with songs such as “Knights of Cydonia”
weighed down by pomp and circumstance. The best bit was the
cover of “When the Streets Have No Name” with U2’s Edge.  
 Sunny Revival  
 The  Pet Shop Boys  revived the 1980s more stylishly while
the Kinks founder  Ray Davies  did the same for the 1960s, backed
by the Crouch End Choir. His “Sunny Afternoon” couldn’t have
been a more apt title.  
 Shakira  and  Norah Jones  were both remarkably laid-back,
while the Dead Weather’s guitar-heavy set showed  Jack White’s 
latest band is happy to be an acquired taste.  
 Of the veterans, the Seattle act  Pearl Jam delivered a
storming 2 ½ hour concert on Friday, friends tell me. It sounds
better than the Paul McCartney show I saw Sunday, enduring songs
like “Let ‘Em In’’ before he returned to Beatles classics such
as ‘‘Blackbird.’’ Wonder changed the words of ‘‘Master Blaster 
(Jammin’)’’ to ‘‘We love you Michael Jackson,’’ fortunately 
moving on to ‘‘Higher Ground,’’ ‘‘Superstition’’ and ‘‘My Cherie
Amour.’’ That was more like it.  
 ( Mark Beech  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The cartoon members of the band Gorillaz, as illustrated by comic book artist Jamie Hewlett.   "Plastic Beach'' is the new record by the virtual band created by Damon Albarn, with contributions by Lou Reed and Snoop Dogg. Source: EMI/ RMP London via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Members of the band the Scissor Sisters. The band releases its third studio album, ``Night Work,'' in June 2010. Source: Universal Music Group via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
