-- Stocks With High Profit, Low Debt Keep Me Calm: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-06-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/stocks-with-high-profit-low-debt-keep-me-calm-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             With many investors nervous as March
hares, this is a good time to look at stocks with high profits
and low debt.  
 I don’t expect a double-dip recession, but if one happens,
these companies should withstand it better than most. They
should also do fine if the economy improves, as I expect.  
 Only 8 percent of U.S. companies with a market value of
$250 million or more achieved a return of 25 percent or more on
stockholders’ equity last year. And only 23 percent of companies
have debt less than 10 percent of stockholders’ equity.  
 The real trick is meeting both criteria at once. A paltry 2
percent of companies managed the feat last year.  
 The three largest companies that qualify are  Apple Inc. ,
 Mastercard Inc.  and  Gap Inc.  Of those three, I prefer Gap
because it sells for 12 times earnings compared with 23 for
Apple and 18 for Mastercard. However, there are smaller stocks I
like better.  
 Let’s begin with  Western Digital Corp . Based in Lake
Forest, California, Western Digital is the world’s No. 2
manufacturer of hard disk drives for personal computers.  Seagate
Technology , based in the Cayman Islands and run from Scotts
Valley, California, is No. 1. The two rivals hold more than half
the market.  
 Technological obsolescence might threaten the big two some
day. Solid state drives or other innovations could someday
replace the spinning disks in common use now. For the moment,
though, the threat seems distant. Western Digital has been
profitable in its past eight fiscal years.  
 Rising Computer Sales  
 Disk makers should benefit from the transition to Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows 7 as the standard operating system for PCs. Many
businesses that normally replace their computers every three
years delayed purchases during the recession.  
 Now that the recession seems to be over and Windows 7 is
available, I foresee robust spending on new personal computers
by both corporations and individuals in 2010 and 2011. Western
Digital sells for six times earnings.  
 Next let’s look at  Wet Seal Inc. , an apparel retailer
located in Foothill Ranch, California. It sells clothing to
teenage girls and young women at its Wet Seal stores, and offers
women’s fashions at its Arden B. line.  
 Wet Seal is debt free, a quality I find alluring. Its
current ratio (assets divided by liabilities) is a healthy 3.9.  
 Unlike Western Digital, which has been consistently
profitable in recent years, Wet Seal’s performance has been
erratic. It posted losses every year from 2004 through 2007.
Under Chief Executive Officer  Edmond Thomas , it seems to have
turned around and gotten back onto profitable footing.  
 Financially Sound  
 Never will I rest easy owning shares in a clothing
retailer: Fashion is too fickle. But I like Wet Seal’s financial
strength and its low valuations. The stock sells for four times
earnings.  
 Another comeback story is New York-based  Loral Space &
Communications Inc. , which operates a fleet of communications
satellites. A predecessor company went bankrupt in 2003, but the
current Loral, which emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2005,
is debt free and earned a $232 million profit last year on sales
of $993 million.  
 Loral lost money in four of the past six years.
Disenchanted investors value the stock at less than five times
earnings. Disgruntled analysts don’t bother to cover it. The
stock is covered by one small brokerage firm, which rates it
“hold.”  
 I think Loral is an interesting speculation for a risk-
tolerant investor.  
 Controversial Pick  
 Also worth considering, though highly controversial, is
gunmaker  Sturm Ruger & Co. , located in Southport, Connecticut.  
 Last year the company earned $27 million on sales of $271
million. It has been profitable every year for at least two
decades though earnings have bounced up and down. Only three
analysts follow the stock, and all suggest buying it.  
 There is, of course, a moral aspect to this investment. The
cities of New York and Washington unsuccessfully sued Sturm
Ruger and other gunmakers, alleging that they sell weapons to
careless or greedy dealers who allow them to fall into the hands
of criminals. The company’s defenders say the weapons are used
mainly by law-enforcement officers, the military and hunters.  
 Sturm Ruger is debt free and earned a 34 percent return on
equity last year. The stock sells for 10 times earnings.  
 Disclosure note: I own Western Digital personally and for
clients. I have no long or short positions in the other stocks
discussed in this week’s column.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        