-- Sugar Futures Fall as Importers Delay Purchases, Waiting for Higher Prices
-- M. Shankar
-- 2010-06-28T18:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/sugar-futures-fall-as-importers-delay-purchases-waiting-for-higher-prices.html

          
          
             Sugar prices fell the most in a
month in New York as importers postponed purchases.  
 Egypt’s state-run Sugar and Integrated Industries Co.
canceled a tender for 100,000 metric tons of raw sugar because
of high prices, Ramadan Suleiman, a purchasing manager at the
company, said today. It is the third time the agency has
canceled an international sugar tender in the past five months.
The commodity surged 6.6 percent last week.  
 “This is not good news,” said  Michael McDougal , a senior
vice president at brokerage Newedge USA in New York. “There may
be some temporary setbacks, but the short-term tightness in the
market remains.”  
 Raw sugar for October delivery declined 0.57 cent, or 3.5
percent to 15.82 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York,
the biggest decline since May 28. Earlier, the commodity rose to
16.68 cents, the highest level for a most-active contract since
April 22.  
 White, or refined, sugar for October delivery declined
$5.10, or 1.1 percent, to $479.40 a ton on the Liffe exchange in
London. The price rose as much as 2.2 percent.  
 “Global stocks remain low and demand continues to flow
from Asian countries,”  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an analyst with
Barclays Plc in London, wrote today in an e-mailed report.  
 India’s monsoon, the main source of irrigation for the
nation’s farmers, was 12 percent below average as of yesterday,
the Indian Meteorological Department said on its website. Sugar
prices more than doubled last year in London and New York after
excess rain in Brazil and a poor monsoon in India crimped
output. The two countries are the world’s biggest growers.  
 While the market may return to surplus in the 2010-11
season, inventories need replenishing after the stocks-to-use
ratio fell to a 20-year low, according to a report last week by
researcher F.O. Licht.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 M. Shankar  in London at 
 mshankar@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        