-- Swatch Founder Hayek, Credited With Saving Swiss Watchmaking, Dies at 82
-- Jennifer M. Freedman
-- 2010-06-28T21:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/swatch-group-says-chairman-nicolas-hayek-died-of-heart-failure-at-age-82.html

          
          
             (Corrects 10th paragraph to remove the number of Swatch
watches sold by 1996.)  
 Swatch Group AG  Chairman  Nicolas Hayek , credited with reviving the Swiss watch industry in the
1980s, died today of heart failure, the company said.  
 Hayek, 82, died while at work, the Biel, Switzerland-based
maker of Omega and Breguet timepieces said.  
 His “greatest merit was his enormous contribution to the
saving of the Swiss watch industry and the foundation and the
commercial development of the  Swatch Group ,” the company said.  
 Hayek reached fame in Switzerland when he was hired to
advise two Swiss watchmakers on the verge of bankruptcy amid
competition from cheaper, Japanese-made watches. He recommended
that the companies, which owned Omega, Longines and Tissot,
merge and develop a low-cost watch, called the Swatch, that
consumers might buy in addition to their more expensive ones.  
 “The Swiss watch industry has lost a legend and he will
sorely be missed,” said Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets in Zurich.  
 Hayek was born Feb. 19, 1928, in Lebanon and emigrated to
Switzerland, where he became a Swiss citizen.  
 Trained as an engineer, Hayek got his first career break in
the late 1950s, he recalled in the 2005 book “Nicolas G. Hayek:
Views of a Full-Blooded Entrepreneur.” After three clients
canceled contracts for his consulting business in the summer of
1957, Hayek had to pawn the family’s furniture to secure a line
of credit.  
 “That was the first and last time in my life that I asked
for a loan from a bank or anyone else,” Hayek wrote.  
 Blancpain Brand  
 By the mid-80s, Hayek began concentrating on the watch
industry and, along with investors, bought 51 percent of SMH in
1985. He became chairman and chief executive officer in 1986.  
 SMH was renamed Swatch Group in 1998, taking the name of a
brand that had become a pop marketing icon. Swatch Group bought
the luxury watch brand Blancpain in 1992, and in the early 1990s
began expanding into the manufacture of microchips and other
electronic components.  
 By then, Hayek’s profile as creator of the Swatch watch had
spread beyond Switzerland. He carried the Olympic flame in 1996
when Swatch Group was the official timekeeper of the Atlanta
games. Hayek also helped Swatch Group develop the Smart car, in
a venture with Daimler AG that the German carmaker later bought
out. Interested in alternate forms of energy, he had Swatch
Group create a venture in 2007 called Belenos Clean Power SA to
develop fuel cells to power cars.  
 ‘Exceptional Entrepreneur’  
 “He was an exceptional entrepreneur and he made his mark
on Swiss watchmaking,”  Jean-Claude Biver , chief executive of
Hublot, the watch brand owned by LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA, said in an interview on the RSR Swiss radio. “He
was a doer and had an incredible life,” said Biver, who
previously worked at Swatch Group.  
 Hayek, who often wore two or more watches and his suit
jacket sleeves rolled up, passed the role of  CEO  onto his son,
 Nick Hayek Jr ., in 2003. He remained chairman of the group and
head of Breguet, a luxury watchmaker that began producing
timepieces in 1775 and was bought by Swatch Group in 1999.  
 “You see I don’t have a job,” he said in an interview
with Swissinfo in 2005. “I really amuse myself every day.”  
 Hayek received France’s Legion d’Honneur in 2003 for his
services to watchmaking.  
 When a journalist asked Hayek about retirement plans in
July, the chairman made a play on words, as the word
“retraite” in French can mean both retirement and retreat.  
 “That’s what Napoleon did in Russia, let’s not talk about
retirement,” he said.  
 Hayek is survived by his wife Marianne, his daughter Nayla
and his son.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        