-- Bond Upgrades Top Cuts for First Time Since `07: Credit Markets
-- Sapna Maheshwari
-- 2010-06-29T15:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/u-s-bond-upgrades-top-downgrades-for-first-time-since-07-credit-markets.html

          
          
             U.S. credit-rating upgrades are
poised to exceed downgrades this quarter for the first time
since before markets froze as the economic recovery boosts
company profits.  
 Standard & Poor’s lifted the ratings of 244 U.S. issuers,
including Santa Clara, California-based chipmaker  National
Semiconductor Corp.  and department-store chain  Macy’s Inc. ,
while cutting 211, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Moody’s Investors Service upgraded 205 borrowers and lowered
ratings on 131. Upgrades haven’t surpassed downgrades since the
second quarter of 2007.  
 Corporate profits in the U.S. rose at the fastest pace
since 1984 in the first three months of this year. Cash levels
at investment-grade borrowers have surged 15 percent from a year
earlier while debt has fallen 2 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co., suggesting corporations are healthy enough to
weather a slowing economy.  
 “I do see more upgrades coming,” said  Ann Benjamin , chief
investment officer of leveraged asset management strategies at
New York-based Neuberger Berman LLC, where she helps oversee
$7.5 billion of high-yield bonds and $5 billion of loans.
“There’s plenty of good companies out there that may be
misrated.”  
 In Europe, where governments are struggling to trim their
budget deficits, S&P has upgraded 84 issuers this quarter and
cut 167, while Moody’s has raised 40 and downgraded 121,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Company Profits  
 U.S. corporate profits rose 34 percent in the first quarter
compared with a year earlier, according to a Commerce Department
report published June 25. Cash at investment-grade companies
rose to $668 billion at the end of the first quarter from $580
billion a year earlier, while debt fell to $2.3 trillion,
JPMorgan analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  wrote last week.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold investment-grade bonds instead of benchmark
government debt was unchanged as of yesterday at 195 basis
points, or 1.95 percentage points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. The spread
has risen from this year’s low of 142 on April 21. Yields
averaged 3.959 percent yesterday.  
 Indicators of corporate bond risk in the U.S. and Europe
rose. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 5.53 basis points to a mid-price of 121.5 basis points
as of 11:49 a.m. in New York, the highest since June 14,
according to Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings increased 8.74 to 133.27, the biggest rise since June 7,
Markit prices show.  
 Bondholder Protection  
 The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 As Moody’s and S&P continue to lift rankings of U.S.
corporations, spreads on investment-grade and high-yield debt
will narrow, said  Burt White , chief investment officer at LPL
Financial Corp. in Boston.  
 The upgrades “are a real indication that we’re back to
where we were,” said White, who helps oversee $284 billion, and
recommends selling Treasuries and purchasing high-yield debt.
“Corporate America is about as strong as they’ve been. The
recession’s over, the recovery’s over, now we’re in expansion.”  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, compared with a 5.6 percent pace in the last
period of 2009, the Commerce Department report showed.  
 Consumer Confidence Falls  
 Still, confidence among U.S. consumers declined in June
more than forecast as Americans became pessimistic about the
outlook for the labor market and the economy. The Conference
Board’s  confidence  index slumped to 52.9 this month from a
revised 62.7 in May, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed today. The median forecast called for a
drop to 62.5, and the gauge was lower than all projections in a
Bloomberg News survey of 71 economists.  
 Investors watch the so-called upgrade-downgrade ratio even
as ratings companies draw criticism from officials such as
Financial Crisis Inquiry Chairman  Phil Angelides  and state
insurance regulators for assigning top-level grades to U.S.
subprime-mortgage bonds that collapsed in value.  
 The gauge offers a snapshot of the business cycle because
issuers’ credit quality varies with the state of the wider
economy.  
 High-Risk Companies  
 At S&P, a unit of New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos., U.S.
high-yield, high-risk companies accounted for 123 rating
increases this quarter, compared with 81 cuts, Bloomberg data
show. At Moody’s, 90 of the upgrades and 52 of the downgrades
were of the riskiest companies. Speculative-grade companies are
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  
 National Semiconductor , the maker of chips that control
power in electronic devices, was raised one step to investment
grade on June 11 by S&P, which cited revenue growth. Cincinnati-
based Macy’s was raised one step by S&P on May 11, climbing to
BB+ based on its “solid position” relative to rivals.  
 “You’re still in an environment where shareholders on
balance would frown on the aggressive use of leverage by
companies,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s
Capital Markets Group in New York. “You haven’t reached that
point in the cycle where companies feel more confident about
increasing leverage for the purported reason of enhancing long-
term returns for common equity.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Phil Angelides chairs a Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing on credit ratings agencies in New York. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
