-- U.S. Stocks Drop, Led By Commodity Shares, as Oil, Metals Fall
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-06-28T20:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-as-g-20-pledges-to-reduce-budget-deficits.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for the fifth time in six
days, as declines in oil and metal prices dragged down commodity
producers.  
 Exxon Mobil Corp. lost 1.1 percent as oil slid from a
seven-week high. Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. sank 2.9
percent. Altria Group Inc. rallied 3.3 percent as the Supreme
Court rejected a White House appeal of a racketeering case
against tobacco companies. Sprint Nextel Corp. climbed 6.2
percent on President  Barack Obama ’s plan to increase airwaves
available for smartphones, laptops and new wireless devices.  
 The  S&P 500  decreased 0.2 percent to 1,074.57 as of 4 p.m.
in New York after gaining as much as 0.5 percent. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average slipped 5.29 points, or 0.1 percent, to
10,138.52. About three stocks retreated for every two that rose
on U.S. exchanges.  
 “There’s not a great deal of conviction in this market,”
said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management,
which oversees more than $800 million and whose flagship fund
beat 97 percent of peers over the last year. “In general there
seems to be a lack of buyers in the equity market and I think
that’ll stay in place through the end of the quarter.”  
 The S&P 500 is poised for an 8.1 percent second-quarter
retreat, snapping a four-quarter streak of gains. The index
rallied 9.2 percent from the end of 2009 through this year’s
high on April 23 amid signs of improvement in the global
economy. The gauge then tumbled 14 percent through June 7 on
concern Europe’s debt crisis may derail the economic recovery.  
 2010 Retreat  
 The measure remains 3.6 percent lower in 2010, trimming its
valuation to less than 16 times the reported earnings of its
companies, near the lowest level in almost a year.  
 Benchmark indexes opened higher following a report showing
consumer purchases rose 0.2 percent after little change the
prior month, Commerce Department figures showed. Incomes climbed
0.4 and the savings rate increased to the highest level in eight
months.  
 Exxon Mobil, the largest U.S. energy company, retreated 1.1
percent to $58.47. Energy shares in the S&P 500 lost 1.3 percent
as a group, the biggest decline among 10 industries.  
 Oil retreated on speculation that production in the Gulf of
Mexico will be unaffected by a tropical storm in the region. Oil
for August delivery fell 61 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $78.25 a
barrel in New York. Futures have dropped 6.6 percent in the
quarter and 1.4 percent this year.  
 Gold, Copper  
 Freeport-McMoRan slid 2.9 percent to $64.66. Gold dropped
in New York after the precious metal failed to sustain gains
above $1,260 an ounce, prompting selling by investors who had
earlier speculated that prices would reach a record. Copper
prices fell for the first time in three sessions as the dollar’s
advance curbed demand for the metal as an alternative
investment.  
 Alcoa Inc. fell 1.8 percent to $11.03. The largest U.S.
aluminum maker agreed to buy closely held Traco to expand its
offering of windows and doors for commercial buildings. The
transaction is expected to be completed by the end of the third
quarter, Alcoa said.  
 Boeing Co. sank 2.1 percent to $67.30. Dubai Aerospace
Enterprise said it is seeking to renegotiate plane orders with
the airplane company and Airbus SAS as it attempts to reduce its
debt levels, French daily Les Echos reported, citing
unidentified people. Boeing shares fell as much as 44 percent in
trading before the open of U.S. exchanges before the trades were
canceled, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘One Way or Another’  
 Benchmark indexes fluctuated for much of the day, with
tobacco and telephone companies leading the market higher in
afternoon trading before the S&P 500 turned decisively lower in
the session’s final hour.  
 “The resolution of the conflict between the bulls and the
bears is likely to be resolved one way or another over the next
three weeks,” said  Hugh Johnson , who oversees $1.85 billion as
chairman of Albany, New York-based Johnson Illington. “Nobody
wants to jump in too soon. That’s why you have a little bit of a
plus then a little bit of a minus, there’s no big mover.”  
 Altria gained 3.3 percent to $20.34. Shares of the largest
U.S. tobacco company surged after the Supreme Court refused to
hear an Obama administration appeal, all but ensuring that the
racketeering suit first pressed by former President  Bill Clinton ’s administration won’t result in financial penalties
against Altria’s Philip Morris USA and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.  
 ‘Sector Rotation’  
 Reynolds American Inc. shares rallied 4.1 percent to
$53.45. Lorillard Inc. shares climbed 2.5 percent to $73.54.
Tobacco shares sent a gauge of consumer-staples companies in the
S&P 500 to a 1.1 percent advance, the biggest gain among 10
groups.  
 “You’re getting sector rotation into consumer staples,”
said Chad Morganlander, a portfolio manager at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in Florham Park, New Jersey, which has about $90 billion in
client assets. “Government stimulus is subsiding and that
warrants concern and kicks off a run into the long-end of the
yield curve and sector rotation out of economically sensitive
companies into staples.”  
 Sprint Nextel rallied 6.2 percent to $4.46, Tellabs Inc.
soared 8.2 percent to $6.89 and AT&T Inc. rose 0.7 percent to
$25.05 to lead telephone companies to the second biggest gain
among 10 groups in the S&P 500. Obama signed a memorandum that
commits the U.S. to free up 500 megahertz of government and
commercial spectrum in the next 10 years, to meet demands for
mobile access to broadband services.  
 G-20 Meeting  
 European stocks advanced after Group of 20 leaders
responded to the European debt crisis with deficit-reduction
targets and agreed to pursue higher capital requirements for
banks once economic recoveries take hold.  
 Advanced G-20 economies will aim to halve deficits by 2013
and start to stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016, the
group said in a statement yesterday after a meeting in Toronto.
Leaders said nations can move at their own pace and also pledged
to fulfill existing stimulus plans.  
 Obama welcomed the deficit-cutting goal even as he warned
against acting too quickly to pull back stimulus measures. Obama
also said at the conclusion of summit that the U.S. will be
watching closely as China relaxes its currency policy.  
 “Coming out of the G-20 summit some countries are pursuing
aggressive tightening of fiscal policy whereas others are
continuing to have more stimulative programs,” said  Eric Teal ,
who oversees about $4.5 billion as chief investment officer at
First Citizens BancShares Inc. in Raleigh, North Carolina.
“Divergent views as how to best stimulate growth are causing
some uncertainty in the markets.”  
 Earnings Watch  
 UBS AG’s average estimate for earnings in 2011 for
companies on the S&P 500 would fall 7.2 percent to $90 were the
European economy to slip back into recession, strategist
 Jonathan Golub  wrote in a report today. The average estimate for
earnings-per-share for S&P 500 companies in 2011 is $88.60,
according to a survey of 10 strategists from June 21.  
 Stock prices are mirroring government bond yields more than
ever, a signal to bulls that shares may be poised to rally. The
S&P 500 and 10-year Treasury rates posted a correlation
coefficient of 0.8412 in the 60 trading days through June 16,
showing stock prices and bond yields were the most linked in
Bloomberg data going back to 1962. The last time the
relationship was almost this strong during an economic expansion
was at the beginning of the 2002 to 2007 bull market, when the
benchmark gauge for U.S. equities doubled.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'There’s not a great deal of conviction in this market,' said Michael Shaoul, chairman of Marketfield Asset Management. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Consumer spending in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent in May, more than forecast, a sign households are gaining confidence in the recovery and the job market. Personal income climbed 0.4 percent. Bloomberg's Betty Liu and Mike McKee report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffrey Palma, global equity strategist at UBS AG, discusses his investment strategy.
     Palma, talking with Betty Liu, Jon Erlichman and Sheila Dharmarajan on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also discusses the U.S. economy and bond market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
