-- Tobacco Damages Sought by U.S. Rejected by Supreme Court; Altria Advances
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-28T21:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/u-s-bid-for-tobacco-company-damages-rejected-by-high-court-altria-gains.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Supreme Court  rejected the
Justice Department’s bid for as much as $280 billion in tobacco
company profits, refusing to hear an Obama administration
appeal.  Altria Group Inc.  and  Reynolds American Inc. , the
largest cigarette makers, surged on the news.  
 The rebuff all but ensures that the racketeering suit first
pressed by former President  Bill Clinton ’s administration won’t
result in financial penalties against Altria’s Philip Morris USA
and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. It’s the second time the high
court has refused to hear government arguments in the case.  
 Altria climbed 64 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $20.34 at 4:15
p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. It rose as much as 6
percent, the biggest gain since November 2008. Reynolds American
Inc. increased $2.08, or 4.1 percent, to $53.45 while Lorillard
Inc. advanced $1.77, or 2.5 percent, to $73.54.  
 The court also rejected a group of industry appeals aimed
at overturning a trial judge’s finding that the cigarette makers
defrauded the public about the dangers of smoking for more than
50 years.  
 “It’s a breather for the industry,” said  Tom Russo , who
oversees more than $3 billion, including almost 7 million Altria
shares as of March 31, at Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster,
Pennsylvania. “It would have been just another skirmish they
would have had to address.”  
 FDA Regulation  
 The industry came under the regulation of the Food and
Drug Administration last year. Among its legal risks, Russo
said, are cases requiring it to pay for medical monitoring of
smokers. It’s also fighting claims of sick and dead smokers in
Florida after the state Supreme Court threw out a statewide
class-action suit in 2006.  
 U.S. District Judge  Gladys Kessler ’s ruling could open
companies to continuing judicial oversight and impose more
stringent limits on their business practices than the 2009 law
that let the FDA regulate tobacco.  
 The government appeal, filed by U.S. Solicitor General
 Elena Kagan , argued that judges have authority to order the
return of “ill-gotten gains” under the 1970 U.S. Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, known as RICO.  
 “Congress vested district courts with full equitable
authority to award complete relief for violations of RICO,
including orders to disgorge ill-gotten gains,” argued Kagan,
now President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to the high court. Her
confirmation hearings began today.  
 Public Education  
 Matthew Myers , president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free
Kids, said today in an e-mailed statement, “It is now critical
that the trial court move forward with strongly enforcing the
remedies that it did order.”  
 A federal appeals court in Washington said in 2005 that
RICO allows only “forward-looking remedies” and doesn’t let
the government recoup ill-gotten gains.  
 The Supreme Court rejected the government’s first bid for
review of that ruling in 2005, while leaving open the
possibility of a second Justice Department appeal after Kessler
issued a final judgment in the case.  
 Philip Morris, maker of Marlboros and the largest U.S.
tobacco company, called the 1999 lawsuit “an unprecedented
effort to use litigation to obtain extensive regulatory
authority over the tobacco industry that, until recently, it had
been unable to secure through the legislative process.”  
 ‘Light’ Cigarettes  
 Kessler’s order includes a ban on the use of “light” or
“low tar” labels on cigarettes, a prohibition that has since
been incorporated into the 2009 law. She ordered the companies
to make statements about the health effects of smoking on
cigarette packages and through a multimillion-dollar media
campaign.  
 She also ordered the companies not to engage in future
racketeering or deception. That aspect of her ruling would let
the government or anti-smoking advocates return to court to seek
additional sanctions on cigarette makers. Kessler didn’t award
any damages.  
 Private litigants have attempted to use Kessler’s 1,653-
page opinion as ammunition in their own lawsuits against tobacco
companies.  
 The appeals court last year upheld Kessler’s finding that
the companies had engaged in racketeering, as well as the
restrictions she placed on their business practices.  
 Philip Morris contended that, because the case affects its
free-speech rights, the appeals court should have given closer
scrutiny to Kessler’s factual conclusions. The cigarette maker,
based in Richmond, Virginia, also argued that the lower courts
improperly extended the reach of RICO.  
 Speech Rights  
 Reynolds, the second-largest U.S. cigarette maker, pressed
related arguments. The company said that the lawsuit punished
the companies for exercising their constitutional speech rights
in the public debate over smoking.  
 The No. 3 cigarette maker,  Lorillard Inc.,  also sought high
court review of Kessler’s findings.  
 Altria pressed an appeal separate from the one filed by its
Philip Morris unit, arguing that Kessler lacked any basis for
holding the parent company liable.  
 British American Tobacco Plc’s  British American Tobacco
(Investments) Ltd. contended that the lower courts improperly
applied the U.S. racketeering law to overseas conduct.  
 The government’s appeal is United States v. Philip Morris,
09-978. The industry’s appeals include Philip Morris USA v.
United States, 09-976; R.J. Reynolds Tobacco v. United States,
09-977; Altria Group v. United States, 09-979; and Lorillard v.
United States, 09-1012.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A woman smokes a cigarette in New York  
                       
                         
                           JB Reed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Credit-default swaps on Altria Group and Reynolds American, the largest cigarette makers, dropped after the high court’s refusal to hear an Obama administration appeal. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Credit-default swaps on Altria Group and Reynolds American, the largest cigarette makers, dropped after the high court’s refusal to hear an Obama administration appeal. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Greg Stohr reports on the latest Supreme Court rulings, including one that said Congress violated the Constitution when it set up an auditing board under the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley law. In other decisions, the high court rejected the Justice Department's bid for as much as $280 billion in tobacco company profits and put limits on business method patents. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. tobacco company damages bid rejected by supreme court  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The rebuff all but ensures that the racketeering suit first pressed by former President Bill Clinton’s administration won’t result in financial penalties against Philip Morris USA and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The rebuff all but ensures that the racketeering suit first pressed by former President Bill Clinton’s administration won’t result in financial penalties against Philip Morris USA and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
