-- Hungary Should Scrap Proposed Changes to Budget Rules, Fiscal Council Says
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-06-28T15:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/hungary-should-scrap-proposed-changes-to-budget-rules-fiscal-council-says.html

          
          
             Hungarian lawmakers should reject a
bill that would remove losses at state-owned companies from the
 budget  because it would hurt transparency, the country’s Fiscal
Council said.  
 The changes proposed in the bill that’s working its way
through Parliament also include loosening rules on supplementary
budgets, which “can’t be reconciled with transparent and
sustainable budget policies,” the  council  said in a statement in
Budapest today.  
 “This would erode Hungary’s credibility,” Fiscal Council
Chairman  Gyorgy Kopits  told reporters. “It would be a step
backward for fiscal responsibility.”  
 Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  was forced to backtrack from
election pledges to put pro-growth measures ahead of budget
discipline after the forint plunged this month on investor
concern about Hungary’s fiscal health. The country agreed to
reduce its deficit to 3.8 percent of economic output this year
to qualify for an  International Monetary Fund -led bailout.  
 Hungary obtained a 20 billion-euro ($24.7 billion)
emergency loan from the IMF, the EU and the World Bank in 2008
to avert a default. Previous governments cut the shortfall to 4
percent of gross domestic product last year from as much as 9.3
percent in 2006, pushing the economy into its worst  recession 
since 1991 last year. Growth resumed in the fourth quarter of
2009 and accelerated in the first three months of the year.  
 Orban’s Fidesz party, which swept to power in April
elections, accused the previous administration of falsifying
budget figures.  
 ‘Window Dressing’  
 The proposed changes from two ruling party lawmakers are
tantamount to “window dressing” the budget to meet the deficit
targets, said  Gabor Ambrus , a strategist at 4Cast Ltd.  
 Keeping losses of state-owned companies off the books would
help meet the goal, which is set in cash-terms, Ambrus said. The
change wouldn’t impact the budget shortfall as calculated under
European Union methodology, 4Cast said.  
 “That’s the realm of pure window-dressing, not just a PR
maneuver,” Ambrus said. “The risks of budget slippage remain
high in Hungary.”  
 Doubts over the ability of the government to collect 187
billion forint ($809 million) from a special bank tax to plug
budget holes and a potential watering down of plans to cut state
wages may lead to a shortfall of as much as 5 percent of GDP
this year, Ambrus said.  
 “We continue to see Hungary’s public sector budget as a
persistent risk,” Ambrus said. “We expect these hidden risks to
be duly reflected in the performance of Hungarian asset prices
over the coming months.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        