-- United Arab Emirates, Russia to Sign Accord on Nuclear-Energy Cooperation
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2010-06-28T13:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/united-arab-emirates-russia-to-sign-accord-on-nuclear-energy-cooperation.html

          
          
             The United Arab Emirates and Russia
plan to sign “in the near future” an agreement to work
together on nuclear energy.  
 “After the signing of the cooperation agreement, we will
have the potential to work on research reactors and we also plan
to take part in the Emirates’ program with the Koreans,”
Russian Energy Minister  Sergei Shmatko  said today in Moscow
after a meeting with U.A.E. Foreign Minister  Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan .  
 The U.A.E. awarded an $18.6 billion contract in December to
 Korea Electric Power Corp.  to build four nuclear plants by 2020
as it seeks to meet increasing demand for power. The plants, to
be built on the coast of western Abu Dhabi, will each have
capacity of 1,400 megawatts.  
 The Persian Gulf nation is pursuing nuclear power while
neighboring Iran faces sanctions aimed at forcing it to scale
back nuclear development work. Central Intelligence Agency
Director Leon Panetta said yesterday that Iran has enough
uranium to produce two nuclear weapons that could be ready
within two years.  
 Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian purposes such
AS generating power. It has rebuffed United Nations Security
Council demands to suspend uranium enrichment. The council
imposed a fourth set of sanctions on Iran on June 9, backed by
Russia and China, while the Congress approved U.S. sanctions
last week.  
 Power demand in the U.A.E. will double to 40,000 megawatts
by 2020,  Anwar Gargash , the minister of state for foreign
affairs, said last November. The nation prohibits the enrichment
of uranium on its soil and signed a nuclear energy cooperation
deal with the U.S.  
 “We are ready to cooperate with Russia in nuclear power on
various aspects,” Sheikh Abdullah said after today’s meeting of
the Russian-U.A.E. commission on cooperation. “By 2030, we plan
to generate as much nuclear power so as to meet one third of our
energy consumption.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
 Ayesha Daya  in Abu Dhabi at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        