-- Turkey Denies Israeli Military Flight Air Access After Attack on Gaza Ship
-- Ali Berat Meric
-- 2010-06-28T15:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/turkey-denies-israel-army-flight-access-to-its-airspace-after-gaza-raid.html

          
          
             Turkey denied an Israeli military
request to fly over its territory after a raid on a Gaza aid
flotilla left nine Turks dead, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said.  
 The refusal involved a single Israeli request concerning a
flight bound for Poland, and took place soon after the May 31
raid, Erdogan said in televised comments from Ankara airport
today. Israel’s Yediot Ahronoth newspaper said yesterday that
the application was for a plane carrying Israeli officers on a
tour of Holocaust memorial sites in Auschwitz, Poland.  
 Israeli military spokeswoman Avital Leibovich declined to
comment on the report. Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman  Yigal Palmor , asked about Erdogan’s comment today, said that
“unilateral actions are not the way to mend relations and to
settle differences.”  
 Turkey has for decades been Israel’s strongest ally in the
Middle East, with the two countries sharing military technology
and cooperating in army training. Relations began to deteriorate
after Erdogan stormed out of a panel discussion at Davos last
year following a dispute with Israeli President  Shimon Peres 
over Israel’s 2008 military operation in the Gaza Strip. In
October, Turkey postponed a multinational air force exercise
that would have included Israel’s military.  
 The flight restriction marked “another step in what is
truly a tectonic shift in Turkey’s approach to Israel and the
West,” said Yoel Guzansky, a research fellow at the Institute
for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv. “The implications
for Israel of such an important ally in the Muslim world
slipping away are huge.”  
 Trade, Contracts  
 Turkey and Israel traded goods worth more than $2.5 billion
last year, according to the Turkish statistics agency. Turkish
companies such as Istanbul-based  Zorlu Enerji Elektrik Uretim
AS , which is building a $1 billion power plant in south Israel,
have won key contracts.  
 A Turkish government official, speaking on condition of
anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to release information on
the issue, said similar flight restrictions had been imposed on
other countries in the past after political disagreements. He
cited the rejection of a French application after President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  had made comments seen as negative about Turkey.  
 At the 2009 World Economic Forum in Davos, Erdogan told
Peres: “You know very well how to kill.” Tensions between the
two countries flared again in October when the Turkish state
television channel ran a series depicting Israeli soldiers
shooting Palestinian children.  
 Earlier this year, the Turkish ambassador to Israel was
summoned to the Foreign Ministry as a protest against the TV
series and Erdogan’s criticisms of Israel, and seated in a chair
several inches below his interlocutors.  
 ‘Barbaric’  
 The raid on the flotilla, which was attempting to breach
Israel’s blockade of Gaza, has further strained relations.
Erdogan has called the incident “barbaric.” Turkey recalled
its ambassador to Israel and demanded a formal apology,
financial compensation, consent to an international inquiry and
the immediate return of the seized ships.  
 Israel imposed its blockade of Gaza after the Islamic Hamas
movement ousted forces loyal to Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah group and seized full control of the
territory in 2007. Hamas, which won Palestinian parliamentary
elections in 2006, is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 Israel said it issued numerous warnings to the Gaza-bound
flotilla to change course for the port of Ashdod and unload
there. It said its soldiers were attacked with knives and clubs
and seven were wounded, including by gunfire, after people
aboard one of the ships managed to grab Israeli firearms.
Activists said they threw the firearms into the sea and that the
Israelis instigated the violence.  
 Gaza Offensive  
 Israel launched a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the 2008 military operation,
killing one foreign worker in March, the Israeli army said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Berat Meric  in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        