-- Roger Federer Reaches Wimbledon Quarterfinals; Kim Clijsters Ousts Henin
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-28T20:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/venus-williams-beats-groth-to-reach-wimbledon-quarterfinals-jankovic-out.html

          
          
             Three-time finalist  Andy Roddick  was upset by Taiwan’s Yen-Hsun Lu in a five-set
match today at Wimbledon. Defending champions  Roger Federer 
and  Serena Williams  advanced in straight sets to the
quarterfinals.  
 No. 5 seed Roddick, who lost to Federer in last year’s
final, was beaten 4-6, 7-6 (7-3), 7-6 (7-4), 6-7 (5-7), 9-7
by Lu, the first Asian man to reach a Grand Slam
quarterfinal since 1995.  
 “I thought he did a good job of controlling the
middle of the court all day,” Roddick told reporters.
“You know, his ball was coming in with a lot more behind
it than mine.”  
 Switzerland’s Federer, seeking to tie  Pete Sampras ’s
Open-era men’s record of seven Wimbledon titles, won 6-3,
6-2, 6-3 against  Jurgen Melzer  of Austria on Centre Court.
Williams beat 2004 winner  Maria Sharapova  7-6 (11-9), 6-4.  
 No. 2 seed  Rafael Nadal  and No. 4  Andy Murray , who is
aiming to become the first Briton to win the men’s singles
title at the only grass-court Grand Slam since  Fred Perry 
in 1936, also won.  Kim Clijsters  ousted  Justine Henin  in a
match between two former top-ranked women’s players, and
 Venus Williams  also advanced.  
 Roddick, the last American man to have won a major, at
the 2003 U.S. Open, had chances to break Lu’s serve in the
fifth set after winning the fourth in a tiebreaker.  
 Lu overcame two break points at 2-2, and another
serving at 4-4. Serving to stay in the match at 8-7 down,
Roddick lost as Lu produced a passing shot on his first
match point.  
 ‘I’m Very Happy’  
 “I just told myself to stay, to stay,” Lu, who lost
in Wimbledon’s first round the last four years, told the
British Broadcasting Corp. immediately after the match.
“I’m very happy.”  
 Federer defeated Melzer in their first career meeting
to reach his 25th straight Grand Slam quarterfinal.  
 “I thought I played great,” Federer told reporters.
“I was aggressive right from the start, which I think was
key today because I knew Melzer was going to try, every
chance he was going to get, to hit the ball and come
forward as well.”  
 Federer raced through the first two sets in 49 minutes
against Melzer, who made his first Grand Slam semifinal
earlier this month at the French Open. The Swiss won 100
percent of his first serves in the second set.  
 Federer, who struggled in the first two rounds, moved
into the quarterfinals as Melzer missed a groundstroke
serving to stay in the match at 5-3 down.  
 Federer’s Next Opponent  
 Federer’s next opponent is  Tomas Berdych  of the Czech
Republic, a straight-set winner against Germany’s Daniel
Brands.  
 Spain’s Nadal, the champion in 2008, took his career
record against France’s  Paul-Henri Mathieu  to 10-0 with a
6-4, 6-2, 6-2 victory. It sets up a rematch with Sweden’s
 Robin Soderling , who Nadal beat in the French Open final
this month to claim a seventh Grand Slam title.  
 Soderling defeated Spain’s  David Ferrer  6-2, 5-7, 6-2,
3-6, 7-5.  
 Murray has yet to lose a set at this year’s tournament
at the All England Club. He advanced 7-5, 6-3, 6-4 against
America’s  Sam Querrey , the 18th seed. Murray’s best
performance at Wimbledon was reaching the semifinals last
year.  
 Serbia’s  Novak Djokovic  and France’s Jo-Wilfried
Tsonga also reached the men’s quarterfinals.  
 Djokovic Defeats Hewitt  
 Djokovic faces Lu following a 7-5, 6-4, 3-6, 6-4 win
against Australia’s  Lleyton Hewitt , the 2002 champion.
Tsonga won 6-1, 6-4, 3-6, 6-1 against countryman  Julien Benneteau .  
 Serena Williams, a title winner in 2002 and 2003, came
through in straight sets against Russia’s Sharapova in a
tight match on Centre Court.  
 Sharapova was unable to convert three set points in a
first set tiebreaker, with Williams taking it on her third
set point with an ace after her opponent double faulted.  
 The American then broke serve in the third game of the
second set and eventually served out the match.  
 “She played really well,” Williams told the BBC. “I
just wasn’t able to do as well as I wanted to.”  
 Belgians Clijsters and Henin had their 25th career
meeting, with Clijsters taking the match 2-6, 6-2, 6-3.  
 Clijsters Defeats Henin  
 Henin, runner-up in 2001 and 2006, returned to the
tour this year after a 20-month break. She took the first
set before Clijsters, who won the U.S. Open last year as a
wild-card entrant shortly after coming out of a two-year
retirement, improved in the second set. Clijsters forced a
break for 5-3 in the final set and held serve for the
victory.  
 It was Clijsters’ third straight victory over Henin
since they returned.  
 “I’d like to go as far as I can,” Clijsters told the
BBC.  
 She’ll next face  Vera Zvonareva  of Russia, who reached
the last eight when No. 4  Jelena Jankovic  of Serbia
withdrew injured with Zvonareva leading 6-1, 3-0.  
 Venus Williams, last year’s runner-up and No. 2 seed
this year, beat 92nd-ranked  Jarmila Groth  of Australia 6-4,
7-6 (7-5).  
 Venus Williams’s Win  
 The seven-time Grand Slam champion secured the
decisive break in the first set in the 10th game, then was
taken to a tiebreaker in the second. The 30-year-old, who
has yet to drop a set in this year’s tournament, raced to a
4-0 lead in the tiebreaker before Groth fought back to 4-4
on a double fault. A double fault by Groth handed Williams
match point, which was converted when the Australian
returned a serve into the net.  
 Williams’s quarterfinal opponent, Bulgaria’s Tsvetana
Pironkova, beat 2007 runner-up  Marion Bartoli  of France,
 Petra Kvitova  of the Czech Republic upset No. 3 seed
 Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark, and China’s  Li Na  beat
Poland’s  Agnieszka Radwanska . Estonia’s Kaia Kanepi
defeated  Klara Zakopalova .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net ;  Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon at +44-
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        