-- Verizon Asks U.S. for Access to High-Definition Sports Feeds in New York
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-06-28T20:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/verizon-asks-u-s-for-right-to-telecast-new-york-teams-in-high-definition.html

          
          
             Verizon Communications Inc. , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, asked federal regulators to
force Madison Square Garden Inc. to share its high-definition
feed of games played by New York sports teams.  
 Verizon lodged a complaint last year and filed a supplement
with the U.S. Federal Communications Commission today, saying it
may use new federal rules to gain access to the MSG Network and
MSG Plus programming, the New York-based company said in a
statement. Madison Square Garden also owns the New York arena,
the Knicks basketball team and the Rangers hockey team.  
 Madison Square Garden, which was  spun  off from Cablevision
Systems Corp., is refusing to let Verizon buy high-definition
telecasts for its FiOS television customers, Verizon said in a
statement. AT&T, the biggest phone company, last week said it
would file its own supplement unless the provider agreed to
negotiate for access to the games.  
 Madison Square Garden spokesman  Dan Schoenberg  said the
company complies with federal regulations and is “pleased to
have Verizon as a customer” for programming that’s not high
definition.  
 Verizon  rose  16 cents to $28.71 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4:01 p.m. The stock has declined 13 percent
this year. New York-based Madison Square Garden increased 11
cents to $20.12 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  
 Last year’s complaint and the supplement filed today name
Cablevision and Madison Square Garden. Cablevision’s continued
affiliation with MSG brings the company “within the sweep of
the rules,” Verizon spokesman  David Fish  said.  
 Krista Ostertag, a Cablevision spokeswoman, said the lack
of high-definition programming has nothing to do with any
problems Verizon may be having in the marketplace.  
 “The idea that a phone company more than 10-times our size
needs a regulatory bailout is absurd,” Ostertag said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        