-- Warsh Urges `Strict Scrutiny' of Any Decision to Expand Fed Balance Sheet
-- Steve Matthews
-- 2010-06-28T19:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/warsh-urges-strict-scrutiny-of-any-decision-to-expand-fed-balance-sheet.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Governor  Kevin Warsh 
said any decision by the central bank to expand its $2.35
trillion balance sheet must be subject to “strict scrutiny.”  
 Warsh, in a speech in Atlanta, said he would need to be
convinced that the economic benefits of such a move “outweighed
any costs owing to erosion of market functioning, perceptions of
monetizing indebtedness, crowding-out of private buyers, or loss
of central bank credibility.”  
 Fed policy makers last week signaled Europe’s debt crisis
may harm the U.S. economy, saying “financial conditions have
become less supportive” of growth and repeated a pledge to keep
interest rates near zero “for an extended period.” At the same
time, officials are laying plans for an eventual exit from
record monetary stimulus to head off an outbreak of inflation.  
 Analysts including  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist with
CIBC World Market in Toronto, and former Richmond Fed President
J.  Alfred Broaddus  have said weakness in the economy increases
the chances the Fed would resume expanding its balance sheet.
The Fed bought $1.6 trillion in housing debt and Treasury
securities since late 2008 as it battled the financial crisis.  
 “Some believe the Federal Reserve should do more,
including expansion of its balance sheet,” Warsh said. “In my
view, any judgment to expand the balance sheet further should be
subject to strict scrutiny.”  
 Warsh, echoing some of the language of the Federal Open
Market Committee’s statement, said the recovery is
“proceeding” and the “ labor market  is improving, albeit
gradually.” He added that “employers appear quite reluctant to
add to payrolls,” and that most broad inflation measures
“remain subdued.”  
 Yields Fall  
 Yields on U.S. Treasury notes have fallen as investors
concerned about the danger of default by Greece and other
European governments sought the safety of U.S. government debt.  
 The yield on the 10-year note decreased seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.04 percent at 1:29 p.m. in New
York after touching 3.03 percent, the lowest level since April
29, 2009.  
 “If  volatility  in financial markets persists at elevated
levels, the expected pickup in business capital expenditures may
disappoint,” Warsh said. Should volatility abate, he said,
“the economic recovery should continue apace.”  
 During an audience question period, Warsh said his forecast
for growth in the second half of the year isn’t “markedly
different” than it was two months ago. He added that a recovery
of the U.S. housing market depends more on the outlook for jobs
than on interest rates.  
 Strength of Housing  
 “The most important determination of the strength of the
housing market is employment,” he said.  
 Policy makers won’t raise interest rates until the first
quarter next year, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists this month. The European crisis has
prompted analysts at Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse, UB AG
and Deutsche Bank AG to push back by several months their
predictions for a Fed rate increase.  
 Fed officials are still preparing for an eventual
tightening of credit. The central bank this month held its first
test auction of term deposits, a tool to help drain hundreds of
billions of dollars from the banking system. At the April
meeting, policy makers debated when and how fast to sell $1.1
trillion of mortgage-backed securities that were purchased to
lower home- loan rates  and boost the economy.  
 “Depending on the evolution of the economy and financial
markets, we should consider a gradual, prospective exit --
communicated well in advance -- from our portfolio of mortgage-
backed securities,” Warsh said today. “Actual asset sales will
not take place in the near term,” he said.  
 Warsh said the federal funds rate should remain the
“dominant tool in the conduct of operations going forward”
because it’s the most “clearly understood” and “effective.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        