-- Women Urged to Pick Up the Pace in Walking, Biking, to Avoid Adding Weight
-- Nicole Ostrow
-- 2010-06-28T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/women-urged-to-pick-up-the-pace-in-walking-biking-to-avoid-adding-weight.html

          
          
             Women who want to prevent weight
gain as they get older need to ride a bicycle or walk briskly
every day rather than just strolling, a study from Harvard
University found.  
 Women who were ages 25 to 42 at the start of the research
gained less weight if they spent an additional 30 minutes a day
riding bikes or walking 3 miles an hour or faster by the end of
the study. Those who increased only slow walking didn’t reduce
their weight gain over the 16-year study, according to the
report published today in the  Archives of Internal Medicine .  
 In the U.S., about 66 percent of adults are  overweight  or
obese, while 16 percent of children are overweight, according to
the researchers. Today’s findings help clarify how much exercise
is needed to slow weight gain as people age and the results also
apply to men, said co-lead author  Rania Mekary .  
 “We want to give practical solutions to people to lessen
their weight gain,” said Mekary, a research associate at the
Harvard School of Public Health in Boston, in a June 25
telephone interview. “Even small steps can make a difference.
It’s never too late.”  
 The researchers in the study looked at 18,414 premenopausal
women who didn’t have chronic diseases and were part of the
Brigham and Women’s Hospital  Nurses’ Health Study II  starting in
1989. Participants were questioned about their medical history,
lifestyle and health-related behaviors every two years.  
 20 Pounds Gained  
 Over the 16-year study, the women overall gained an average
of 20.5 pounds (9.3 kilograms). Anyone who stayed within five
percent of their original weight was classified as having no
weight gain, Mekary said.  
 Women in the study gained about 3.5 pounds less if they
increased their time riding a bike by 30 minutes a day compared
with those who didn’t increase their riding time over the study,
the researchers found. The participants weren’t asked about
biking intensity so it’s unclear at what speed they were riding,
she said.  
 Those who increased the amount of time they walked briskly
at 3 miles an hour or faster by a half hour daily gained about 4
pounds less, the study showed.  
 Normal-weight women who rode their bike more than four
hours a week, regardless of their exercise level in 1989, were
26 percent less likely to gain more than five percent of their
initial body weight, the researchers found. Overweight and obese
women who rode their bike two to three hours a week were 46
percent less likely to gain more than five percent of their
initial body weight.  
 Small Increases Help  
 Even increasing the amount of time spent exercising by a
little bit can make a difference in preventing weight gain,
Mekary said. Women who didn’t bicycle at the start of the study
and then increased their bicycling time by five minutes a day
gained less than someone who didn’t ride a bike. Still, women
who rode their bikes for more than 15 minutes a day in 1989 and
stopped riding by the end of the trial gained more weight, the
researchers said.  
 Based on these findings, doctors should make a point of
telling women to bike or walk briskly rather than to just walk
or exercise, she said.  
 “We need to give practical solutions to women because they
have very restrained time to exercise,” Mekary said.
“Bicycling is one kind of activity they can include even if
they don’t have time to exercise. If you can bicycle to work,
you should ride the bicycle rather than drive.”  
 One Hour Daily  
 Another Harvard study in March found that women need an
hour of exercise each day, double that recommended by some
federal guidelines, to minimize weight gain as they get older.
The only middle-aged women to keep their weight increase within
5 pounds over 13 years were those who started with a healthy
weight and did an hour of moderate physical activity each day,
according to data from 34,079 women.  
 The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services  recommends 
adults exercise at least 30 minutes a day five times a week, or
2.5 hours weekly, to prevent chronic ailments such as heart
disease, diabetes and some cancers. For greater health benefits,
the government says adults should be active at least 300 minutes
or five hours each week.  
 The author of the March study said that 2.5 hours a week of
exercise, while sufficient for preventing chronic disease, isn’t
enough for maintaining a healthy weight over time for U.S. women
who eat a normal diet.  
 Obesity increases the risk for diabetes, high blood
pressure and heart disease. Those considered obese have a body
mass  index  of at least 30, equivalent to 180 pounds for an adult
5 feet 5 inches tall, according to the National Institutes of
Health’s BMI calculator. Healthy weight is defined as a BMI of
less than 25, which means an adult who is 5 feet 5 inches tall
should weigh less than 150 pounds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        