-- Yen Climbs to Eight-Year High Versus Euro on Bank Concerns; Franc Rallies
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-29T21:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/yen-is-near-five-week-high-as-signs-of-global-slowdown-spur-safety-demand.html

          
          
             The yen surged to the strongest in
more than eight years versus the euro on concern that slowing
growth in China will hurt economic recovery and European banks
face higher rates when they refinance central-bank loans.  
 The yen touched a seven-week high against the dollar and
gained versus all 16 most-traded currencies after data showed
U.S. consumer confidence dropped this month more than forecast,
boosting demand for the Japanese currency as a refuge. The Swiss
franc reached a record high versus the euro as investors sought
the perceived safety of the region’s strongest currency.
Canada’s dollar fell to a three-week low.  
 “The market has sold off today,” said  Kathy Lien , director
of currency research with online currency trader GFT Forex, in
New York. “It started with the leading indicator in China, and
we have the expiration of the ECB’s one-year lending facility.
The central concern is still in Europe.”  
 Japan’s currency appreciated 1.6 percent to 107.98 per euro
at 5 p.m. in New York. It touched 107.32 yen per euro, the
strongest level since November 2001. The yen gained 0.9 percent
to 88.59 per dollar, from 89.37 yesterday. It reached 88.29, the
strongest level since May 6.  
 The euro fell 0.7 percent to $1.2189, from $1.2277. The
franc was at 1.3186 against the euro, from 1.3344 yesterday. It
touched 1.3166 per euro, the strongest since the common
currency’s 1999 debut. The euro fell below 81 U.K. pence for the
first time since November 2008, dropping as much as 0.7 percent
to 80.68 pence.  
 Stocks Plunge  
 Global stocks tumbled, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
plunging 3.1 percent.  
 The euro pared losses amid speculation some confidence may
be restored in the banks of Greece, the country at the center of
Europe’s debt crisis. The Qatar Investment Authority is
negotiating for a stake in the National Bank of Greece, the
Financial Times reported today on its Web site, citing people
familiar with the talks.  
 An index of China’s leading economic indicators had its
smallest gain in April in five months. The Conference Board said
its gauge of China’s economic outlook rose 0.3 percent in April,
less than the 1.7 percent gain it reported June 15. The New
York-based group said in an e-mailed statement the previous
reading contained a calculation error.  
 China’s exports face “strong headwinds” in the second
half of 2010 from policy-tightening measures and the European
debt crisis, Citigroup Inc. said in a report obtained today.  
 Europe’s Banks  
 The health of Europe’s banks may be revealed tomorrow when
the European Central Bank offers them three-month loans before
the expiration of a landmark 12-month facility.  
 Banks on July 1 need to repay 442 billion euros ($540
billion) under the ECB’s so-called Long-Term Refinancing
Operation, a major part of its effort to contain the financial
crisis last year. The central bank has reinstated unlimited
three-month lending to provide banks with access to cash.  
 Financial firms will be able to roll over some of the loans
on less attractive terms, London-based analyst  Simon Samuels  of
Barclays Plc wrote in a note to clients today.  
 “If a significant amount of money is rolled out to the
three-month, it indicates that a lot of the banks are still
leaning on the ECB for support, and it suggests that the market
for bank-to-bank lending remains extremely tight,” GFT Forex’s
Lien said.  
 The Conference Board’s U.S. confidence index dropped to
52.9 this month from a revised 62.7 in May. The median forecast
called for a decline to 62.5.  
 ‘Dovish Outlook’  
 “The numbers have only reinforced a dovish outlook,” said
 John Doyle , a strategist in Washington at currency-trading firm
Tempus Consulting Inc. “If the consumer is not confident about
the recovery, they’re more likely to save and consume less.”  
 The yen has risen 5.5 percent against the dollar this
quarter, while the euro has weakened 9.8 percent.  
 The Japanese currency has gained 14 percent this year, the
most among 10 major developed-world counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar is up 7.6
percent, and the euro has dropped 10 percent, the biggest loss
in the group.  
 U.S.  Treasuries  rose, pushing two-year yields to a record
low 0.59 percent. The yen’s advance will prompt Japan’s
investors to buy more Treasuries as the U.S. economic recovery
stalls, according to CRT Capital Group LLC.  
 The correlation coefficient between the dollar-yen exchange
rate and the 10-year note yield was 0.70 today, based on 120
days of trading. A record high of 0.74 was reached on June 3. A
reading of 1 would mean the two move in lockstep.  
 The Swiss franc strengthened, increasing its gains this
quarter versus the euro to 8 percent. Deflationary tensions have
“practically disappeared,” Swiss National Bank Governor Board
member  Jean-Pierre Danthine  said in an interview with  L’Agefi 
published yesterday.  
 Canada’s dollar touched C$1.0577 per greenback, the weakest
level since June 8, as investors turned away from higher-
higher-yielding assets. Crude oil, the nation’s biggest export,
fell as much as 3.9 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        