-- IMF Chief Says Yuan Revaluation Won't Occur `Very Rapidly'
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-06-29T00:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/yuan-revaluation-won-t-occur-very-rapidly-imf-chief-strauss-kahn-says.html

          
          
             The revaluation of China’s currency
won’t happen quickly or fix all the global economy’s imbalances,
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss- Kahn  said.  
 “I do not expect that things are going to change very
rapidly,” Strauss-Kahn told reporters yesterday in Washington.
“It will take time for the renminbi to reach its normal market
value,” he said, using another term for the yuan.  
 The yuan’s 12-month non-deliverable forwards traded at
6.6763 per dollar as of 8:35 a.m. in Hong Kong, little changed
from 6.6785 yesterday. The contracts reflect bets the currency
will appreciate 1.8 percent from its spot rate of 6.7967.  
 China  indicated on June 19 that it was scrapping the yuan’s
two-year-old peg to the greenback and reiterated the aim June 26
in Toronto during a two-day meeting of leaders from the Group of
20 nations. While the G-20 did not mention the yuan in its
closing statement, the group called for “greater exchange-rate
flexibility in some emerging markets.”  
 The yuan has strengthened 0.4 percent since China ended the
peg and U.S. President  Barack Obama  two days ago said further
gains are anticipated in coming months.  
 “We do expect that as more and more market forces come to
bear, that given the enormous surpluses that China has
accumulated, that the renminbi is going to go up and it’s going
to go up significantly,” Obama said at a news conference.  
 U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and other
finance ministers have called on China to pursue policies that
help contribute to a more even global recovery.  
 Imbalances  
 Restraints on the value of the yuan in recent years helped
make China the world’s largest exporter, a shift that U.S.
lawmakers such as Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New
York, have argued is unfair and harmful to American workers.  
 The U.S. trade deficit with China was $227 billion last
year, accounting for 45 percent of the country’s total trade gap
in 2009, according to Commerce Department figures.  
 Strauss-Kahn, 61, took issue with a suggestion that China’s
currency alone is the major reason for lopsided trade and
investment flows.  
 “Even a very strong revaluation, won’t solve all the
imbalances -- far from that,” Strauss-Kahn said. “Those
believing that all the imbalances are coming from that the
renminbi is undervalued are probably wrong.”  
 South Korea  
 The rebound in Asian economies such as South Korea
following the worst global recession in the postwar era has been
“impressive,” Strauss-Kahn said. At the same time, the rate of
growth also means “it’s time to progressively go back to
normal” by withdrawing stimulus measures in Asia’s fourth-
largest economy, he said.  
 Strauss-Kahn also praised India’s economy as doing “very
well,” even though he has “some concerns about inflation,”
particularly for food prices.  
 The economy in neighboring Pakistan is “not out of the
woods,” he said. The IMF has concerns about the country’s
planned implementation of a value-added tax, which will be
imposed at a flat rate of 15 percent on Oct. 1, replacing the
general sales tax.  
 On Japan, Strauss-Kahn said he “doesn’t see any kind of
immediate risk for Japanese public finances.” The country has
the world’s biggest  public debt .  
 The head of the IMF, which has rescued economies from
Iceland to Pakistan since the beginning of the global financial
crisis, spoke ahead of the “Asia 21 Conference” scheduled for
July 12-13 in Daejeon, South Korea.  
 Asia Crisis  
 The meeting will be co-hosted by the IMF and the South
Korean government and focus on repairing relations between the
Washington-based lender and member states more than a decade
after the Asian financial crisis.  
 The aim of next month’s meeting is “to take stock of what
has happened in the past, rightly or wrongly” and “to see how
the fund can be useful” to Asian countries, Strauss-Kahn said.  
 The Asian financial crisis in 1997 resulted in IMF approval
of loans totaling about $35 billion to Indonesia, South Korea
and Thailand. IMF austerity measures in those nations caused
public unrest, and in the case of Indonesia, contributed to the
1998 ouster of the country’s dictator, Suharto.  
 “We need to rebuild a new kind of relationship, and I
think that’s under way,” he said. “The fund has already done
this with Latin America and Africa. Asia is probably more
complicated because the memories and stigma are stronger in Asia
than in the rest of the world.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund Dominique Strauss-Kahn poses during the Group of 20 family photo in Toronto. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Source: Bloomberg) -- Tim Adams, managing director at the Lindsey Group and a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary, talks about the weekend meeting of Group of 20 leaders in Toronto.
     Advanced G-20 economies will aim to halve deficits by 2013 and start to stabilize their debt-to-output ratios by 2016, the group said in a statement yesterday. Adams talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
