-- Yuan Forwards Extend Gains After Obama Predicts `Significant' Appreciation
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-28T04:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-28/yuan-forwards-may-extend-gain-as-u-s-government-sees-further-appreciation.html

          
          
             Yuan forwards strengthened,
extending last week’s gain, after U.S. President Barack Obama
said his government predicts further currency appreciation.  
 “We do expect that as more and more market forces come to
bear, that given the enormous surpluses that China has
accumulated, the renminbi is going to go up and it’s going to go
up significantly,” Obama said following the weekend Group of 20
summit. The yuan last week had its best five-day period since
December 2008 after China set the currency’s reference rate at a
record high on June 25 and allowed a stronger fixing again today.  
 “Obama’s comments at the G-20 were encouraging because
there was earlier concern that much of the yuan appreciation was
done going into the G-20 and that the yuan would go in the
opposite direction after the meeting,” said  Sean Callow , a
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.1 percent to
6.6720 per dollar as of 12:24 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That indicates bets for an
appreciation of 1.8 percent from the spot rate of 6.7933, which
was down 0.05 percent today. The yuan last week rose 0.5 percent
to 6.7900 per dollar.  
 The central bank  fixed  the yuan’s reference rate at 6.7890
today, compared with 6.7896 on June 25. The yuan is allowed to
trade 0.5 percent on either side of the daily fixing.  
 Net Gains  
 The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it would end a
two-year peg to the dollar and manage the yuan with reference to
a basket of currencies. China still needs to keep a managed-
float exchange-rate system for the next five to 10 years, Radio
Television Hong Kong reported today, citing Xia Bin, formerly a
member of the monetary policy committee of the nation’s central
bank.  
 Obama met on June 26 with Chinese President Hu Jintao for
talks that included currency and trade. China’s decision to
shift its exchange-rate policy and allow its currency to trade
more freely was a first step, and the U.S. will monitor progress
over the next “several months,” Obama said.  
 The U.S. Treasury Department postponed an April 15 deadline
for a semiannual review of the currency policies of major U.S.
trading partners, which might have resulted in China being
labeled a currency manipulator.  
 The yuan will appreciate as much as 3 percent in the coming
12 months, said  Irene Cheung , director of local-markets trading
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Singapore. “The U.S. is
giving China time to allow moves in the yuan rate before a
report from its Treasury Department later this year.”  
 Bonds Advance  
 China’s government bonds due in three years and more gained
as the cost of borrowing money between banks receded from a
three-week high.  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures funding
availability between banks, dropped 33 basis points to 2.83
percent, according to the daily fixing rate published by the
National Interbank Funding Center. The rate rose to 3.16 percent
at the end of last week, the highest level since June 2. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “Bond prices are mainly pushed up by funds in the money
market,” said  Wu Tianshu , a fixed-income analyst at Beijing-
based Galaxy Securities Co. “Money availability starts to relax
toward the end of the month as some banks have already met their
half-year goals of deposits, releasing funds to the market.”  
 The yield on the 2.38 percent note due in May 2015 dropped
five basis points to 2.72 percent, and the price of the security
added 0.23 per 100 yuan face amount to 98.46, according to the
funding center.  
 -- Patricia Lui ,  Belinda Cao . Editors:  Ven Ram ,  Simon Harvey   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net ;
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 28 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Rennie, head of currency research at Westpac Banking Corp., talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis from Sydney about the outlook for China's economy.
     A Chinese government official said the nation’s pledge for a more flexible yuan will slow China's exports this year, adding to difficulties that include the European debt crisis and rising costs. Rennie also discusses the U.S. economy and global currency market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
