-- Paulson defends U.S. rescue of Bear Stearns
-- 
-- Mon Mar 17, 2008 4:09pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/17/businesspro-usa-economy-paulson-dc-idUSN1761686520080317

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry 
Paulson on Monday defended government moves to rescue Bear 
Stearns Cos Inc BSC.N from bankruptcy, saying it was 
important to ensure the orderly function of financial markets. 

  Speaking to reporters following a White House meeting 
between President George W. Bush and his economic advisers, 
Paulson said those worried about the government rescue creating 
a "moral hazard" should keep in mind that Bear Stearns BSC.N 
shareholders face considerable losses with the sale of the 
investment firm to JPMorgan Chase ( JPM.N ) for $2 a share.  Moral hazard is the concept that investors might take 
greater risks on the belief that government policy would 
protect them from suffering losses.  The $236 million value of the Bear buyout deal represents 
less than 90 percent of the company's value as of Friday at its 
closing share price of $30.85.  To facilitate the deal, the U.S. Federal Reserve committed 
to fund up to $30 billion of Bear Stearns' less liquid assets. 
The problems faced by the New York investment firm underscored 
a loss of investor confidence in the health of the U.S. 
financial system.  Paulson said the orderly function of U.S. financial markets 
was a priority and it was better to arrange the takeover of 
Bear Stearns than to have the investment firm, the fifth 
largest in the United States, file for bankruptcy.  He also said mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae FNM.N and 
Freddie Mac FRE.N needed to raise capital, and urged Congress 
to enact reform measures for the Federal Housing Administration 
to help beef up the slumping housing market.  Paulson declined to answer a question about the weakening 
dollar and whether the U.S. government would intervene in 
currency markets to support it.  "I'm not going to speculate on hypotheticals about 
intervention," Paulson said. "I will just again say to you what 
you've heard me say before: We have a strong-dollar policy. 
It's very much in our nation's interest. Our economy has ups 
and downs."  (Reporting by  Donna Smith ; Editing by Leslie Adler)