-- Big U.S. airlines look to shrink to save money
-- 
-- Mon Mar 17, 2008 6:26pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/03/17/businesspro-airlines-usa-dc-idUSN1762839020080317

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Major U.S. airlines are beginning to 
shrink their operations as they battle unrelenting increases in 
fuel prices, a weakening economy and a sharp decline in their 
share prices. 

  In an effort to staunch the financial bleeding, executives 
at carriers like Northwest Airlines NWA.N and Delta Air Lines 
( DAL.N ) are looking at unprofitable routes to cut.  "The world they knew has vaporized," said consultant Mike 
Boyd of spiraling industry finances and how chief executives 
plan to deal with it.  The steps carriers will take to manage what some industry 
experts see as the next airline downturn are expected to 
feature on Tuesday at a JP Morgan aviation conference. "They 
are going to get questions on this," said Boyd.  A sense of where airlines are heading has emerged in recent 
days.  Northwest Airlines NWA.N, which slashed operations in 
bankruptcy, may shrink the airline even more if fuel prices 
erode travel demand, the carrier's chief executive said.  In a recorded message to employees on Sunday, Doug 
Steenland did not specify what steps Northwest might take or 
how much smaller the airline might get, but he cautioned that 
higher fuel costs can lead to fewer passengers.  "With that in mind, we have to rethink the size of the 
airline we operate," he said.  Oil prices, directly related to jet fuel costs, notched a 
record high of $111.80 in New York on Monday before slipping to 
near $105 in afternoon trade.  Although Northwest and other airlines have reported 
operating more flights and fuller planes at higher fares, 
Steenland said the industry "as a whole" appears headed back 
into some "very tough times."  US Airways Group Inc ( LCC.N ) chief executive Doug Parker 
said last month that the industry was "a mess."  Airlines are looking closely at regional jet operations -- 
especially the smallest jets that more and more carriers are 
flying at a loss. Delta Air Lines ( DAL.N ) has cut some of these 
flights where operations are limited and may chop again.  "We'll make reductions when necessary," Delta chief 
executive Richard Anderson said in a similar message to 
employees. "We're going to manage prudently through this spike 
in fuel prices."  The fuel price spike coupled with a steadily weakening U.S. 
economy has stalled the industry's modest recovery from the 
2001-06 downturn. As a result, airlines have been pummeled on 
Wall Street with steep declines in their share prices.  Northwest shares, which have lost two thirds of their value 
since the company emerged from bankruptcy in May, fell 6.2 
percent on Monday to $8.92.  Delta shares, which have lost more than half their value 
since emerging from bankruptcy last April, traded down 3.9 
percent to $9.23 on Monday.  United Airlines, a unit of UAL Corp UAUA.O fell 7.8 
percent; US Airways fell 10.1 percent; American Airlines, a 
unit of AMR Corp AMR.N, fell 3.2 percent and Southwest 
Airlines ( LUV.N ) ended just 0.6 percent lower.  The previous downturn resulted in bankruptcies and 
unprecedented out-of-court restructurings. Carriers appear 
leaner and in better shape this time to weather the oncoming 
turbulence, experts say.  For example, Northwest, Delta, United and US Airways, while 
in bankruptcy, dumped many older, inefficient planes and 
reworked lease agreements for aircraft they are flying now. 
Their labor expenses are lower, as are a host of other 
operating costs.  "We need to find ways to preserve cash by reducing capital 
expenses and operating costs. Fortunately, we have over $3 
billion of cash on hand," Steenland told employees.  Other carriers also have healthy cash balances for now. 
United ended 2007, according to its most recent available 
regulatory filing, with unrestricted cash and short-term 
investments of $3.6 billion.  American had $5 billion in cash and short-term investments, 
including a restricted balance of $428 million.  Delta ended the year with $3.8 billion in unrestricted 
liquidity, including $1 billion in revolving credit.  Southwest, the biggest airline by market capitalization at 
$8.5 billion, reported $2.8 billion in cash and short-term 
investments. The company also had an unsecured revolving credit 
line of $600 million.  (Reporting by  John Crawley  and Kyle Peterson; Editing by 
 Tim Dobbyn )