-- Adam Sender Dresses Up Hedge Fund Rooms With Ruscha, Dan Flavin
-- Lindsay Pollock
-- 2010-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/adam-sender-dresses-up-hedge-fund-rooms-with-ruscha-dan-flavin.html

          
          
             A black-and-white  Ed Ruscha  painting
with the words “Let’s Be Realistic” spelled out in bold white
letters hangs outside the sound-proof trading room at art
collector  Adam Sender ’s hedge fund.  
 Sender’s curator, Sarah Aibel, 28, is giving me a tour of
the art-stocked office in an old loft building in New York’s
SoHo district.  
 “Trading is what he does for work,” Aibel says of Sender.
“And when he’s not trading, art is what he does for love.”  
 In the trading room, the light is movie-theater low.
Sender, who declined to be interviewed, is seated at what
resembles a science-fiction command center, surrounded by two
dozen glowing monitors.  
 Out in the hall, a  Kara Walker  mural runs along a wall. A
pink-and-green neon sculpture by minimalist Dan Flavin
illuminates a corner. An otherwise generic conference room is
hung with a piercing  John Currin  painting. “The Activists”
depicts a frail elderly woman seated before a microphone,
holding a sheet with a presumed list of grievances.  
 “The traders are so focused on finance, the art gives them
a break,” Aibel says.  
 Sender, 41, has collected art since 1998 and currently has
about 800 works. Over the years he has bought and sold,
including several auctions that yielded prices far in excess of
what he originally paid.  
 Manet Sale  
 Sender used to work at SAC Capital Advisors LP for Steven
A. Cohen, another big art collector. A painting thought to be
owned by Cohen, Edouard Manet’s “Self Portrait With a
Palette,” sold at Sotheby’s in London last month for 22.4
million pounds ($33.7 million). Cohen paid $18.7 million for the
painting at Christie’s International’s 1997 auction of the
collection of Wall Street financier John Loeb.  
 A small portion of the collection hangs in the New York
office, where about 25 employees conduct the business of
Sender’s firm, Exis Capital Management. A rotating array of
artworks hangs in Sender’s apartment in the Tribeca section of
Manhattan. Yet more art fills his weekend retreat in the
Hamptons section of Long Island. Another chunk is stashed in a
warehouse in Long Island City, New York.  
 Eventually these works, and the rest of Sender’s
collection, will be on view to the public thanks to a plan to
open an exhibition space. Sender has acquired a property in Long
Island’s picturesque Sag Harbor. Aibel declined to go into more
detail.  
 Website Relaunched  
 In the meantime you can get a taste of Sender’s holdings
through his website,  http://www.sendercollection.com , which he
re-launched late last month. He has doubled the number of works
on the site and presents a video by  William Kentridge , the South
African artist whose retrospective at Manhattan’s Museum of
Modern Art recently ended.  
 The website reveals Sender’s taste for intellectually
challenging work and his penchant for certain artists. He owns
about 80 drawings by Raymond Pettibon and 16 sculptures,
installations and photographs by  Matthew Barney , for instance.  
 Aibel describes the website as a “lending library” where
museum curators can search for works they may wish to borrow for
exhibitions. The website lists which works are out on loan. New
York’s Guggenheim Museum, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art
and Swiss foundation Beyeler are among current borrowers.  
 Sender’s own corner office, with unobstructed views of
downtown Manhattan, has some of his favorite artworks, including
“Absence,”  Luc Tuyman ’s muted 2001 painting of an empty chair.
The office does present more usual hedge-fund fare. Copies of
 Alan Greenspan ’s “Age of Turbulence” and  Ayn Rand ’s “Atlas
Shrugged,” grace an end table. An antique ticker-tape machine
stands on a plinth.  
 Risque in Office  
 The art in Aibel’s office veers into the risque. A
photograph by German artist Thomas Ruff depicts a blurry woman
in lingerie towering over a man on a leash crawling beside her.
Aibel joined Sender in 2006, working alongside curator  Todd Levin , who spearheaded Sender’s collection from 1998 to 2008.  
 While much of Sender’s collection is notable for conceptual
underpinnings, some of it is just pretty. A painting by artist
Annie Kevans, a portrait of a sweet-faced young girl, is one of
the artists classified on the website as “Up and Coming.”
Sender bought it because “he just responded to the fantastic
painting,” said Aibel. The work is slated to hang in the
bedroom of Sender’s three-year-old daughter.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Lindsay Pollock  in New York at  lindsaypollock@yahoo.com ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sarah Aibel  
                       
                         
                           Lindsay Pollock/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Curator Sarah Aibel with a 2002 painting by Elizabeth Peyton "Ben (Villa D'Este)" in the entrance to Exis Capital Management in the SoHo district of New York. The painting is part of the Sender collection, which includes about 800 contemporary artworks owned by hedge fund manager Adam Sender. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Curator Sarah Aibel with a 2002 painting by Elizabeth Peyton "Ben (Villa D'Este)" in the entrance to Exis Capital Management in the SoHo district of New York. The painting is part of the Sender collection, which includes about 800 contemporary artworks owned by hedge fund manager Adam Sender. Photographer: Lindsay Pollock/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Untitled (To Don Judd, Colorist)"  
                       
                         
                           The Sender Collection via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Untitled (To Don Judd, Colorist)" by artist Dan Flavin. The 1987 piece, comprised of pink and green fluorescent lights, is owned by hedge fund manager Adam Sender. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Untitled (To Don Judd, Colorist)" by artist Dan Flavin. The 1987 piece, comprised of pink and green fluorescent lights, is owned by hedge fund manager Adam Sender. Source: The Sender Collection via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "The Activists" by artist John Currin. The painting is among about 800 artworks owned by hedge fund manager Adam Sender, and hangs in a conference room in his Soho office. Source: The Sender Collection via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Ben (Villa D'Este)"  
                       
                         
                           The Sender Collection via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Ben (Villa D'Este)" by Elizabeth Peyton. The painting is part of the Sender collection which includes about 800 contemporary artworks owned by hedge fund manager Adam Sender. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Ben (Villa D'Este)" by Elizabeth Peyton. The painting is part of the Sender collection which includes about 800 contemporary artworks owned by hedge fund manager Adam Sender. Source: The Sender Collection via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
