-- Afghan Militants Kill 4 in Suicide Attack on Office of U.S. Aid Contractor
-- Eltaf Najafizada
-- 2010-07-02T10:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/afghan-militants-kill-3-in-suicide-attack-on-office-of-u-s-aid-contractor.html

          
          
             Six suicide attackers stormed the
office of a U.S. aid contractor in northern Afghanistan today,
killing two local security personnel and two foreign nationals.  
 Militants targeted a building housing  Development
Alternatives, Inc . in Kunduz city, provincial governor  Mohammad Omar  said in a phone interview. A 32-year-old German man working
as a security guard for DAI was among those killed, German
Foreign Ministry spokesman Andreas Peschke told reporters in
Berlin today. He didn’t identify the man. Agence France-Presse
reported that a second foreigner had been killed but gave no
further details.  
 “Two of the suicide bombers blew themselves up inside a
car which they took to the U.S. aid organization,” Omar said.
“Four of them entered around 3:45 a.m.” An Afghan security
guard and a local policeman died in fighting, he said.  
 The  website  of the U.S. Agency for International
Development, or USAID, describes Washington D.C.-based DAI as an
“implementing partner” for projects it funds in Afghanistan.
DAI, which operates around the world, has managed development
projects supporting small and medium-sized businesses in the
country since 2002 for USAID and another donor, DAI said in a
statement last year  posted  on its website.  
 The administration of President  Barack Obama  has described
its strategy in the now nine-year conflict as an effort to slow
the Taliban insurgency while building up the Afghan government’s
capacity to extend security and effective governance across the
country.  
 A force of 142,000 U.S. and North Atlantic Treaty
Organization troops is in the midst of an offensive to try to
push the Taliban out of their stronghold in Kandahar province in
southern Afghanistan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        