-- Taifook Securities Plans to Partner Chinese Funds for Offshore Investments
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-07-02T00:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/taifook-securities-plans-to-partner-chinese-funds-for-offshore-investments.html

          
          
             Taifook Securities Group Ltd., a Hong
Kong-based securities firm majority-owned by China’s biggest
brokerage by assets, said it will soon announce plans to team up
with mainland asset management companies wishing to invest
overseas.  
 The move is part of  Taifook ’s plan to “go international,
and to tap funds both flowing into the country and out,”  Peter Wong , Taifook’s deputy chairman and chief executive, said in a
June 30 interview in Hong Kong. “This is going to give a
substantial boost to Taifook’s institutional business.”  
 Taifook is at an “advanced stage” of discussions with
mainland fund houses that are allowed to invest offshore under
China’s Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor, or QDII,
program, Wong said. He declined to be more specific. China
imposes controls on the flow of capital that mean only QDII-
qualified fund managers can legally invest offshore.  
 Haitong Securities Co. bought a controlling stake in
Taifook in November, the first purchase of an overseas brokerage
by a mainland securities firm. Shanghai-based Haitong will use
Taifook for its global expansion, said Li Jianguo, chairman of
the company’s Hong Kong unit, in January.  
 In preparation for handling mainland QDII funds, Taifook
has hired back to its institutional sales unit as many as six
former employees who previously moved to BOCOM International
Holdings Co., an investment banking and securities business unit
of Bank of Communications Co., Wong said.  
 Haitong said in November it bought a 52.86 percent stake in
Taifook for HK$1.82 billion ($234 million) from NWS Holdings
Ltd., controlled by Hong Kong billionaire Cheng Yu-tung. Haitong
currently holds 60 percent of Taifook,  Bloomberg data  shows.  
 Profit for the six months ended Dec. 31 surged more than 16
times to HK$143.7 million, according to Taifook’s interim report.
The stock has rallied 167 percent in the past 12 months.  
 China, which allows its nationals buy overseas stocks and
bonds only through QDII funds, introduced the system in 2007 to
allow fund managers, banks and securities firms to pool money
from domestic investors to trade in foreign securities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        