-- Malaysia Exports Rise at Slowest Pace Since February as Asia Rebound Cools
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-02T10:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/malaysia-exports-rise-at-slowest-pace-since-february-as-asia-rebound-cools.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s  exports  rose at the
slowest pace in three months as sales to Europe and China eased,
adding to evidence the region’s rebound may have peaked.  
 Overseas shipments rose 21.9 percent in May from a year
earlier to 52.3 billion ringgit ($16.2 billion) after gaining
26.6 percent in April, the trade ministry said in a statement in
Kuala Lumpur today. The median estimate in a  Bloomberg News
survey  of 14 economists was for a 26.6 percent increase.  
 Households are holding back spending in some of the world’s
largest economies and their governments are cutting outlays to
trim budget deficits, suggesting global growth may slow after
rebounding from last year’s recession. Malaysia’s strengthening
currency probably also hurt demand, according to Citigroup Inc.,
threatening orders for goods by exporters including  Malaysian
Pacific Industries Bhd.  and Sime Darby Bhd.  
 “While exports continue to expand at a double-digit pace
in May, the moderation in growth rate suggests to us that
Malaysian export growth could have already peaked in the first
quarter of 2010,”  Alvin Liew , an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc in Singapore, said before the report. “Problems
brewing in Europe and easing Chinese appetite could be
reasons.”  
 In China, manufacturing growth slowed more than economists
forecast in June, and a gauge of factory output in the 16-member
euro region weakened for a second month, two surveys showed
yesterday. The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s
manufacturing index fell more than economists forecast to 56.2
from 59.7 in May.  
 Ringgit Climbs  
 The Malaysian ringgit is Asia’s biggest gainer against the
U.S. dollar and the euro this year. It has climbed 6.2 percent
against the dollar and gained 22 percent against the common
European currency.  
 “The appreciating Malaysian ringgit, which peaked in
April-May, had likely affected exports competitiveness
momentarily,”  Kit Wei Zheng , an economist at Citigroup in
Singapore, said before the report.  
 The currency’s appreciation is orderly and reflects the
nation’s “improving economic conditions,” central bank
Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  told Market News International last
month.  
 Malaysia’s  imports  rose 34.2 percent in May from a year
earlier. The trade surplus narrowed to 8.1 billion ringgit from
9.3 billion ringgit in April.  
 The country’s exports to the U.S., China and Europe fell in
May from April, today’s report showed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        