-- Alleged Spies Zottoli, Mills Admit They're Russians
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-07-02T20:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/alleged-spies-zottoli-mills-admit-they-re-russians-u-s-prosecutors-say.html

          
          
             Accused Russian spies Michael Zottoli
and Patricia Mills admitted they are Russians and that their
names are fake, U.S. prosecutors said.  
 Zottoli is Mikhail Kutzik and Mills is Natalia Pereverzeva,
prosecutors said. Since their arrest, the pair has arranged
with a family friend to contact Mills’s family in Russia to take
their children to that country, prosecutors said today.  
 The disclosures came in a letter from the U.S. Attorney’s
office in Manhattan urging a federal magistrate to deny bail to
Zottoli, Mills and co-defendant Mikhail Semenko.  
 At the hearing today in Alexandria, Virginia, the three
waived their right to bail and declined Magistrate Judge  Theresa Buchanan ’s offer to transfer their cases to Manhattan, where a
grand jury is investigating.  
 The hearing, initially scheduled for yesterday, was
postponed after the defense was presented with new evidence.
Prosecutors said the three, among 11 people charged in New York,
worked for Russia’s intelligence service, the SVR. Prosecutors
claim the spy ring tried to infiltrate U.S. policy-making
circles.  
 ‘Never Come Back’  
 Prosecutors said the accused would have fled if they had
been granted bail.  
 “The evidence set forth in the complaints and the evidence
developed after the defendants’ arrests all point to a single
conclusion -- if any of the conspirators are permitted to walk
out of the courtroom they would never come back,” the
prosecutors said in the letter to Buchanan.  
 Prosecutors claimed that Zottoli said he used a phony
birthdate and that his father lives in Russia. Mills said her
parents, brother and sister live in Russia, according to the
government’s letter.  
 According to the government, Semenko told an undercover
officer who he believed was a representative of the SVR that he
was trained in covert communications during several weeks of
training at SVR’s “Moscow Center.” Prosecutors claim the
Russian intelligence service might help the defendants escape
U.S. prosecution if they were freed.  
 “Moscow Center has invested a great deal in the
conspirators, and there is no doubt that Russia has significant
resources that can be brought to bear here,” prosecutors said
in the letter.  
 ‘Skilled Deceivers’  
 Zottoli, Mills and Semenko were arrested June 27 at their
Arlington, Virginia residences, prosecutors said. Each was
appointed an attorney by the court.  
 Vicky Pelaez, who has written columns for El Diario La
Prensa, the oldest Spanish-language newspaper in New York, was
granted bail yesterday, though may not be released until after
the July 4 holiday weekend. Her husband, Juan Lazaro, had his
bail hearing postponed. Lazaro made a series of statements after
his arrest, prosecutors said, in which he admitted he wasn’t
born in Uruguay and that he had given a false name, prosecutors
said.  
 The U.S. said in court yesterday that Pelaez delivered
letters to Russian agents in Peru and that their house in
Yonkers, New York, had been paid for by the SVR.  
 Also yesterday, people identified as Richard and Cynthia
Murphy, who live in Montclair, New Jersey, with their two
children, were ordered by a U.S. judge to remain in custody
because they pose a risk of flight. The U.S. argues it doesn’t
know the true identities of the couple.  
 Postponed Hearing  
 A U.S. magistrate judge in Boston yesterday postponed until
July 16 a bail hearing for another accused married couple,
 Donald Howard Heathfield  and Tracey Lee Ann Foley of Cambridge,
Massachusetts, after defense attorneys requested more time to
prepare the bail application.  
 Defense attorneys said they will challenge the government’s
claims about their clients’ identities. While defense attorney
Peter Krupp said his client could be referred to as Donald
Heathfield, a defense attorney for the woman that the government
calls Tracey Lee Ann Foley asked that she be known as
“Defendant No. 5.”  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  said yesterday
that the government’s case is “extraordinarily strong” and got
“much better” since the suspects were arrested. One suspect,
Christopher Mestos, was arrested in Cyprus and disappeared after
posting bail, authorities said.  
 Metsos, 54, who jumped bail two days ago to avoid
extradition to the U.S. on charges he was part of the espionage
ring, has probably left the island, the Cypriot justice minister
said.  
 “In my opinion he must have left Cyprus,” Justice
Minister Loucas Louca said today in a telephone interview. “I
don’t know any more than this. We evaluate all information we
receive.”  
 The cases are USA v. Mills, 10-405 and USA v. Semenko, 10-
408, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        