-- German Stocks Decline as Bayer Drops; Goldman Closes `Long DAX' Position
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-02T16:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/allianz-bmw-daimler-qiagen-siemens-may-move-german-equity-preview.html

          
          
             German stocks fell, extending their
second straight weekly decline, as Bayer AG retreated and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended ending a bullish stance on
the benchmark DAX Index.  
 Bayer dropped 2.6 percent as UBS AG cut its price estimate
on Germany’s largest drugmaker. Deutsche Telekom AG declined 1.9
percent.  Deutsche Boerse AG  climbed 2.9 percent as Morgan
Stanley recommended the shares.  HeidelbergCement AG , the world’s
third-largest cement manufacturer, rose 1.6 percent.  
 The benchmark DAX Index retreated 0.4 percent at 5,834.15,
after gaining as much as 1.4 percent. The gauge lost 3.9 percent
this week and is down 7.9 percent from its April 26 high on
concern the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe will spread. The
broader HDAX Index dropped 0.3 percent today.  
 “We recommend closing the long DAX position, opened on 11
May 2010 at 5,937, close to flat,”  Noah Weisberger , Goldman
Sach’s New York-based trading strategist, wrote in a report
today. “The position was initiated on the premise that German
corporates, many of which have significant export exposures,
would be shielded from the sovereign worries afflicting the
euro-area. But with some of these tailwinds now less prominent,
and more importantly a marked deceleration in the global
industrial cycle more evident, the risk and reward
considerations are less attractive.”  
 Bayer, Fresenius  
 Bayer  dropped 2.6 percent to 44.38 euros. UBS AG cut its
price estimate on Germany’s largest drugmaker to 49 euros from
52 euros, keeping a “neutral” rating.  
 Fresenius Medical Care AG, the world’s biggest provider of
kidney dialysis, fell 2.1 percent to 42.95 euros.  
 Deutsche Telekom, Europe’s biggest phone company, lost 1.9
percent to 9.53 euros.  
 Shares of software company  SAP AG  lost 1.6 percent to 35.86
euros.  
 Deutsche Boerse gained 2.9 percent to 50.3 euros. The
operator of the Frankfurt exchange was upgraded to
“overweight” from “equal weight” at Morgan Stanley.  
 The new recommendation reflects “improving top-line
dynamics and our expectation that continued volatility will
support derivative volumes on a prospective basis,” the
brokerage said in a note.  
 HeidelbergCement rose 1.6 percent to 37.83 euros. CA
Cheuvreux kept the stock as one of its top picks in the European
cement industry after a report yesterday showed construction
spending in the U.S. fell less than forecast in May.  
 “We continue to prefer stocks with high U.S. sales
exposure,” the brokerage wrote in a note today. “While we
understand the resurgence of double-dip fears in the market, the
structural upside remains bigger in America than anywhere
else.”  
 ThyssenKrupp AG  advanced 1.9 percent to 20.19 euros.
Goldman Sachs upgraded the nation’s largest steelmaker to
“buy” from “neutral,” citing an “attractive growth profile
and end-market exposures.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        