-- Land Rover Begins Push for Greener SUVs With Evoque
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-07-02T07:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/land-rover-plans-more-fuel-efficient-suvs-after-adding-lightweight-evoque.html

          
          
             Land Rover , the luxury SUV brand
whose customers include  Tom Cruise  and  Queen Elizabeth II , needs
to develop greener versions of all its models to sustain sales,
the head of Indian owner Tata Motors Ltd. said.  
 The lightweight Range Rover Evoque, a sport utility-coupe
crossover unveiled in London yesterday, must be followed by
upgrades of the brand’s bigger all-terrain autos producing less
carbon, Tata Chief Executive Officer  Carl-Peter Forster  said in
an interview.  
 “I’m not a supporter of the theory that if we have a small
car then we can afford to make a large car,” Forster said.
“It’s important that the bigger Range Rover is developed with
more fuel efficient engines. That’s the type of activity that
will make sure it continues to be socially acceptable.”  
 Tata’s Jaguar Land Rover unit, which also makes Jaguar
sports cars, is targeting “strong growth” as demand for high-
end vehicles rebounds, the CEO said. The Evoque, priced from
about 33,000 pounds ($50,000), aims to help lift annual sales to
300,000 units, up more than 50 percent from last year’s total.  
 Forster, the former head of General Motors Co. in Europe
who took over at Tata in February, cited a new diesel engine to
be introduced in the 2011 Range Rover as an example of efforts
to bolster the environmental credentials of established models.  
 Fuel Economy  
 The eight-cylinder engine delivers 309 brake horsepower, a
15 percent increase, while improving fuel economy to 30.1 miles
per gallon, up 18 percent, according to company figures.  
 In terms of fuel efficiency “we are probably improving
more than any other manufacturer but, to be candid, we needed
to,” John Edwards, Land Rover’s U.K. managing director, said in
an interview in London. “We’ve made more progress on our
current cars than we thought possible.”  
 The Evoque, to be officially launched at the  Paris Motor
Show  in September, is based on the Land Rover LRX concept car
exhibited at the Detroit auto fair in January, 2008. Edwards
said he expects the company will export about 80 percent of the
new model. He declined to give sales targets.  
 The model, developed with 27 million pounds of aid from the
British government, will be built in Halewood, near Liverpool,
England, where it will create 1,000 jobs.  
 The car will go on sale next summer in two- and four-wheel
drive versions and will likely attract drivers that would
typically consider buying vehicles such as  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG ’s Mini and Audi’s TT, Edwards said last night at a
party in the ground of Kensington palace, celebrating the 40th
birthday of the Range Rover brand.  
 China Demand  
 Peter Schmidt , managing director of Leamington Spa,
England-based Automotive Industry Data, said Jaguar Land Rover
would have been wiser to spend money setting up production of
its existing models in China, the world’s largest car market.  
 “This is not a good idea,” he said. “The market for
proper SUVs in the western world is dying. The only part that’s
still healthy is for cars that mimic the look of SUVs, such as
the  Honda CR-V . But the Chinese still love the real thing.”  
 Demand for SUVs will wane with rising gasoline prices,
higher taxes on less-efficient vehicles and changes in public
sentiment, Schmidt said. The owner of a  Range Rover Sport  pays
435 pounds in road tax a year in Britain, compared with 245
pounds for a two-liter Audi A6 sedan, according to figures from
that country’s Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders.  
 Tata is planning to begin making Jaguar and Land Rover
vehicles in China, Forster said in May. The Mumbai-based
automaker, India’s biggest maker of trucks and buses, bought
Jaguar Land Rover from Ford Motor Co. for $2.4 billion in 2008.  
 Tata reported net income of 25.7 billion rupees ($551
million) for the year ended March 31, rebounding from a 25.1
billion-rupee year-earlier loss, as the U.K. unit posted a
pretax profit of 32 million pounds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Land rover begins push for greener SUVs  
                       
                         
                           Prashanth Vishwanathan/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Tata CEO Carl-Peter Forster. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tata CEO Carl-Peter Forster. Photographer: Prashanth Vishwanathan/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
