-- Handguns on Campus Make Utah Colleges Model After Court Rulings
-- Oliver Staley
-- 2010-07-02T19:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/handguns-on-campus-make-utah-colleges-model-after-court-rulings.html

          
          
             Students at Utah Valley University
and other public colleges in the state are free to carry
concealed handguns on campus if they have a permit. Nick Moyes
is one of them.  
 “It’s about self-defense, the ability to defend
yourself,” said Moyes, 28, a student who brings his Sig Sauer
P-226 9mm handgun onto campus in Orem, Utah, every chance he
gets. “That’s a God-given right.”  
 Moyes’s pistol-packing privilege has nothing to do with the
U.S. Supreme Court ruling June 28 that will likely be used to
attack gun laws across the U.S. In 2007, Utah said holders of
concealed-weapons permits like Moyes may bring such weapons onto
campus, providing that right long before the justices ruled.  
 Now, states including Michigan and Colorado may find
themselves following Utah’s lead as gun advocates file court
challenges and propose legislation to scuttle existing bans on
weapons on campus. Driving future efforts will be the Supreme
Court’s ruling, which extends the federal right to bear arms to
states, said James Jacobs, a law professor at the Manhattan
campus of New York University and author of a gun-control book.  
 “It will take years to flesh out the full extent of the
Constitutional right to bear arms,” he said of the likely
impact of the court’s ruling in McDonald v. Chicago.  
 The decision was a victory for the National Rifle
Association, which joined a group of Chicago residents in
challenging the city’s handgun ban. Jacobs said courts around
the country will now be asked to decide how far to apply the
McDonald ruling. One issue judges might be asked to rule on is
whether it applies to private-school gun bans, he said.  
 Lots of Questions  
 “There will be lots and lots of questions,” Jacobs said.  
 Rachel Parsons, a spokeswoman for the NRA, said the gun-
rights group wants “a national dialogue” over “what we’re
going to do to keep our kids safe when they’re at school.”  
 David Burnett, president of  Students for Concealed Carry on
Campus , said his group is encouraged by the court ruling.  
 “As far as the ruling itself, we would be hard pressed to
take the ruling and apply it to campuses,” said Burnett, a 2009
graduate of the University of Kentucky in Lexington. “But it is
indicative of the movement as a whole. If cities can’t ban guns,
why should a board of directors of a college be able to?”  
 25 States Prohibit Guns  
 Twenty-five states now prohibit guns on college campuses
and 23 others leave it up to the schools, said Andy Pelosi,
director of  GunFreeKids.org , a New York-based group. Outside of
10 public schools covered by the Utah law, only two colleges
elsewhere in the U.S. now permit the carrying of guns, he said.
There are also new rules in Colorado.  
 Georgia allows those with a permit for a concealed weapon
to keep guns in their cars on campus, said  Daryl Robinson ,
counsel to the attorney general there.  
 “Obviously the landscape is going to change with McDonald,
so we’re concerned,” Pelosi said in an interview.  
 In Utah, the law bars students and faculty from bringing
guns onto campus unless they have a concealed carry permit,
Scott Troxel, a spokesman for the attorney general, said. Moyes,
now a senior at Utah Valley University, had openly carried a gun
in his holster from September until March, when police stopped
him. Because he has a concealed-carry weapons permit, he now
wears his weapon inside his waistband.  
 Why I Carry  
 Moyes, who said seven of the 35 students in his accounting
class also had concealed-carry permits, laid out his reasons for
carrying weapons to school, where he is studying business
management.  
 “Columbine, Virginia Tech, Northern Illinois University,
Huntsville, Alabama,” he said, listing high school and college
campuses that were sites of 53 killings by shooters using rifles
and handguns. “For some reason bad guys like to pick gun-free
zones to enact their mass shootings. I refuse to be a victim.”  
 Gun-control advocates find comfort in language in the
McDonald opinion that seemingly permits bans of weapons on
campus. Speaking for the court, Justice  Samuel Alito  said the
right to bear arms is not one “to keep and carry any weapon
whatsoever in any manner whatsoever and for whatever purpose.”
He said the decision “did not cast doubt” on longstanding
regulations that prohibit the carrying of firearms at schools.  
 Very Clear  
 Daniel Vice, a lawyer with the Brady Center to Prevent Gun
Violence in Washington, said the Supreme Court went “out of its
way” in the McDonald case to say laws banning weapons on campus
are “presumptively constitutional.”  
 “With the language in the decision, I think we have a leg
to stand on,” Pelosi said, while adding that he still
anticipated a surge in legal attacks on gun laws.  
 Before the gun battle plays out in courts, advocates of
looser laws are likely to turn to legislatures, Jacobs said.
Last year, two laws were proposed in Michigan to allow concealed
weapons on campus, said Michael Boulus, executive director of
the Presidents Council, State Universities of Michigan, which
represents 15 public institutions. The schools opposed the
legislation, which died in committee, he said.  
 In Colorado, the 2003 Concealed Carry Act prohibits local
governments from limiting the right to carry concealed weapons.
 The University of Colorado ’s Board of Regents voted this week to
appeal an April state-court ruling that would force the
university to allow guns on campus.  
 ‘Fundamental’  
 Jim Manley, a lawyer for  Students for Concealed Carry on
Campus , said the appeals fight is over the state law and isn’t
based on the Second Amendment or the McDonald case. Still, the
Supreme Court’s declaration that the right to bear arms is
“fundamental” will “definitely set a tone” and may serve as
a basis to attack laws barring guns on college campuses in other
states, he said.  
 After the state court ruling, the Colorado Community
College System rescinded a ban on guns at its campuses for
concealed-carry permit holders, said Rhonda Bentz, a spokeswoman
for the system.  
 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, known
as Virginia Tech, was the scene of the deadliest U.S. shooting.
 Seung-Hui Cho  shot 32 students and teachers before killing
himself in 2007 at the campus in Blacksburg. The university had
a ban on weapons then and still does, said Mark Owczarski, a
spokesman.  
 “The policy is that there is no place for guns on campus,
unless you’re the Virginia Tech police,” Owczarski said.  
 Hunting, Shooting Sports  
 The only exception is for students who own weapons for
hunting and shooting sports, and they must check guns and
ammunition into police lockers, Owczarski said. About 40 of the
12,000 students who live on campus do so, he said.  
 There have been efforts in the Virginia General Assembly to
pass laws banning and permitting guns. None has gotten out of
committee, said Steven Janosik, an associate professor of
education at the school. The Supreme Court decision probably
won’t help efforts to permit guns at the school, he said.  
 “While this latest ruling may give students in favor of
concealed carry some increased energy, it will still be a big
uphill battle,” he said. “Certainly the campus culture doesn’t
agree with that position, in the main.”  
 Boulus said his Lansing, Michigan-based group has “a very
strong position against legislation that would allow guns on
campus.”  
 “We don’t think they are appropriate in stadiums and
arenas and the like,” he said.  
 Secondary Schools  
 Notwithstanding the anticipated push for more gun rights at
colleges, there is no effort afoot nationally to expand gun
rights to secondary schools, Pelosi said. Only a single such
school district, in rural Texas, now permits the carrying of
concealed weapons and that is only for faculty, he said.  
 Troxel said the Utah concealed carry law also applies to
adults in K-12 schools in that state.  
 The University of Utah hasn’t “had a single incident”
since it permitted concealed weapons to be carried there, said
Remi Barron, a school spokesman.  
 At events at which security officers are present, such as
football and basketball games, gun carriers will have their
permits checked, and students may ask that any roommates
assigned to them not have weapons, Barron said. So far, no one
has, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wayne LaPierre, executive vice president of the National Rifle Association, speaks at a news conference outside the U.S. Supreme Court after the announcement of a ruling in a case overturning Chicago's ban on handguns in Washington. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
