-- Apple Responds to IPhone Complaints With Signal Software Fix
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-02T20:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/apple-responds-to-iphone-reception-complaints-by-offering-a-software-fix.html

          
          
             Apple Inc., following complaints
about reception problems with its iPhone 4, discovered a
software problem that has displayed inaccurately high signal
strength since the original device was introduced in 2007.  
 Some iPhones have been showing more bars of signal strength
than merited, leading users to believe they had better
reception. A software update to fix the problem on its 3G, 3GS
and 4 models will be released “within a few weeks,” Apple said
today in a statement.  
 “We were stunned to find that the formula we use to
calculate how many bars of signal strength to display is totally
wrong,” Cupertino, California-based Apple said. After the fix,
“the real signal strength remains the same, but the iPhone’s
bars will report it far more accurately.”  
 Customers have complained about poor reception from the
network of  AT&T Inc. , the iPhone’s exclusive U.S. carrier, since
it debuted three years ago.  
 “This is really surprising that something as simple as this
is what is causing the problem and that it’s been around for so
long,” said Francis Sideco, an analyst at iSuppli Corp. in El
Segundo, California, which analyzes the engineering of wireless
devices.  
 Apple fell $1.54 to $246.94 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have gained 17 percent
this year.  
 IPhone Antenna  
 The iPhone is Apple’s top-selling product, accounting for
40 percent of its revenue last quarter. The company sold 1.7
million of the devices in its first three days on sale.  
 Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, is
set to begin sales of the iPhone in the U.S. in January, two
people with knowledge of the plan said this week.  
 Apple said some users reported they lost four or five bars
of signal strength when they held the iPhone in a certain way, a
bigger drop than normal. The company has suggested customers
hold the phone differently or use a case.  
 Apple’s rivals have been trying to take advantage of the
antenna problem.  Motorola Inc.  released an  ad  highlighting that
its new Droid X phone has a double antenna design, “the kind
that allows you to hold the phone any way you like and use it
just about anywhere to make crystal clear calls.”  
 Apple also has been  sued  for the reception problem by two
users who accuse the company of unfair business practices and
false and misleading advertising.  
 With the software fix, Apple said it’s adopting AT&T’s
recommended formula to more accurately calculate how many bars
to display. The change will result in the first three bars being
easier to see, Apple said.  
 Reception Problems  
 Complaints about the reliability of AT&T’s network will
probably persist, said  Tavis McCourt , an analyst at Morgan
Keegan & Co. in Nashville, Tennessee.  
 “It’s a software fix, but it doesn’t really seem to address
the reception problems the iPhone has had,” McCourt said today
in an interview. Given the sales, “consumers seem to be willing
to forgive the iPhone for any reception problems for the
experience of using it,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at   asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- John Hodulik, an analyst at UBS Securities LLC, talks about the outlook for AT&T Inc. losing exclusive rights to carry Apple Inc.'s iPhone and the impact on the wireless industry.
     Hodulik talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
