-- Maradona Running Naked Isn't Enough to Carry Kirchners to 2011 Ballot Win
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-07-02T16:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/maradona-running-naked-isn-t-enough-to-carry-kirchners-to-2011-ballot-win.html

          
          
             A World Cup championship for
Argentina would mean more than a third title for the South
American country and a victory lap run naked by soccer idol
 Diego Maradona . With an election due next year, it could boost
the popularity of President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  --
temporarily.  
 “There’s a strong link between politics and soccer,” said
 Rosendo Fraga , a political analyst who runs  Nueva Mayoria , a
polling company in Buenos Aires. “Winning a World Cup has
political effects, but they last weeks or months.”  
 Maradona, who as a player led Argentina to its second world
title in 1986, is overcoming criticism of his coaching abilities
by Buenos Aires newspapers including La Nacion and Ole. While
Argentina barely qualified for the tournament, it advanced to
play Germany in tomorrow’s quarterfinal. If the team wins the
cup, Maradona pledged in an interview aired by  Radio Metro  in
May, he will jog naked through downtown Buenos Aires.  
 Fernandez, 57, and her husband and predecessor  Nestor Kirchner , 60, may have more difficulty surviving criticism of
their policies, which have slowed investment and pushed
 inflation  above 20 percent. Investors betting on a change of
government have no need to be concerned that any post-World Cup
popularity surge would last long enough for one of the Kirchners
to win election in 2011, said  Siobhan Morden , a debt strategist
with RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  
 “You can have spasms of patriotism, as you did for the
bicentennial, but that’s not going to carry them” to re-
election, Morden said in a telephone interview this week. In
May, Argentina celebrated the 200th anniversary of the
revolution that shook off Spanish rule.  
 Higher Yields  
 Argentine debt probably will gain as investors with an
abundance of cash created by expansive monetary policies
worldwide pursue higher yields, Morden said. Policy reforms by a
new government, such as reducing utility and transportation
subsidies and ending underreporting of inflation, could boost
gains, she said.  
 The yield on benchmark 7 percent dollar bonds due in 2015
has risen 225 basis points, or 2.25 percentage points, this year
to 13.04 percent, as the European debt crisis sapped demand for
higher-yielding emerging-market debt. The price has fallen 6.48
cents to 79.4 cents on the dollar.  
 Television Rights  
 Fernandez has taken steps to help Argentines view their
favorite sport. In the months before the World Cup, she gave
away almost 1.2 million digital cable-television decoders to
provide access to high-definition coverage of matches on free
government channels.  
 Last year, she secured the television rights to transmit
 Argentine Soccer Federation  games for free after the league
broke an existing contract with cable providers.  
 “We’re taking a big step in the democratization of
Argentine society,” Fernandez  said at a ceremony  last August in
Buenos Aires alongside Maradona, 49.  She likened  pay-per-view
soccer matches to “kidnapping” goals, “like they kidnapped
and disappeared 30,000 Argentines” during the seven-year
military dictatorship that began in 1976.  
 When Argentina hosted the 1978 World Cup, junta leaders
cheered from the stands. After the national team’s 3-1 win over
Holland in the final, crowds poured onto the streets to
celebrate.  
 Popular Support  
 “The dictatorship considered the organization of the event
and the possibility of an Argentine triumph as something that
would ease tensions, and hoped to benefit from it,” said  Mario Toer , 66, a University of Buenos Aires professor, who spent more
than five years as a political prisoner and followed the
tournament through detainees who were allowed to watch news.
“They succeeded in easing tensions, but only for a short
time.”  
 Fernandez and her husband, both of whom are eligible to run
in next year’s election, are counting on a triumph in South
Africa to revive popular support, though neither has a chance of
winning, said  Jorge Giacobbe , who runs Buenos Aires-based
polling company Giacobbe & Asociados.  
 “They think that a cheerful society will vote for them,
but the Kirchners’ cycle is over,” Giacobbe said in a June 29
telephone interview. “The government is worried, if not
desperate to improve its relationship with society, and it
grasps any opportunity. It was the bicentennial celebrations in
May and now it’s the World Cup.”  
 Presidential spokesman  Alfredo Scoccimarro  didn’t respond
to phone calls placed this week to his cell phone, office and e-
mails seeking comment.  
 Farm Conflict  
 Higher  inflation  and a conflict with farmers over an
increase in export taxes led Fernandez to lose her majority
backing in both houses of Congress in June 2009 midterm
elections. Even so, she overcame congressional resistance this
year to her plan to tap central bank  reserves  to pay debt and to
her firing of the central bank president,  Martin Redrado .  
 Confidence in the government rose 1.3 percent in June from
May to 1.61 points, on a scale of zero to five, after climbing
14.4 percent the previous month, according to a poll by Buenos
Aires-based Poliarquia Consultores. Since the 2009 election,
voter confidence has climbed 20 percent. The poll of 1,200
people, conducted June 2 to June 11, had a margin of error of
3.2 percentage points.  
 Voter satisfaction is closely tied to  economic growth  and
inflation, and another term by one of the Kirchners could occur
if they improve, said  Daniel Kerner , an analyst at Eurasia
Group, in a telephone interview this week from New York.  
 Argentina’s economy expanded in the first quarter at the
fastest annual pace since 2008, growing 6.8 percent from a year
earlier, according to government statistics.  
 Growth Forecast  
 RBS this week lifted its forecast for 2010 growth to 7
percent from 4.4 percent, citing the likelihood that Fernandez
will fuel consumption ahead of the election.  
 Fast growth, bolstered in part by rising demand for
Argentina’s soybeans and grains as the world economy recovers,
will push inflation above 25 percent this year, RBS economist
 Boris Segura  wrote in a June 30 report.  
 Government inflation data has been questioned by economists
and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  since
January 2007, when Kirchner began changing personnel at the
National Statistics Institute. Morgan Stanley and RBS estimated
that 2009 inflation was about double the 7.7 percent the
government reported.  
 Any euphoria generated by a third soccer title would soon
be forgotten as rising prices eat into household budgets, said
 Hugo Godoy , a leader of the union that represents state workers.  
 Wave of Strikes  
 Employees of Buenos Aires province, who won a 17 percent
pay rise earlier this year, want to reopen negotiations to lift
the increase to 30 percent to offset inflation, Godoy said in a
telephone interview from the provincial capital of La Plata. If
the demand isn’t met, a wave of strikes will occur this year, he
said. The province is home to more than a third of all
Argentines.  
 While workers would enjoy the spectacle of Maradona’s naked
jaunt, World Cup victory won’t sway their votes, he said.  
 “Manipulation of such events is nothing new,” Godoy said.
“The people aren’t stupid and they will demand what they are
due.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net 
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Argentine President Cristina Fernandez, accompanied by national soccer team coach Diego Maradona, holds a national soccer team jersey in Buenos Aires in 2009. Photographer: Argentine Presidency Press Office via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Argentina's coach Diego Maradona grabs the ball during a training session in Pretoria on June 30, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Garcia/AFP/Getty Images)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
