-- Harvard's Kagan Glides Past `Gotcha' Republicans: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-07-02T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/harvard-s-kagan-glides-past-gotcha-republicans-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             The top Republican on the Senate
Judiciary Committee said he was “disappointed” at the end of
 Elena Kagan ’s testimony this week, fearing she would move the
U.S. Supreme Court leftward.  
 That isn’t likely, given the reliably liberal justice she
would be replacing,  John Paul Stevens . The only room for an
ideological shift would be to the right of Stevens.  
 Still, the senator,  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, had the right
feeling in being let down, even if for the wrong reason.  
 Kagan emerged unbruised from the battering he and other
Republicans tried to administer. They are the ones who walked
away bloody.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s high court nominee deflected their
blows with her intelligence, an encyclopedic knowledge of the
law and a well-articulated if generalized view of judging. She
appeared confident and comfortable in the hot seat. She was
funny.  
 You can be frustrated that she refused to say how she would
vote on a given issue, or even acknowledge where her passions
lie. But in that way she is no different from most nominees over
the past 20 years.  
 I’m all for senators of both parties closely questioning
nominees to lifetime appointment to the nation’s most
influential court. Who are these people? Is there anything about
them that disqualifies them?  
 Laser Focus  
 But Sessions, with his “gotcha” smile and laser focus on
military recruiting at Harvard Law  School , was obsessed.
Seemingly intent on exposing her as an anti-military, pro-
homosexual activist who put her own, weird views above the law -
- above even the welfare of our country in time of war --
Sessions looked small when his attack failed and he kept at it.  
 No, she never kicked military recruiters off campus, even
though university policy required would-be employers to sign
anti-discrimination pledges. The Defense Department couldn’t do
that because of its “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy.  
 So a veterans organization stepped in to offer the services
Harvard’s placement office would have otherwise given. The
Defense Department recruited so successfully on campus when
Kagan was dean that their numbers rose during that period, she
testified.  
 Didn’t you call don’t ask, don’t tell “a profound wrong, a
moral injustice of the first order,” Sessions demanded, as if
accusing her of selling secrets to  Osama Bin Laden .  
 Armed Forces  
 Yes, she did. And for good reason. It not only hurts gay
and lesbian students who want military careers, it also limits
the number of good folks who go into the armed forces and are
allowed to stay.  
 Congress has already said it wants to lift the policy. So
has Defense Secretary  Robert Gates .  
 Republican attempts to depict her as some sort of radical
got downright silly. Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa hit hard
on this crucial topic: Why didn’t she require constitutional law
for first-year law students, when she did require international
law? Doesn’t that mean she cares more about foreign law than the
very foundation of American law?  
 Well, no. Students are better equipped to tackle that
essential subject with greater depth and understanding in their
second or third  year , she said.  
 More Liberal  
 No doubt Kagan is more liberal than the Republicans who
questioned her. “My political views are generally
progressive,” she acknowledged. She has worked for two
Democratic administrations, she confessed.  
 Presidents get to nominate justices who think like they do,
and no one was better at that than President  George W. Bush .
Bent on moving the court to the right, his two appointments did
just that.  
 But any claim that Kagan might bring back the pre-Bush
court, much less the notoriously liberal Warren court, is fear-
mongering (or wishful thinking). The balance can’t tilt left
because no confirmable nominee could be as consistently liberal
as Stevens has been.  
 And we already have reason to suspect Kagan will think
differently from Stevens about the government’s treatment of
suspected terrorists.  
 The retiring justice was part of slim majorities that
struck down key aspects of Bush administration policies. He
authored two of the four key opinions in the area.  
 Sounding Like Graham  
 Kagan, on the other hand, sounds more like Republican
Senator  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina than Stevens. She so
cheerfully agreed with the senator when questioned this week
that I half expected them to walk out hand in hand.  
 Graham congratulated her for winning an appeals court
ruling as solicitor general that says detainees held in
Afghanistan don’t have the same rights won by Guantanamo
prisoners.  
 But that isn’t the worst of it for those who don’t like the
idea of forever holding people behind bars while giving them no
chance to show they don’t belong there.  
 As solicitor general involved in some of those cases, she
would recuse herself if they reach the Supreme Court. Even if,
once shed of her advocate’s job she wanted to side with the
detainees, she couldn’t.  
 Tie Votes  
 With Stevens gone and Kagan unavailable, rulings that might
have gone against the government by 5-4 votes would presumably
tie 4-4.  
 That would leave lower court rulings in force, such as the
one Graham congratulated Kagan for winning.  
 For that reason alone, “she’s a terrible choice,” says
John Chandler, a King & Spalding partner in Atlanta representing
several Guantanamo detainees.  
 Republicans entered this confirmation period knowing they
could have done far worse than Kagan. They knew, too, that she
would likely win the seat.  
 They used what little material her past gave them to
challenge her, hoping any smear would rub off on Obama.  
 Instead, it rubbed off on them.  
 (Ann Woolner is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        