-- Stocks, Commodities Drop on Jobs, Factory Orders Data
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-02T20:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/asian-commodity-currencies-mining-companies-gain-on-australia-tax-accord.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, with the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  extending its longest slide since the
financial crisis of 2008, and commodities slumped as data on
jobs and factory orders added to concern the economic rebound is
slowing. The 10-year Treasury yield held below 3 percent.  
 The Dow slid for the seventh day, losing 46.05 points, or
0.5 percent, to 9,686.48 after earlier tumbling as much as 118
points. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.5 percent to
1,022.58 at 4 p.m. in New York. Both closed at the lowest levels
since at least October 2009. Oil fell 1.1 percent to near $72 a
barrel and the  S&P GSCI Index  of commodities lost 0.8 percent.
Gold climbed from a five-week low and the dollar rose against
most counterparts on demand for safe assets.  
 Today’s reports showing a decrease in jobs and a 1.4
percent drop in factory orders extended a slide that threatens
to drag the S&P 500 into a bear market and follow data yesterday
showing a slowdown in manufacturing growth and a bigger-than-
estimated decrease in pending home sales. The latest economic
releases are causing investors to question whether analysts were
too optimistic in predicting 32 percent profit growth for S&P
500 companies this year.  
 “The earnings numbers for 2010 are aggressive unless you
believe there’s a V-shaped recovery,” said  Russ Koesterich , the
San Francisco-based head of investment strategy for scientific
active equities at BlackRock Inc., which manages $3.36 trillion
in assets. “Clearly, we’re not in a V-shaped recovery,” he
said. “There’s nothing that tells me that we’re at a level
where the market is so cheap that you want to buy here.”  
 Employment Report  
 Employment fell in June for the first time this year after
a decrease in federal census workers and a smaller-than-forecast
gain in private hiring. Payrolls fell by 125,000 as the
government cut 225,000 temporary workers, the Labor Department
said. Economists projected a decline of 130,000 payrolls,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Employment at companies rose 83,000, less than the 110,000
estimate. The jobless rate fell to 9.5 percent from 9.7 percent
as the labor force shrank.  
 The S&P 500 has tumbled 16 percent from its 2010 high in
April, a slump that dragged its valuation to the lowest level in
a year at less than 15 times reported operating earnings.
General Electric Co., Caterpillar Inc. and Bank of America Corp.
fell at least 1.3 percent to lead the Dow’s decline today.  
 Holiday Weekend  
 Benchmark U.S. indexes briefly erased losses in the final
hour of trading today on speculation the recent rout caused
investors to close out bearish positions before the three-day
holiday weekend. U.S. markets will be closed on July 5 for the
Independence Day holiday.  
 Barton Biggs, whose purchase of stocks in March 2009 gave
Traxis Partners LLC a 38 percent gain last year, said concern
the economy is about to contract spurred him to sell almost all
his U.S. technology shares this week.  
 Biggs said he reduced the proportion of bullish bets in his
hedge fund by up to 40 percentage points on speculation the
withdrawal of government spending will turn a “soft patch”
into a recession. On June 29, Biggs said long investments made
up 70 percent of his fund’s holdings.  
 Sanofi-Aventis SA, France’s biggest drugmaker, is preparing
a major acquisition in the U.S., people with knowledge of the
situation said. Health-care companies Allergan Inc., Biogen Idec
Inc. and Genzyme Corp. gained on speculation they may be the
object of Sanofi’s interest.  
 Europe Stocks  
 Most European gained even as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
ended little changed. The European benchmark index is  trading  at
11 times reported earnings, the lowest level since 2008. BHP
Billiton Ltd., Rio Tinto Group and Xstrata Plc increased after
the Australian government scaled back a proposed tax on mining
companies.  Dana Petroleum Plc  jumped 22 percent in London after
the Scottish oil explorer said it received a takeover approach.  
 BP Plc rose 5.7 percent in London over the past five days,
posting its first weekly gain since the Gulf of Mexico leak
began in April. The cost to protect BP and Anadarko Petroleum
Corp.’s bonds against default fell as a hurricane threat receded
and BP said its relief well to plug a Gulf of Mexico leak is
progressing faster than planned.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to BP dropped 35 basis points to
480.5 basis points, and Anadarko’s fell 21.5 basis points to 677
basis points, according to CMA DataVision prices. BP said its
relief well is seven or eight days ahead of schedule and Alex,
the earliest storm of the Atlantic storm season since 1995, was
downgraded to a tropical depression as it dissipated over the
mountains of central Mexico.  
 Asian, Emerging Markets  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.3 percent after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecast for China’s growth this year
to 10.1 percent from 11.4 percent as government restrictions on
lending and real estate slow expansion in the world’s fastest
growing major economy.  
 Stocks in eastern Europe rose for the first time in four
days, sending MSCI’s regional index to a 2.6 percent gain, after
Poland’s central bank boosted its economic growth forecast and
metals producers rallied.  
 Economic growth in emerging markets means stocks are in a
“bull phase,” even after the global benchmark  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index  fell 13 percent from its 2010 high, according to
investor  Mark Mobius . The index of developing nations stocks
climbed 0.4 percent today.  
 “We are happy with the correction,” Mobius, who oversees
$34 billion in emerging markets at Templeton Asset Management
Ltd., said at a briefing today in Paris. “We’ll be able to buy
cheaper stocks.”  
 Copper, Oil, Gold  
 Copper for September delivery gained 1.4 percent to $2.916
a pound in New York. Crude oil for August delivery declined 1.1
percent to $72.14 a barrel, the lowest settlement since June 8.
Prices slipped 8.5 percent this week.  
 Gold for immediate delivery rose $11.90, or 1 percent, to
$1,210.55 an ounce. Yesterday, the price touched $1,196.65, the
lowest level since May 25.  
 The dollar strengthened against 11 of 16 major currencies,
led by gains of at least 0.4 percent against the Canadian
dollar, the Swiss franc and Mexican peso. The dollar depreciated
0.2 percent to $1.2551 per euro. Earlier it fell as much as 0.7
percent to touch $1.2612, the weakest level since May 21. The
greenback rose 0.3 percent to 87.83 yen.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past an electronic stock board outside a securities firm in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Liam Dalton, chief executive officer of Axiom Capital Management, talks about the June U.S. employment report, strategy and opportunities in offshore drilling stocks.
     Dalton speaks in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Jan Randolph, director of sovereign risk at IHS Global Insight Inc., discusses the outlook for the euro zone sovereign debt crisis and the results of bank stress tests.
     Randolph talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
