-- Asian Stocks Decline on Indicators Global Economic Recovery Is Faltering
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-07-02T22:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/asian-stocks-decline-on-indicators-global-economic-recovery-is-faltering.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  fell, dragging the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to its fourth weekly decline in five, as
weaker manufacturing growth in the U.S., Europe and China added
to signs global economic recovery is faltering.  
 Canon Inc. , the world’s biggest camera maker that counts
the U.S. as its second-biggest market, fell 7.7 percent.  Foxconn
International Holdings Ltd. , the world’s biggest contract maker
of mobile phones, tumbled 13.3 percent after predicting a wider
first-half loss.  Hyundai Motor Co.  and Toyota Motor Corp.
dropped at least 3.7 percent as car sales in the U.S. grew at a
slower pace.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining
company, fell 4.4 percent as commodity prices slipped.  
 “The view is spreading among investors that a recovery in
the global economy won’t be as easy as people had expected,”
said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $65 billion. “Moves
by countries around the world to tighten fiscal policies are
behind the plunge in markets.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 3.4 percent to 111.70. The
gauge has slumped 7.3 percent this year amid concerns Europe’s
debt crisis and Chinese steps to curb property prices will hurt
global growth.  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index declined 6.7 percent, the
biggest decline among benchmark indices in the Asia-Pacific
after the New York-based Conference Board revised down an
estimate for China’s growth and the country’s manufacturing
expanded at a slower-than-expected pace. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng
Index  slipped 3.8 percent.  
 Faltering Growth  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  lost 5.5 percent, after
the yen strengthened for a fourth week, dragging shares of
Japanese exporters such as Canon Inc. and Sony Corp. lower.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 4 percent, while South
Korea’s Kospi Index sank 3.4 percent.  
 Gauges of raw material producers and electronics companies
led this week’s decline as economic numbers released this week
from China, Europe and the U.S. deteriorated.  
 Reports on U.S. manufacturing, employment and home sales
pointed to slower growth in the second half of the year. The
Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing gauge released
on July 1 fell more than forecast. Other data released on the
same day showed contracts to buy existing homes tumbled in May,
and claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly rose last week. A
report by the New York-based Conference Board on June 29 also
showed confidence among consumers declined more than forecast
last month.  
 Slower Sales  
 Canon, which got about 28 percent of sales from the U.S.
last year, fell 7.7 percent to 3,260 yen. Sony, the maker of
Playstation gaming consoles and Bravia televisions, dropped 5.4
percent to 2,310 yen.  Panasonic Corp. , the world’s largest maker
of plasma TVs, slipped 5.8 percent to 1,098 yen.  
 Shares of Asian automakers dropped as data released by
Autodata Corp. on July 1 showed the growth in sales in the U.S.
decelerated to 14 percent last month from a year earlier, after
gains of 19 percent in May and 20 percent in April.  
 Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, slid 3.7 percent to
3,020 yen.  Honda Motor Co. , which counts North America as its
biggest market, declined 6.8 percent to 2,495 yen. Hyundai Motor
Co., South Korea’s biggest carmaker, dropped 7.7 percent to
132,500 won.  
 Japanese exporters also declined as a stronger yen
threatened to reduce the value of overseas sales when
repatriated. The dollar fell for a fourth week against the yen
as signs the global recovery is faltering boosted demand for
safer assets.  
 Australia Tax Agreement  
 Foxconn , controlled by Taiwan’s Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co., slumped 13.3 percent to HK$4.88, the third-biggest decline
on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The company said on June 29 its
first-half loss will widen in part because of lower prices for
its products and higher depreciation expenses, triggering a wave
target price cuts from Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Shares of mining companies declined as weaker commodity
prices weighed on the sector even as Australian Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  scaled back a proposed tax on mining companies.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  declined 4.4 percent to A$37.09. Rio
Tinto Ltd., the world’s third-biggest mining company, dropped
6.2 percent to A$65.30. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest
supplier of the metal, lost 6 percent to HK$14.46.  
 The  Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index , which tracks prices of
commodities from copper to corn, dropped 4.2 percent amid
heightened concern over the economic health of the China.  
 China Forecasts Cut  
 China’s manufacturing growth slowed more than economists
forecast in June, data released on July 1 showed. The Conference
Board on June 29 corrected down its April gauge for the nation’s
economic outlook due to a calculation error.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. yesterday cut its real gross
domestic product growth forecast for China this year to 10.1
percent from 11.4 percent, joining BNP Paribas, Macquarie
Securities Ltd. and China International Capital Corp. in doing
so.  
 Companies with substantial business in Europe dropped after
two surveys released on July 1 showed  factory output  in the 16-
member euro region weakened for a second month.  
 Esprit Holdings Ltd., the Hong Kong-based clothier that
counts Europe as its biggest market, dropped 5.5 percent to
HK$42. Li & Fung Ltd., the supplier of toys and home furnishings
that got 27 percent of sales from Europe last year, dropped 10
percent to HK$34.85.  Billabong International Ltd. , the world’s
biggest publicly traded surfwear maker, lost 2.7 percent to
A$8.64.  
 -- Editors:  Nick Gentle , Mike Millard.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        