-- AstraZeneca, Lady Gaga, Interactive Life, Viacom: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-02T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/astrazeneca-lady-gaga-interactive-life-viacom-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             The European Union’s second-highest
court upheld a ruling that  AstraZeneca Plc  misled patent
officials and flouted antitrust rules to keep a generic
competitor off the market. The court also reduced the associated
fine against the company.  
 The EU’s General Court yesterday cut the company’s  fine 
from 60 million euros ($74 million) to 52.5 million euros. The
court upheld the decision by the region’s antitrust regulator
that AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker, “abused
its dominant position by preventing the marketing of generic
products” of its Prilosec heartburn medicine.  
 The ruling may affect an ongoing EU probe into
pharmaceutical companies’ strategies to keep generic drugs off
the market. AstraZeneca,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  and  Sanofi-Aventis
SA  are among companies the Brussels-based European Commission
has queried as part of its probe. Companies use a variety of
techniques to delay generics, the EU said in a  report  last July.  
 AstraZeneca, based in London, had challenged the
commission’s June 2005  decision  to fine it for market abuse and
misleading patent authorities over Prilosec. The court
overturned the commission’s finding that AstraZeneca breached EU
rules by withdrawing market approvals for older versions of the
drug in Denmark and Norway, which prevented entry by generic
producers and parallel importers.
producers and parallel importers.  
 “The company is disappointed that our position wasn’t
confirmed in full,” AstraZeneca spokeswoman Sarah Lindgreen
said in an interview. “Obviously, it’s very complex and we need
to review it in detail to comment further.”  
 This is the first case in which the commission, the
antitrust regulator for the 27 EU nations, accused a drugmaker
of violating EU antitrust rules by misusing its dominant
position to shut out rivals.  
 The commission welcomed the decision, spokeswoman Amelia
Torres told reporters at a regular briefing in Brussels.  
 The decision shows that companies can’t “misuse the patent
system and the system of authorization of medicines,” Torres
said. Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia “is determined
to use competition rules to fight” such behavior, she said.  
 The case is T-321/05 AstraZeneca v Commission.  
 Razor Sued by Kettler Over Tricycle Steering-Mechanism Patents  
 Razor USA LLC , the closely held maker of the aluminum kick
scooter, was sued for patent infringement by a German maker of
children’s toys.  
 Heinz Kettler GmbH  of Ense-Parsit, Germany, claims Razor
infringes four U.S. patents relating to vehicle steering heads,
turn systems and steering lock systems. In dispute are patents
7,487,988, 7,156,408, 6,799,772 and 6,378,884.  
 The technology covered by these patents can prevent a child
from over-steering a vehicle or permit an adult to lock the
front wheel of a vehicle in a straight position, according to
the complaint filed June 24 in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia.  
 Razor’s  RazorRipRider 360 , a tricycle, infringes these
patents, and the Cerritos, California-based company knew or
should have known that, the German company claims.  
 It asked the court to rule that Razor infringed the
patents, and to order a recall of all infringing products in the
U.S. that haven’t been sold or shipped to consumers. The company
also asked for awards of litigation costs, attorney fees and
money damages, and requested that damages be tripled.  
 Heinz Kettler is represented by  Liz S. Flowers  and  John C.
Lynch  of Atlanta’s  Troutman Sanders LLP .  
 The case is Heinz Kettler GmbH v. Razor USA LLC, 1:10-cv-
00708-TSE-JFA, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  
 Interactive Life, Sex-Toy Maker, Seeks to Block Knockoffs  
 Interactive Life Forms LLC, the maker of devices such as
Fleshlight and Sex-in-a-Can, filed patent-infringement
complaints against 25 companies to stop sales of knockoff sex
toys in the U.S. that use its technology.  
 Imports of the Handy Humper and Travel Honeypot brands
should be banned because they are among products that violate
two Interactive Life patents, the company said in a  complaint 
yesterday with the U.S. International Trade Commission in
Washington. Closely held Interactive Life also filed a civil
lawsuit in federal court in Austin, Texas, where it’s based.  
 The patents were issued in 1998 on a device shaped as a
flashlight or thermos with elastomeric gel inside.  
 The complaint names seven manufacturers, 11 distributors
and seven retailers that Interactive Life claims are selling the
knockoffs, including California Exotic Novelties Inc. in Chino,
California, and Nanma Manufacturing Co. in Hong Kong.  
 The companies aren’t licensed to use the elastomeric gel
invention and aren’t paying royalties, according to the
complaint.  
 Interactive Life said the case shouldn’t be limited to
those companies and asked that the ITC ban imports of any
unlicensed products made with the patented elastomeric gel.  
 The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Devices Having
Elastomeric Gel and Components Thereof, Complaint No. 2744, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington). The civil case is
Interactive Life Forms LLC v. California Exotic Novelties Inc.,
10cv484, U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Spike Network’s ‘Pros vs. Joes’ Accused of Infringement  
 Viacom Inc.  was sued for copyright infringement by two New
York State residents who claim a show on the entertainment
company’s Spike network infringed a program they developed.  
 Christopher Castorina of Huntington, New York, and Steven
Morse of Lake Grove, New York, developed an idea for a sports
reality television show that pitted average men against
professional athletes, they said in the complaint filed June 28
in federal court in Central Islip, New York.  
 The premise of their show, to be known as “Two Left
Feet,” was that “some men missed their calling as athletes and
some men should stay home, content to yell at the TV during
games,” they said in their pleadings.  
 They developed what is known as a “treatment” for the
show, and registered it with the Writers Guild of America in
April 2004 and with the U.S. Copyright Office in March 2006,
according to court papers. They said they submitted their
treatment to agents at Industry Entertainment of Los Angeles in
January 2005.  
 Castorina and Morse claim Spike’s “ Pros vs. Joes ,” which
premiered in March 2006, has so many “striking similarities”
to their work that “no theory of coincidence, simultaneous
creation, prior common source of any explanation other than
copying” could account for them.  
 They also claim that the defendants, which include Industry
Entertainment, had access to their treatment and never
acknowledged their work. As a result of the defendants’ actions,
they say they suffered “loss of economic opportunity” and the
“lawful enjoyment of the rights and privileged of their
artistic creation.”  
 They asked the court for an order barring the defendants
from infringing their work, and for money damages.  
 The two men are represented by Donald D. Maio of
Huntington’s  DeJesu Maio & Associates .  
 The case is Castorina v. Spike Cable Networks Inc, 2:10-cv-
02954-JS-ARL, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Central Islip).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Lady Gaga’s Merchandisers Try to Preempt Bootleg Gear Sales  
 The merchandising group representing the performer known as
Lady Gaga filed a preemptive trademark-infringement lawsuit in
advance of the singer’s New York performances.  
 Bravado International Group Merchandising Services sued 300
unidentified individual and corporate defendants in a complaint
filed June 25 in federal court in Manhattan.  
 The defendants have made, distributed and sold “inferior
merchandise bearing the artist’s trademark in the vicinity of
the artist’s concerts,” according to court papers. Bravado said
it anticipates the same action will take place at the New York
shows.  
 The merchandise company asked the court to authorize law
enforcement officials and agents of Bravado to seize and impound
all bootleg merchandise sold in the vicinity of the arenas where
Lady Gaga performs, before, during and after the concerts.  
 Additionally, Bravado asked for the destruction of all
offending items, for a court order barring the infringement of
Lady Gaga’s marks, and an award of money damages.  
 Bravado is represented by  Ronald L. Israel  and  Melissa A.
Salimbene  of New York’s  Wolff & Samson PC.   
 The case is Bravado International Group Merchandising
Services Inc., v. John Does 1-100, 1:10-cv-04942-RJH, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Alzheimer Charities Battle Over Trademark, Bequest Check  
 Two charities that focus on Alzheimer’s disease are
fighting a trademark battle in federal court. Underlying the
trademark dispute is a tug-of-war over a $36,000 bequest from a
Virginia woman who died in 2005.  
 The Chicago-based Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Disorders
Association Inc. sued the Alzheimer’s Foundation of American
Inc. of New York for trademark infringement on June 28 in
federal court in New York.  
 The New York organization sued the Chicago group for
trademark infringement in April in the same court. The complaint
in that case states that the Chicago group received a check from
the Mildred E. Harbaugh Living Trust that was made out to the
Alzheimer’s Foundation and cashed it.  
 The foundation said it discovered this in 2007 and demanded
that the Chicago group send it the money. It claims the Chicago
group has continued to receive checks and bequests made payable
to the Alzheimer’s Foundation and continues to deposit the
proceeds for its own benefit.  
 The Foundation claims this action infringes its trademark,
because the public is misled to believe that Alzheimer’s
Association and Alzheimer’s Foundation “represent a single
charitable entity.”  
 It asked the court to bar the association from using the
foundation’s marks, from interfering in any way in its
relationship with donors, and to quit cashing checks made out to
the foundation.  
 The Chicago group, in its court filings, accuses the
foundation of infringing its trademarks, which it says have
priority over any used by the foundation. The association claims
the foundation deliberately selected a name that would confuse
donors, social workers and health-care professionals.  
 The association also claimed that the trustees of
Harbaugh’s estate have been confused by the foundation’s action.
The association filed a state court action in Virginia against
the trustees because they stopped making payments from the
bequest, which in total amounts to 15 percent of Harbaugh’s
estate.  
 The Chicago group asked the court to find that the
foundation infringed the association’s marks, and to order the
group to quit using the term “Alzheimer’s Foundation” in
connection with providing services or grants and with fund
raising.  
 Additionally, it seeks an award of all the money the
foundation has raised since 2002, together with litigation costs
and attorney fees.  
 The association is represented by  Joseph R. Robinson  of
Chicago’s  McDermott Will & Emery LLC . The foundation is
represented by  Mark J. Ingber  of Millburn, New Jersey’s  Ingber &
Gelber LLP  and  Jeffrey S. Greener  of  Rivkin Radler LLP  of
Uniondale, New York.  
 The original case is Alzheimer’s Foundation of America
Inc., v. Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Disorders Association
Inc. 1:10-cv-03314-RWS, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  
 The new case is Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Disorders
Association Inc. v. Alzheimer’s Foundation of American Inc.,
1:10-cv-05013-UA, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 IP Moves  
 Barnes & Thornburg Expands Minneapolis IP Practice  
 Barnes & Thornburg LLP  hired Douglas J. Williams for its
Minneapolis intellectual-property group, the Indianapolis-based
firm said in a  statement .  
 Williams, a litigator, joins from Houston’s  Fulbright &
Jaworski LLP . He has represented clients whose technologies
included medical devices, software, biotechnology,
semiconductors, and business-method and chemical patents.  
 He has an undergraduate degree from the University of Iowa
and a law degree from Drake University.  
 Jenner & Block Brings Back IP Litigator Bradford P. Lyerla  
 Jenner & Block LLP  rehired Bradford P. Lyerla for its
litigation and intellectual-property practice, the Chicago firm
said in a  statement .  
 Lyerla  rejoins the firm from  Marshall, Gerstein & Borun
LLP , a Chicago-based IP specialty firm. A veteran of more than
40 patent-litigation cases, he also has handled antitrust,
trademark, trade-secret and copyright disputes.  
 Among the clients he has represented are General Electric
Co.,  General Dynamics Corp. ,  Sara Lee Corp. ,  Tenneco Inc. ,
Shopko Stores Inc. and Pentech Pharmaceuticals Inc.  
 In addition to his commercial litigation, Lyerla has
successfully defended two death-penalty cases on a pro bono
basis.  
 Lyerla has an undergraduate degree in philosophy and a law
degree from the University of Illinois.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        