-- Matolcsy Sees Scope for Hungarian Rate Cut, Says Forint Gains `Unlikely'
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-02T13:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/matolcsy-sees-scope-for-hungarian-rate-cut-says-forint-gains-unlikely-.html

          
          
             Hungary’s central bank has room to
cut interest rates this summer, albeit limited by inflationary
pressures, Economy and Finance Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said.  
 “There’s some room for rate cuts, even in the summer
period,” Matolcsy said in an interview in his Budapest office
today. “The main tool that the central bank could deploy to help
financial consolidation this year, structural reforms next year
and a speedy  economic growth  from 2013 is monetary easing
similar to the European Central Bank, the Federal Reserve or the
Bank of England.”  
 The Magyar Nemzeti Bank halted ten months of  easing  in May
and has since kept the benchmark two-week deposit rate at a
record-low 5.25 percent. Policy makers cited a weaker forint and
deteriorating debt profile on concern that the new government
will loosen fiscal policy. The central bank also raised its end-
2010  inflation  forecast to 4.9 percent from 4.4 percent.  
 Hungary rattled financial markets in early June after
members of the governing Fidesz party compared the country’s
fiscal situation to Greece’s. The comments sent the forint to a
one-year low against the euro and led to a jump in risk premiums
that investors demand to hold Hungarian assets.  
 The forint has firmed 1.4 percent versus the euro since
June 4, when it hit a one-year low against the euro, and was
trading at 284.90 per euro at 3:20 p.m. in Budapest. It reached
its weakest ever against the Swiss franc on June 29 at 217.45
and was trading today at 212.74 per franc.  
 ‘Get Accustomed’  
 The forint “doesn’t have much chance” to strengthen against
the euro and the franc in the foreseeable future because of
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, Matolcsy said.  
 “The government doesn’t think it’s realistic that the
forint will firm to below 205 per Swiss franc in the near
future,” he said. “We have to get accustomed to a strong franc
for as long as 1 1/2 years.”  
 The forint’s weakening against the franc threatens to boost
the rate of loan defaults because 54 percent of household debt
is denominated in francs. To mitigate the risk to the financial
system, the government will set up a national asset-management
company from January 2011 that will take over from banks “non-
performing or deteriorating loans, primarily denominated in
Swiss francs,” Matolcsy said.  
 Banks have “shown willingness” to provide partial financing
for the asset-management company, which would follow market
goals and have government guarantees, Matolcsy said. The cabinet
may decide to contribute to the financing in the order “of a few
tens of billions of forint,” the minister said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        