-- Attack on Contractor Kills Four Guards in Afghanistan as Petraeus Arrives
-- Eltaf Najafizada
-- 2010-07-02T19:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/attack-on-contractor-kills-four-guards-in-afghanistan-as-petraeus-arrives.html

          
          
             Four people were killed and at least
three others were wounded when suicide bombers attacked a
project office of a U.S. Agency for International Development
contractor in northern Afghanistan early today.  
 One Briton, one German and two Afghan nationals working in
security jobs at the site were killed in the attack, according
to the contractor, Development Alternatives Inc., based in
Bethesda, Maryland. The German Foreign Ministry described the
slain German as a 32-year-old guard and didn’t identify him.  
 The attack began when two of the six suicide bombers blew
themselves up inside a car they had taken to the aid
organization in Kunduz city, provincial governor  Mohammad Omar 
said in a telephone interview. Four other attackers stormed the
building at about 3:45 a.m. local time. The Taliban claimed
responsibility for the assault, according to the Associated
Press.  
 The violence came as the new commander in the Afghan war,
U.S. Army General  David Petraeus , arrived in the country to
pursue a joint civilian and military campaign plan. The U.S. and
its allies are pursuing economic and social development work in
Afghanistan alongside the expanded military offensive ordered by
President  Barack Obama  in an attempt to weaken the Taliban.  
 “These dedicated individuals worked day in and day out
with the government of Afghanistan, and our Afghan and
international partners, to tackle difficult and dangerous
situations in order to help provide a better life for all Afghan
people,” Dr.  Rajiv Shah , USAID administrator, said in a
statement regarding those killed.  
 Small Businesses, Farming  
 Development Alternatives, also known as DAI, is involved in
USAID projects in Afghanistan to help small business owners,
introduce farming and irrigation techniques and eliminate the
production of the opium poppy, according to the contractor’s
website.  
 The attack was on the contractor’s local governance and
community development program office.  
 The contractor said the four dead security personnel worked
for a subcontractor, Edinburgh International. The company has
offices in the U.S., London, Dubai and other cities, according
to its website.  
 “The actions taken by the EI security staff in defense of
the compound and project staff were nothing short of heroic,”
Development Alternatives Chief Executive Officer James Boomgard
said in a statement.  
 The contractor said it is working closely with USAID, EI
and other partners in Afghanistan to ensure the safety and
security of workers and to assess the security situation in
Kunduz.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Laya  in Washington at 
 playa1@bloomberg.net ;
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        