-- Bank of China to Raise Up to $8.86 Billion in Rights Offer
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-02T12:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/bank-of-china-plans-to-raise-as-much-as-8-86-billion-to-replenish-capital.html

          
          
             Bank of China Ltd. , Asia’s third-
largest lender by market value, plans to raise as much as 60
billion yuan ($8.9 billion) in a rights offer to replenish
capital.  
 The lender will sell 1.1 shares for every 10 held, or as
many as 19.56 billion shares in Shanghai and 8.36 billion in
Hong Kong, a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange showed
today. Beijing-based Bank of China, which made more loans than
any local rival last year, in June completed the sale of 40
billion yuan of six-year bonds that can be converted into shares.  
 The new sale adds to as much as $45.6 billion in
fundraising announced by China’s five biggest state-controlled
banks after they extended  record loans  last year to support a
government-led stimulus plan.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ,
the nation’s largest lender by customers, is in the midst of a
$20.1 billion initial public offering in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  
 A sale by Bank of China would “damage market sentiment and
banking shares further because we’ve already been flooded by
share offerings,”  Tang Yayun , a Shanghai-based analyst at
Northeast Securities Co., said before the announcement. “This
is a surprise given that they just completed a bond sale.”  
 The subscription price for the rights shares will be at
least 2.03 yuan apiece, or equivalent to the bank’s net asset
value per share last year, the statement said. The new stock
will be priced at a discount to market value and will be the
same for investors in Shanghai and Hong Kong after adjusting for
exchange rate, it said.  
 Trade Halted  
 Bank of China’s Hong Kong-listed shares were halted from
trading today pending the announcement, and will resume on July
5, the statement said. In Shanghai, the stock was suspended in
the afternoon. Bank of China has  fallen  5.5 percent this year in
Hong Kong to HK$3.97, outperforming the 9 percent drop in the
benchmark Hang Seng Index. The stock has lost 21 percent in
Shanghai to close at 3.40 yuan today.  
 The Hong Kong portion of the rights offer will be “fully
underwritten,” the bank said in the statement, which didn’t
include details about the underwriters. The share sale will need
to be approved by investors and regulators including the China
Banking Regulatory Commission and China Securities Regulatory
Commission, it said.  
 In March, Bank of China won investor approval to sell
shares equivalent to as much as 20 percent of outstanding stock
in Hong Kong or Shanghai, or in both markets. President  Li Lihui 
told investors in January the bank favored a Hong Kong sale.  
 The lender’s capital adequacy ratio fell to 11.09 percent
as of March 31, below the minimum 11.5 percent required by the
 China Banking Regulatory Commission .  
 Central Huijin  
 Central Huijin Investment Co., which owns 67.5 percent of
Bank of China, did not take part in the bond sale. Huijin, which
owns stakes in China’s largest financial institutions on behalf
of the government, said in April it will participate in
fundraising by Bank of China,  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  and China Construction Bank Corp.  
 China’s government has stepped up measures to drain
liquidity on concern that last year’s credit boom will create an
asset bubble. Policy makers aim to cap new loans at 7.5 trillion
yuan this year, down 22 percent from 2009, and have told banks
to set aside more  deposits as reserves  three times since Jan. 1.  
 ICBC, Construction Bank, Bank of China and Bank of
Communications Co., the nation’s four-largest publicly traded
banks, face a capital shortfall of about $70 billion as they
seek to comply with regulatory requirements and meet loan demand,
ICBC President  Yang Kaisheng  wrote in an April article.  
 ICBC Plans  
 ICBC, the world’s largest lender by market value, may sell
25 billion yuan of convertible bonds as soon as August, a person
familiar with the matter said last month. The bank also has a
general mandate to sell stock equivalent to as much as 20
percent of outstanding shares in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  
 In addition, ICBC plans to sell 22 billion yuan of
subordinated bonds as soon as next month to retire debt sold in
2005, a person with knowledge of the matter said today.  
 Beijing-based  Construction Bank , the world’s second-largest
by market value, last week won shareholder approval to raise as
much as 75 billion yuan in a rights offer.  
 -- Luo Jun ,  Mark Lee . Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Ben Richardson .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past the Bank of China Ltd. headquarters in Beijing. Photographer: Bernardo De Niz/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
