-- Bank of China Halted in Hong Kong After Report on Stock Offer
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-02T05:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/bank-of-china-suspended-in-hong-kong-after-8-9-billion-share-sale-report.html

          
          
             Bank of China Ltd.  shares were halted
from trading in Hong Kong and Shanghai after a report said the
nation’s third-largest lender by market value plans to raise as
much as 60 billion yuan ($8.9 billion) in a rights offer.  
 The Beijing-based lender will sell the shares in Shanghai
and Hong Kong, Caixin Online reported yesterday, without citing
anyone. Bank of China’s board approved the sale of stock to
existing shareholders on June 30 and the company will make an
announcement today, Caixin said.  
 An offering would add to as much as $45.6 billion in
fundraising announced by China’s biggest banks and come amid the
longest losing streak in the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index 
in a decade.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
largest lender by customers, is in the midst of a $20.1 billion
initial public offering in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  
 A sale by Bank of China would “damage market sentiment and
banking shares further because we’ve already been flooded by
share offerings,” said  Tang Yayun , a Shanghai-based analyst at
Northeast Securities Co. “This is a surprise given that they
just completed the bond sale.”  
 Bank of China shares were suspended in Hong Kong before
trading started today. The  Shanghai-traded stock  climbed 0.3
percent before being halted at 1:30 p.m. today. The lender said
in a statement it plans to release “price-sensitive”
information, without giving further details.  
 Caixin is a media group co-founded by  Hu Shuli , the former
founding editor of Caijing Magazine, the Chinese financial
journal that built a reputation for investigative reporting.  
 Capital Ratio  
 Shares of Bank of China have  fallen  5.5 percent this year
in Hong Kong, outperforming the 8 percent drop in the benchmark
Hang Seng Index. Chinese banks are lining up to sell shares to
replenish capital eroded by record lending in 2009.  
 In March, Bank of China won investor approval to sell
shares equivalent to as much as 20 percent of outstanding stock
in Hong Kong or Shanghai, or in both markets. President  Li Lihui 
told investors in January the bank favored a Hong Kong sale.  
 The lender’s capital adequacy ratio fell to 11.09 percent
as of March 31, below the minimum 11.5 percent required by the
 China Banking Regulatory Commission . Bank of China, which
granted more loans than any local rival last year, in June
completed the sale of 40 billion yuan of six-year bonds that can
be converted into shares.  
 Central Huijin Investment Co., which owns 67.5 percent of
Bank of China, did not take part in the bond sale. Huijin, which
owns stakes in China’s largest financial institutions on behalf
of the government, said in April it will participate in
fundraising by Bank of China,  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  and China Construction Bank Corp.  
 Credit Boom  
 China’s government has stepped up measures to drain
liquidity on concern that last year’s credit boom will create an
asset bubble. Policy makers aim to cap new loans at 7.5 trillion
yuan this year, down 22 percent from 2009, and have told banks
to set aside more  deposits as reserves  three times since Jan. 1.  
 ICBC, Construction Bank, Bank of China and Bank of
Communications Co., the nation’s four-largest publicly traded
banks, face a capital shortfall of about $70 billion as they
seek to comply with regulatory requirements and meet loan demand,
ICBC President  Yang Kaisheng  wrote in an April article.  
 ICBC, the world’s largest lender by market value, may sell
25 billion yuan of convertible bonds as soon as August, a person
familiar with the matter said last month. The bank also has a
general mandate to sell stock equivalent to as much as 20
percent of outstanding shares in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  
 In addition, ICBC plans to sell 22 billion yuan of
subordinated bonds as soon as next month to retire debt sold in
2005, a person with knowledge of the matter said today.  
 Beijing-based  Construction Bank , the world’s second-largest
by market value, last week won shareholder approval to raise up
to 75 billion yuan in a rights offer.  
 -- Luo Jun , with assistance from To contact Bloomberg News
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing. Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  James Gunsalus   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of China President Li Lihui speaks during a news conference in Hong Kong. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Jerry Lou, China strategist at Morgan Stanley, talks with Bloomberg's Susan about his investment strategy for Chinese stocks.
     Lou, speaking from Singapore, also discusses China's shift in its currency policy, and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
