-- Berkshire Bank Sues First American Over Proposed Condominium Appraisal
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-07-02T20:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/berkshire-bank-sues-first-american-over-proposed-condominium-appraisal.html

          
          
             Berkshire Bank, a commercial bank
based in Manhattan, sued First American Appraisal and Consulting
Services LLC., claiming the company overvalued a proposed
condominium development in Brooklyn, New York.  
 First American pegged the market value of the proposed
project at $47 million, at least 33 percent more than its
legitimate value, according to the lawsuit filed today in New
York state Supreme Court in Manhattan.  
 Berkshire, a subsidiary of New York-based  Berkshire Bancorp
Inc. , relied on the appraisal to make a $13.8 million loan in
2007 to Westshore 480 Development LLC, the owner of the
property, the suit says. Westshore defaulted on the loan,
resulting in a foreclosure sale March 25 that left a deficiency
of $6 million, Berkshire said.  
 Berkshire is suing for negligence, professional
malpractice, and breach of contract and seeking $6 million in
damages from the company, which was dissolved, and from its
successor parent CoreLogic Inc., according to the suit. The
valuation overstated the square footage of the property and the
maximum buildable area, the suit claims. The proposed
condominium site is at 4302 Westshore Avenue in Brooklyn.  
 Bob Visini , a spokesman for CoreLogic, said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  
 First American Appraisal is a defunct company formerly
known as KTR Valuation and Consulting Services, LLC, which was
owned by First American Corp., according to the suit.  
 Santa Ana, California-based First American reincorporated
June 1 under the name CoreLogic Inc., as part of the separation
of  First American Financial Corp.  and CoreLogic into
independent, publicly traded companies, according to a company
statement.  
 Berkshire Bancorp Inc.,  headquartered in New York, is the
bank holding company of Berkshire Bank, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Berkshire shares fell 15 cents to $4.85 at 3:14 p.m. today
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has declined 19.2
percent this year.  
 The case is Berkshire Bank v. First American Appraisal,
650803/2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        