-- BHP May Win Lower Copper Fees on Tight Supplies, Eugene Investment Says
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-07-02T09:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/bhp-may-win-copper-fee-cut-to-lowest-level-in-37-years-on-tight-supplies.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company, may win a reduction in mid-year copper
processing fees, said  Kim Gyung Jung , an analyst at Eugene
Investment & Securities Co.  
 The fees are typically negotiated twice a year, with most
of the volume handled through the year-end accords. BHP, based
in Melbourne, got a 38 percent reduction from at least two
Japanese smelters in January, company executives said at the
time. They were set at $46.50 a metric ton for smelting and 4.65
cents a pound for refining.  
 “A level at $39/3.9 cents is highly possible, given lower
fees on the spot market,” said Kim, director of the basic-metal
sector at Eugene Investment in Seoul. Kim said he hadn’t heard
that an agreement had been reached.  
 Processing fees have fallen as smelters expanded faster
than supply from mines. Smelters will use 77.5 percent of their
capacity on average this year, compared with 86.2 percent five
years ago, Morgan Stanley said in a report on June 23. The
treatment and refining charges usually drop when there is a
shortage of raw material and smelters compete for deliveries.  
 LS-Nikko Copper Inc. , which operates the world’s third-
largest copper refinery and smelter, denied today a report that
it had agreed to a cut in processing fees with BHP. Brook Hunt,
a U.K. researcher, told clients in a report this week that BHP
agreed to pay $39 a ton and 3.9 cents a pound in charges. Fiona
Martin, a spokeswoman for BHP in Melbourne, declined to comment.  
 Conditions Worsen  
 Fees at that level would be about what analysts expect,
said Atsushi Yamaguchi, a Tokyo-based analyst at UBS AG.  
 Should contracts be agreed at that price, it would be the
lowest level since 1973, according to data compiled by Hirosuke
Chihara, a researcher at the state-run Metal Economics Research
Institute of Japan.  
 “Conditions are getting worse for smelters,” said  Takashi Murata , an analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. in
Tokyo. “The mid-year contracts are not that significant, but
the number will set a direction for upcoming talks for the most
important calendar 2011 deals.”  
 Copper  smelters buy concentrate, a semi-processed form of
ore used as a feedstock, at a price based on the London Metal
Exchange benchmark minus processing fees.  
 “Copper concentrate supply remains constrained,” UBS’s
 Yamaguchi  wrote in a report on June 11. “Procurement based on
mid-year talks is relatively small at all the companies and so
any negative impact on earnings is likely to be minimal.”  
 Concentrate Shortage  
 The copper concentrate market will have a shortage for
three years after mining companies delayed projects because of
lower prices, according to  Javier Targhetta,   Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc ’s senior vice president of marketing and sales.
The shortage will be 500,000 tons to 1 million tons this year,
Targhetta said June 6.  
 LS-Nikko is a joint venture between South Korea’s LS Corp.
and a Japanese group led by Nippon Mining & Metals Co.  
 Pan Pacific Copper Co. ,  Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.  and
Mitsubishi Materials Corp., Japan’s top three producers of the
metal, have not reached any deal with BHP, according to
spokesmen Kan Komatsuzaki, Masashi Takahashi and Hisato
Matsubara. The July contracts with mining companies cover about
10 percent of annual volumes processed in Japan.  
 Pan Pacific is 66 percent owned by  Nippon Mining & Metals
Co. , a unit of  Nippon Mining Holdings Inc.   Mitsui Mining &
Smelting Co.  holds the remaining share.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        