-- BHP Wins Cut in Mid-Year Copper Fees From LS-Nikko, Brook Hunt Reports
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-07-02T02:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/bhp-wins-cut-in-mid-year-copper-fees-from-ls-nikko-brook-hunt-reports.html

          
          
                  July 2 (Bloomberg) --  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
biggest mining company, won a cut in copper processing fees
from  LS-Nikko Copper Inc. , according to researcher Brook Hunt.  
 BHP will pay $39 a metric ton and 3.9 cents a pound in
treatment and refining charges, Brook Hunt said in a report to
clients this week, citing unidentified people with knowledge of
the accord. The figures were confirmed yesterday by Richard
Wilson, chairman of metals at Addlestone, England-based Brook
Hunt, a Wood Mackenzie company. A spokesman for Seoul-based LS-
Nikko denied an agreement had been reached.  
 “We’ve not concluded any deal with BHP,” said Lee Joon,
a spokesman of LS-Nikko, operator of the world’s third-largest
copper refinery and smelter. Fiona Martin, a spokeswoman for
BHP in Melbourne, declined to comment today. BHP owns the
Escondida mine, the world’s biggest copper mine.  
 The fees are part of mid-year contracts, which typically
cover about 5 percent of the annual global business, Brook
Hunt’s Wilson said. The remainder is handled under annual
contracts. Fees at the end of last year were set at $46.50 and
4.65 cents, he said.  
 The treatment and refining charges usually decline when
there is a shortage of raw material and smelters have to
compete for deliveries. Copper for delivery in three months on
the London Metal Exchange rose as much as 2.1 percent to
$6,459.75 a ton today.  
 Brook Hunt’s data is used in presentations by companies
including BHP, Rio Tinto Group and  Aurubis AG , the world’s
second-largest producer of refined copper after Codelco.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        