-- Biggs Sells Technology Stocks on Concern `Soft Patch' to Worsen
-- Matt Miller
-- 2010-07-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/biggs-sells-technology-stocks-on-concern-soft-patch-to-worsen.html

          
          
             Concern governments around the world
are curtailing stimulus measures too soon spurred  Barton Biggs 
to sell about half of his stock investments this week.  
 Biggs, whose Traxis Partners LLC gained 38 percent in 2009
when he bought equities after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
fell to a 12-year low, sold most of his U.S. technology
holdings, he told Bloomberg Television yesterday.  
 Signs the U.S. economy is weakening convinced Traxis to
reverse course as the S&P 500 posted a weekly slump of 5
percent, bringing its loss since April 23 to 16 percent. Biggs,
77, said yesterday he cut bullish bets by about half since June
29, when they made up 70 percent of his fund.  
 “I can change my mind very quickly,” Biggs, who manages
$1.4 billion, said in a telephone interview following the
Bloomberg Television appearance. “I’m not wildly bearish, but I
don’t want to have a lot of risk at this point. I just want to
have less exposure at a time like this.”  
 The withdrawal of government stimulus, including the U.S.
Senate’s vote against extending unemployment benefits on June
30, may turn a “soft patch” into a recession, he said. The
second recession in three years isn’t inevitable should
“rational politicians” take action to avert it, he said.  
 Stocks in the U.S. have fallen nine times in 10 days,
including yesterday when data on jobs and factory orders added
to concern the economic rebound is slowing. On Bloomberg
Television, Biggs said “policy mistakes” could curb the U.S.
expansion in gross domestic product that’s forecast by
economists to be 3.2 percent in 2010.  
 A Mistake  
 Biggs said it would be a mistake to rein in government
spending at a time when global economic growth is weakening. The
largest economies should aim to cut deficits in half by 2013,
the Group of 20 said in June 27 after a meeting in Toronto.  
 “The economic numbers are very disappointing,” Biggs
said. “Maybe the politicians respond. I’m worried that we could
have not just a soft patch but a double dip which lasts two or
three quarters and where nominal GDP is only up 2 or 3 percent,
and that’ll have a big effect on profits. I’m afraid the market
goes down another 10 or 15 percent if that happens.”  
 Biggs’s comments reflect the pressure on professional
investors as the steepest rally since the Great Depression
started to fizzle in April. Hedge funds lost an average of 2.6
percent in May, according to the HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index,
as the European debt crisis triggered declines in stocks, the
euro and commodities.  
 ‘Raising Cash’  
 It was the biggest  decline  since November 2008, when hedge
funds lost 3 percent following Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy two months earlier. About $3.5 billion was withdrawn
from hedge funds in April, according to TrimTabs Investment
Research and BarclayHedge estimates.  
 “I sold stocks pretty aggressively in the U.S., and we had
a lot in tech,” Biggs said, referring to this week. “I’ve
taken basically all of it out in the U.S., and we had a broader
exposure to consumer stocks and just, in general, I’ve reduced
my net long position by about 30 or 40 percentage points.  
 He added: “I’m not putting my money into anything. I’m
raising cash.”  
 Biggs, who earlier this week predicted S&P 500 companies
would earn a combined $85 to $90 a share in 2010, now says
profits may be as low as $70 to $75 if the economy slows. The
low end of that range implies a price-earnings multiple of 14.6
for the S&P 500, compared with its historical average since 1954
using reported results of 16.4.  
 Prior View  
 “I’m definitely not a seller,” Biggs told Bloomberg News
on June 29. “All things considered, I’m going to stay where I
am unless the market really comes down some more. Then I’d be
inclined to be a buyer.”  
 Traxis was buying household-product suppliers, drugmakers
and  computer companies  at the start of the year, speculating
they would prove bargains as earnings surged, he said in a Dec.
29 interview with Bloomberg. In March, he said stocks remain
cheap relative to forecasted earnings and predicted the global
economic recovery would be “surprisingly strong.”  
 Biggs said yesterday stocks may still rise, comparing the
current market to the end of the 1982 recession when the S&P 500
declined 13 percent. The advisory firm founded by  Laszlo Birinyi 
published research on July 1 drawing the same comparison.  
 “This is what always happens at this stage of  the cycle ,”
Biggs said on Bloomberg Television. “We are at exactly the same
stage in the cycle as we were in 1982, using the exact kind of
words: ‘The U.S. economy is collapsing, the world is collapsing,
it’s the worst time since the Great Depression.’ Blah blah
blah.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net 
 Matthew Miller  in New York at 
 mtmiller@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Barton Biggs, managing partner at Traxis Partners LLC. Source: Morgan Stanley via Bloomberg News.  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Barton Biggs, managing partner at Traxis Partners LLC, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and investment strategy.
     Biggs said he’s worried the U.S. may enter a recession for the second time in three years and has reduced the risk of his investments as a result. He said the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may decline 10 percent to 15 percent if there’s another recession. Biggs speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
