-- BMW, Mazda Cars Investigated by U.S. Regulators for Power-Steering Defects
-- Angela Greiling Keane
-- 2010-07-02T18:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/bmw-mazda-cars-investigated-by-u-s-regulators-for-power-steering-defects.html

          
          
             Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Mazda
Motor Corp.  cars are under investigation by the U.S. auto-safety
regulator for possible defects that can cause the power steering
to fail, raising the risk of a crash.  
 The  BMW Z4  and  Mazda3  have been the subject of 140
complaints related to a flaw in the power steering, the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration said today on its website.
The probe covering more than 342,000 cars may lead to recalls.  
 The safety agency is elevating oversight of defects
following record recalls of more than 8 million vehicles by
 Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s largest carmaker. The auto
industry is on alert after Toyota’s recalls for defects linked
to unintended acceleration, said  Bill Visnic , senior editor at
 Edmunds.com , a research firm in Santa Monica, California.  
 “Nobody’s hanging around waiting on these things,” Visnic
said. “No one wants to say they let the next unintended
acceleration fall through the cracks.”  
 The model year 2007-2009 Mazda3s have had three reported
crashes out of 33 complaints and model year 2003-2005 BMW Z4s
have had one crash and 107 complaints, NHTSA said.  
 “We will provide all the information they request and we
cooperate with them always at these levels,” said  Tom Kowaleski , a U.S.-based spokesman for BMW, based in Munich.  
 Mazda issued a notice to dealers a year ago about the
defect, providing instructions for dealing with consumers who
complained, spokesman  Jeremy Barnes  said today in an interview.  
 “We are aware of the NHTSA concern,” said Barnes, who is
a U.S. spokesman for Hiroshima, Japan-based Mazda. “We are
working hand-in-hand with NHTSA on the investigation.”  
 All Mazda3s are produced in Japan, he said.  
 ‘Steering Wheel Sticks’  
 The probe covers an estimated 48,764 BMWs and 293,787
Mazdas, NHTSA said. The BMW “steering wheel sticks, binds or
locks up, and requires increased steering effort resulting in
difficulty controlling the vehicle,” the agency said.  
 The BMW malfunction, which occurs at speeds of 45 miles (72
kilometers) per hour or greater and temperatures of 75 degrees
Fahrenheit (24 degrees Celsius) or higher, may cause drivers to
over-steer when turning, NHTSA said.  
 For Mazda, the complaints “allege loss of power steering
assist while driving, requiring excessive force on the driver’s
part to maintain control, or in some cases causing the driver to
lose control of the vehicle,” NHTSA said.  
 A driver of a 2009 Mazda3 told NHTSA the vehicle “almost
hit a car because the steering didn’t react as I expected” and
urged the agency to issue a recall. The person, who wasn’t
identified, said “this is highly unsafe, and if it happened at
the wrong time, such as on an expressway, could have led to a
severe crash,” according to a letter on the NHTSA website.  
 BMW has recalled this year in the U.S. motorcycles for
brake and stalling defects, 1 Series luxury cars for seat-belt
retractors that could ignite and sport-utility vehicles because
windshields may not be properly attached.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Raindrops are seen on the logo of a BMW Z4 automobile at the Bayerische Motorenwerke (BMW) shareholders' meeting, in Munich. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Mazda logo is displayed during a media preview of the New York International Auto Show in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
