-- BP, Coast Guard Will Save Endangered Sea Turtles From Oil Burn Killings
-- Allen Johnson Jr.
-- 2010-07-02T18:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/bp-coast-guard-will-save-endangered-sea-turtles-from-oil-burn-killings.html

          
          
             BP Plc  and the U.S. Coast Guard have
reached an agreement to end the inadvertent killing of
endangered sea turtles trapped inside containment booms during
controlled burns of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, lawyers said.  
 “We’ve agreed to meet to work out the terms to make sure
the turtles are protected,”  Jason Burge , a lawyer for several
environmental groups suing to protect the sea turtles, told U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  at an emergency hearing today in New
Orleans federal court.  
 Details will be fleshed out over the weekend so that
protections may be in place by the time controlled burns are set
to resume on July 6, the lawyers told Barbier. The wildlife
groups withdrew their request for a temporary restraining order
blocking the burns, on the condition they may renew the request
later if the turtle-rescue settlement falls apart.  
 Burge told Barbier oil-spill clean-up crews have suspended
controlled burns because of bad weather caused by Hurricane
Alex, the  first tropical storm to enter the Gulf of Mexico this
year, which slammed into northern Mexico on June 30.  
 William Eubanks , who also represents the wildlife groups,
said in an interview outside the New Orleans courtroom that the
activists want to include “qualified observers, like a
biologist or a sea turtle researcher” to accompany crews
conducting the burns. These trained personnel can spot and
safely remove any sea turtles trapped within containment booms.  
 Mutual Goal  
 Don Haycraft , BP’s lead lawyer in New Orleans spill-related
litigation, said the company will work with the Coast Guard and
environmentalists to achieve a mutual goal.  
 “This effort is an example of BP and the government and
the outside parties reaching a common agreement on an issue --
protecting sea turtles -- that is important to everyone,”
Haycraft said.  
 Environmental groups sued BP and the Coast Guard on June
30, seeking to block the use of controlled burns or require all
boats involved in the process to rescue turtles from inside
floating burn boxes before the oil is ignited.  
 “BP has already killed or otherwise harmed” hundreds of
rare  Kemp’s Ridley , Leatherback, Loggerhead and other species of
endangered sea turtles through its use of controlled burns or as
a result of contamination from the oil spill itself, the lawsuit
claims. The animals become trapped when shrimp boats encircle
patches of floating oil with fire-resistant booms to create
“burn boxes” 60 to 100 feet in diameter, they said.  
 Swim to Safety  
 In affidavits filed with the lawsuit, boat captains and
turtle rescue workers said they’ve saved numerous sea turtles
that were trapped in heavy oil accumulations. Many of these
rescued turtles were scooped from sludge floating in the same
areas where trawlers were corralling crude for controlled burns.
The turtles are too heavily oiled to free themselves from the
sludge and swim to safety, although out of the oil they respond
well to rehabilitation, the witnesses said.  
 BP and the Coast Guard estimate that 9.9 million gallons of
crude oil recovered from the Deepwater Horizon well have been
burned as of July 1, according to a statement on the joint
command’s web site.  
 The wildlife activists added the Coast Guard to the lawsuit
after BP said all company clean up and containment activities,
including the controlled burns, are being carried out under
Coast Guard orders.  
 BP has yet to contain a damaged underwater well that has
been spewing as much as 60,000 barrels of crude oil daily off
the Louisiana coast since the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
burned and sank in April.  
 The case is Animal Welfare Institute v. BP America Inc. et
al, 2:10-cv-01866, U.S. District Courts, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Darrell Issa, a Republican from California, talks about the U.S. government's response to the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Issa speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
