-- BP's Gulf Well Ahead of Schedule to Intercept Leak
-- Jessica Resnick-Ault
-- 2010-07-02T16:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/bp-s-gulf-intercept-is-ahead-of-schedule-with-600-feet-to-go-to-plug-leak.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s first relief well aimed at
plugging its Gulf of Mexico gusher is seven to eight days ahead
of schedule to intercept and eventually stop the biggest oil
leak in U.S. history.  
 The target date for intercepting the leaking well and
pumping in mud and cement to permanently seal it is still mid-
August, U.S. National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said today
on a conference call with reporters. The well is within 600 feet
(182 meters) of intercepting the leak, he said.  
 “They are ahead of schedule at this point,” Allen said.
“I am reluctant to tell you that it will happen before the
middle of August because I think that everything associated with
this spill and response recovery suggests that we should under-
promise and over-deliver.”  
 BP diverted 25,150 barrels of oil from the leaking well to
surface vessels yesterday. The Macondo well is estimated to be
spewing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels a day, according to a
government-led panel of scientists. The well started leaking
after an April 20 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon, causing
the drilling rig to sink and killing 11 crew members.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts  David Cline  and
 Barry MacCarthy  said the first relief well may be completed
between July 7 and July 12, according to a note to clients
yesterday. Pritchard Capital Partners LLC analysts  Brian Uhlmer ,
 Anuj Sharma  and  William Conroy  said in a June 29 note that the
well would be intercepted between July 7 and July 9.  
 Share Price  
 BP  fell  5.9 pence, or 1.8 percent, to 322 pence at 4:35
p.m. in London today. The shares, which have dropped 51 percent
since the explosion, rose 5.7 percent for the week, the first
weekly gain since the explosion aboard the rig.  
 The connection of an additional ship that would double the
oil-containment capacity was delayed this week because of
Hurricane Alex. The Helix Producer I may be connected July 7,
Allen said. Choppy seas associated with Alex also halted efforts
to skim oil from the surface of the water. The hurricane didn’t
affect relief drilling, London-based BP has said.  
 BP is bouncing electromagnetic waves through rock to
measure the distance between the relief well and the
interception target, said  Bob Dudley , chief executive officer of
the company’s Gulf Coast restoration unit.  
 The intended intersection is more than 17,000 feet below
the ocean surface including about 5,000 feet of water, according
to  technical slides  released by BP. The first relief well is
11,817 feet below the seafloor, Allen said. A second relief
well, being drilled as a backup, is 7,775 feet below the
seafloor.  
 Drilling Parallel  
 Another 600 feet remain for the drilling parallel to the
Macondo well. The process is slow, Allen said, as BP pauses
every 10 feet to 15 feet so it can measure the distance between
the two.  
 Once they hit the Macondo well, it will take BP two to five
days to plug it, Allen said. The process involves injecting
drilling mud into the well until its weight causes enough
pressure to stop the oil flow.  
 Asked about the chances for the relief wells’ success,
Allen said yesterday they are “proven” technology.  
 “Relief wells are things that these companies have done
before, not just BP but all the companies,” Allen said at a
White House briefing. “The methods they’re using, the
technology they’re using, it’s all been proven in the water, on
land.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jordan Burke  in New York at 
 jburke29@bloomberg.net ;
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The drilling is 'slightly ahead of schedule,' U.S. National Incident Commander Thad Allen said. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
