-- Brazil Yields Rising Most in 20 Months Drive Treasurers to Rush Bond Sale
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-07-02T16:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/brazil-yields-rising-most-in-20-months-drive-treasurers-to-rush-bond-sales.html

          
          
             The biggest rise in Brazilian
corporate bond yields in 20 months is driving treasurers to
consider borrowing in the international bond market before
October presidential elections.  
 Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA ,  Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA  and  Banco Mercantil do Brasil SA  scheduled
meetings with bond investors next week after Banco Cruzeiro do
Sul sold $200 million of notes June 30, ending a two-month
drought in Brazilian issuance. The average Brazilian corporate
bond yield rose 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, the
largest  jump  since October 2008, to 6.63 percent June 30.  
 Companies that need cash have to issue this month before
running the risk of being shut out of the market, said  Natalia Corfield , a corporate debt analyst at ING Groep NV in New York.
Issuers won’t try to sell in August, traditionally the slowest
month of the year as many U.S. investors take summer vacation,
and demand for Brazilian debt may wane in September as the vote
to replace President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva nears, she said.  
 “In the end, companies need financing, so there’s only so
much they can wait,” said  Samy Podlubny , head of investment
banking in Rio de Janeiro at BCP Securities, which managed Banco
Cruzeiro’s bond sale. “Maybe they’ll pay a little more but they
need to get deals done.”  
 Default Swaps  
 August sales by Brazilian companies equaled 8 percent of
the full-year monthly average over the past three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Cruzeiro, the Sao Paulo-based bank that specializes in
payroll-deductible loans, sold three-year notes to yield 7.25
percent on June 30, eight weeks after scrapping an offering of
10-year dollar bonds.  
 Emerging-market borrowing costs are climbing as signs of a
slowdown in the U.S. and China add to concern about the global
economic recovery that was first sparked by Europe’s debt crisis
in April. The yield difference on Brazilian corporate bonds over
Treasuries has  widened  23 basis points to 353 this week, the
highest since May 25, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show. The spread
has climbed 126 basis points from a 2 1/2-year low of 227 on
April 5.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against default for
five years rose 4 basis points yesterday to 142, according to
data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Investor Meetings  
 The yield  premium  on Brazilian dollar government bonds over
U.S. Treasuries narrowed 7 basis points to 243 at 11:11 a.m. in
New York, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  
 The real strengthened 0.9 percent to 1.7749 per dollar
today. The yield on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures
contract due in July 2011 declined 3 basis points today to 11.75
percent, signaling traders expect the central bank to raise the
benchmark rate to about 12.5 percent by then.  
 Dilma Rousseff , Lula’s former cabinet chief, and  Jose Serra , the former Sao Paulo state governor, lead opinion polls
ahead of the October vote.  
 Cia. Siderurgica Nacional, Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker, hired banks including Itau Unibanco Holding SA and
Morgan Stanley to arrange meetings with investors next week,
according to people familiar with the company’s plans. Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes, the country’s biggest airline by
market value, hired Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and
Itau Unibanco SA to set up meetings, said a person familiar with
the company’s plans.  
 ‘Pay Up’  
 Banco Mercantil do Brasil, a Belo Horizonte-based bank,
hired Bank of America Corp. and Banco Santander SA to organize
meetings, said a person familiar with the matter.  
 Spokeswomen for Rio de Janeiro-based CSN and Gol of Sao
Paulo declined to comment. A phone call after business hours to
Banco Mercantil’s public relations offices in Belo Horizonte
went unanswered.  
 Most Brazilian companies have the ability to wait if
concern that the economic recovery is faltering pushes up
borrowing costs further, according to  Luz Padilla , who manages
developing-nation debt at DoubleLine Capital LP in Los Angeles.  
 “In order for a company to come to market, they are going
to have to pay up, and if they don’t want to, they’re going to
have to be patient,” Padilla, who’s been investing in emerging-
market debt since 1994, said in a telephone interview. “There
haven’t been a lot of companies willing to pay up
significantly.”  
 Brazilian companies sold $15.1 billion of international
bonds in the first four months of the year, the best start since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1999. They sold none in
May or June before Cruzeiro’s offering as credit-rating
downgrades in Greece, Spain and Portugal curbed demand for
higher-yielding assets.  
 “A two-month window with no deals,” BCP’s Podlubny said.
“That’s a pretty long time.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        