-- Chavez Crackdown on Brokerage `Thieves' Leaves Traders Jobless
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-07-02T18:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/broker-thieves-out-of-work-in-caracas-as-chavez-roils-financial-industry.html

          
          
             Trader Jofmar Heredia was thrown out
of work when Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  shut the
unregulated currency market in May and seized about 40
brokerages, accusing them of setting artificial rates, capital
flight and money laundering.  
 Heredia, 31, said she’s worried she may never find a job at
a  bank  again because of Chavez’s crackdown.  
 “I’m unemployed and leaving my resume in banks but no one
is calling,” said Heredia, who worked at Proinversion Sociedad
de Corretaje CA in Caracas. “A lot of my friends in brokerages
taken over by the government have been let go.”  
 The brokerage business is in danger of becoming obsolete in
this socialist nation, said Noris Aguirre, a director at the
clearing firm  Caja Venezolana de Valores . Since November,
Venezuela’s securities  regulator  has taken control of about 35
percent of the 112 trading firms and closed four after they were
blamed for the 27 percent drop in the bolivar through May 18.
That may leave up to 2,500 without jobs even as Chavez says his
biggest economic priority is preserving employment.  
 Chavez, a 55-year-old former paratrooper who’s been in
power for 11 years, says the country doesn’t need such companies
and accuses them of exploiting loopholes to become rich. The
government banned investment instruments known as mutuos in
February -- which are akin to repurchase agreements, or repos --
and prohibited brokers from trading in a new currency market
established last month. Securities firms use repos to borrow
money to finance positions in bonds and other securities.  
 Chavez Takes Control  
 In a speech on May 23 to supporters, Chavez said his
country should eliminate brokerages.  
 “We’re going to respond strongly against these thieves
that are trying to wash their hands now,” Chavez said.
“There’s no economic reason for the weakening of the bolivar.
It’s a huge fraud against the republic.”  
 The government took control of the country’s largest
brokerage, Econoinvest Casa de Bolsa, after raiding it on May
24, arresting four directors and ordering it to cease operations
for a week pending an investigation. Of the 420 workers at the
company, 126 have resigned, according to the nation’s regulator.
The directors are being held at the national intelligence
service in Caracas awaiting final charges against them for
illegally trading foreign currency and association with
delinquency.  
 Authorities are investigating “irregularities” at
Econoinvest and are trying to guarantee the investments of its
44,000 clients, the Finance Ministry said today in a statement.  
 No Opportunities  
 Rene Buroz, the lawyer for the directors, declined to
comment, as did an Econoinvest public relations official, who
asked not to be identified in accordance with company policy.  
 The government took control of  Finalca Casa de Bolsa  today
for failing to prove the origin of funds and putting its
clients’ investments at risk after a raid on June 2, according
to a  resolution  published in the Official Gazette.  
 Nelson Venero, a 32 year-old accountant, lost his job at
the end of May after working for five years in the brokerage
industry. After securing a job at AVC Valores Sociedad de
Corretaje and a pay raise with a dollar bonus in October, he
said he was fired after the government seized the company in
May.  
 “This limits operations so much for brokerages that I
don’t see any opportunities for them,” Aguirre of  Caja
Venezolana de Valores , which helps manage bonds and equities
owned by brokerage houses, said in an interview. “They’re
allowed to buy and sell company shares, but all of the companies
that traded on the stock market have now been nationalized.”  
 Nationalizations  
 Chavez nationalized  Cia Anonima Nacional Telefonos de
Venezuela , the phone company known as Cantv, in 2007 to boost
the state’s hold on the economy. The government has also taken
over assets from Exxon Mobil Corp., ConocoPhillips, Ternium SA
and Mexican cement maker Cemex SAB, which listed on the  Caracas
Stock Exchange .  
 The brokerage industry boomed between 2005 and 2010,
growing 42 percent to more than 100 institutions, according to
the securities regulator. Traders were hired to perform bond
swaps as a means of obtaining dollars for companies that failed
to receive government authorization to buy at the official
exchange rate.  
 The bond trading set an implicit unregulated rate. That
rate plunged to 8.2 per dollar on May 11, seven days before
Chavez shut down that market.  
 ‘Destined’  
 The central bank re-opened the market on June 9, setting
the maximum rate and limiting the amount of dollars for
purchase. The average rate is now about 5.3 bolivars per dollar.
In addition, there are two official exchange rates of 2.6
bolivars per dollar and 4.3 per dollar for imports.  
 “This was destined to happen,” said Roberto Gonzalez, 39,
a former partner at a Caracas-based brokerage who left the firm
last year. He declined to identify the company.  
 Tomas Sanchez , president of the securities regulator known
as CNV, said the number of brokerages will likely be cut to less
than 20 and that most of the unemployed traders may be able to
live off savings since they earned commissions in dollars.  
 “We know some workers will be affected by this situation
but they enjoyed exorbitant benefits and have savings,” Sanchez
said in an interview in Caracas on June 9. “Maybe the
secretaries and couriers can be incorporated into the public
banking system.”  
 ‘Blackmail’  
 Heredia said that she wasn’t paid in dollars and received a
commission of about 10 percent of the value of bolivar
transactions.  
 Raul Maestres, a consultant at  Korn/Ferry International , an
executive search firm, said their offices in Caracas have been
inundated with resumes.  
 “It’s not the best moment to find work,” Maestres said.  
 Venezuela’s  unemployment rate  rose to 8.1 percent in May,
from 7.7 percent a year earlier, as the economy slid into the
first recession in seven years.  Gross domestic product  shrank
3.3 percent last year and will likely contract 2.5 percent this
year, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Brokers are “not going to blackmail us with the idea that
this is going to hurt employment,”  Ricardo Sanguino , the
president of the congressional finance committee, said in an
interview. “Many of them acted outside the law and created more
problems than benefits.”  
 Venero, the unemployed accountant, said that he feels
powerless to find work and that he may take a broker course in
Panama, where Venezuelan banks have opened branches.  
 “I don’t think I’ll find work in the capital markets
because they’ve been very hard hit,” he said in a phone
interview. “A lot of friends are out of work.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Chavez crackdown leaves traders jobless  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
