-- Bulgarian Government to Decide on Oil Pipe Bypassing Bosporus in February
-- Elizabeth Konstantinova
-- 2010-07-02T10:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/bulgarian-government-to-decide-on-oil-pipe-bypassing-bosporus-in-february.html

          
          
             Bulgaria will take a final decision
on building an oil pipeline that bypasses Turkey’s Bosporus
strait after an environmental impact assessment is completed in
February, Deputy Prime Minister  Simeon Djankov  said.  
 “The feasibility of this pipeline is questionable,”
Djankov said in the Sofia-based parliament today, answering a
lawmaker’s query. “The source of financing is still unclear and
the oil supply for the pipeline has not been secured.”  
 Russia, Bulgaria and Greece agreed in 2007 to build the 285
kilometer (177 mile) oil pipeline from the Bulgarian Black Sea
port of Burgas to the Greek port of Alexandroupolis on the
Aegean Sea. The 1 billion-euro ($1.25 billion) pipe, with a
capacity of 35 million metric tons of oil a year, would bypass
Turkey’s crowded Bosporus and Dardanelles straits, saving the
oil industry shipping costs.  
 Turkey is using the environment damage caused by BP Plc’s
Gulf of Mexico spill to press its case that oil traffic through
the straits is unsafe and potentially dangerous. The country
yesterday said it has broad support from 20 oil companies for
steps that would make use of the Bosporus straits for oil
traffic more expensive than pipelines.  
 A referendum held in the Burgas region in 2008 opposed the
pipeline on grounds there was a high risk of an oil spill from
tankers filling the pipe, which could damage Bulgaria’s biggest
Black Sea resorts.  
 Environmental Assesment  
 The independent environmental impact assessment will be
completed in October and given for final evaluation to
Bulgaria’s Environment ministry, which, in turn will submit its
conclusion to the Cabinet by February, when the government will
take the final decision on the pipeline, Djankov said today.  
 The government of Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov , which took
office a year ago, is seeking ways to cut spending and bridge a
budget deficit as the recession erodes revenue and investment.
It froze several infrastructure projects and ordered an
environmental impact assessment of the pipeline project.  
 Should Bulgaria decide to pull out of the project, it won’t
have to pay compensation to Russia and Greece, Djankov said, as
the projected pipeline route violates a European Union directive
for conservation of wildlife, known as Natura 2000, because it
passes through protected areas.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        