-- Chavez Seizes 11 Helmerich Oil Rigs Amid Disagreement Over Unpaid Bills
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-07-02T01:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/chavez-seizes-11-helmerich-oil-rigs-amid-disagreement-over-unpaid-bills.html

          
          
             Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
decreed the seizure of 11  Helmerich & Payne Inc.  oil rigs after
the company idled its equipment because of a payment dispute,
according to a resolution published in the Official Gazette.  
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA  President and Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  traveled to Anaco, Anzoategui state, today to take
control of the rigs and all gear associated with their operation.
Some 600 rig workers, whom Ramirez exhorted to look after the
equipment when the planned seizure was first announced last
month, become PDVSA employees.  
 “We’re here to comply with our revolutionary laws and to
safeguard our national interests,” Ramirez told a crowd of
workers today in a speech broadcast on state television. “My
recognition goes out to workers who watched over the rigs and
didn’t allow the company to take them out of the country.”  
 Helmerich, which has operated in Venezuela for more than 50
years supplying oil field services, said that it idled the rigs
after failing to receive more than $40 million of past due
payments. Ramirez called the company “intransigent” in
negotiations for new fees following a plunge in oil prices and
said PDVSA won’t allow private companies to slow production.  
 Chavez forced foreign oil producers into joint ventures as
minority partners in 2007 and is in  international arbitration 
hearings with the U.S.’s Exxon Mobil Corp. and ConocoPhillips,
which rejected revised terms. Last year, PDVSA seized assets
from companies including Williams Cos. as it increased state
control over oil and gas operations.  
 Ramirez said yesterday that Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Helmerich
will be compensated for the rigs, without specifying how much
the equipment is worth.  
 Venezuela is South America’s largest oil producer and a
founding member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        