-- Chile $3.2 Billion Dam Project May Hand Transmission Piece to Third Party
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-07-02T20:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/chile-3-2-billion-dam-project-may-hand-transmission-piece-to-third-party.html

          
          
             Chile’s biggest hydroelectric
project, controlled by a unit of Italy’s  Enel SpA , may hand over
its transmission line to a third party to speed up development
and increase profits.  
 The HidroAysen project, owned by  Empresa Nacional de
Electricidad SA  and Colbun SA, held talks with prospective
partners that would build and operate the 1,900-kilometer
(1,180-mile) line linking the $3.2 billion, 2,750 megawatt dam
project to Chile’s central grid,  Daniel Fernandez , the project’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview.  
 “Endesa and Colbun are not in the business of building
transmission lines,” Fernandez said in Santiago yesterday. “We
can’t rule out as a business model handing off construction of
the transmission line to another entity, company or
shareholder.”  
 HidroAysen, which has yet to receive environmental
approval, would reduce Chile’s dependence on imported fossil-
fuels and help meet rising demand over the next decade. Bringing
in a transmission partner may accelerate project development and
improve its economics, Hugh Rudnick, a professor at Pontificia
Universidad Catolica de Chile’s electrical engineering program,
said in an interview.  
 Endesa Chile, as the Enel unit is known, and Colbun want to
obtain environmental approval for the line before handing it
over, Fernandez said. The companies may offer the line as a
concession or bring in a new partner, he said.  
 HidroAysen  plans to submit the environmental application
for the transmission line in the second half of next year,
Fernandez said.  
 Talks Held  
 “Talks have been held,” he said. “It’s a little
premature and a lot of work remains to be able to say, ‘this is
the project and these are the conditions and here is the
approval.’”  
 Endesa Chile owns 51 percent of HidroAysen and Colbun, the
generator controlled by Chile’s Matte family, owns the rest.
Construction may start in 2014 and take 12 years. The project
represents a fifth of Endesa Chile’s current installed capacity
in Latin America,  according to the company’s website .  
 Endesa Chile rose for the first time in a week in Santiago,
climbing 0.4 percent to 830 pesos while Colbun climbed 1 percent
to 140.5 pesos.  
 “Offloading the project’s transmission component could
accelerate project development and improve its economics,”
Universidad Catolica’s Rudnick said. A third party could also
take away some of the risks involved with the transmission, he
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 Four-Month Extension  
 Chile’s government last month gave HidroAysen a four-month
extension to answer questions and observations on the
environmental application for the dams.  
 Fernandez said the extension will have little impact on the
overall schedule because the generation portion of the project
is more developed than the transmission line. “The critical
focus right now is on transmission,” he said.  
 The Natural Resources Defense Council, based in New York,
is critical of HidroAysen’s potential environmental impact.
 Amanda Maxwell , a NRDC advocate, said in a June 21 blog that the
project would dam “two of the country’s wildest and most
pristine rivers, the Pascua and the Baker,” and that the
transmission line would “scar” national parks and reserves.  
 Endesa Chile’s 683-megawatt Ralco is the biggest
hydroelectric plant operating in Chile, according to the
country’s national energy commission. HidroAysen is made up of
five dams that range from 360 megawatts to 770 megawatts in
capacity each.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        