-- China National Offshore Won't Comment on Talks to Buy BP Argentine Stake
-- John Duce
-- 2010-07-02T02:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/china-national-offshore-won-t-comment-on-talks-to-buy-bp-argentine-stake.html

          
          
             China National Offshore Oil Corp.,
the country’s third-largest oil and gas company, declined to
comment on reports it is in talks to buy as much as $9 billion
worth of BP Plc’s assets in South America.  
 “We don’t comment on market rumors,”  Jiang Yongzhi , a
Beijing-based spokesman for China National, said by phone today.  
 The state-owned Chinese energy company has expressed an
interest in buying a 60 percent stake BP owns in the Argentine
oil and gas producer Pan American Energy,  The Guardian  reported
yesterday, without saying where it obtained the information.
 Sheila Williams , a London-based spokeswoman for BP, declined to
comment yesterday about the talks which were also reported by
 Sky News .  
 BP is looking to raise money to help pay for the clean-up
operation in the wake of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico,
The Guardian said. China National already owns 20 percent of Pan
American through its stake in Bridas Corp., the U.K. daily
newspaper reported.  
 Michael Zhao , a spokesman for BP in Beijing, didn’t
immediately respond to calls.  
 BP last month promised to set aside $20 billion for the
cleanup and compensation for the spill, and it said it will sell
assets to raise funds after canceling the dividend for three
quarters.  
 The company’s  share  price has dropped 50 percent since the
April 20 blowout on the Deepwater Horizon rig that killed 11 and
started the worst oil spill in U.S. history. The stock gained
2.8 percent yesterday to 327.95 pence.  
 State-controlled Chinese energy companies have spent at
least $20 billion buying oil and gas assets overseas in the past
12 months to meet increasing demand in the world’s fastest-
growing major economy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        