-- China May Increase Retail Natural Gas Prices by September, Xinao Gas Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-02T04:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/china-may-increase-retail-natural-gas-prices-by-september-xinao-gas-says.html

          
          
             China, the world’s second-biggest
energy user, may raise retail natural gas prices in some regions
before September, according to  Xinao Gas Holdings Ltd. , the
piped-gas distributor partly owned by the World Bank.  
 Local governments in 14 provinces where the company
operates may increase prices after wholesale costs were raised
June 1,  Yu Jianchao , Xinao’s finance director, said in a phone
interview yesterday. The lag between wholesale and retail
adjustments may cost the company about 20 million yuan ($2.9
million) in profit, Yu said. The loss will be offset by
increased sales, according to Yu.  
 The National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top
economic policy planning agency, raised wholesale gas prices 25
percent last month, the  first increase  in more than two years,
to curb wasteful consumption. Distribution companies led by Hong
Kong-listed Xinao haven’t been allowed to increase retail prices
immediately to pass on the higher costs because “it takes
time” to get through regulatory procedures, Yu said.  
 “China’s natural gas prices will have room to rise further
because of the higher costs for China to purchase either
liquefied natural gas or piped gas from the global market,”
 Grace Liu , an energy analyst with Guotai Junan Securities Co.,
said by phone from the southern city of Shenzhen. “Higher
prices, together with demand growth in China, will benefit both
producers and distributors of gas over the long run,” Liu said.  
 Gas Demand  
 China’s gas demand may jump about 20 percent this year
because of economic recovery, according to Yu. The increase may
exceed the company’s expectations, he said.  
 Local governments may raise domestic retail prices by more
than 0.2 yuan per cubic meter, Yu said. Xinao is in contact with
local governments to push for the increase, he said. The
adjustments by the provinces may happen at different times
between now and September, he said.  
 The timing and pace of any adjustments to costs paid by
residential users will be decided after public hearings
conducted by local governments, the NDRC said on May 31.
Shanghai raised the price of gas for commercial and industrial
users July 1, the Shanghai Daily reported on June 30.  
 Restaurant operators’ charges will rise to 2.99 yuan per
cubic meter from 2.6 yuan if they consume less than 5 million
cubic meters a month, the English-language daily said. Costs for
home users won’t be affected, the newspaper said.  
 Xinao climbed 0.6 percent to HK$17.54 at the midday break
in Hong Kong trading. The stock has risen 40 percent in the past
year, compared with a 9 percent gain the benchmark Hang Seng
Index.  
 The gas distributor’s net income rose by 27 percent to 801
million yuan last year, Xinao said in March. The company  sells
natural gas  in provinces and cities including Hebei, Shandong,
Jiangsu, Shanghai, Zhejiang and Guangdong, according to the
company’s website.  
 -- Wang Ying  in Beijing. Editors:  Ang Bee Lin ,  John Viljoen .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        