-- CIT's Thain Hires Ex-Cerberus Executive Parker as Chief Financial Officer
-- David Henry
-- 2010-07-02T14:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/cit-s-thain-hires-ex-cerberus-executive-parker-as-chief-financial-officer.html

          
          
             CIT Group Inc.  named  Scott T. Parker ,
a former executive at Cerberus Capital Management LP, as chief
financial officer, ending a search that heated up after John A.
Thain was hired to lead the business lender from bankruptcy.  
 Parker, 43, replaces Joseph M. “Joe” Leone, who had said
at the end of the company’s bankruptcy in December that he would
retire in April after 25 years at CIT. Thain has now filled five
finance positions since being named chairman and chief executive
officer on Feb. 7.  
 “Scott’s unique set of financial and operational skills
coupled with his deep experience in the financial services
sector will complement our senior leadership team and benefit
our organization on a broad scale,” Thain, 55, said in a
statement today.  
 CIT, based in New York, also named  Carol Hayles , 49, as
senior vice president and corporate controller, reporting to
Parker. Hayles spent the past 24 years in finance roles at
Citigroup Inc., where she was most recently deputy controller,
CIT said.  
 Parker was most recently chief operating officer and CFO of
Cerberus Operations and Advisory Co. LLC, an affiliate of
Cerberus Capital Management. Before joining Cerberus in 2006, he
spent 17 years in the industrial and financial services
businesses at General Electric Co.  
 Vetted by Fed  
 The names of senior executives had to be submitted to the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York prior to their appointments,
according to the company’s  annual report , which said the
requirement is part of an agreement with the regulator from
August 2009.  
 CIT has been paying down expensive debt and reducing its
assets this year. At the same time, Thain has held initial talks
with regulators about eventually getting permission to accept
more insured deposits to lower the company’s cost of funding.  
 “This is sort of still cleaning up the mess,” said  Gary Goldstein , founder and president of Whitney Group, an executive
search firm, before the announcement.  
 On June 1, Thain named  Nelson J. Chai , who had been CFO
under him at Merrill Lynch & Co. and at NYSE Euronext, to be
CIT’s executive vice president, chief administrative officer and
head of strategy. The same day CIT announced that  Robert C. Rowe , a senior credit officer at FirstMerit Bank of Akron, Ohio,
would become executive vice president and chief credit officer.  
 A month earlier, Thain named Lisa K. Polsky chief risk
officer. Polsky was previously at Jane Street Capital, a
quantitative proprietary trading firm and had held risk
management posts at Duff Capital Advisors and Morgan Stanley.  
 CIT also named Michael E. Roemer executive vice president
for internal audit, reporting directly to the board’s audit
committee. Roemer had been director of internal audit at
American International Group, the company said.  
 CIT’s finance department leadership is now complete, Thain
said in announcing today’s appointments.  
 Shares of CIT rose 16 cents to $33.42 as of 10 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has advanced 21
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     John A. Thain has now filled five finance positions since being named chairman and chief executive officer on Feb. 7. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
