-- Comcast Pledges Good-Faith Talks With TV Affiliates
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-07-02T17:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/comcast-tells-fcc-it-will-negotiate-fairly-with-abc-cbs-fox-tv-stations.html

          
          
             Comcast Corp.  pledged good-faith
negotiations to carry the signals of television stations
affiliated with ABC, CBS and Fox after the cable company’s
proposed takeover of  General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal unit.  
 Talks with stations over fees won’t be influenced by NBC
Universal, the company said yesterday in a letter to the Federal
Communications Commission. The affiliates want the agency to
require a formal commitment, the head of ABC’s group said.  
 Owners of NBC affiliates agreed to support Comcast’s bid
after winning a pledge that the company won’t shift events such
as the Olympics and National Football League games to cable.  
 The $28 billion transaction would give Philadelphia-based
Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, control of NBC’s
network, owned-and-operated TV stations, cable channels and a
movie studio. The FCC and the Justice Department are reviewing
the proposed transaction.  
 Groups representing CBS, ABC and Fox affiliates in a June
21 filing with the FCC said they wouldn’t object to the merger
if Comcast met conditions on carrying their signals.  
 Comcast reached an agreement with the affiliates that will
be in place for seven years after the transaction is completed,
according to yesterday’s letter.  
 “Comcast will engage in arms-length, good-faith
negotiations of retransmission consent agreements,” the company
said in the letter.  
 Conditions Sought  
 The affiliate groups are seeking to have the FCC make the
commitment a condition of approving the merger, Bill Hoffman,
head of the ABC Television Affiliates Association, said in an
interview.  
 “If not, ABC, CBS and Fox affiliates will oppose the
transaction,” said Hoffman, vice president and general manager
of Atlanta-based WSB-TV, owned by Cox Media Group.  
 FCC spokeswoman  Jen Howard  declined to comment.  
 Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed papers opposing the merger as it is currently proposed.  
 The governors of New York, California and Pennsylvania are
among those who have backed the deal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        