-- Commodity Funds Trade More, Extend Bets to Fight for Index Money, Man Says
-- Chanyaporn Chanjaroen
-- 2010-07-02T07:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/commodity-hedge-funds-change-strategy-to-beat-index-money-man-group-says.html

          
          
             Commodity hedge funds are trading
more frequently and making bets for later in the future to avoid
“getting whipped” by index funds, according to  Edwin Garcia , a
manager at Man Group Plc, the largest publicly traded hedge-fund
company.  
 Assets under management at index-tracking funds rose 71
percent to $111 billion by the end of May from December 2008,
according to Barclays Capital. That “influx of the index
money” contributed to price swings in nearby futures, prompting
hedge funds to trade more later-dated contracts, Garcia said.  
 “What the index money has done, it meant hedge funds have
had to adjust their trading strategies,” Garcia said in a phone
interview on June 29. “Where the managers have strong
fundamental views, they are expressing their view further out
the curve to avoid getting whipped in the front end.”  
 Commodity hedge funds lost  4.9 percent  in the first five
months on average, after declining about 3 percent in 2009,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. The S&P
GSCI Total Return  Index  tracking the net amount investors
received dropped 12 percent from January through May.  
 Hedge funds are also using more options, Garcia said.
On the London Metal Exchange, the world’s largest marketplace of
copper and aluminum, trading in  options contracts  for the six
major industrial metals soared 64 percent in May from the same
month last year, according to figures on the exchange’s website.  
 Man Commodity Strategies Ltd., with $1 billion under
management in commodity and energy funds, declined 2.7 percent
in the first five months, according to information from Garcia.
The annual return has been 9.3 percent since the fund started in
October 2003. Man Group has $39 billion in assets.  
 Garcia has been with Man for 11 years, with six years as a
portfolio manager. He manages five funds of funds, including
Dexion Commodities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        