-- Copper May Dip to $5,472 by October on Ichimoku Cloud: Technical Analysis
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-07-02T05:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/copper-may-dip-to-5-472-on-close-below-ichimoku-cloud-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Copper may fall to about $5,472 a
metric ton by October on a close below a weekly ichimoku cloud
support level, according to technical analysis by independent
analyst  Jim Stellakis .  
 The attached chart shows copper is heading below its weekly
upper cloud support level for the first time in 11 months. A
close below $6,717 may push prices toward the lower cloud level,
signaling a drop of as much as 15 percent by October, Stellakis
said. Copper for delivery in three months traded at $6,440 a ton
at 6:02 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.  
 “When prices break below or above cloud tops or bottoms
for the first time in long periods it is significant,” said
Stellakis, founder of New York-based research company Technical
Alpha. “Since 1987, copper has tended to decline towards the
lower cloud within one to three months of closing below the
upper cloud.”  
 Copper, used in plumbing and wiring, dropped 20 percent
from this year’s peak on April 12 on concern that budget cuts by
European governments may harm the economic recovery and that
China’s attempt to cool its property market will curb demand.
Some European nations risk a “double dip” slowdown if the
region fails to manage its debt crisis, the World Bank said last
month. Copper is down 13 percent this year.  
 The second attached chart shows examples of copper moving
above or below cloud tops or bottoms since 2007. Targets at the
lower cloud will likely rise from the current level of $5,425 to
$5,841 in the next three months, Stellakis said.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. A cloud on the ichimoku chart is
the area between the first and second leading span lines,
which plot midpoints of historical highs and lows, and acts as
support when prices are above it and as resistance when prices
are below it.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        