-- India to End Cotton Export Curbs on Record Harvest, Boost Sales to China
-- Madelene Pearson
-- 2010-07-02T11:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/cotton-export-ban-to-end-on-forecasts-for-record-india-crop-official-says.html

          
          
             India, the world’s second-largest
cotton grower and exporter, will end curbs on overseas sales in
the new crop year amid forecasts for a record harvest, said a
government official.  
 “The next season, we won’t have these restrictions,” A.B.
Joshi, the nation’s textile commissioner, said in an interview
in Mumbai yesterday. The limits applied in April are a “very
temporary measure.”  
 India halted export registrations to cool domestic prices
and bolster supplies, and then introduced a new permit system
for shipments a month later. A bigger local crop and resumption
in sales may pressure global cotton prices and reduce costs for
 Gap Inc. ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and J.C. Penney Co., which buy
garments from suppliers in South Asia.  
 “India is a big supplier to some of the key textile-
manufacturing countries who had been big importers and who had
been fairly short, so this really helps them,”  Scott Briggs , an
agricultural commodities strategist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., said by phone from Melbourne. “This India
move is pretty important.”  
 December-delivery futures dropped as much as 0.3 percent to
76.20 cents a pound in after-hours trading on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York. The price has climbed 25 percent in the past year
after U.S. farmers pared planting in favor of wheat and soybeans.
Cotton gained 54 percent in 2009, the most since 1975.  
 ‘Tight Stocks’  
 “We’re in a pretty tight physical stocks situation, so we
are probably at a level of prices where a fair bit of
bullishness is already put in there over a production cost
level,” said Briggs. “Anything that starts pushing us back
toward a surplus is going to quickly erode that premium.”  
 India’s production in the year starting Oct. 1 may reach a
record as higher prices spur plantings, Joshi said. Output may
total as much as 32.5 million bales in the year starting Oct. 1,
up from 29.2 million bales, D.K. Nair, secretary general of the
Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, said on June 30.  
 “My expectation is that we will have a very good crop,”
commissioner Joshi said. “We expect higher cotton output, after
meeting the increased domestic demand, there would be a surplus
and it will continue to be exported.”  
 India may increase sales to buyers including China, the
biggest consumer, Joshi said. The Asian country will lift its
import quota by almost 1 million tons and sell more from state
reserves to meet a deficit, the China Cotton Association said.  
 ‘Increase Competition’  
 Ending export curbs “would increase competition for U.S.
cotton particularly to their next door neighbor, China,” Mike
Stevens, an independent trader in Mandeville, Louisiana, said by
e-mail. “It should help relieve the shortage of supplies.”  
 China accounted for 57 percent of the 7.38 million bales
shipped by India from Oct. 1 to June 15, according to data from
the  textiles commissioner’s office . Total shipments were double
from the year-earlier period.  
 “China’s appetite is very high, so they would continue to
ask for Indian cotton,” Joshi said.  
 Under the new permit system, about 300,000 bales that were
registered before the curbs were imposed on April 19 have been
permitted for sales to Bangladesh and Pakistan, the commissioner
said. The remaining 500,000 bales would be cleared for shipment
in the coming months, he said.  
 “Registered but unshipped quantities are likely to be
allowed, not new contracts” in the current season, he said.
Next season, the country will scrap the permit system and revert
to the export registration regime, he said.  
 A bale weighs 170 kilograms (375 pounds) in India.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        