-- Crude Oil Poised Rise Above $75 as Chart Support Holds: Technical Analysis
-- Yee Kai Pin
-- 2010-07-02T05:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/crude-oil-poised-rise-above-75-as-chart-support-holds-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Crude oil, heading for the biggest
weekly drop in eight weeks, may resume an uptrend above $75 a
barrel in coming days because chart support hasn’t been breached,
according to  National Australia Bank Ltd.   
 Oil in New York will continue in a “messy, choppy,
sideways range” and $72 a barrel will present short-term
support, said  Gordon Manning , a Sydney-based technical analyst
at Australia’s fourth-largest bank. While prices tumbled 3.5
percent yesterday, the most in a month, the market remains in a
technical uptrend.  
 “On the daily chart it’s still slightly positive -- I
can’t get overly bearish here to be honest,” Manning said today
in a telephone interview. “If August gets up through $73, I
wouldn’t be surprised to see a rally back up to $75, $76.”  
 Crude has fallen more than 7 percent this week amid
speculation economic growth in the U.S. and China will slow,
curbing fuel demand from the world’s two largest energy
consumers. Futures for August delivery were at $72.88 a barrel
in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, down
4 cents, at 1:29 p.m. Singapore time. Prices have lost 8 percent
in 2010.  
 The front-month contract this week slipped below several
daily moving averages widely used to indicate technical support,
fueling speculation prices would sustain a drop. Oil fell in
late May when the market “had that panic” as the dollar
strengthened against the euro, damping investor demand for
commodities, according to Manning. The euro surged 2.4 percent
yesterday, the most since March 2009.  
 “In these choppy types of markets, moving averages aren’t
going to tell you a whole lot,” he said. “When it got down to
$67 thereabouts, there was a bit of support.”  
 In the coming week, oil will likely be anchored around $72
a barrel and be “very choppy and gyrating no matter which way
it goes,” Manning said.  
 “On balance, right here right now I would be favoring a
bit of a rally,” he said. “Just here, I’m probably more a
buyer than a seller.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        