-- Oil Trades Near $73 After Falling Past Four Days on Slower Economic Growt
-- Alexander Kwiatkowski
-- 2010-07-02T11:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/crude-oil-trades-around-73-heads-for-weekly-loss-before-u-s-jobs-report.html

          
          
             Crude oil traded around $73 a barrel
in New York, heading for its first weekly decline in four,
before a U.S. report that may show the world’s biggest economy
lost jobs for the first time this year.  
 U.S. payrolls declined by 130,000 last month, according to
the median estimate of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The Labor Department publishes its report today at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Oil may fall next week on growing concern the U.S.
economic recovery is faltering, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  
 “Oil is driven by other asset classes and very broad
economic factors, which will indirectly affect oil demand in the
future,” said  Hannes Loacker , a Raiffeisen Zentralbank
Oesterreich analyst in Vienna. “There are no real changes in
oil fundamentals. The correlation to risky asset classes such as
equities will remain strong.”  
 Oil for August delivery dropped 1 cent to $72.94 a barrel
in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange at
11:44 a.m. London time. Brent crude for August climbed 11 cents
to $72.45 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  
 Crude fell 7.5 percent in the past four days, touching a
three-week low of $72.05 yesterday, amid concern the economic
recovery in the U.S. and China will slow and curb demand in the
world’s two largest energy consumers. China yesterday reported
slowing manufacturing expansions.  
 “China is very important and the last data gave a rather
mixed picture,” Loacker said.  
 Further Declines  
 Twenty of 38 analysts, or 53 percent, surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast crude will decline through July 9. Ten respondents, or
26 percent, predicted that futures will be little changed and
eight saw an increase. Last week an equal number of analysts
predicted a gain or drop.  
 Crude has yet to pass key price support levels, meaning it
may resume an uptrend above $75 a barrel in coming days,
technical analysts at National Australia Bank Ltd. said.  
 Oil in New York will continue in a “messy, choppy,
sideways range,” and $72 a barrel will present short-term
support, said  Gordon Manning , a Sydney-based technical analyst
at Australia’s fourth-largest bank. While prices tumbled 3.5
percent yesterday, the most in a month, the market remains in a
technical uptrend, he said.  
 “On the daily chart it’s still slightly positive,”
Manning said today in a telephone interview. “If August gets up
through $73, I wouldn’t be surprised to see a rally back up to
$75, $76.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Kwiatkowski  in London at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        