-- Czech Central Bank Says Inflation Risks Balanced, `Uncertainties' Remain
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-07-02T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/czech-central-bank-says-inflation-risks-balanced-uncertainties-remain.html

          
          
             The Czech central bank sees broadly
balanced inflation risks at the moment, while uncertainties over
future developments remained “comparatively” high, minutes
from the last policy meeting showed.  
 The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka left its benchmark
interest rate unchanged on 23 June, after an unexpected cut in
May, keeping the two-week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent, a
quarter-point lower than the European Central Bank’s main rate.  
 The Czechs and other East European nations are emerging
from the worst recession since the end of communism. Trade is
picking up after the credit crisis curbed investments and
companies cut jobs. The Czech Republic, home to Skoda Auto AS
and Hyundai Motor Co. plants, gained from a pickup in demand in
the euro area, its main trading partner.  
 The policy makers “agreed that the balance of risks to the
inflation forecast was currently broadly balanced,” according
to the minutes. “However, it was also said that the general
uncertainties of the forecast were still comparatively high.”  
 The  inflation  rate rose to 1.2 percent in May from 1.1
percent in the previous month, above the central bank’s forecast
of 0.9 percent. The bank’s latest forecast from May saw
inflation under the 2 percent target in 12 to 18 months.  
 Inflation Risk  
 Higher fuel and regulated prices in May highlight a pro-
inflationary risk, while slower-than-forecast economic growth in
the first quarter was a factor working against consumer price
growth, the minutes said.  
 The Czech economy expanded an annual 1.1 percent in the
first three months, the first increase in five quarters.  
 The country had its 16th consecutive trade  surplus  in April
and industrial  output  rose to a 30-month high, driven by car
production. Auto-industry output grew 29 percent in the first
quarter and sales abroad increased 23 percent. The  unemployment 
rate dropped to a six-month low in May.  
 The central bank signaled in its May forecast that interest
rates may be steady until end-2010 and start rising in 2011 when
economic growth should accelerate to 1.8 percent from a 1.4
percent estimate for this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        