-- Dana Petroleum Convertible Bonds Surge on Speculation of Takeover by KNOC
-- John Glover
-- 2010-07-02T09:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/dana-convertible-bonds-surge-on-speculation-of-korea-national-takeover-bid.html

          
          
             Convertible bonds of  Dana Petroleum
Plc  surged after the U.K. oil and gas explorer received a “very
preliminary” takeover bid from  Korea National Oil Corp.   
 The company’s 141 million pounds of 2.9 percent convertible
bonds due 2014 gained 11.8 percent to 114.6 percent of
par, according to Citigroup Inc. prices on Bloomberg, after
Aberdeen, Scotland-based Dana said it had been approached. Bond
investors would potentially realize an outright return of 27
percent should control change hands, according to analysts at
Barclays Capital in London led by  Luke Olsen .  
 “There’s no guarantee that an offer will either be made or
accepted,” Olsen said in an interview. “However, there’s
significant upside if it happens and the market is pricing in
some of that.”  
 KNOC is a state-owned exploration company that wants to
more than double output by 2012 and plans spending about $6
billion on acquisitions and other projects this year.  Dana ,
which holds more than 100 interests in exploration and
production licenses in nine countries, reported a
“significant” gas find in the North Sea in April.  
 Dana said yesterday that there is “no certainty as to
whether any offer will be forthcoming nor as to the level at
which any offer might be made.” The price of the convertible
bond indicates about a 40 percent probability of a bid taking
place, Olsen said.  
 KNOC today said it’s in “very preliminary discussions”
with Dana about making a cash offer for the company. The
Financial Times cited people familiar with the situation saying
KNOC may make a $2.3 billion bid.  
 Dana today rose as much as 23 percent to 1,450 pence in
London trading, valuing the company at 1.3 billion pounds ($1.98
billion), and was at 1,440 at the market close.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        