-- Delta, US Airways Drop New York-Washington Asset Swap
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-07-02T20:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/delta-us-airways-won-t-pursue-new-york-washing-slot-swap-on-u-s-ruling.html

          
          
             Delta Air Lines Inc.  and  US Airways
Group Inc.  won’t pursue a swap of takeoff and landing slots in
New York and Washington under regulators’ terms, a setback to
strengthening their holds on two eastern U.S. markets.  
 The airlines instead will challenge in federal court the
U.S. requirement that they give rivals more access to flights at
New York’s  LaGuardia Airport  and Ronald Reagan Washington
National Airport, according to a filing with the  U.S.
Transportation Department  and  Federal Aviation Administration .  
 Delta had sought to expand at LaGuardia to complement its
hub at Kennedy International Airport. US Airways sought to build
its base in Washington and secure the right to serve valuable
international routes. The decision avoids a requirement that
some flight slots be auctioned, opening the door to low-cost
rivals like  Southwest Airlines Co.   
 “Market-share dominance means an ability to command a
higher pricing premium,” said  Jay Sorensen , president of
airline consultant Ideaworks in Shorewood, Wisconsin. “US
Airways obviously wants to plant their flag into the Reagan
beachhead and call that their own. Delta would like to push
American Airlines out” of the New York market.  
 Modified Plan Opposed  
 Trebor Banstetter , a spokesman for Atlanta-based Delta,
declined to comment beyond the filing. The transportation
department also declined to comment on the airlines’ decision,
said  Bill Mosley , an agency spokesman.  
 “While we certainly would have preferred to move forward
with the transaction as we proposed, we’re very confident with
our operations at LaGuardia and Reagan moving forward,”  James Olson , a US Airways spokesman, said in an interview.  
 Delta declined 69 cents, or 5.9 percent, to $11.03 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, while US
Airways slid 46 cents, or 5.3 percent, to $8.19. Other airlines
also fell after Continental Airlines Inc. reported June unit
revenue below analyst estimates.  
 The Transportation Department and FAA, which had to approve
the deal, had sought since February to scale back the exchange
the carriers announced on Aug. 12 to ensure competition.
Southwest, the largest fare discounter, opposed a modified plan
from Delta and US Airways that would have given some slots to
smaller low-cost airlines and kept them from bidding for the
space.  
 Southwest, which said it wants to expand at LaGuardia and
begin flights at Reagan, “looks forward to the opportunity to
participate in the judicial process to address the important
competitive issues that are at stake in this attempted
transaction,” said  Paul Flaningan , a spokesman for the Dallas-
based airline.  
 Competition Concern  
 The agencies said in May that a compromise offered by the
carriers was insufficient, and asked them to yield 75 percent
more flights. Delta and US Airways in March had offered to
surrender 19.5 slot pairs. The U.S. proposed they give up 34.  
 The trade would reduce competition at both airports unless
additional flights were relinquished, Transportation Secretary
 Ray LaHood  and FAA Administrator  Randy Babbitt  wrote in May.  
 US Airways’ share of slots at Reagan National, including
the airline’s affiliates, would rise to 54 percent from 44
percent, LaHood and Babbitt said. At LaGuardia, Delta would
control 49 percent, more than double the current 24 percent,
they said.  
 “This maintains the status quo and only erodes future
potential, not present market standing,” said  Robert W. Mann  of
airline and labor consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington,
New York. “It seems to me they may have an argument on
jurisdiction and procedure” in the legal appeal.  
 Blind Sale  
 Under the final plan, the U.S. said the 34 slot pairs, 20
at LaGuardia and 14 at Reagan National, would have been made
available in a blind sale to airlines with little or no service
at the airports. Delta and US Airways would retain the proceeds.  
 Delta and US Airways said at that time they would drop
their plan if regulators didn’t let them keep more slots.  
 Under the original proposal in August, Delta agreed to
acquire 125 slots at LaGuardia from US Airways, in exchange for
42 at Reagan National, plus routes to Tokyo and Sao Paulo.  
 “The gates at Reagan would have really solidified their
position,”  Ray Neidl , an independent airline analyst in New
York, said of US Airways. “They are weak long-distance and want
to build their international presence and this would have
helped.”  
 The Transportation Department said in February the plan
needed to be scaled back, with Delta getting 105 of the pairs it
sought and US Airways 28. The remainder would be sold to rivals.  
 The carriers in March offered to cut back so that Delta
could keep 110 slots and US Airways 37. The proposal also would
let  AirTran Holdings Inc.,  Spirit Airlines Inc. and  WestJet
Airlines Ltd.  buy as many as five LaGuardia pairs, while  JetBlue
Airways Corp.  would get access to Reagan National.  
 Southwest  objected, saying Delta and US Airways were
seeking to “hand-select their competitors,” according to a
March 23 regulatory filing. Southwest was interested in slots in
both cities and would have been shut out under the plan.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An arriving US Airways plane passes a departing Delta plane at Philadelphia International Airport in Philadelphia. Photographer: Mike Mergen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
