-- Dingell, New Congress Dean, Assails `Undemocratic' Senate Rules
-- James Rowley
-- 2010-07-02T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/dingell-faults-filibusters-in-assault-on-undemocratic-senate-procedures.html

          
          
             The new dean of Congress, Michigan
Representative  John Dingell , said the biggest issue facing the
institution is the Senate’s “undemocratic” procedures, which
have made it a “drain on the legislative process.”  
 The upper chamber “is the slowest moving thing since the
snail,” Dingell said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .” In particular,
he pointed to the filibuster rule, which allows a single senator
to block legislation unless proponents command a 60-vote
supermajority.  
 The rule has become “a device where, very frankly, we are
channeling senators to get goodies for themselves and their
state in spite of the need by simply threatening filibuster,”
the Democrat said.  
 With the June 28 death of West Virginia Senator  Robert Byrd 
at age 92, Dingell became the longest-serving member of
Congress. Now 83, Dingell has held his House seat since 1955.  
 He said Senate Democratic Leader  Harry Reid  deserves praise
for winning passage of “difficult legislation” such as the
health-care overhaul this year “in the face of almost uniform
Republican opposition” in the Senate, where more than 300
House-passed measures are languishing.  
 Energy Bill  
 Dingell, the former chairman of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee, said “there is a fair chance” Congress
could pass scaled-back energy legislation this year, even with
the Republican strategy of trying to “stop everything.” This
would require the House, which a year ago passed legislation
that would create a cap-and-trade system to curb greenhouse-gas
emissions, to accept a less comprehensive measure that might get
through the Senate.  
 A spokesman for Senate Energy Committee Chairman  Jeff Bingaman  said the New Mexico Democrat is drafting legislation
focused only on cutting pollution emissions by electric
utilities, not other industries.  
 On the economy, Dingell said Congress is too concerned with
curbing the growth of the government’s  deficit  and not enough
with avoiding another recession. Democratic leaders are
struggling to persuade deficit-conscious lawmakers in their own
party to extend jobless benefits and help states avoid
widespread public-employee layoffs.  
 Deficit Spending  
 Dingell said he was “very concerned” that an
unwillingness in Congress to continue short-term deficit
spending could lead to a second economic decline just as
President  Franklin Roosevelt ’s cuts in stimulus spending
“triggered a recession in 1937.”  
 Describing the nation as being in “the worst economic
situation” since the 1929 stock market crash, he said spending
curbs now by the U.S. and other governments may “aggravate a
situation which will make it harder for anyone” to promote
economic growth.  
 The congressman praised the financial-regulations overhaul
passed by the House on June 30 and awaiting Senate action. While
the bill is a “massive step forward,” he said he regretted
that it didn’t “set up structural impediments to banks getting
too big.”  
 He said Congress may be forced to revisit the issue if “a
lot of smart MBAs and lawyers” find ways “around federal
regulation the way they did to create the recession of 2008,”
said Dingell. A decade ago, he warned that the repeal of the
Glass-Steagall Act, which barred commercial banks from
investment banking, would lead to widespread bank bailouts.  
 Full Agenda  
 Dingell, who still serves on the energy panel, said
Congress’s “pretty well-loaded” agenda probably won’t allow
time for a debate over whether to impose network neutrality
rules to forbid Internet service providers from interfering with
subscribers’ Web traffic, Dingell said.  
 The Federal Communications Commission may lose court
challenges if it writes rules without seeking authority from
Congress, Dingell said. “It has to be done properly,” he said.  
 On foreign policy, he said Afghanistan’s “corrupt,
incompetent government” shouldn’t diminish U.S. resolve to win
the war against the Taliban militia, which sheltered al-Qaeda
terrorists before the Sept. 11 attacks.  
 The war “is winnable,” though “winning may not be what
Americans now think it is,” Dingell said. “It is to get a
state in Afghanistan that can sort of run itself and not allow
troubles to get out of there which will cause something like the
9/11 bombing over here.”  
 Dingell, who was 29 when he was elected to Congress to fill
a vacancy created by the death of his father, John Dingell Sr.,
has seen many changes in his five decades on Capitol Hill. Yet
he said the filibuster endures as the Senate’s “most singular,
undemocratic institution.”  
 The Senate, Dingell said, has been a “drain on the
legislative process going back to the days when my dad was here
and I was a small boy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The new dean of Congress, Michigan Representative John Dingell. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
