-- Dingell of Michigan Calls Senate Procedures `Undemocratic' (Transcript)
-- 
-- 2010-07-02T09:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/dingell-of-michigan-calls-senate-procedures-undemocratic-transcript-.html

          
          
             Representative John Dingell, a
Michigan Democrat, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with Al Hunt” airing this
weekend that the Senate’s “undemocratic” procedures have made it
a “drain on the legislative process.”  
 (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  
 AL HUNT: And we begin the program with Chairman John
Dingell of Michigan. Mr. Chairman, thank you for being with us.  
 REP. JOHN DINGELL: A pleasure to be here, Al.  
 HUNT: Let’s start with the financial regulatory bill that
passed the House. You strongly supported it, and yet, about 11
or 12 years ago you were the one with great prescience who said
that if we repealed Glass-Steagall we are going to have to bail
out these banks. This bill does not restore Glass-Steagall. Do
you think it goes far enough, or will Congress maybe have to
revisit this?  
 DINGELL: First of all, I would rather it went further. It
doesn’t set up structural impediments to banks getting too big,
but it does allow controls and, as such, is a massive step
forward. Will we have to revisit it again? It will depend on
whether a lot of smart MBAs and lawyers up in New York are able
to find ways around federal regulation the way they did to
create the recession of 2008.  
 HUNT: On energy and climate, another issue you have been
very involved in, the Senate, given the calendar and politics,
is now talking about a bill that would cap greenhouse emissions
only on power plants. What are the prospects that Congress this
year would adopt some kind of scaled back energy bill?  
 DINGELL: There is a fair chance, and you have to remember
that Senator Reid has done a remarkable job of reading the
Senate and putting through difficult legislation in the face of
almost uniform Republican opposition. Their strategy is to stop
everything, to delay everything and they are doing it really
quite well. But in spite of that Reid has gotten major pieces of
legislation through, the financial reform bill, not complete,
but there, and also the health-care bill which -  
 HUNT: Do you think energy could be added to that list this
year?  
 DINGELL: I think so and I certainly hope so. And quite
frankly there are two reasons for doing it. You could quarrel
about whether or not there is a scientific basis for addressing
the problem of climate change. I happen to think there is.  
 But beyond that it is necessary that this country finally
address the overuse of petroleum products. We produce - we have
about 3 percent of world’s oil and we use 25 percent of it. We
can’t continue that.  
 HUNT: Telecommunications - net neutrality, a controversy
that seems to be around forever - who is going to decide the
issue in 2010, the Congress or the FCC?  
 DINGELL: Well, Sam Rayburn once made the observation to the
chairman of the FCC, he said, remember, you work for us and if
you do that everything will be all right. I sent a letter to the
chairman of the FCC asking serious questions about what he was
getting ready to do and about his authority. I have not gotten
the answer to that question.  
 The hard fact of the matter is we do have to have
neutrality with regard to telecommunications and broadband. But
it has to be done properly, and as events appear it is pretty
hard to say that the FCC is proceeding on a course that will
avoid lawsuits and quite frankly that will sustain lawsuits and
challenges.  
 HUNT: Is it time for Congress to step in this year?  
 DINGELL: Well, Congress will be pretty well loaded this
year. I think that until the FCC takes further steps it probably
won’t be necessary. A number of us here on the Hill that tried
to guide them and to explain to them that, first of all, they
ought to stay with the existing interpretation to the law
because it is well established and old.  
 And one of the things that the FCC is doing, which I think
is questionable. The fact is they are trying to bottom what they
are doing on a minority view by Justice Scalia in a lawsuit
which happens to have a point. But any freshman law student will
tell you the minority views in a court case are not the defining
law.  
 HUNT: On the economy your state of Michigan and your
depression, 14 percent unemployment, President Obama’s person in
charge of the auto industry recovery, Ed Montgomery, is now
leading. Is the administration doing enough for Michigan, for
the auto industry?  
 DINGELL: Well, Michigan people will tell you there is not
enough being done and, quite honestly, it is pretty hard to see
how anything could be done to cure the problems we have in
Michigan. We are not the worst off state, but second worst, but
that is terrible as you well know.  
 Now, having said that, it is important that we do something
and do everything that we can to see to it that the state turns
around and that the economy of the nation turns around.  
 HUNT: Is the Congress focused too much on curbing the
budget deficit and not enough on stimulus and helping with jobs?  
 DINGELL: I happen to think so. If you will remember,
Roosevelt in 1937 went back and cut back on what he was doing
with regard to the stimulus and the end result was that it
triggered a recession in 1937 which was very serious. I do spend
a lot of time reading history. Those days -  
 HUNT: Is there a danger of repeating that if Congress puts
the brakes on too much?  
 DINGELL: Well, we are very concerned about that. And very
frankly, this problem seems exacerbated not just by the fact
that there is the potential in this country, Al, but there is
also a potential around the world. And so it is - it won’t be
just the United States that is making that mistake if it is a
mistake. I am concerned that it might be.  
 But it will be the whole world and that will aggravate a
situation which will make it harder for anyone to address it.
And remember, the United States has been providing the
leadership in terms of trying to restore the world economy with
relatively small help by the way, from the Chinese, who are a
very large part of the problem.  
 HUNT: Let’s switch to Afghanistan. A change of command in
Afghanistan, you have voted for more funding. Do you think this
war is winnable?  
 DINGELL: It is winnable and when you are in a war you have
got to assume that it is winnable. The minute you decide it is
not winnable you have just simply got to get out. So we don’t
have any easy way out at this time in any event. We have a
corrupt, incompetent government and we are trying to engage not
only in defeating the Taliban and al-Qaeda, but also we are
trying to do nation building and with the corrupt government and
a nation that has a history of anarchy.  
 Now understand, Al, what - winning may not be what
Americans now think it is. It is to get a state in Afghanistan
that can sort of run itself and not allow troubles to get out of
there which will cause something like the 9/11 bombing over
here.  
 HUNT: With the passing of Senator Byrd you are the dean of
the entire Congress now. If you had that magic wand, sir, with
all of your years here, what one or two changes would you make
in this institution?  
 DINGELL: Well, the first thing I would do is I would
address the United States Senate. That is the slowest moving
thing since the snail and very frankly, their requirement for 60
votes is perhaps the most singular undemocratic institution -
small ‘d’ - that I have ever seen or heard tell of. That has
become a device where, very frankly, we are channeling senators
to get goodies for themselves and their state in spite of the
need by simply threatening filibuster. And it has made that body
be the drain on the legislative process going back to the days
when my dad was here and I was a small boy.  
 HUNT: Sir, thank you very much for being with us.  
 ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  
 THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  
 #<610771.1204164.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jul/02/2010 09:05 GMT
  
          
          


  


        