-- Dollar Strength Versus Euro May Undermine Obama's Export Goal, Mizuho Says
-- Nate Hosoda
-- 2010-07-02T05:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/dollar-strength-versus-euro-may-undermine-obama-s-export-goal-mizuho-says.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama ’s goal of
doubling U.S.  exports  in five years may fail as the dollar
surges against the euro and China acts to avoid rapid gains for
the yuan, Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. said.  
 The Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, climbed almost 9
percent this year as Europe’s financial crisis boosted demand
for the refuge of U.S. Treasuries. The flight to safety may
continue, strengthening the dollar to a more-than-seven-year
high of $1.05 per euro in the third quarter of 2011, said
 Daisuke Karakama , a market economist in Tokyo at Mizuho.  
 “The U.S. government’s wholehearted desire is probably to
raise export growth and employment” before midterm elections in
November, Karakama said. However, the dollar will strengthen
against the euro as “austerity measures due to the European
crisis depress the region’s economic growth and keep interest
rates there low.”  
 Obama’s export goal, outlined in his State of the Union
address this year, also faces challenges because China is likely
to limit gains in the yuan against the dollar at an annual rate
of about 3 percent, according to Karakama. Obama this week
reiterated his desire for a stronger yuan, days after citing
“headwinds” from the European crisis.  
 China’s central bank has allowed the currency to gain 0.8
percent since saying on June 19 that it was resuming a flexible
exchange rate to curb inflation and rebalance the economy away
from exports. The currency is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on
either side of the daily fixing.  
 “The U.S. won’t be able to make a breakthrough toward a
weaker dollar,” Karakama said.  
 The euro fell to $1.1877 on June 7, the weakest since March
2006. It traded at $1.2490 at 2:58 p.m. in Tokyo, from $1.2527
yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net ;
 Nate Hosoda  in Tokyo at 
nhosoda @bloomberg.net  
          
          


  


        