-- ME Bank Revives Australia Foreign-Currency Mortgage Bond Market With Sale
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-07-02T06:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/me-bank-revives-australia-foreign-currency-mortgage-bond-market-with-sale.html

          
          
             Members Equity Bank Pty Ltd., the
Australian lender known as ME Bank, sold the country’s first
residential mortgage-backed securities denominated in a foreign
currency since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  
 The lender issued $335 million of bonds in U.S. dollars
priced to yield 120 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate, according to an e-mailed statement from sale
manager National Australia Bank Ltd. It also issued A$801.55
million ($678.7 million) of local-currency notes.  
 The sale will “add depth to investor demand for Australian
RMBS,”  Paul Garvey , ME Bank’s manager of financial markets,
said in a phone interview from Melbourne. It will “pave the way
for other industry participants to look toward innovative
structures, including alternative currencies,” he said.  
 Australia’s mortgage-bond market froze in 2008 as Lehman’s
collapse spurred investors to avoid all but the safest debt.
While A$16 billion of stimulus measures are helping thaw markets,
mortgage-bond sales during the crisis were limited to local-
currency deals, according to the Reserve Bank of Australia.  
 There were A$167.8 billion of Australian RMBS outstanding
as of March 31, according to Standard & Poor’s, with 9.7 percent
denominated in U.S. dollars.  
 Swap Rate  
 ME Bank priced A$363 million of securities to yield 105
basis points more than the one month bank bill swap rate and
A$383.3 million of bonds to yield 110 basis points, according to
today’s statement. ME Bank didn’t disclose the pricing on two
other classes of notes which totaled A$55.25 million.  
 The Australian Office of Financial Management bought A$250
million of notes, National Australia said in a separate e-mail.  
 Lawmakers agreed to buy mortgage bonds during the freeze to
help smaller providers of home loans that rely on securitization
for funding. The  AOFM  has already bought A$1.25 billion of
securities sold by ME Bank under the program, according to data
on its website.  
 ME Bank, owned by a group of superannuation funds, was
created in 1999 to offer low-cost home loans, according to its
 website .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        