-- Emerging European Stocks Rise, Snapping Three-Day Drop; Currencies Advance
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-07-02T22:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/eastern-european-stocks-rise-snapping-three-day-decline-currencies-gain.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in four days and currencies strengthened after metals
rallied and investors speculated equities will benefit from
growth in developing nations.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.5 percent to
913.55 by 5 p.m. in New York. The measure dropped 3.6 percent
this week, the biggest decline in a month and a half. The  MSCI
EM Eastern Europe Index  climbed the most in five weeks,
advancing 2.9 percent after Poland’s central bank boosted its
economic growth forecast. Romania’s leu jumped 1.1 percent
against the euro amid speculation the International Monetary
Fund may approve part of the country’s bailout loan.  
 OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest mining company,
advanced 3.3 percent as copper prices rebounded from a three-
week low.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA , the copper producer with the
biggest European mine output, increased 2.8 percent. The Polish
central bank boosted its estimate for the country’s expansion
next year to 4.6 percent from a February projection of 2.9
percent.  
 Economic growth in emerging markets means stocks are in a
“bull phase,” even after the benchmark index fell 13 percent
from its 2010 high, according to investor  Mark Mobius .  
 “We are still in a bull phase simply because of the growth
rates in these countries,” Mobius, who oversees about $34
billion in emerging-market assets at Templeton Asset Management
Ltd., said at a briefing with reporters in Paris today. “We are
happy with the correction. We’ll be able to buy cheaper
stocks.”  
 Payrolls Report  
 Asian shares declined after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut
its growth forecast for China this year to 10.1 percent from
11.4 percent as government restrictions on lending and real
estate slow expansion in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy.  
 A U.S. report today showed employment fell in June for the
first time this year, reflecting a drop in federal census
workers and a smaller-than-forecast gain in private hiring. The
jobless rate fell to 9.5 percent from 9.7 percent as the labor
force shrank.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  gained, paring its first
weekly loss in a month, as metals advanced, overshadowing a drop
in payrolls and factory orders in the U.S., and investors
speculated a sell-off was overdone.  
 Russian Stocks Gain  
 Poland’s  WIG20 Index  advanced 1.3 percent. The central bank
said output will rise 3.2 percent this year, compared with an
earlier forecast of 3.1 percent. Consumer demand, imports and
investments will drive growth next year, the bank said.  
 Poland’s zloty strengthened 0.2 percent against the euro
while the Brazilian real rose 1.1 percent versus the dollar and
the Russian ruble gained 0.5 percent.  
 Russia’s  Micex Index  climbed 2.7 percent. Mobius said he’s
“bullish” on Russian stocks because of attractive valuations.
The Micex trades for about 6.8 times this year’s earnings
estimates, compared with 11.1 times for the MSCI emerging gauge,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The leu climbed the most since February 2009, while the BET
Index of stocks climbed 2.7 percent. The IMF’s board will meet
today to review Romania’s progress in meeting the terms of its
bailout loan and the disbursement of about 900 million euros
($1.1 billion) to the Balkan nation, the Washington-based lender
said on June 29.  
 “The positive prospects of the IMF review are probably the
main trigger” of the leu rally,  Vlad Muscalu , an economist at
ING Groep NV in Bucharest, said in response to e-mailed
questions from Bloomberg News. “The local stock market is
sometimes more volatile than its regional peers given its
smaller market depth.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        