-- Energy Hedge Funds Close After Investor Withdrawals
-- Lars Paulsson
-- 2010-07-02T14:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/hedge-funds-shutting-in-europe-as-energy-slide-accelerates-investor-exodus.html

          
          
             Energy hedge funds in Europe are
collapsing after investor withdrawals forced managers to scale
back bets amid sliding prices for oil, coal and electricity.  
 At least six funds managing more than $158 million shut in
the first half, including four in May and June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. London-based Rampart Capital LLP
succumbed after failing to reach “critical mass” within nine
months of opening, according to Chief Investment Officer
 Marcello Romano .  
 The funds were battered after Brent crude fell in May by
the most since November 2008 and German power had its fourth
monthly drop this year. The average loss from January through
May for global energy funds was 19 percent, according to a June
10 report from JPMorgan Chase & Co., compared with a 0.9 percent
gain for  Hedge Fund Research Inc. ’s main index of more than
2,000 members.  
 “The industry is limping,” said  Fredrik Adolfson , a 43-
year-old manager for Stockholm-based Adapto Energy Fund, which
started on Jan. 18 and returned about 3 percent through June 30.
“Risk capital has dropped off radically.”  
 Liquidations around the world rose to about 240 in the
first quarter, compared with 165 in the previous three months,
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research reported June 8.  
 Energy Capital Management BV in Amsterdam shut its MMT
Energy Fund in May after failing to achieve targeted returns
since March 2009, Chief Executive Officer  Marcel Melis  said in
an e-mail interview.  
 ‘So Many Funds’  
 Orkla Finans AS’s 85 million-euro ($104 million)  Energy
Fund  made a “strategic decision” to close last month following
a 12 percent loss this year, Yngve Torvanger Jordal, the Oslo-
based head of hedge-fund products, said in a June 16 interview.  
 “I certainly can’t think of a period when so many funds in
the sector called it a day,”  Fraser McKenzie , head of research
at 47 Degrees North Capital Management Ltd., said in an
interview. McKenzie’s company, based in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland,
is a fund of funds with investments in energy.  
 About 30 funds are actively trading European energy markets
after the latest round of closures, according to investment-
adviser  Energy Alpha Strategies Ltd.  in London.  
 Boom times for most European energy funds ended in 2008,
when a six-year rally in fuel prices gave way to the worst
recession since the Great Depression.  
 Brent lost 24 percent May 3-25, erasing its first-half
rally and trading as low as $68.15 a barrel in London. European
coal for 2011 slid as much as 13 percent in the May 4-19 period
to $92 a metric ton, while German 2011 power, a regional
benchmark contract, dropped 8.8 percent May 10-20 to as low as
50.60 euros a megawatt hour.  
 Better-Performing Assets  
 Investors withdrew from energy funds in favor of better-
performing assets.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 23
percent in 2009, while gold rose 24 percent and copper surged
139 percent.  
 The Reuters/Jeffries CRB index of 19 commodities climbed 23
percent last year. Hedge funds investing mainly in European
energy lost 2 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of 13
funds, down from a profit of 4.3 percent in 2008.  
 “The stock markets were doing well, and people wanted to
move their investments to other areas,” said Mikkel Storm-
Jensen, manager of Norden Absolute Energy, which closed Feb. 8.
Oslo-based Norden, a partnership set up with Swiss utility AGL
AG, lost 2.7 percent in 2009.  
 Funds that bet correctly on energy-markets included Plenum
Investment Ltd.’s 80 million-euro  Plenum Power Surge  fund, which
rose 15 percent this year through May. Former Goldman Sachs Inc.
oil trader Gilbert Saiz delivered a “positive performance” for
his Vector Commodity Fund in June, its first month of trading,
Erik Serrano Berntsen, a partner at Energy Alpha who markets the
fund, said by e-mail.  
 Arctic Bet  
 Plenum was up as much as 19 percent in the first two months
of the year after predicting that Arctic weather would push
Nordic power prices higher, investment manager  Henrik Wennberg 
said in a phone interview from Zurich. After redemptions last
year, 2010 has been “stable or slightly positive,” he said.
The firm still closed its Power Fund on March 31.  
 NEAS Power Fund started trading in October last year and
gained 6.8 percent through May, said  Nick Rees , a partner at
investment manager  Absolute Return Partners LLP  in London. PCE
Investor Ltd.’s Cumulus Energy Fund gained 68 percent last year
and doubled its assets in the past 12 months, said  Steve Brosnan , London-based head of risk, declining to disclose 2010
returns.  
 Valartis AG in Zurich shut its European Energy Fund in May
after starting in October 2006, according to a June 2 e-mail
from administrator Custom House Fund Services (Chicago) LLC.  
 ‘Weeding Out’  
 “The recent closures represent an overdue weeding out of
funds that had failed to gain critical mass in intellectual
capital, investor capital and manager capital,” said Serrano
Berntsen. “It’s not symptomatic of the whole industry.”  
 Melis at MMT in Amsterdam aimed to profit on discrepancies
between prices in different regions as well as electricity and
fuels. While MMT peaked with assets of more than $100 million
last year, the relative-value strategy wasn’t effective for
European energy markets in the past 14 months, Melis, 41, said
in a May 26 letter to investors.  
 “While there has been volatility in a directional sense,
the spreads normally traded by hedge funds have actually not
been that volatile,” leaving funds using the strategy with
difficulty in generating returns, said McKenzie at 47 Degrees.  
 MMT dropped 5.4 percent in the four months through April
after sliding 7.4 percent last year, Bloomberg data showed. It
gained 10 percent in 2007 and 24 percent in 2008.  
 ‘Challenging Market’  
 “This is the most challenging market environment for me in
the past decade,” said Melis, who began trading energy in the
1990s and started MMT in 2006 after working at BP Plc and
Reliant Energy Inc.  
 Rampart’s Romano, former head of European gas trading at
 Enron Corp.  and co-founder of Foundation Energy Ltd., closed his
fund in the last week of May.  
 “We tried to raise money for two years and it was a
journey of broken promises,” Romano, 40, said in an interview
in London. “We weren’t able to get to the scale we wanted to
be.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lars Paulsson  in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        