-- EDF's Spending Plan for French Nuclear Reactors Face Government Scrutiny
-- Francois de Beaupuy
-- 2010-07-02T08:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/electricite-de-france-s-french-nuclear-spending-plans-face-state-scrutiny.html

          
          
             Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power generator, is facing demands to justify ballooning
cost estimates for extending the lives of French nuclear
reactors as the government opens the market to competitors.  
 “Many decisions will hinge on” the cost estimates,
including the rates rivals will pay for  EDF  electricity
supplies, Pierre-Franck Chevet, the top official at France’s
Energy Ministry, said in an interview. “We will need some
estimates to set the rates” next year, he said.  
 EDF  will have to spend about 600 million euros ($750
million) on each of its 58 reactors to keep them in service for
longer, according to Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio .
That’s 50 percent more than an estimate given earlier this year.
The utility will have to fork out almost 35 billion euros in 20
years to keep aging plants in working order, the CEO has said.  
 Cost estimates have taken on greater urgency as lawmakers
study a planned electricity market law that may force EDF to
sell about a quarter of the power from its nuclear reactors to
 GDF Suez SA  and others. The law, in the Senate after  approval  by
the National Assembly last month, follows probes by European
Union regulators into EDF’s dominance in the French market.  
 While the work on EDF’s reactors won’t start until the next
decade, the government needs rough cost estimates to calculate
the wholesale power rates the utility can charge rivals on what
may be as much as 100 terawatt-hours a year. The price will be
set by the government in consultation with the energy regulator
after the law is passed.  
 Explain Costs  
 The ministry has ordered state-owned EDF to spell out costs
to upgrade the French plants, which are on average 24 years old,
Chevet said.  
 Extending French reactor operations will be “one of the
most important issues for the next two or three years,” Chevet
said. “I do not know the basis of the 400 million euros or the
600 million euros at this stage.”  
 EDF’s 30-year-old French nuclear reactors are now
undergoing inspections by the  Autorite de Surete Nucleaire ,
France’s nuclear safety watchdog, to determine whether they can
operate for another decade.  
 Keeping them going for more than four decades would be
cheaper than building new ones, such as the EPR model the
utility is developing for 4 billion euros in Flamanville,
Normandy.  
 Precise Information  
 “We want this examined in-depth,” Chevet said. “It’s
not simple, there are a lot of technical issues.” Getting more
precise information could take at least a year and will depend
on how long EDF wants to operate the reactors.  
 Proglio has described the proposed power law as
“expropriation” and warned against the “pillage” of the
utility by setting the price too low. At a Senate  hearing  last
month, Proglio said the minimum price should be 42 euros a
megawatt hour, which should be “progressively” raised to 45
euros a megawatt-hour to include costs of extending the lives of
French reactors.  
 French regulated rates for households currently assume EDF
base power supply costs of about 34 megawatts an hour. EDF’s
rivals say that is about where the wholesale price should be set
to enable them to compete on that market.  
 GDF Suez, the former French gas monopoly which operates
seven reactors in Belgium, has estimated costs to extend the
lifetime of its reactors at about 400 million euros each,
although this has to be evaluated plant by plant and depends on
the extension, Chief Executive Officer  Gerard Mestrallet  said
this week following a hearing at the French Senate.  
 Industrial Challenge  
 “Extending the lives of nuclear reactors is an industrial
challenge and it’s to be expected that the wholesale price will
permit this when the time comes, and I repeat when the time
comes,” Mestrallet told lawmakers.  
 Making rivals pay up front for the costs isn’t right, he
said. EDF’s share price could rise or fall by 1.50 euros for
each year the average lifetime of the reactors is extended or
reduced, according to  Louis Boujard , an analyst at Aurel BGC in
Paris.  
 “ EDF  must come up with a solid case,” to justify the cost
estimates, Chevet said. “The costs depend a lot on the extent
of the extension that is envisaged.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        