-- Emerging-Markets Stocks Fluctuate, Set for Weekly Loss on China Concerns
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-02T07:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/emerging-markets-stocks-fluctuate-set-for-weekly-loss-on-china-concerns.html

          
          
             Emerging-markets stocks fluctuated,
with a benchmark index headed for a second weekly loss, as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its Chinese economic growth
forecast, fanning concern the global recovery is in peril.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  was little changed at
909.54 at 2:57 p.m. in Shanghai. The measure has declined 4
percent this week, the most since the five days through May 21,
as a slowdown in Chinese manufacturing added to concern Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis will cut demand for Asian exports.  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  is set for the biggest
weekly slump since August after the Conference Board lowered its
April gauge for China’s economic outlook. Manufacturing growth
slowed more than economists forecast in June, official data
showed yesterday.  
 “It looks like the economy is heading for the worst
scenario of a double-dip recession,” said  Yan Ji , who helps
oversee about $1.5 billion at HSBC Jintrust Fund Management Co.
in Shanghai.  
 Goldman Sachs lowered its 2010 forecast for growth in the
largest emerging market to 10.1 percent from 11.4 percent.  
 Jiangxi Copper Co. , the nation’s largest producer of the
metal, dropped 3.4 percent while Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.
slid 2.3 percent after a measure of six metals fell 2.8 percent
to a three-week low on the London Metal Exchange yesterday.  
 Taiwan’s  Taiex Index  added 1.1 percent after President  Ma Ying-jeou  said a trade accord signed with China this week will
help the island “accelerate economic integration” in Asia.  
 Taiwan Accord  
 Cathay Financial Holding Co., the island’s largest
financial company by market value, gained 3 percent. Fubon
Financial Holding Co., the second-biggest, added 2.5 percent.  
 “The financial companies should be able to benefit the
earliest from the pact, as the technicalities are not so
complicated,”  Nora Hou , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by
phone in Taipei. “They are finally able to shine.”  
 Benchmark indexes in South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines
and Indonesia fell.  
 Genting Malaysia Bhd.  dropped 4.4 percent in Kuala Lumpur
after its stock was downgraded by HwangDBS Vickers Sdn., which
described the casino operator’s move to buy its Singapore
affiliate’s U.K. casino businesses as “negative.”  
 -- Chua Kong Ho . With assistance by  Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai and
Weiyi Lim in Taipei. Editors:  Reinie Booysen ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        