-- Henderson Defends Tactics With Ad Blitz After Cancelled Home Sales Queried
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-07-02T03:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/henderson-land-starts-publicity-campaign-to-defend-apartment-sales-tactics.html

          
          
             Henderson Land Development Co. , the
Hong Kong builder controlled by billionaire  Lee Shau-kee , has
started a publicity campaign to defend sales tactics that were
queried after the collapse of 20 luxury apartment sales.  
 The developer today took out full-page advertisements in
most local newspapers, claiming all sales in the 39 Conduit Road
project were “genuine” and “buyers weren’t connected to the
company.” Responses the company filed after at least seven
government queries on the transactions will be available for
inspection by local lawmakers by July 5, Henderson said June 30.  
 The Hong Kong government has introduced measures to cool
home prices and increased scrutiny of developers’ sales
techniques since Henderson’s October announcement it sold an
apartment at the project for a world-record price of HK$88,000
($11,300) per square foot. Henderson’s stock is down 21 percent
this year, the worst performer in the seven-member Hang Seng
Property Index, which has dropped 9.7 percent.  
 “It seems they’re aiming to get the message across to the
potential buyers this time,” said  Kenny Tang , an executive
director at Hong Kong-based Redford Asset Management Ltd.
“Clearly they want to limit the damage on future sales of their
other projects by the negative publicity so far.”  
 Erica Leung, a spokeswoman for Henderson, said the ads
highlighted the company’s responses to the government’s queries
on the transactions. The ads appeared in Oriental Daily News and
Apple Daily, the top two Hong Kong newspapers by circulation.  
 Henderson shares rose 0.2 percent to HK$46.10 as of 11:32
a.m. in Hong Kong. The stock market was closed yesterday for a
public holiday.  
 ‘Simple Transaction’  
 Hong Kong  housing prices  have risen 5.7 percent this year,
adding to 2009’s 29 percent advance. Financial Secretary John
Tsang in February announced a higher stamp duty on luxury
properties and has pledged to raise the supply of land as it
seeks to reduce the risk of a property bubble.  
 Today’s ads came two days after Henderson issued a press
release saying the sales at 39 Conduit Road in the Mid-Levels
district on Hong Kong Island were “genuine” and “simple,
commercial transactions.”  
 Henderson used standard contractual terms in the
transactions and booked the sales according to Hong Kong
accounting standards, the statement said.  
 Henderson was questioned last week for a seventh time by
the city’s government, which asked the company to provide copies
of title deeds and additional details on how it calculated the
interest penalty for late payments. The developer was questioned
an eighth time, Apple Daily reported June 29.  
 Unlucky Numbers  
 The developer said June 15 it will take a charge of HK$734
million against earnings on the 20 sales that were canceled. One
of the apartments that didn’t sell was the one that would have
set the HK$88,000 per-square-foot world record.  
 Henderson included sales of the 24 apartments plus one that
was sold in a completed transaction as part of its  revenue  of
HK$15.2 billion for the 18 months ended December 2009, the
company reported March 30. It extended completions of the
transactions for the 24 apartments in March, at the request of
buyers, the company said at the time.  
 Henderson skipped floor numbers at the 46-story project to
avoid those that include four and are considered unlucky, a
common practice in Hong Kong. Number four sounds like the word
“death” in Chinese.  
 The HK$439 million apartment Henderson had said was sold
for a record per square foot was listed on the 68th floor while
it was actually on the 45th.  
 As part of a government clamp down in November on sales
tactics that had been criticized by lawmakers, developers will
have to provide better information on floor numbering.  
 Rooftop Jacuzzis  
 The residential building has 66 units, each with their own
private lift lobby, and ranging from 2,800 square feet (260
square meters) to 7,600 square feet. The duplexes in the
229,225-square-foot development feature private swimming pools
or Jacuzzis on the roof, according to the development’s website.  
 The company sold four units, on the 30th and 31st floors,
according to filings to the Land Registry, the most expensive
for HK$134 million.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        