-- Tesla Motors Shares Fall Below $17 Offering Price
-- Lee Spears
-- 2010-07-06T21:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/tesla-motors-shares-retreat-trim-first-week-gain-after-ipo.html

          
          
             Tesla Motors Inc. , the electric-car
company that hasn’t posted a profit, fell below the $17 price
its shares sold for last week in the first initial public
offering by a U.S. automaker in more than a half century.  
 The maker of the $109,000 electric Roadster retreated for a
fourth straight day, losing 16 percent to $16.11 in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite  trading . The Palo Alto, California-based
company has  slid 33 percent  since rising 41 percent on the first
day of trading June 29.  
 The $260 million IPO, the first by an American car company
since  Ford Motor Co.  in 1956, is funding a startup that expects
to  lose more money  in the next two years as it tries to build a
$57,400 battery-powered sedan. Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk , who made almost $300 million selling PayPal Inc. and Zip2
Corp., brought Tesla public as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
posted its worst quarterly drop since 2008.  
 “The company is a great concept with relatively weak
fundamentals,” said  Josef Schuster , the Chicago-based founder
of IPOX Capital Management LLC and manager of the Direxion
Long/Short Global IPO Fund. “Markets are weak and in a weak
market right now this is hurting the company even more.”  
 The automaker, which now has a market capitalization of
$1.5 billion, sold 15.3 million shares at $17 each after an
overallotment option was exercised, according to filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company will use
proceeds for factories and possible acquisitions.  
 Musk’s Shares  
 The decline in the shares erased Musk’s paper gains of at
least $361 million from the remaining 26.89 million shares he
owns in Tesla, the company’s regulatory filings and data
compiled by Bloomberg show. His stake is now valued at about
$433 million, less than the $457 million after the IPO.  
 Tesla raised 27 percent more than it originally sought
after boosting the number of shares it was offering to 13.3
million from 11.1 million.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. of New York, along with
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG, led Tesla’s offering.  
 The stock rallied on the first day of trading even as the
S&P 500 slid  3.1 percent  on concern over growth in China and
lower-than-estimated U.S. consumer confidence. The sale also
came after at least 35 companies worldwide postponed or withdrew
IPOs since the start of May as the European debt crisis sent the
S&P 500 down as much as 14 percent from its 2010 high.  
 Financial Engines  
 The first-day advance was the second-biggest for a U.S. IPO
this year after  Financial Engines Inc. , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Palo Alto-based investment adviser
co-founded by Nobel laureate  William Sharpe  increased 44 percent
on March 16.  
 Electric-car technology has been supported by U.S. policy
makers including President  Barack Obama  as a way to reduce the
nation’s oil use and dependence on foreign energy sources. Obama
set a goal of getting 1 million plug-in hybrids and electric
cars on U.S. roads by 2015 and subsidized Tesla with a $465
million loan from the Department of Energy to develop its cars.  
 Musk, Tesla’s biggest shareholder, co-founded PayPal, the
online payment company now owned by San Jose, California-based
 EBay Inc. , and is CEO of Space Exploration Technologies Inc., a
Hawthorne, California-based company that builds spacecraft.  
 ‘Dreams and Visions’  
 Tesla’s net loss in the first quarter almost doubled to
$29.5 million from a year earlier. The  deficit  is more than half
the $55.7 million the carmaker lost in all of 2009.  
 “They brought this thing into a market that was not
rewarding hype,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than
$4 billion as chairman of Holland & Co. in New York. “The stock
did get its pop, and now it’s plagued by the reality of the
marketplace. The reality of the marketplace is that people
aren’t paying for dreams and visions.”  
 At the original midpoint price of $15, Tesla was valued at
5.5 times its  net tangible assets , a measure of shareholder
equity that excludes assets that can’t be sold in liquidation.
That’s triple the median 1.82 times for automotive companies
globally, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Tesla will use the IPO and the federal loan to develop its
lithium-ion battery-powered Model S, an electric sedan intended
to travel 160 miles (257 kilometers) per charge, by 2012. The
company plans to produce at least 20,000 units of the Model S
each year.  
 Nissan, GM  
 As Tesla focuses on creating a niche for premium-priced
electric vehicles, Yokohama, Japan-based  Nissan Motor Co.  and
General Motors Co. are developing battery-powered vehicles to
appeal to mainstream buyers.  
 Nissan’s  electric Leaf hatchback, which has a range of 100
miles, goes on sale in the U.S. later this year with a base
price of $32,780, or a third that of Tesla’s Roadster.  
 GM plans to introduce the Chevrolet Volt electric car in
November. The Detroit-based automaker is preparing for an IPO
that may sell 20 percent of the Treasury’s stake in the company
and reduce the U.S. to a minority owner, two people familiar
with the plan said last month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tesla Motors Chairman and CEO Elon Musk  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk, who made almost $300 million selling PayPal Inc. and Zip2 Corp., brought Tesla public as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted its worst quarterly drop since 2008. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk, who made almost $300 million selling PayPal Inc. and Zip2 Corp., brought Tesla public as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted its worst quarterly drop since 2008. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) --  Tesla Motors Inc. unveiled today the Roadster 2.5, the latest generation of its electric sports car. Bloomberg's Julie Hyman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
