-- EU Has `Serious Doubts' About Hungary's Planned Bank Tax, Matolcsy Says
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-02T13:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/eu-has-serious-doubts-about-hungary-s-planned-bank-tax-matolcsy-says.html

          
          
             The European Union has “serious
doubts” about Hungary’s plan for a “brutal” bank tax that is key
to meeting its creditor-approved budget deficit target, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said.  
 The government failed to agree with lenders yesterday on a
120 billion-forint ($526 million) tax for this year after the
owners of six banks withdrew the negotiating mandates of their
local units, Matolcsy said in an interview in Budapest today.  
 “The Hungarian bank tax caused a storm in the global
business community,” Matolcsy said. “There’s fear that if
Hungary introduced a bank tax of this magnitude, then Germany,
France, the U.K., Romania and Slovakia will follow suit.”  
 Hungary pledged last month to meet the budget deficit
target set by the  International Monetary Fund  and European
Union, which provided the bulk of a $25 billion bailout in 2008.
The cabinet, which had sought a wider shortfall, reversed course
after comments by ruling-party officials comparing Hungary to
Greece pushed the forint to a 12-month low against the euro.  
 IMF Talks  
 Hungary is seeking to extend the bailout when it expires in
October and sign a two-year precautionary loan agreement of as
much as 20 billion euros ($25 billion) starting next year,
Matolcsy said. The EU and IMF will review Hungary’s budget
policy starting next week.  
 The forint strengthened 0.8 percent to 284.62 per euro
today, from 285.96 late yesterday. The currency dropped 3.4
percent in the past month.  
 The two-year bank tax, to be based on net assets at the end
of last year, would raise 0.5 percent of gross domestic product
annually, double the planned level in the European Union,
Matolcsy said. The tax is part of a 187 billion-forint levy on
financial institutions. EU Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
today he had “serious doubts” over the tax, according to
Matolcsy.  
 The cabinet is seeking IMF and EU approval to increase the
 budget gap  target for next year to between 3 percent and 3.8
percent from the current 2.8 percent in exchange for
“structural” economic reforms, including merging state
agencies at the county level. The government is committed to
narrowing the shortfall next year, Matolcsy said.  
 “There’s a link between structural reforms and the IMF and
EU agreement,” Matolcsy said. “If we can agree on a higher
budget gap than 2.8 percent, then we can undertake more and more
costly structural reforms.”  
 Regardless of next year’s budget goal, the cabinet will
implement a 16 percent flat tax for family income and cut
bureaucracy, Matolcsy said. The flat tax, which may be
introduced over two years, can be funded by economic expansion
which is expected to yield increased budget revenues next year,
he said.  
 Hungary’s  economy  contracted 6.3 percent last year during
the worst recession since 1991. Growth resumed in the fourth
quarter of 2009 and accelerated in the first three months of
this year. The economy may expand 0.9 percent this year and 3.2
percent next year, according to the central bank’s June
forecast.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        