-- European Stocks Rebound From Five-Week Low
-- Will Hadfield
-- 2010-07-02T15:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/european-stock-index-futures-rise-bhp-billiton-dana-petroleum-may-move.html

          
          
             Most  European stocks  gained as an
unexpected decline in the U.S. jobless rate reassured investors
about the health of the world’s largest economy.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , Rio Tinto Group and Xstrata Plc
increased after the Australian government scaled back a proposed
tax on mining companies. Dana Petroleum Plc jumped 22 percent
after the Scottish oil explorer received a takeover approach
from Korea National Oil Corp. Genmab A/S surged 46 percent after
a revised agreement with partner GlaxoSmithKline Plc reduced the
risk of a new share sale.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  closed little changed at 237.27
as two stocks gained for each one that fell. The gauge has
retreated 4.5 percent this week, extending the drop since from
this year’s high on April 15 to 13 percent. The decline has
pushed the measure’s  valuation  to 11 times reported earnings,
the lowest level since 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “Job creation is taking hold,”  Pierre Lapointe , a
strategist at Brockhouse & Cooper Inc. in Montreal, wrote in an
e-mail. “History tells us that a peak in the U.S. unemployment
rate has the potential to sustain the equity rally globally.”  
 The U.S.  jobless rate  fell to 9.5 percent in June from 9.7
percent the previous month as the labor force shrank, Labor
Department figures showed today. Payrolls declined by 125,000 as
the government cut 225,000 temporary workers conducting the 2010
census. Employment at companies rose 83,000.  
 FTSE, CAC  
 National benchmark indexes advanced in 13 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  rose 0.7 percent and
France’s CAC 40 gained 0.3 percent. Germany’s DAX fell 0.4
percent.  
 “Financial markets have endured a torrid couple of months,
but the level of spill-over into the real economy looks
limited,”  Ian Richards , a strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London, wrote in a report. “We think we face
another reporting season characterized by a strong beat ratio,
and generally markets respond to that sort of newsflow.”  
 BHP Billiton, the world’s biggest mining company, rose 1.7
percent to 1,723 pence in London trading. Rio Tinto gained 1
percent to 2,934.5 pence and Xstrata added 3 percent to 871.1
pence. Australia exempted most commodities from a proposed
mining tax, raised the threshold and cut the levy to 30 percent
on coal and iron ore earnings, compared with a previous plan to
collect 40 percent of all resource profits. The revamped tax
will apply from July 2012.  
 Dana Climbs  
 Dana Petroleum jumped 22 percent to 1,440 pence, the most
since November 2008. The company said it received a “very
preliminary approach which may or may not lead to an offer.”
KNOC confirmed it’s in discussions regarding a possible cash
offer for Dana.  
 Rival Premier Oil Plc rallied 7.9 percent to 1,323 pence as
a gauge of energy shares posted the biggest gain among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  
 Genmab  soared 46 percent to 59.65 kroner after the Danish
biotechnology company whose chief executive officer unexpectedly
resigned in June amended its agreement with Glaxo on its Arzerra
drug. In exchange for lower milestone payments and royalties,
Genmab will get an upfront payment of 90 million pounds ($136
million) and will spend less to develop the antibody, which it
plans to use as a treatment for cancer and autoimmune diseases.  
 Deutsche Boerse AG , the operator of the Frankfurt stock
exchange, increased 2.9 percent to 50.30 euros. Morgan Stanley
upgraded the stock to “overweight” from “equal weight,”
saying that exchanges are “starting to look more attractive
given lower balance sheet risks compared with banks and strong,
volatility-driven volumes.”  
 ThyssenKrupp Upgrade  
 ThyssenKrupp AG climbed 1.9 percent to 20.19 euros after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts upgraded Germany’s largest
steelmaker to “buy” from “neutral”.  
 “Recent volatility in the equity markets has driven steel
valuations to low levels,” analysts led by  Peter Mallin-Jones 
wrote in a note to clients. ThyssenKrupp has “an attractive
growth profile and end-market exposures.”  
 Nestle SA led a gauge of food and beverage companies to the
biggest drop in the Stoxx 600 after Morgan Stanley cut the
shares to “equal weight” from “overweight.”  
 Sanofi-Aventis SA fell 2.4 percent to 47.06 euros after
five people with knowledge of the situation said France’s
largest drugmaker is planning a major acquisition in the U.S.
Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  briefed the board on
the transaction at a special meeting this week, according to two
of the people.  
 UBS AG analysts said that Sanofi’s priority should be
building a biotech business rather than expanding into the U.S.
The brokerage left its “neutral” rating unchanged.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Hadfield  in London at 
 whadfield@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BHP Billiton Ltd., Rio Tinto Group and Xstrata Plc increased after the Julia Gillard's government scaled back a proposed tax on mining companies. Source: Australia's Government House via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
