-- German, U.K. Budget Cuts May Drive Europe Back Into Recession, Pimco Says
-- Sara Eisen
-- 2010-07-02T10:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/europe-risks-renewed-recession-on-spending-reductions-pimco-s-mather-says.html

          
          
             Europe risks falling back into
recession as nations such as Germany and the U.K. cut budgets
sooner than expected, justifying an “underweight” position on
the euro and pound, said Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s largest bond fund.  
 “It’s a growing risk,”  Scott Mather , Pimco’s head of
global portfolio management, said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview from Newport Beach, California. “Austerity
is being pulled forward.”  
 The European Union aims to slash national budget deficits
after being forced to take unprecedented steps to stem a debt
crisis. In early May, European governments crafted a 110
billion-euro ($138 billion) emergency aid package for Greece
after the country was cut off from debt markets. A week later,
the governments also established a 750 billion-euro financial
backstop for the euro area as a whole following an increase in
borrowing costs for Spain and Portugal.  
 The EU goal is to avert a debt default, preserve the 11-
year-old European single currency and push budget deficits below
the EU’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  
 “There are parts of Europe where austerity wasn’t called
for immediately,” said Mather, who mentioned Germany and the
U.K. as examples. “We’ve been a bit surprised by how quickly
even countries that don’t have austerity forced upon them by the
market are willfully heading down that path.”  
 Growth Forecast  
 The euro-area economy will probably grow 0.9 percent this
year and 1.5 percent in 2011 after declining 4.1 percent in
2009, the European Commission, the EU’s Brussels-based executive
arm, said on May 5 in a semi-annual forecast.  
 The fiscal tightening across Europe “is leading people to
worry about where the growth will come from, not just next year
but in the next six months,” Mather said. “It’s made us bring
forward our expectations for a drop in growth and a drop in
inflation within the euro zone.”  
 Partly for these reasons, Pimco is sticking to an
underweight stance that the company has had on the euro and the
pound “for quite a period of time,” he said. Mather said
possible further economic and political “tensions” in the euro
area pose extra risks for the European single currency.  
 An underweight position means investors hold a smaller
portion of those assets in their portfolios than are included in
benchmark indexes.  
 “We still think an underweight position is warranted,”
Mather said. “There are a lot of headwinds for the euro
ahead.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sara Eisen  in New York at 
 seisen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pimco’s head of global portfolio management Scott Mather.  Photographer: Guido Krzykovski/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Europe risks falling back into recession as nations such as Germany and the U.K. cut budgets sooner than expected, according Pacific Investment Management Co., which is sticking to its "underweight" stance on the euro and pound. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Euro sign sculpture sits outside the European Central Bank (ECB) headquarters in Frankfurt, Germany. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
