-- European Stocks Decline for Second Week on Concern Recovery Is Faltering
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/european-stocks-decline-for-second-week-amid-concerns-growth-is-faltering.html

          
          
             European stocks  fell for a second
week as disappointing economic data from China and the U.S.
fanned concern that the global recovery is faltering.  
 Stocks sensitive to economic growth including basic-
resources and construction shares sank.  Dana Petroleum Plc 
jumped 22 percent after the Scottish oil explorer said it
received a takeover approach. BP Plc rallied for the first week
since its Macondo well started spewing oil into the Gulf of
Mexico in April.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 4.5 percent this week, the
biggest drop for six weeks, as all 19 industry groups dropped.
The gauge has declined 13 percent from this year’s high on April
15 amid concern about the impact of Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis on the world economy.  
 “Leading indicators are rolling over and turning less
positive,” a team of strategists at Citigroup Inc. in London,
led by  Adrian Cattley , wrote in a note. “Weaker macro has
driven risk assets lower and the second quarter was one of the
worst for equities compared with bonds in the last 20 years.”  
 National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets. Germany’s DAX lost 3.9 percent and France’s CAC 40 slid
4.9 percent, while the U.K.’s  FTSE 100  retreated 4.1 percent.  
 Cooling Economy  
 China’s manufacturing growth slowed more than economists
forecast in June, adding to signs that the world’s fastest-
growing major economy is cooling. The government’s Purchasing
Managers’ Index declined for a second month, falling to 52.1
from 53.9 in May. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of 12 economists was 53.2.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its 2010 forecast for
growth in China’s real gross domestic product to 10.1 percent
from 11.4 percent. Quarter-on-quarter real GDP growth will
“slip to 8 percent or below” in the second half of 2010 before
rebounding, the brokerage said in a note. Goldman kept its
forecast for 2011 GDP growth unchanged at 10 percent.  
 In the U.S.,  manufacturing  expanded in June at the slowest
pace this year as factories received fewer orders and demand
from abroad cooled. The Institute for Supply Management’s gauge
of manufacturing fell to 56.2 from 59.7 a month earlier.
Economists had forecast the measure would fall to 59.  
 U.S. employers eliminated jobs in June, adding to concern
the economy is falling back into recession. Payrolls declined by
125,000 last month after an increase of 433,000 in May, the
Labor Department reported, reflecting a drop in federal census
workers and a smaller-than-forecast rise in private hiring. The
unemployment rate dropped to 9.5 percent from 9.7 percent.  
 Ominous Sign  
 “Ostensibly a decline in unemployment rate may look good,
but because this is due to a drop in participation rate it’s an
ominous sign,”  Robbert van Batenburg , head of research at Louis
Capital Markets LP in New York, said in e-mail.  
 Boliden AB , a Swedish copper and zinc miner, led losses in
the 30-member Bloomberg Europe Metals & Mining Index, dropping
11 percent, as metals such as copper and aluminum declined.
China and the U.S. are the world’s largest metals consumers.  
 Mining companies pared some of their losses after
Australia’s new Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  scaled back a
proposed tax on the industry. The government exempted most
commodities from the levy, raised the threshold and cut the tax
to 30 percent on coal and iron ore earnings, compared with a
previous plan to collect 40 percent of all resource profits.  
 Mining Stocks  
 Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a Kazakh metal producer,
fell 9.6 percent.  Lonmin Plc , the world’s third-largest platinum
producer, tumbled 9.5 percent.  
 Lafarge SA  sank 13 percent. CM - CIC Securities cut its
recommendation on the world’s biggest cement maker, citing a
“deterioration in visibility on the speed of the recovery in
volumes and therefore earnings in mature countries.”  
 Dana Petroleum  climbed 22 percent after Korea National Oil
Corp. confirmed that “it is in very preliminary discussions
regarding a possible cash offer.”  
 KNOC, as the Korean company is known, plans to spend about
$6 billion on acquisitions and projects this year in an effort
to more than double output by 2012. Dana, based in Aberdeen,
Scotland, holds more than 100 interests in exploration and
production licenses in nine countries.  
 Stop Leak  
      BP  rallied 5.7. The company’s first relief well aimed at
plugging its Gulf of Mexico gusher is seven to eight days ahead
of schedule to intercept and eventually stop the leak, U.S.
National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said yesterday. BP shares
have plunged 50 percent since the April 20 explosion on the
Deepwater Horizon rig that killed 11 crew members and triggered
the leak, the worst in U.S. history.  
 Taylor Wimpey Plc  lost 16 percent as Britain’s second-
largest house builder by volume said first-half home sales in
the U.K. will probably decline to 4,650 from 4,702 a year
earlier.  
 Genmab A/S  surged 15 percent after a revised agreement with
partner GlaxoSmithKline Plc reduced the risk of a new share
sale. Genmab and Glaxo said they had amended their agreement on
Arzerra, an experimental antibody under test to treat cancer and
autoimmune diseases. In exchange for lower milestone payments
and royalties, Genmab will spend less to develop the drug and
get an upfront payment of 90 million pounds ($136 million).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        