-- Leveraged-Loan Boom Loses Steam as Economic Woes Depress Market
-- Emre Peker
-- 2010-07-02T13:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/leveraged-loan-boom-loses-steam-amid-slowdown-in-global-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             Leveraged-loan investors are
demanding the highest premiums in 2010 after buying almost three
times more of the debt than a year ago, signaling a slowing
market amid a weakening global economic recovery.  
 Borrowing costs in the loan market have risen to the
highest since Dec. 17 relative to benchmark rates since the 2010
low on April 15, according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged
Commentary and Data (S&P LCD).  Interactive Data Corp.  may boost
the interest rate on a $1.3 billion term loan it’s seeking for a
leveraged buyout, according to people familiar with the talks.  
 After arranging $169.8 billion of the debt this year, banks
led by  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  are
seeking to move $14.8 billion of speculative-grade loans they’ve
underwritten for takeovers and refinancings. They’re trying to
sell the loans to other banks, investment firms and hedge funds
after Europe’s debt crisis roiled markets and U.S. consumer
confidence fell in June from a two-year high.  
 “In the beginning of April, it felt like we were off to
the races again, talking about gigantic deals like Fidelity
National,” said  Tom Newberry , the New York-based head of global
leveraged-finance capital markets at  Credit Suisse Group AG , the
fourth-biggest underwriter of leveraged loans this year.  
 In May,  Fidelity National Information Services Inc. 
rejected a $15 billion takeover bid led by Blackstone Group LP.
The sale, which envisioned as much as $10 billion in debt
financing, would have been the largest leveraged buyout since
October 2007. Instead the Jacksonville, Florida-based payment
services provider is seeking a $1.4 billion loan to help fund a
payment to shareholders.  
 ‘Sobering Reassessment’  
 There’s been a “more sobering reassessment” in the loan
market, Newberry said. “The institutional market has the
ability to take the deals that are in the pipeline right now,
it’s a question of whether it has the ability to take all of the
deals that are contemplated but are not yet in the pipeline.”  
 Deals already disclosed include financing for Silver Lake
and Warburg Pincus LLC’s $3.4 billion buyout of Interactive Data
from Pearson Plc. Bank of America, Barclays Plc and UBS AG,
which agreed to finance the transaction in May, this week
extended the deadline for lenders willing to invest in the debt
to July 8 from June 30.  
 Banks that agreed to finance Universal Health Services
Inc.’s acquisition of Psychiatric Solutions Inc. in May began
offering portions of a $1 billion term loan A and a $1.55
billion term loan B on June 24.  
 Bank Lending  
 A term loan A is sold to other banks while so-called B
loans are bought by non-bank lenders, such as collateralized
loan obligations, mutual funds and hedge funds. High-yield,
high-risk loans are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P.  
 Banks have been providing more money for acquisitions,
increasing the amount of term loan A financings for at least
three transactions, including Universal Health’s, as
institutional lenders reduce commitments for leveraged loans to
curb risk amid signs the economy is faltering.  
 Federal Reserve officials last week signaled Europe’s debt
crisis may harm American growth as the world’s biggest economy
grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter, less
than the 3 percent estimate issued last month, according to
Commerce Department data released June 25.  
 Since European leaders attempted to contain its debt crisis
in May by establishing a 750 billion euro ($944 billion) rescue
package, the  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  has declined
4.16 percent. For the year, the  measure  is up 1.37 percent.  
 Slower Growth  
 “The outlook for a slower pace of economic growth on the
back half of the year and the need to digest and resolve issues
in Europe, and how that might impact the U.S., has caused the
loan market to back up,” said  Greg Stoeckle , who manages about
$18.5 billion of loan funds at Invesco in New York.  
 The average spread to maturity over the three-month London
interbank offered rate for the most actively traded leveraged
loans widened 1.54 percentage point to 4.98 percentage points,
the highest level this year, according to S&P LCD. Three-month
Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to each other, was 0.5333
percent yesterday.  
 “People’s perception and acceptance of this new reality of
market backdrop has settled in, and risk became appropriately
priced for that,” said  Tim Donahue , who heads high-yield and
leveraged-loan capital markets at JPMorgan in New York.  
 Falling Issuance  
 Monthly leveraged loan issuance dropped to $16.4 billion
last month from $24.3 billion in May and $26.2 billion in April,
which was the most in a month since November 2007, according to
S&P LCD.  
 “The institutional market is going to be in a state of
disrepair when there are sell-offs, with investors looking for
price discovery, which puts everything on hold as the buy-side
asks for more money,” said  Jeff Titus , a managing director for
loan sales and trading in Atlanta for SunTrust Banks Inc.  
 Junk-bond sales plummeted during the same period.
Speculative-grade borrowers sold an average $7.25 billion of
debt in May and June, a 72 percent decline from the average
monthly issuance through April, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The  drop  in high-yield bond sales slowed debt repayments.
Companies used 43 percent of the $316 billion of note offerings
to repay loans since the beginning of last year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. That benefited collateralized
loan obligations, which pool high-yield, high-risk loans and
slice them into securities of varying risk. CLOs reinvested the
repayment proceeds to buy new loans, accounting for 48 percent
of the buyer base since January 2009, according to S&P LCD.  
 Institutional Purchases  
 Institutional investors bought $75 billion of loans in
2010, almost double the amount for all of last year. Sales to
non-bank lenders dropped by an average 26 percent over the past
couple of months after growing by an average 37 percent from
January to April, according to S&P LCD.  
 “A lot of activity in the early part of the year was
driven by the pool of cash that was available to CLO investors,
and that has dwindled as the bond refinancing has trailed off,”
Credit Suisse’s Newberry said.  
 Six speculative-grade companies have announced plans to
sell $2.7 billion of notes, while banks have 48 transactions
worth $14.8 billion intended for sale to non-bank lenders,
JPMorgan analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti  in New York said in a
June 25 report.  
 Even as leveraged loan issuance is 2.9 times the $58.8
billion during the first half of last year, it’s down 66 percent
from the record $495.6 billion in 2007, when banks competed to
finance the biggest buyouts, Bloomberg data show.  
 Invesco’s Stoeckle forecasts institutional loan sales of
$100 billion or more for 2010. “The market, by and large,
ultimately sees its issuers repay loans at par,” he said in an
interview, and provides a counterbalance to economic woes.
“That sets the stage for relatively decent performance going
forward.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Weekly loan market wraps: TNI SYNLOANS WRAP <GO>
Stories about syndicated loans: NI SYNLOANS <GO>
Loan issuance and amendments: NIM14 <GO>
Top loan news: TOP LOAN <GO>
Top deal news: TOP DEAL <GO>
Search loans: LOAN <GO>  
          
          


  


        