-- Mexico's Democracy Under Attack by Narcotics Gangs as Voters Head to Polls
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-02T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/mexican-voters-head-for-elections-as-democracy-under-attack-by-drug-gangs.html

          
          
             Mexicans will go to the polls in
fourteen states this weekend after mounting drug-related
violence made this campaign the bloodiest since 1994, posing a
threat to the country’s democracy and adding to investor risk.  
 Citizens will  vote  July 4 for 12 state governors and dozens
of mayors only six days after gunmen killed  Rodolfo Torre Cantu ,
a gubernatorial candidate in Tamaulipas state who was leading
polls after campaigning on an anti-violence platform. Last
month, a mayoral candidate was shot dead. This week, a headless
body was found outside the home of another mayoral hopeful.  
 Drug gangs are seeking more influence over local politics
as they battle troops deployed by President  Felipe Calderon  and
fight each other for routes to ship cocaine, marijuana and
heroin to the U.S., said Vanda Felbab-Brown, a senior fellow at
the Brookings Institution. That imperils civil liberties in a
country that ended one-party rule 10 years ago, she said.  
 “Democratic processes are threatened by the very fact that
security has deteriorated to this point,” Felbab-Brown, who
writes about Mexico’s drug war, said in an interview from
Washington. “What lies at the heart of democracy -- the ability
of people to associate, the life on the street -- all of that
becomes eviscerated by violence.”  
 Low Voter Turnout  
 The cost of protecting Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps has risen 12 basis points
to 139.13 since Torre Cantu was killed June 28, according to
data compiled by CMA DataVision.  
 Mexico’s peso fell 2.8 percent to 13.0090 this week through
5 p.m. New York time yesterday. The currency has risen 0.6
percent this year.  
 Voter turnout may fall to as low as 33 percent from between
44 percent and 60 percent in previous midterm elections,
according to estimates by Tony Payan, a political scientist at
the University of Texas in  El Paso .  
 Payan and students from the Juarez Autonomous University
conducted a study of about 5,000 homes in the border city of
Juarez in February and found that a quarter of them had been
abandoned by former occupants who fear drug-gang violence.  
 Carlos Borruel, the National Action Party  candidate  for
governor in Chihuahua state, which includes Juarez, said
electoral officials told candidates to stay away from at least
five municipalities known for attacks by organized crime.  
 “I know what I face,” Borruel, 46, said in a telephone
interview. “Chihuahua is a paradise for delinquents. The
organized crime situation has generated a climate of impunity.”  
 PRI Favored  
 The  Institutional Revolutionary Party , which ruled the
country for 71 years until 2000 and is known as the PRI, is
favored to win 10 of 12 governorships up for grabs, according to
surveys by pollsters  Consulta Mitofsky  and newspaper Reforma.  
 “The PRI will have a good day,” said  Daniel Lund , head of
Mexico City-based consulting group Mund Americas.  
 The PRI currently governs 19 of Mexico’s 31 states plus the
federal district compared with seven for Calderon’s National
Actional Party, or PAN. Of the 12 states up for grabs, the party
currently governs nine.  
 If the PRI increases its control over state governments,
the new governors may help rally their constituents to allow the
PRI to back the presidency, according to  Jorge Chabat , a
political science professor at the Center for Economic Research
and Teaching in Mexico City.  
 “The governors are key in mobilizing votes in the 2012
elections,” he said.  
 2012 Elections  
 State of Mexico Governor  Enrique Pena Nieto , a PRI member,
is the leading candidate for the presidency ahead of the July
2012 vote, according to a poll released June 14 by Mitofsky.
Pena Nieto has 25 percent support of those surveyed compared
with 6 percent for former presidential candidate  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , his closest rival.  
 Torre Cantu, a member of the PRI, was a two-to-one favorite
in Tamaulipas before he was killed, according to a Mitofsky
poll. Egidio Torre, the deceased candidate’s brother, is running
in his place.  
 The violence sweeping parts of Mexico, especially the
border states, may increase the risk for short-term investors in
the currency or credit-default swaps, said  Jimena Zuniga , an
economist at Barclays Capital in New York. Still, the
lawlessness doesn’t threaten economic stability, she said.  
 ‘Cautious’ Investors  
 “The problem is becoming more visible of late and the news
flow is worsening,” Zuniga said in a telephone interview.
“Shorter-term investors ahead of Sunday are a little more
cautious in their positions.”  
 Mexican Economy Minister  Gerardo Ruiz Mateos  said the
killing of Torre Cantu won’t stop foreign direct investment from
growing.  
 “Investors are watching a country with a very important
future and they’re investing in the country,” Ruiz Mateos said
in a June 29 interview at Bloomberg’s Mexico City offices.  
 Mexico’s economy, the second-biggest in Latin America, is
forecast by the central bank to grow between 4 percent and 5
percent this year after a 6.5 percent contraction in 2009.  
 Torre Cantu, who made fighting violence a pillar of his
campaign, was the highest-level politician to be assassinated
since presidential candidate  Luis Donaldo Colosio  was killed in
1994.  
 Calderon said the nation’s institutions were under threat
from criminals and vowed to capture the suspected drug
traffickers behind the candidate’s death.  
 Violence Under Calderon  
 Mexico has turned increasingly violent since Calderon came
to office in December 2006 vowing to fight traffickers. More
than 22,000 people have been killed in Mexico by organized crime
since the crackdown began, according to the U.S. State
Department.  
 In Valle Hermoso, Tamaulipas, Calderon’s National Action
Party mayoral candidate Jose Mario Guajardo was murdered last
month. The party couldn’t find anyone willing to risk running
for mayor in the cities of Mier and Nuevo Progreso, and the
candidate in Camargo quit the race after threats, said Francisco
Javier Garza, the state party president.  
 The drug cartels are growing more brazen as they seek
political influence, said Armand Peschard-Sverdrup, founder and
chief executive of a political and business consulting firm
based in Washington and a senior associate of the Center for
Strategic and International Studies.  
 “There’s no question that organized crime poses a
challenge for electoral democracy in Mexico,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        