-- Mexico's Opposition May Win State Governments in Vote Marred by Violence
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-02T15:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/mexico-s-democracy-under-attack-by-narcotics-gangs-as-voters-head-to-polls.html

          
          
             Mexico’s largest opposition party may
broaden its control of state governments in this weekend’s
election as mounting drug-related violence and the killing of a
top candidate threatens to reduce turnout at the expense of
President  Felipe Calderon ’s National Action Party.  
 The  Institutional Revolutionary Party , which ruled the
country for 71 years until 2000, may win at least 10 of 12
governorships up for grabs July 4, according to polls by
 Consulta Mitofsky  and newspaper Reforma. That would put the
party known as the PRI at the helm of 20 of Mexico’s 31 states,
up from 19 now.  
 “The PRI will have a good day,” said  Daniel Lund , head of
Mexico City-based consulting group Mund Americas.  
 Shootouts tied to drug traffickers, particularly the
violence directed at candidates, may cause voter turnout to fall
to as low as 33 percent from 44 percent to 60 percent in
previous midterm elections, estimates Tony Payan, a political
scientist at the University of Texas in  El Paso . Lower turnout
may bolster the PRI’s chances because the party is adept at
using unions, farmer groups and other organizations to get its
supporters to the polls, said Jose Antonio Crespo, an analyst at
the Center for Economic Research and Teaching in Mexico City.  
 “Democratic processes are threatened by the very fact that
security has deteriorated to this point,” Vanda Felbab-Brown, a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, who writes about
Mexico’s drug war, said in an interview from Washington. “What
lies at the heart of democracy -- the ability of people to
associate, the life on the street -- all of that becomes
eviscerated by violence.”  
 The cost of protecting Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps has risen 12 basis points
to 139.13 since PRI gubernatorial candidate  Rodolfo Torre Cantu 
was assassinated June 28, according to data compiled by CMA
DataVision.  
 Two-to-One Favorite  
 Torre Cantu, who campaigned on an anti-violence platform,
was a two-to-one favorite in Tamaulipas state before he was
killed, according to a Mitofsky poll. Egidio Torre, the deceased
candidate’s brother, is running in his place.  
 A shootout late last night between rival gangs left 21
people dead in a rural area of Sonora state about 12 miles from
the Arizona border, the Associated Press reported. The Sonora
governorship isn’t up for grabs this weekend.  
 The increasing violence also has hurt the popularity of
Calderon and his party. The percentage of registered voters who
approve of Calderon dropped to 53.3 percent in a May poll
conducted by Mitofsky, the lowest level since the beginning of
his administration.  
 The PRI currently governs 19 of Mexico’s 31 states,
compared with seven for Calderon’s PAN. Mexican governors are
limited to just one term in office.  
 Government Control  
 Should the PRI increase its control over state governments,
the new governors may help rally their constituents to allow the
PRI to win back the presidency, according to  Jorge Chabat , a
political science professor at the Center for Economic Research
and Teaching in Mexico City.  
 “The governors are key in mobilizing votes in the 2012
elections,” he said.  
 State of Mexico Governor  Enrique Pena Nieto , a PRI member,
is the leading candidate for the presidency ahead of the July
2012 vote, according to a poll released June 14 by Mitofsky.
Pena Nieto has 25 percent support of those surveyed compared
with 6 percent for former presidential candidate  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , his closest rival.  
 Mexicans will also choose dozens of mayors in this
weekend’s vote, after the bloodiest election campaign since
1994. In addition to Torre Cantu’s assassination last month, a
mayoral candidate was shot dead. This week, a headless body was
found outside the home of another mayoral hopeful.  
 Gangs’ Influence  
 Drug gangs are seeking more influence over local politics
as they battle troops deployed by Calderon and fight each other
for routes to ship cocaine, marijuana and heroin to the U.S.,
said Felbab-Brown of the Brookings Institution. That imperils
civil liberties in a country that ended one-party rule 10 years
ago, she said.  
 Carlos Borruel, the National Action Party  candidate  for
governor in Chihuahua state, which includes Juarez, said
electoral officials told candidates to stay away from at least
five municipalities known for attacks by organized crime.  
 “I know what I face,” Borruel, 46, said in a telephone
interview. “Chihuahua is a paradise for delinquents. The
organized crime situation has generated a climate of impunity.”  
 The violence sweeping parts of Mexico, especially the
border states, may increase the risk for short-term investors in
the currency or credit-default swaps, said  Jimena Zuniga , an
economist at Barclays Capital in New York. Still, the
lawlessness doesn’t threaten economic stability, she said.  
 ‘Cautious’ Investors  
 “The problem is becoming more visible of late and the news
flow is worsening,” Zuniga said in a telephone interview.
“Shorter-term investors ahead of Sunday are a little more
cautious in their positions.”  
 Mexican Economy Minister  Gerardo Ruiz Mateos  said the
killing of Torre Cantu won’t stop foreign direct investment from
growing. Torre Cantu was the highest-level politician to be
assassinated since presidential candidate  Luis Donaldo Colosio 
was killed in 1994.  
 “Investors are watching a country with a very important
future and they’re investing in the country,” Ruiz Mateos said
in a June 29 interview at Bloomberg’s Mexico City offices.  
 Mexico’s economy, the second biggest in Latin America, is
forecast by the central bank to grow 4 percent to 5 percent this
year after a 6.5 percent contraction in 2009.  
 Mexico has turned increasingly violent since Calderon came
to office in December 2006 vowing to fight traffickers. More
than 22,000 people have been killed in Mexico by organized crime
since the crackdown began, according to the U.S. State
Department.  
 In Valle Hermoso, Tamaulipas, PAN mayoral candidate Jose
Mario Guajardo was murdered last month. The party couldn’t find
anyone willing to risk running for mayor in the cities of Mier
and Nuevo Progreso, and the candidate in Camargo quit the race
after threats, said Francisco Javier Garza, the state PAN
president.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Felipe Calderon, Mexico's president stands during a news conference in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
