-- Capello Will Continue as England Soccer Coach After Team's World Cup Flop
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-07-02T16:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/fabio-capello-will-stay-on-as-england-s-coach-after-ouster-from-world-cup.html

          
          
             Fabio Capello  kept his job as England
soccer coach even after the national team crashed out of the
World Cup with its worst defeat in tournament history.  
 Capello, 64, was told June 28 that his future would be
settled in two weeks, a day after the 4-1 loss to Germany ended
a campaign in which England won one game and was jeered by its
own supporters. The Football Association said today the Italian,
whose contract runs through 2012, would remain in the role.  
 “We are all still extremely disappointed at our
performance in South Africa,”  Dave Richards , chairman of Club
England, which runs the national team, said in  statement . “We
believed it was important that we took some time to reflect on
everything in a calm and considered manner back in England.”  
 Capello is still the “best man for the job,” added
Richards, who is also chairman of the English Premier League.  
 Club England, created earlier this year to oversee all of
England’s national teams, agreed “unanimously” to stick by
Capello, the F.A. said in a statement on its website.  
 “I am more determined than ever to succeed with the
England team,” Capello said in the statement.  
 Capello’s future was in doubt following the loss to
Germany, a team that has surpassed England’s World Cup
performance at every tournament since losing their 1966 final.
He was asked five times after that game if would step down.  
 U.K. newspapers including the Daily Mail called for him to
quit, while bookmakers released odds on his successor minutes
after the final whistle in Bloemfontein.  
 The former Real Madrid, AC Milan and Juventus coach was
hired in January 2008 to revitalize a team that hasn’t won a
trophy since lifting the World Cup 44 years ago.  
 Contender  
 Before the tournament in South Africa, Capello said he was
confident his team would be among the contenders after topping
its qualifying pool and getting what he said was a favorable
group stage draw.  
 Robert Green’s  fumble allowed the U.S. to tie the first
match 1-1, before a 0-0 draw against Algeria that prompted
booing from England fans at Cape Town’s Green Point Stadium. The
team then scraped into the last 16 with a 1-0 win over Slovenia,
a nation whose population is one-thirtieth of the U.K.’s.  
 Capello tried to blame the loss to Germany on the failure
by Uruguayan match officials to give a goal that would have tied
the game at 2-2.  Frank Lampard’s  shot crashed off the crossbar
and clearly bounced over the goal line.  
 “The game would have been different,” Capello said after
the match.  
 Some of his players disagreed, with midfielder  Joe Cole 
saying England’s failure was down to a lack of talent.  
 Technical Failings  
 “My personal opinion is English footballers, maybe when it
comes to the international level, we are a little lower
technically than the other nations,” he said.  
 The English starters were on average about four years older
than their German counterparts. Capello said he plans to freshen
up the squad before qualifying for the 2012 European
Championship begins in September.  
 “We will look to introduce new players to give the team
new energy and I will use all my experience to take England
forward,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Port Elizabeth at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        