-- Federal Home Loan Bank Debt Falls in June After Rising in Prior Two Months
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-02T22:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/federal-home-loan-bank-debt-falls-in-june-after-rising-in-prior-two-months.html

          
          
             The Federal Home Loan Bank system,
the government-chartered cooperatives owned by U.S. financial
companies, cut its outstanding debt by $25.9 billion in June
after increases the previous two months.  
 The drop in the system’s bonds and short-term notes to
$846.5 billion was led by a decrease in its callable debt as
benchmark interest rates fell on concern that the U.S. economy
is slowing, according to data e-mailed from the system’s Reston,
Virginia-based finance office.  
 “The sharp decline in interest rates has sparked a massive
wave of callable redemptions and a scramble for yield,”
 Margaret Kerins , an agency debt analyst at Stamford,
Connecticut-based RBS Securities Inc., wrote yesterday in a
report.  
 The Federal Home Loan Bank system is among the largest U.S.
borrowers after the federal government. The 12 regional FHLBs
lend to more than 8,000 commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions
and insurers at below-market rates, mainly to finance mortgage
holdings. The banks also buy and hold mortgage-related assets.  
 The system’s outstanding debt peaked at $1.33 trillion in
October 2008 as members sought funding amid the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression, before tumbling. The
borrowing had increased $1.4 billion in April and May after
plunging as markets healed,  members’ lending  slowed and banks’
 deposit balances  grew.  
 The government-chartered FHLBs, whose debt rating-companies
say is granted top grades in part because of the likelihood they
would receive U.S. aid if needed, raise money collectively in
the so-called agency debt market. Government-supported Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac are the other largest sellers.  
 Redemptions This Year  
 Among the callable debt from those so-called government-
sponsored enterprises, more than two-thirds, or $424 billion,
has been redeemed this year up from $348 billion in the same
period of last year, according to RBS’s Kerins. About $300
billion could be in the second half, she said. In June,
redemptions were $95 billion, the most since January 2008.  
 “Not all of the cash has gone back into the callable
market as recent issuance has lagged the pace of calls,” she
wrote. “Some of the reinvestment has been in agency bullets and
some has likely participated in the flight to liquidity in
Treasuries, driving rates down further.”  
 Agency callable debt overall returned 2.2 percent in the
first half of this year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Unsubordinated U.S. Agencies, Option Structures Only
index. Two-year GSE callables with six-month lock-outs and one-
time options offer about 0.2 percentage point more in yield than
similar bullet, or one-time maturity, debt, while 10-year
callables with similar terms may yield 0.13 percentage point
less than bullet debt, according to RBS data.  
 Revised Outlook  
 Also today, Standard & Poor’s revised the outlook for its
AA+ counterparty credit rating on the Federal Home Loan Bank of
Seattle to negative, citing concern over its “ability to
maintain capital adequacy given the potential for additional
deterioration in its” mortgage-bond portfolio.  
 The bank’s regulator is already classifying it
“undercapitalized” and seeking “a supplemental business plan
that will outline the steps that the bank will take to
repurchase and redeem member stock,” New York-based S&P said in
a statement.  
 The Seattle FHLB’s creditworthiness doesn’t directly affect
the system’s debt, which is a joint obligation of all 12 FHLBs
and potentially the U.S. government. S&P’s ratings on the
Seattle bank, which has $51.8 billion of assets, are three
levels higher than they would be if the grader didn’t expect the
U.S. to support it if needed, according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        