-- Formula One to Withdraw Singapore Suit After Speed Stops `F1' Drink Sales
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-07-02T06:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/formula-one-to-withdraw-singapore-suit-after-speed-stops-f1-drink-sales.html

          
          
             Formula One  settled its dispute with
 Speed Drinks Pte  after the beverage distributor agreed to stop
selling its F1 Racing Energy Drink in Singapore, host of the
first night race of the world’s most-watched motor sport.  
 Formula One Licensing BV agreed to withdraw its lawsuit
against Speed Drinks if the distributor retracts its challenge
stating that the ‘F1’ trademark was indistinctive or generic,
according to court papers filed after a closed door Singapore
High Court hearing yesterday.  
 “This is a victory for Formula One,” its lawyer Arthur
Loke said in a phone interview. “We’re very pleased.”  
 Speed Drinks, which acknowledged that Formula One is the
owner of the “F1” trademarks in Singapore, must also hand over
65,000 cans of the beverage to be destroyed and end its contract
with their Dutch supplier. No payment to Formula One is required,
Loke said.  
 The motor sport owner, controlled by  Bernie Ecclestone , had
sued seeking damages, claiming that Speed Drinks caused
“irreparable damage to the reputation and goodwill of the
brand.”  
 Speed Drinks’ lawyer Kelvyn Oo from  Arfat Selvam Alliance
LLC  didn’t return messages left with his office. The beverage
distributor’s director Ashok Murthy didn’t pick up calls made to
his mobile phone.  
 ‘Passing Off’  
 Formula One had accused Speed Drinks of passing off the
beverage, which has a circled checkered “F1” logo and the
slogan “Start Your Engine,” as licensed by it, according to
court papers.  
 Formula One had said Speed Drinks’ actions, including
directing users to the official F1 website, would hinder its
future attempts to license the use of the “F1” mark on
beverages.  
 The beverage was first sold in Singapore during Formula
One’s grand prix last year and was the official drink at
concerts including one by Welsh rock band Stereophonics, Murthy
said in his court filing.  
 The motor sport owner has mounted  several challenges  to
protect its trademark. In 2007, the group failed to win
exclusive rights to the F1 abbreviation after the U.K. Trademark
Registry said the public associated Formula One with a sport
rather than a brand name. A year earlier, Formula One won
a fight in a Beijing court to stop eight Chinese fashion
companies from selling apparel with the “F1 Jeans” trademark.  
 The case is Formula One Licensing BV vs Speed Drinks Pte
Ltd. S314/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        