-- Gasoline Slides as June U.S. Payrolls, Factory Orders Decline
-- Barbara Powell
-- 2010-07-02T19:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/gasoline-slides-as-june-u-s-payrolls-factory-orders-decline.html

          
          
             Gasoline slid for a fifth day as
payrolls declined in June for the first time this year and May
factory orders dropped, casting doubt on the strength of the
economic recovery and fuel demand.  
 Prices slumped as the Labor Department reported June
payrolls fell by 125,000, reflecting a reduction in federal
census workers. Factory  orders  dropped 1.4 percent in May, the
Commerce Department said. Futures tumbled yesterday as the U.S.
manufacturing expansion slowed and output growth in China and
Europe cooled.  
 “The uncertain economic statistics paint the economy as
receding,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “But the jobs report
is kind of mixed. Private sector jobs are up. The report is not
negative enough that we will get a huge slide today.”  
 Gasoline for August delivery fell 1.99 cents, or 1 percent,
to settle at $1.9777 a gallon on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest settlement for the front-month contract
since May 26.  
 Gasoline fell 8.8 percent this week as crude oil for August
delivery slipped 8.5 percent, the biggest weekly decline for
both since May 7. Heating oil for August delivery lost 9.3
percent, the biggest weekly drop since July 10, 2009.  
 “A lot of the economic news we’ve been getting suggests a
flat line in the economy,” said  Blake Robben , a Chicago-based
senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock, a division of MF
Global Inc. “I don’t see it turning into a double-dip
recession, but we’re stuck in a sideways economy, which means
these markets are going to be range bound.”  
 Orders Drop  
 The 1.4 percent decrease in factory  bookings  was the
biggest since March 2009 and followed a revised 1 percent gain
in April.  
 The drop in census workers left 339,000 temporary employees
still working on the survey, indicating more cuts to come that
will keep distorting the employment figures for months.
Employment at companies rose 83,000. The jobless rate fell to
9.5 percent from 9.7 percent as the labor force shrank.  
 “The unemployment rate dropped, but that makes me nervous
because it may mean people were taken off the rolls,” McGillian
said. “But the expectation is for a nice jump in fuel demand
around the holiday, and that it’s only because of the economic
picture that the market is down.”  
 The July 4 holiday weekend is traditionally one of the peak
periods for fuel demand.  
 Supplies of the motor fuel rose for the first time in eight
weeks in the seven days ended June 25, the Energy Department
reported June 30.  
 Gasoline Demand  
 U.S.  gasoline  demand surged 2 percent last week as drivers
filled their tanks before the holiday weekend,  MasterCard Inc. 
said in its June 29 SpendingPulse report. Fuel use was 2 percent
below a year earlier, the fourth consecutive decline. The four-
week average demand was down 2.2 percent from 2009 and has
deteriorated against last year for five consecutive weeks.  
 “People are betting on future trends,” said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,
Florida. “When you go in the shoulder season of September,
October, November, what will be the driving factor? The economy
really has to do some turning around.”  
 Slower Growth  
 Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. yesterday lowered
forecasts for second- and third-quarter growth, reflecting the
influence of the European debt crisis on stocks, confidence and
exports. The U.S. economy grew at a 3.2 percent annual rate from
April through June and will expand at a 3 percent pace in the
third quarter, down from a prior estimate of 4 percent,  Michael Feroli , JPMorgan’s chief U.S. economist in New York, said in a
note to clients.  
 The premium of gasoline over crude oil, or the crack
spread, based on August contracts, narrowed about 3 cents to
$10.92 a barrel. The margin has slipped 39 percent since
reaching a 15-month high for the front-month contract of $17.88
on May 14.  
 Heating oil for August delivery sank 2.3 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $1.9155 a gallon. The heating oil crack
spread, based on August contracts, lost about 16 cents to $8.31
a barrel, the lowest level for the front-month contract since
April 20.  
 Regular gasoline at the pump , averaged nationwide, declined
0.4 cent to $2.75 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barbara J. Powell  in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        