-- GM's First-Half China Sales Surge Past the U.S.
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-02T12:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/general-motors-first-half-china-sales-rise-48-5-pass-u-s-for-first-time.html

          
          
             General Motors Co.’s first-half sales
in China surpassed those in the U.S. for the first time as the
world’s fastest-growing major economy propelled global auto
demand.  
 Sales in China by GM and its joint ventures totaled
1.21 million vehicles in the six months ended June 30, topping
 U.S. deliveries  of 1.08 million, based on figures reported
separately by the Detroit-based company. This would be the first
time any overseas market has “consistently outsold” GM’s
domestic market in the carmaker’s 102-year-old history, said
Michael Albano, a Shanghai-based spokesman.  
 Surging demand  among China’s 1.37 billion people is
speeding automakers’ recovery after a recession cut global auto
sales last year and forced GM’s predecessor, General Motors
Corp., into bankruptcy. GM is counting on expansion overseas to
bolster profit as it prepares for an initial public offering as
early as the fourth quarter.  
 “China is one of GM’s bright spots globally,” said  John Zeng , a Shanghai-based automotive analyst at IHS Global Insight.
“GM has done a better job in the Chinese market than other
American automakers. The huge potential in this market will
continue to fuel GM’s growth here.”  
 Government stimulus measures helped China’s industrywide
vehicle sales jump 46 percent last year to 13.6 million,
surpassing the U.S. for the first time to become the world’s
largest national automobile market. U.S. auto sales fell
21 percent to 10.4 million, the fewest since 1982, as
 unemployment  rose amid the worst recession in six decades.  
 China Venture Partners  
 GM makes vehicles including Buick Excelle and Regal cars as
well as Chevrolet Lova compacts with its Chinese joint-venture
partner SAIC Motor Co. It also makes Sunshine minivans at SAIC-
GM-Wuling Automotive Co.  
 The SAIC-GM-Wuling venture’s deliveries, which are included
in GM’s monthly sales reports, are excluded from tallies by some
industry analysts because GM owns 34 percent of the venture,
while SAIC Motor has a 50.1 percent stake.  
 GM and its partners aim to boost vehicle sales in China to
3 million a year by 2015 from 1.83 million in 2009,  Kevin Wale ,
president of the carmaker’s China business, has said. The
company estimates it will top 2 million sales in the country
this year.  
 GM’s June deliveries in China rose 23 percent from a year
earlier to 176,486 units, the carmaker said today. The company
plans to introduce 25 new or updated models in the country by
the end of 2011, including its Chevrolet Volt plug-in car, it
said in April.  
 Energy Subsidy  
 GM’s four ventures with  SAIC Motor Corp.  were among
companies approved for a Chinese government energy-efficiency
subsidy, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology
said on its website today.  
 Full-year auto sales in China may rise 17 percent this year
to 16 million, according to the State Information Center, even
as growth may slow in the second half.  
 The rate of expansion in auto demand slowed in April and
May as  prices  for gasoline, consumer goods and real estate rose.
The government raised the consumption tax on small vehicles to
7.5 percent in January after cutting it in half to 5 percent
last year.  
 In the U.S., GM and Ford Motor Co. reported June sales that
fell short of analyst estimates as consumers concerned about
unemployment and the economy avoided large purchases. A
9.7 percent jobless rate and continued lower home prices have
reduced consumers’ confidence and are keeping them out of
showrooms, dealers and analysts said.  
 Home Market  
 GM’s sales in its home market last month rose to 195,380,
an 11 percent increase from a year earlier, which trailed the
16 percent average growth estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 Industrywide U.S. deliveries in June reached an annualized
rate of 11.1 million vehicles, according to Woodcliff Lake, New
Jersey-based Autodata Corp. The figure trailed the average
estimate for an 11.2 million-vehicle pace and is a drop from
11.6 million in May.  
 GM’s predecessor entered bankruptcy on June 1, 2009, and
the new company emerged in July 2009. The carmaker reported
first-quarter net income of $865 million this year, helped by
higher production and smaller discounts. Chief Financial Officer
 Chris Liddell  on May 17 called the profit a “good, useful
step” toward an IPO.  
 The automaker’s equity is worth $70 billion, according to a
May 20 report by  Eric Selle , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. debt analyst
who projects a return of 47 cents on the dollar for holders of
bonds issued by General Motors Corp. that will be converted to
stock and warrants in new GM. At yesterday’s bond prices, GM’s
equity is worth about $47 billion.  
 GM posted operating profit of $1.2 billion in the first
three months as revenue rose 40 percent from a year earlier to
$31.5 billion.  
 -- Tian Ying ,  Liza Lin , with assistance from  Zhe Huang  in
Beijing. Editors:  Terje Langeland ,  Ian Rowley ,  Jamie Butters .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       GM's first-half China sales surge past the U.S.  
                       
                         
                           Kevin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         President and managing director of General Motors China Inc. Kevin Wale speaks to the media at the launch of General Motor Co.'s Buick Excelle XT in Shanghai. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President and managing director of General Motors China Inc. Kevin Wale speaks to the media at the launch of General Motor Co.'s Buick Excelle XT in Shanghai. Photographer: Kevin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
