-- German Coach Loew Expects `Cutthroat Fight' With Argentina in Quarterfinal
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-02T19:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/german-soccer-coach-sees-cutthroat-fight-against-argentina-at-world-cup.html

          
          
             Germany coach  Joachim Loew  is
anticipating a bruising encounter when his team faces Argentina
in their World Cup quarterfinal in Cape Town tomorrow.  
 “Argentina plays very physically,” Loew told reporters
today. “It’s typical of the South American teams. We know there
is going be a cutthroat fight tomorrow on the pitch.”  
 Germany and Argentina, who have five World Cup titles
between them, topped their groups in the first round of the
tournament. In the round of 16, Germany routed England 4-1,
while Argentina beat Mexico 3-1.  
 Loew said Germany will probably be without striker Cacau,
who also missed the England game because of a stomach injury.  
 “We have got to be prepared for Cacau not to play,” Loew
said. “It will be quite difficult to get him ready.”  
 Striker  Lukas Podolski  is nursing a muscle strain and
playmaker  Mesut Oezil , who is suffering from fatigue, had their
fitness assessed at the team’s final training session today,
Loew said. Both missed practice yesterday.  
 Tomorrow’s match will be a repeat of the 2006 quarterfinal
in Berlin, when Germany triumphed in a penalty shootout
following a 1-1 draw. Germany has won the World Cup three times,
and Argentina twice.  
 ‘Aggressive’  
 The teams last met in a March exhibition game in Munich,
with Argentina winning 1-0.  
 “I don’t think you can compare the two matches,” Loew
added. “It was a preparatory match. Tomorrow the fight will be
more intensive, more aggressive.”  
 Argentina coach  Diego Maradona , who played in his country’s
3-2 win over Germany in the 1986 World Cup final and its loss to
the same opponent in the decider four years later, agreed.  
 “To beat us, other opponents are going to have to leave
their skin on the pitch,” Maradona said at a news conference in
Cape Town.  
 Argentina forward  Lionel Messi , the reigning FIFA World
Player of the Year, has recovered after missing training
yesterday with what Maradona described as a slight fever.  
 “He did feel a bit odd,” the coach said. “I decided to
give him a rest. I never thought of not having him play.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        