-- German Short-Selling Ban on Government Bonds Advances in German Parliament
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-07-02T15:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/german-lawmakers-pass-naked-short-selling-ban-to-damp-volatility-of-euro.html

          
          
             German  lower-house  lawmakers approved
a ban on naked short-selling of euro-area government bonds,
credit-default swaps based on the bonds and shares of German
companies in a bid to counter “volatility” of the euro.  
 Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition passed the measure
today in the Bundestag in Berlin, confirming the main elements
of the government’s May 19 ban on naked swaps that was
criticized by other European countries, the European Union and
economists for Germany’s go-it-alone approach.  
 “Naked short-selling leads to incalculable speculative
risks,”  Leo Dautzenberg , parliamentary financial policy
spokesman for Merkel’s Christian Democrats, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We’ve put up clear barriers to this uncertainty.”  
 Intraday trading isn’t affected by the legislation, which
also gives Germany’s BaFin regulator the power to ban financial
market instruments for as long as 12 months. The  Bundesrat ,
parliament’s upper house, plans to debate the measure on July 9
and can propose changes.  
 Merkel’s government imposed the ban as part of what she’s
called a battle by governments to protect the euro against
speculators. Jolted by the currency’s decline and soaring bond
yields in Portugal and Spain, European leaders agreed in May to
offer financial help of as much as 750 billion euros ($938
billion) to stem the euro-area debt crisis set off by Greece.  
 ‘Doesn’t End Crisis’  
 Germany’s ban “doesn’t end the euro crisis and doesn’t
fully address the regulation of credit-default swaps,” said
Frank Dornseifer, head of legal and policy issues at BAI, a 
group  representing hedge funds and private-equity firms in
Germany.  
 “Now as before, the euro crisis isn’t caused by CDS
dealing,” he said in a statement e-mailed by the Bonn-based
group. Proposed EU rules on short-selling due this year may
force Germany to change its legislation, Dornseifer said.  
 Credit-default swaps are derivatives that pay the buyer
face value if a borrower -- a country or a company -- defaults.
In exchange, the swap seller gets the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent. Traders in naked credit-default swaps buy
insurance on bonds they don’t own. Naked short-selling involves
selling a security without ever possessing it.  
 ‘Threaten Stability’  
 Naked short-selling “can threaten the stability of
financial markets and set incentives for financial markets that
harm the broader economy,” according to the bill. Merkel’s
coalition aims to counter “turbulences” in the market for
European bonds and “volatility of the euro,” it says.  
 Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  urged the EU on
June 9 to accelerate curbs on financial speculation, saying some
bets against stocks and governments should be banned as Europe
faces a debt crisis.  
 Germany is also pushing its call for a Europe-wide tax on
financial transactions after last week’s meeting of Group of 20
leaders in Canada failed to agree on a global approach.  
 Germany and France will make a joint proposal for a EU tax
on financial transactions in the next few days, Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in parliament today. Imposing an EU-wide
tax won’t be easy and limiting the tax to euro-area countries is
an option, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government imposed the ban as part of what she’s called a battle by governments to protect the euro against speculators. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
