-- Gillard Scales Back Australian Mining Tax in Boost for Election
-- Rebecca Keenan
-- 2010-07-02T06:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/gillard-scales-back-australian-mining-tax-in-boost-for-election-prospects.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  scaled back a proposed tax on mining companies to win
their support, easing concern economic  growth  will slow and
depriving the opposition of a key election platform.  
 The government exempted most commodities, raised the
threshold and cut the tax to 30 percent on coal and iron ore
earnings, compared with a previous plan to collect 40 percent of
all resource profits.  BHP  Billiton Ltd., Rio  Tinto  Group and
 Xstrata  Plc shares rallied today after they approved the
revisions at a meeting with Gillard last night.  
 Gillard, 48, ousted  Kevin Rudd  last week after his approval
ratings slumped and his brawl with mining executives threatened
to make the Labor Party the nation’s first one-term government
in 80 years. The accord will defuse attacks by opposition leader
 Tony Abbott  that the administration is damaging an industry that
helped Australia skirt the global recession, and prompted
Xstrata to resume work on a A$586 million copper mine expansion.  
 “This is a massive win and it means she can go ahead and
win the election, there’s no doubt about it,” said Andrew
Hughes, who specializes in political marketing at Canberra-based
Australian National University. “She’s done something Rudd
couldn’t -- get an agreement between big business and the
government on this tax in what’s only her first week in the
job.”  
 The new plan will cut revenue from the previous proposal by
A$1.5 billion ($1.3 billion) to A$10.5 billion during its first
two years.  
 Shares Gain  
 BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, lost 0.05 percent
in Sydney trading. Rio Tinto climbed 0.3 percent. Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd., whose billionaire founder  Andrew Forrest  led
public rallies against the tax, gained 2 percent. The agreement
may help persuade companies to start work on $21 billion of
delayed projects.  
 Australia’s currency rose to 84.48 U.S. cents as of 4:19
p.m. in Sydney from 84.34 cents in New York yesterday.  
 The swift resolution signals Gillard’s determination to
break with the policies and poor communication that doomed Rudd,
making him the nation’s shortest-serving prime minister in
almost 30 years. Rudd, 52, decided not to run in a ballot of
Labor Party lawmakers after Gillard challenged his leadership.  
 Gillard’s Priority  
 While Rudd said negotiations with the miners might take
months, Gillard, at her first press conference after being sworn
in as the nation’s first female prime minister, said reaching a
deal was her top priority.  
 She immediately stopped an A$38.5 million government
advertising campaign extolling the tax, winning a commitment
from miners to halt their anti-tax ads.  
 “There was a huge, well-funded scare campaign, it created
fear and uncertainty,” Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said
in an interview in Canberra today. The community “understood
the need for change, they wanted the government to put in place
some changes and we have done it. We all move forward now.”  
 The revamped resources tax will apply from July 1, 2012,
and the Labor government, facing an election Gillard has said
will be held in the “coming months,” doesn’t intend to rush
new laws into Parliament if elected. Treasurer and Deputy Prime
Minister  Wayne Swan  said he didn’t expect laws would go to the
upper house Senate this year.  
 Disappointing Outcome  
 “It is very disappointing that right at the time that
junior and smaller Australian iron ore and coal miners have
managed to develop a foothold into the industry, they are
immediately slugged with this proposed new and additional tax,”
Fortescue’s Forrest said in an e-mailed statement.  
 A committee chaired by former BHP chairman  Don Argus  will
hold talks with resources companies about implementing the tax,
Swan said in Canberra.  
 “The battle-lines are drawn for the coming election,”
Abbott told reporters in Sydney today. “The government wants
this tax, the coalition doesn’t. It’s as simple as that.”  
 Under Rudd’s proposal, miners would have paid a 40 percent
tax on profits above a 6 percent return on investment on
projects in Australia. That would have made the nation the
world’s highest taxing for mining companies, according to the
Minerals Council of Australia, an  industry  lobby group.  
 Morgan Stanley estimated the levy would have cost the
mining industry A$85 billion in its first 10 years.  
 Iron Ore, Coal  
 Gillard’s agreement applies the tax to the profits of iron
ore and coal and it extends the current Petroleum Resource Rent
Tax to all onshore and offshore petroleum and gas projects.  
 The levy will apply once a project’s return on investment
exceeds 7 percentage points more than the 10-year government
bond yield, currently about 5 percent. Previously it would have
kicked in for any return above the bond rate.  
 Miners welcomed the agreement, saying it was a “positive
outcome” and a “fundamental improvement” on the plan
announced by Rudd and Swan on May 2.  
 “The three key determinants of where the tax applies to
profits are more commercially realistic,” Minerals Council of
Australia Chief Executive Officer  Mitch Hooke  told reporters in
Canberra. “It’s unfinished business, we still have work to
do.”  
 Xstrata will resume full project activities at its Ernest
Henry mine after the deal was announced, the company said in an
e-mailed statement. Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  said the
talks produced an “acceptable” outcome for the industry.  
 Xstrata, based in Zug, Switzerland, said June 3 that A$586
million of work expanding the Ernest Henry mine and the A$6
billion Wandoan coal project weren’t viable under the previous
tax plan.  
 ‘Amazing Concession’  
 “The reduction in the headline rate is an amazing
concession. It removes the uncertainty that’s been overhanging
for several weeks,” said  John Robinson , chairman of Global
Mining Investments Ltd., which oversees about A$300 million of
assets including BHP, Rio and Xstrata shares. “One would expect
to see the stocks rerated as a consequence.”  
 “It kills any debate about sovereign risk, we are a safe
haven for investment,” Ferguson said. “We have got expansion
around Australia.”  
 Ferguson said he, Gillard and Swan met with BHP Chief
Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers , Rio’s Managing Director for
Australia  David Peever  and Xstrata’s coal unit Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Freyberg  in Canberra last night.  
 “There was some finger food, a couple of bottles of wine
and a couple of beers,” Ferguson said. “There was no
celebration and no champagne bubbles -- we had just completed a
robust debate and said let’s just get on with life.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard  
                       
                         
                           Scott Barbour/Getty Images 
                         
                         Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks during a press conference in Canberra. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks during a press conference in Canberra. Photographer: Scott Barbour/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
