-- Goldman's Role in Crisis at Stake in Question Over Marks
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-07-02T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/goldman-sachs-role-in-crisis-at-stake-as-panel-probes-derivatives-pricing.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  executives
sought to defend the firm’s pricing of illiquid mortgage
derivatives during two days of hearings as investigators
questioned whether the firm accelerated the financial crisis.  
 Gary Cohn , Goldman Sachs’s president and chief operating
officer, and Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  argued that
the firm’s prices in 2007 and 2008 reflected what it saw in the
market.  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  members questioned
whether the investment bank deliberately discounted prices to
push markets lower because it had bet on a decline in the value
of subprime mortgage-backed debt.  
 “You guys are net short and you’re driving down prices,
are you creating a self-fulfilling prophecy?”  Philip N. Angelides , chairman of the FCIC, asked Viniar during yesterday’s
hearing. “Were you in fact pushing the market down?”  
 Viniar, 54, replied that “we never instruct people to mark
things down. We mark where the market is.”  
 The dispute is at the heart of whether Goldman Sachs had a
role in the near-bankruptcy of  American International Group Inc. 
or was a careful risk manager whose focus on marking assets to
fair value helped the securities firm prepare for the credit
contraction earlier than rivals. Goldman Sachs, whose record
2007 profit was helped by bets against securities backed by
subprime mortgages, was one of the biggest buyers of AIG’s
insurance covering such debt and increased demands for
collateral from AIG as prices fell.  
 ‘Smoking Gun’  
 Goldman Sachs might have the power to drive down prices in
an illiquid market like the one that existed in mid-2007, said
 David Killian , a fixed-income portfolio manager at  Sterling
Asset Management LLC . Still, he said there’s no evidence that
the firm intentionally pushed down marks for its own benefit.  
 “Unless someone’s going to come up with some smoking gun
and e-mails that show they did conspire to do that, I think that
would be incredibly difficult to prove because managing risk is
in fact what they do for a living,” said Killian, whose King of
Prussia, Pennsylvania-based firm owns Goldman Sachs  stock  and
 bonds . “If that’s proven, that’s bad news.”  
 Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd C. Blankfein , 55, was
castigated at a Senate subcommittee hearing in April for selling
securities linked to subprime home loans while the firm’s
traders were betting against the market. The Securities and
Exchange Commission sued the company that same month, claiming
it sold a collateralized debt obligation without disclosing that
a hedge fund helped pick underlying securities and bet against
the vehicles. Goldman Sachs has denied wrongdoing.  
 More Art Than Science  
 The FCIC is investigating what caused the credit crisis,
and will report findings to Congress and President Barack Obama
by December. Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived
from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked
to specific events.  
 The commission released  e-mails  between Goldman Sachs
employees that show that setting prices for some of the little-
traded derivatives on CDOs may have been more art than science -
- less a matter of reacting to market moves and more a matter of
anticipating them. CDOs pool assets such as mortgage bonds, bank
capital notes and buyout loans into new securities with varying
risks.  
 In an e-mail on July 26, 2007, a Goldman Sachs employee in
New York informed some of the bank’s executives that it had
demanded $2 billion in margin from AIG because of a “massive
remarking” by Goldman Sachs “ahead of other dealers in the
street, which have not yet remarked this type of underliers.”  
 ‘Very Unhappy, Even Mad’  
 “This remarking is independent from today’s market move
and reflective of the desk’s view that marks were stale,” he
wrote. “In their views, marks at only a small discount to par
(as they were) do not reflect the increased risk in this
market.”  
 In another e-mail on July 31, 2007, a Tokyo-based employee
explained that Japanese insurer  AIOI Insurance Co.  was angry at
Goldman Sachs’s change in the mark to market, or MTM, of the
super-senior portion of a CDO containing asset-backed
securities.  
 “Aioi is very unhappy and even mad at our MTM,” the
employee wrote. “Our MTM is more than twice as bad as others.”  
 David Lehman , co-head of Goldman Sachs’s structured
products group trading desk, told the FCIC that the firm’s
prices “always represented our best view of market prices based
on the information we had at the time.”  
 Angelides said that Goldman Sachs lowered its demand for
collateral from AIG to $1.2 billion from $1.8 billion because it
“refined” the pricing over a few days, calling into question
the method behind the initial request.  
 ‘Stab in the Dark’  
 “You ask for 50 percent more initially than your quote-
unquote refined estimate,” Angelides said. “Seems to me that’s
pretty much a stab in the dark.”  
 Lehman said the firm changed prices and collateral demands
as it received more information from AIG about some of the
contracts.  
 In an e-mail to executives on July 26, 2007, Goldman Sachs
trader  Ram Sundaram  described how the firm had increased efforts
to determine prices for derivatives in the so-called negative
basis book, which led to a substantial decline in the prices the
firm established. In the message, Sundaram called for a new
process for marking prices.  
 “The extent of the collateral calls being generated
overnight is embarrassing for the firm ($1.9Bn from AIG-FP
alone),” he wrote. “We need to focus on developing a process
for ensuring accuracy for all marks.”  
 Ulterior Motives  
 Sean Egan , president of  Egan-Jones Ratings Co.  in
Haverford, Pennsylvania, said the episode demonstrates the need
for a “neutral, independent source for deriving prices for
illiquid securities” that can be accepted by both sides of a
transaction and free from the perception that they’re driven by
ulterior motives.  
 Goldman Sachs prices could have been tainted by
“subjectivity and self-dealing, because it’s in their interest
to mark those prices as low as possible in this case,” Egan
said. “Goldman was not only protecting their own position but
actually benefiting.”  
 Viniar, in his testimony, disputed such a view.  
 “There’s a big misconception that we just decide to mark
things and then move the market,” he said. “We mark based on
where the market is.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     David Viniar, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., speaks during a Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs subcommittee hearing on Wall Street and the financial crisis in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission Chairman Phil Angelides talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s management of its risk tied to American International Group Inc. during the financial crisis.
     Angelides, speaking with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart," also discusses legislation overhauling U.S. banking rules and the outlook for the FCIC's investigations. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
