-- Government Sales Poised to Accelerate After Record Quarter: Canada Credit
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-07-02T04:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/government-sales-poised-to-accelerate-after-record-quarter-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Bond sales by Canadian provinces and
cities accelerated in the second quarter as governments financed
deficits, putting annual borrowing on pace to match last year’s
record C$100 billion ($94.4 billion).  
 The governments, as well as Canada’s federal housing trust,
borrowed C$25.4 billion through 106 debt sales in the period,
the second highest quarterly total since Bloomberg began keeping
data a decade ago. The period was only surpassed by the second
quarter of 2009, when sales hit C$31.8 billion.  
 “The strong quarter we saw leaves governments right where
they need to be,” said  Warren Lovely , government debt
strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto.
“They got this Spring surge of issuance in the books and
they’re nicely positioned to carry out the balance of their
borrowing programs.”  
 British Columbia, Ontario and other provinces were able to
borrow at interest rates near all-time lows to close shortfalls
from record budget deficits posted in the fiscal year that ended
in March.  
 Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia were among
the provinces that borrowed in the period ended June 30, along
with cities including Ottawa, Quebec City and Laval, Bloomberg
data show. Canada Housing Trust, which raises money to purchase
mortgage securities from lenders, accounted for C$10.6 billion
of the debt sales in the period.  
 Canadian governments borrowed C$46 billion in the first
half of this year, down about 18 percent from the C$55.8 billion
in the first half of 2009. Borrowing accelerated from the first
quarter, when C$20.6 billion in government debt was issued.  
 ‘Broadly Similar’  
 Government issuance will be “broadly similar to the first
half and last year,” said  Jason Stewart , managing director of
fixed income at National Bank Financial in Toronto. “We don’t
expect a significant change up or down.”  
 Elsewhere in credit markets,  Laurentian Bank , Canada’s
seventh-largest lender by assets, issued a C$100 million
floating-rate note maturing June 2012 on June 30.  
 The yield on the 10-year benchmark government  bond  fell to
3.085 on June 30, the lowest since May 2009.  
 Economists predict the benchmark 10-year bond will yield
3.48 percent by the end of September, down from the 3.53 percent
forecast last month, according to the median of nine estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Canadian corporate bonds returned 1.9 percent in June
including interest payments, the biggest gain since January,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  
 Demand Rising  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Canada’s provincial
bonds instead of government debt narrowed to 64 basis points on
June 30, from 65 basis points on May 31, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  
 Demand for new provincial, municipal and Canadian mortgage
bond issues has been strong, National Bank’s Stewart said.  
 “That type of appetite we expect to continue in the second
half and we’re very optimistic on the continued robust demand
for new deals,” said Stewart, whose Montreal-based firm ranked
first for arranging government issues this quarter. The figures
don’t include federal government bond sales.  
 CIBC’s Lovely said investor demand has been “very, very
strong” both within Canada and abroad.  
 “The Canadian government sector is the envy of the
developed world,” Lovely said. “Increasingly, what we’re
hearing from international investors is that they are extremely
comfortable with the Canadian story.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        