-- Great White Shark Warning Issued for Massachusetts
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-02T16:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/great-white-shark-warning-issued-for-holiday-off-coast-of-massachusetts.html

          
          
             The U.S. Coast Guard in Boston has a
message for July Fourth holiday boaters in the seas off
Massachusetts: Don’t become lunch.  
 A 7-foot great white was spotted last week near the
 Stellwagen Bank  national marine sanctuary, according to a
statement issued by the  Coast Guard  today. In the past few
years, sightings have been reported of sharks ranging from 6 to
15 feet, easily big enough to capsize a small boat or kayak.  
 “Predation is not generally a concern for boaters and
paddlers in the Northeast waters,” said Al Johnson, the 1st
Coast Guard District’s recreational boating specialist. “But I
have no doubt that a great white shark that swims into your
comfort zone would surely find a splashing paddle or dangling
hand inviting.”  
 Great white sightings have been increasing in the waters
off Cape Cod in part because of a growing seal colony at
Chatham, about 80 miles south of Boston, said Greg Skomal, the
state’s shark expert at the  Division of Marine Fisheries .  
 In 2004, a 1,750-pound great white swam into an inlet off
Naushon Island, and in August 2007, the predators were blamed
for a number of seal deaths near Chatham.  
 However, shark numbers rose in 2009. Skomal said officials
tagged five and confirmed sightings of at least four others, and
said the sharks may be back in those numbers this year.  
 Car-Sized Fish  
 Great whites, on average, grow to 12 to 16 feet in length
and can weigh 2,500 pounds. For comparison, a Honda Insight is
about 14.3 feet long and weighs about 2,723 pounds, according to
 Edmunds Inc. , an automotive information company.  
 The sharks have been known to grow to more than 20 feet and
weigh more than two tons.  
 Skomal said the sharks now visiting Massachusetts had
migrated to the waters off Georgia and Florida during the winter
months.  
 “Sharks spend 75 percent of their time in waters between
59 and 67 degrees,” Skomal said. “That’s a pretty slim
temperature range that they clearly wanted to be in.”  
 The waters around Cape Cod are in the 59 to 65 degree
range, according to National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration charts.  
 Sharks have been identified with Cape Cod since 1975, when
 Steve Spielberg  used Martha’s Vineyard as the setting for his
movie of  Peter Benchley ’s novel “Jaws.” New York’s Long Island
was the fictional setting of the book.  
 Montauk Sighting  
 Like Cape Cod, Long Island has also seen a great white this
year. On June 18, a 300- to 400-pound great white was landed at
Montauk and seized by officials from the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration because catching the animals is
prohibited, according to Lesli Bales-Sherrod, a spokeswoman for
the agency.  
 Johnson said people should stay away from seals while
boating.  
 “Simply put, why take a chance?” Johnson said.  
 A passing shark, Johnson said “would spend little time
differentiating between boater, paddler and prey.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        