-- Gross, Rosenberg Say Jobs Growth an Illusion: Tom Keene
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-07-02T16:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/gross-rosenberg-say-employment-growth-reported-last-month-is-an-illusion.html

          
          
             Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  and  David Rosenberg , chief economist at Gluskin Sheff
& Associates Inc., said June’s employment report indicates
sluggish job growth and a slowing economy.  
 Employers cut 125,000 jobs last month, reflecting a drop in
federal census workers, after an increase of 433,000 in May,
Labor Department figures showed. Companies in the U.S. hired
83,000 workers, below the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey for a gain of 110,000. The  unemployment rate  dropped to
9.5 percent from 9.7 percent as the labor force shrank.  
 “That’s a statistical illusion because you had this
precipitous fall-off for the second month in a row in the labor
force and without that, the unemployment rate would have gone up
to 10 percent,” Toronto-based Rosenberg said during a radio
interview on Bloomberg Surveillance with  Tom Keene . “You can go
as high as 16.5 percent, if you count the unemployed and under-
employed.”  
 The pace of hiring signals it will take years for the
world’s largest economy to recover the more than 8 million jobs
lost during the recession that began in December 2007. The
turmoil in financial markets brought on by the European debt
crisis raises the risk that employment will slow, depriving
American households of the income needed to maintain spending.  
 “The economy is slowing, not just in the United States,
but globally,” Gross, co-chief investment officer at Pimco,
said in a separate interview with Keene. “It’s a ‘new normal’
type of phenomenon. I don’t think the Federal Reserve can raise
interest rates in the face of unemployment near 10 percent.”  
 ‘Bearish Story’  
 The central bank said on June 23 at the conclusion of its
two-day policy meeting that the recovery pace is “likely to be
moderate for a time” and that “financial conditions have
become less supportive of economic growth on balance, largely
reflecting developments abroad.” The Fed has held its target
rate at a record low zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  
 “There’s no quick fix,” Rosenberg, formerly of Merrill
Lynch & Co., said. “This is a situation where we have the
aftereffects of all the stimulus and we are still seeing what
the consumer looks like in a stripped- down version when all the
support from Uncle Sam is behind us. It’s a bearish story. It’s
tough to pinpoint what will support the consumer over the next
few quarters.”  
 ‘Ignoring Signs’  
 Average hourly earnings fell 2 cents to $22.53 in June,
today’s report showed. The average work week for all workers
declined to 34.1 hours in June from 34.2 hours the prior month.  
 Most investors are ignoring signs that “global financial
market returns stand at the threshold of mediocrity,” Gross
wrote in his July investment outlook posted June 30 on the
Newport Beach, California-based company’s  website.   
 “Our ‘new normal’ two-word duality seems to resonate more
on the ‘normal’ than the ‘new’ to economists whose last names
aren’t Roubini, Reinhart, Rogoff, or Rosenberg” Gross wrote in
his July investment outlook. “It’s as if ‘R’ has been
eliminated from the financial alphabet, and ‘new’ from
investors’ dictionaries worldwide.”  
 Nouriel Roubini, the New York University professor who
predicted the financial crisis, has also forecast a continued
downturn in growth. Gross was also citing  Carmen Reinhart , an
economics professor at the University of Maryland in College
Park who co-wrote “This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of
Financial Folly” with Harvard University’s  Kenneth Rogoff .  
 Total Return Fund  
 An overdependence on debt has the global economy entering a
period of fundamental transformation that Gross calls the “new
normal.”  Pimco says mounting deficits and tighter financial
regulation will dampen growth in the U.S. and the euro zone for
the next three to five years. Emerging-market nations such as
Brazil and China, with stable levels of government debt and
expanding middle classes, should continue to thrive.  
 The $234 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross
returned 12.98 percent in the past year, beating 61 percent of
its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-
month return is 1.61 percent, outpacing 86 percent of
competitors. Pimco is a unit of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE.  
 Gross in May boosted holdings of U.S. government-related
debt to the highest level in six months as Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis increased the refuge appeal of the securities.  
 The fund’s investment in the debt was increased to 51
percent of assets in May, from 36 percent the previous month,
according to the  website . Gross cut holdings of non-U.S.
developed debt to 6 percent from 13 percent, the lowest since
November and increased emerging market debt to a record 9
percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas R. Keene  in New York 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bill Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., speaks at the Morningstar Investment Conference luncheon in Chicago. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
