-- India Raises Rates for Third Time to Curb Inflation
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-02T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/india-raises-interest-rates-for-the-third-time-this-year-to-curb-inflation.html

          
          
             India’s central bank moved to raise
interest rates yesterday in an unscheduled announcement,
underscoring policy makers’ concern that inflation will
accelerate in the world’s second-most populous country.  
 The central bank increased the  reverse repurchase rate  for
a third time this year to 4 percent, the highest level since
March 2009, from 3.75 percent. The repurchase rate was increased
to 5.5 percent from 5.25 percent.  
 Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, 60, moved even as most central
banks in the Asia Pacific region are keeping borrowing costs on
hold, after the government raised gasoline and diesel prices on
June 25. India’s $1.2 trillion  economy  expanded 8.6 percent in
the three months through March from a year earlier, the fastest
pace after China among Asia’s major economies.  
 “Inflation risks are substantial under the prevailing
strong demand situation,”  Kaushik Das , an economist at Deutsche
Bank AG, said in a telephone interview from Mumbai.  
 Das, expects the RBI, as the Indian central bank is
commonly called, to increase lending rates by another quarter
point at its next meeting July 27 and then by “at least” a
half point through the end of the year.  
 The bank needs to “to contain inflation and anchor
inflationary expectations,” he said.  
 Subbarao acted before the next scheduled monetary policy
announcement on July 27 and after the financial markets closed
yesterday. He cited concern that price gains now seemed to be
“very much generalized and that demand-side pressures are
evident,” as a rationale for his decision.  
 ‘Further Action’  
 “The Reserve Bank will continue to monitor the
macroeconomic conditions, particularly the price situation, and
take further action as warranted,” the Mumbai-based Reserve
Bank of India said in a statement.  
 India’s benchmark wholesale-price  inflation  unexpectedly
accelerated to 10.2 percent in May. Consumer prices paid by
industrial and farm workers rose almost 14 percent in May,
government data showed.  Industrial production  surged 17.6
percent in April, beating economists’ forecasts.  
 In contrast, consumer-price gains are running at 2.9
percent in Australia, 5.1 percent in Indonesia and 4.3 percent
in the Philippines. Australia, South Korea, Indonesia, the
Philippines and Thailand kept rates unchanged last month to
gauge the effects of the Greece-led debt crisis.  
 No Options  
 “Inflation continues to be above comfort level and last
week’s fuel-price increase left the RBI with no choice,” said
Anubhuti Sahay, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in
Mumbai. The bank will “continue with its calibrated approach to
exit as it weighs the global economic uncertainties.”  
 The government’s move to increase gasoline prices by 3.5
rupees and diesel costs by 2 rupees may boost the wholesale-
price inflation rate by 1.3 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist  Jahangir Aziz .  
 “It’s inflation that India needs to worry about rather
than Europe’s debt crisis,”  N.R. Bhanumurthy , an economist at
the New Delhi-based National Institute of Public Finance and
Policy, said before the announcement. “India’s economy is
driven more by domestic factors.”  
 The yield on the 10-year government bond advanced 4 basis
points to 7.56 percent yesterday in Mumbai, while the Bombay
Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 0.3 percent to 17,460.95.
The rupee slid 0.5 percent to 46.79 against the dollar.  
 India’s exports to Greece, Portugal and Spain, which are
struggling with debt loads, account for about 4 percent of the
nation’s overseas sales, according to Indian Commerce and
Industry Minister  Anand Sharma .  
 Growth Outlook  
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
on May 26 forecast that India’s economy will grow 8.3 percent in
2010 and 8.5 percent in 2011.  
 Pressure increased on Subbarao to move rates higher after
 Chakravarthy Rangarajan , chairman of the Prime Minister’s
Economic Advisory Council, said on June 17 that inflation is at
an “uncomfortable” level and some action by the Reserve Bank
was called for.  
 Inflation is a politically sensitive issue in India, where
the World Bank estimates more than three-quarters of the
nation’s 1.2 billion people live on less than $2 a day.  
 Subbarao tightened monetary policy even as the banking
system faced a shortage of money.  
 Cash availability dropped after businesses withdrew money
to pay quarterly tax and the government raised 1.06 trillion
rupees from the auction of high-speed mobile phone permits and
broadband internet airwaves to companies including  Bharti Airtel
Ltd.   
 To prevent the cash squeeze from hampering growth, the
central bank has been adding money to the banking system since
May. The bank extended until July 16 a plan to allow lenders
keep less money in government bonds as reserves. The facility
was set to expire yesterday.  
 “Easing liquidity and raising rates at the same time may
seem apparently inconsistent,” the central bank said. “In no
way should they be viewed as inconsistent with the monetary
policy stance of calibrated exit, which remains focused on
containing inflation without hurting growth.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        