-- IPhone's Debut on Verizon Would Boost Qualcomm, Hurt Infineon
-- Ian King
-- 2010-07-02T20:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/iphone-4-s-debut-on-verizon-wireless-would-boost-qualcomm-hurt-infineon.html

          
          
             Qualcomm Inc. stands to get its
technology into millions of new phones if Verizon Wireless
begins offering  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone, because the device would
have to start using Qualcomm’s chip designs.  
 Qualcomm  is the only company that can provide the signal
processor that the iPhone would need to connect with Verizon’s
network, said  Will Strauss , an analyst for Tempe, Arizona-based
Forward Concepts. Infineon Technologies AG, the provider of that
chip for the AT&T Inc. version of Apple’s phone, would suffer by
losing out on the Verizon shipments, he said.  
 Verizon will start selling Apple Inc.’s iPhone to customers
in January, two people familiar with the plans said last month.
The move could generate as many as 12 million new sales of the
phone and cost AT&T a million customers, according to analysts’
estimates. For Qualcomm, getting onto the iPhone would solidify
its position as the world’s biggest maker of mobile-phone chips.  
 “It’s got to be Qualcomm -- there’s no other option,”
Strauss said. “It could be a very big deal.”  
 AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, has served
as the nation’s only iPhone provider since the device’s debut in
2007. Verizon, the market leader, uses a different radio
technology: code division multiple access, or CDMA, a standard
that Qualcomm licenses to the industry. Signal processors are
used to convert radio signals into sound and data in phones.  
 Emily Kilpatrick , a spokeswoman for San Diego-based
Qualcomm, and  Jeffrey Nelson , a spokesman for Basking Ridge, New
Jersey-based Verizon Wireless, declined to comment. Apple
doesn’t comment on rumor and speculation, spokeswoman  Natalie Harrison  said. Infineon didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  
 Chip Business  
 Losing its grip on the iPhone would be a blow to Infineon,
whose wireless-chip unit is already in flux. The German company
is weighing options for the business, including a sale, two
people familiar with the matter said last month. It hired
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and opened a data room for potential buyers
to review the books, one of the people said.  
 “It’s not going to put Infineon out of business, but it
doesn’t help,” said Forward Concepts’ Strauss. Apple may
consider replacing Infineon chips with Qualcomm products in its
 AT&T  phones as well, he said.  
 Apple  has sold more than 50 million iPhones since 2007.
Shoppers snapped up more than 1.7 million units of the latest
version, the iPhone 4, in its first three days on sale last
month -- a record for Apple.  
 Price Pressure  
 While the success of the product attracts attention to
anything connected with it, signal processors are a tough market
where prices are coming down, said  Cody Acree , an analyst at
Williams Financial Group in Dallas.  
 Qualcomm’s stock has tumbled 31 percent this year on
concern that shrinking phone prices will continue to squeeze
profit and sales. The company aims to return to growth this year
after the recession bit into 2009 revenue. The iPhone alone
won’t fuel a comeback, Acree said.  
 “It will garner attention,” he said. “But people are
looking for a turnaround story.”  
 Verizon Wireless, co-owned by Verizon Communications Inc.
and Vodafone Group Plc, will likely sell about 12 million
iPhones in the first year of its release, according to UBS AG
analyst  John Hodulik .  James Ratcliffe , a Barclays Capital
analyst, has estimated that 1 million AT&T customers may leave
that network as a result. Qualcomm sells about 100 million
signal processors each quarter.  
 Qualcomm  rose 41 cents to $32.37 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. Shares of Cupertino, California-based
Apple fell $1.54 to $246.94. Infineon was little changed at 4.75
euros today in German trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- John Hodulik, an analyst at UBS Securities LLC, talks about the outlook for AT&T Inc. losing exclusive rights to carry Apple Inc.'s iPhone and the impact on the wireless industry.
     Hodulik talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
