-- Irish Budget Deficit Narrows; Government Sticks to 2010 Funding Target
-- Colm Heatley
-- 2010-07-02T16:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/irish-budget-deficit-narrows-government-sticks-to-2010-funding-target.html

          
          
             Ireland’s budget deficit narrowed 40
percent in the first half of the year as the government reduced
spending and didn’t pay into the country’s pension reserve fund.  
 The deficit of 8.9 billion euros ($11.2 billion) compared
with a shortfall of 14.7 billion euros in the year-earlier
period, the Dublin-based  Finance Ministry  in Dublin said in a
statement on its website today. Spending fell 1.9 percent to
19.7 billion euros.  
 Ireland’s economy returned to growth in the first quarter
and the government is betting that spending cuts that began in
2008 may protect the country from the debt-crisis contagion
rippling through the euro region. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
said Ireland’s fiscal position is “stabilizing” and that the
target for about 20 billion euros in debt sales this year
remains “valid.”  
 The deficit “is generally in-line with my department’s
expectations,” Lenihan said in a statement. “The public
finances are stabilizing. Economic recovery will assist this
process, though serious challenges remain.”  
 Irish 10-year bonds extended gains after the figures were
published, pushing the yield down 17 basis to 5.3 percent as of
4:57 p.m. in Dublin. The  premium  investors charge to hold that
debt over the equivalent German benchmark narrowed to 272.4
basis points from 290.5 basis points yesterday.  
 The narrowing of the deficit is largely due to payments to
the National Pension Reserve Fund and  Anglo Irish Bank Corp . in
2009 that weren’t repeated this year, the ministry said. Tax
receipts fell 8.7 percent to 14.4 billion euros in the first
half.  
 ‘Economic Integrity’  
 “The euro area debt crisis has the potential to put a
spanner in the works as regards the Irish economic recovery,
though we’re still confident we can ride out the storm,” said
Alan McQuaid, chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“If the government can continue to deliver on fiscal austerity
measures,” there is “every chance we will get through this
crisis with our economic integrity and reputation intact.”  
 Ireland’s economy shrank about 10 percent in the last two
years as its property market slumped,  unemployment  soared and
the financial system almost collapsed. The government has raised
taxes and cut spending in a bid to reduce a budget deficit that
widened to 14.3 percent of gross domestic product in 2009, the
largest in the European Union.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        