-- Italian May Unemployment Rate Unchanged at 8.7 Percent on Weak Recovery
-- Steve Scherer
-- 2010-07-02T09:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/italian-may-unemployment-rate-unchanged-at-8-7-percent-on-weak-recovery.html

          
          
             Italian joblessness was unchanged in
May as sagging domestic demand made employers reluctant to hire
even after export growth lifted Europe’s fourth-biggest  economy 
out of recession.  
 The  unemployment rate  was a seasonally adjusted 8.7
percent, the same as April’s revised number, Rome-based national
statistics office  Istat  said today. The rate remained at its
highest since monthly data series began in January 2004. The
number was better than the median 9 percent rate forecast by 6
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Rising joblessness has weighed on Italian consumer
confidence and is holding back a recovery even with
manufacturing strengthening on the back of foreign demand.
 Industrial production  in the $2.3 trillion  economy  likely
expanded 2.5 percent in the third quarter, employers’ lobby
 Confindustria  forecast yesterday. Still,  consumer and business
confidence  both fell in June.  
 Fewer people sought jobs in May, Istat said. The inactivity
rate, which measures the number of unemployed who are not
seeking work, rose to a seasonally adjusted 37.7 percent from
37.5 percent in April.  
 Fiat SpA , the country’s biggest manufacturer, may idle
plants in Italy during the summer because of declining car
sales, Corriere della Sera reported last month without saying
where it got the information. New auto sales in Italy  fell  18
percent in June, the Italian Transportation Ministry said
yesterday.  
 On May 26 the government led by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , which forecast the economy will expand 1 percent in
2010, approved 24.9 billion euros ($30.6 billion) in spending
cuts as part of a European effort to tame deficits and protect
the euro.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        