-- Japan's Bonds Decline Most in a Month Ahead of Next Week's Debt Auctions
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-02T05:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/japanese-bonds-decline-pare-weekly-advance-before-next-week-s-debt-sales.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  fell, paring their
weekly gain, on speculation yields near the lowest in seven
years will deter investors at debt sales next week.  
 Bonds dropped for the first time in four days as Japanese
stocks were led higher by resource companies after Australian
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  reached a tax agreement with the
nation’s miners. The Ministry of Finance will sell 2.8 trillion
yen ($31.9 billion) of 10- and 30-year debt next week.  
 “Yields have already fallen to unsustainable levels,”
said  Akitsugu Bandou , senior economist in Tokyo at Okasan
Securities Co. “A lower coupon may throw cold water on investor
demand for new bonds.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond rose 2.5 basis
points to 1.09 percent as of 2:03 p.m. in Tokyo, at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
1.3 percent security due June 2020 fell 0.23 yen to 101.885 yen.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery declined 0.25
to 141.63 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  Nikkei 225  Stock
Average rose 0.4 percent.  
 The  Ministry of Finance  will auction 2.2 trillion yen in
10-year securities on July 6 and 600 billion yen of 30-year
bonds two days later.  
 Primary dealers, companies that are required to bid at
government debt sales, often reduce holdings of bonds before an
auction in case prices decline before they can pass on the
securities to investors.  
 ‘Bubble Signs’  
 Japan’s 10-year bond  yields , mired in the past week at the
lowest levels in seven years, may surge to 1.75 percent by year-
end as the nation’s economic recovery proves resilient,
according to Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  
 “I’m seeing bubble signs increasingly,”  Shinji Nomura ,
chief debt strategist in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial, a unit of
Japan’s third-largest banking group said yesterday. “The
economy continues to recover gradually, but yields have dropped
as if taking into account a new recession. That’s widened a gap
between yields and the economic outlook.”  
 The Bank of Japan’s said yesterday its Tankan index of
sentiment among large manufacturers gained 15 points to plus 1
in the second quarter. That meant optimists outnumbered
pessimists for the first time in two years.  
 The central bank in December unveiled a credit program that
it doubled to 20 trillion yen. Last month, Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his policy board introduced a 3 trillion yen
program aimed at encouraging lending to businesses.  
 The central bank has held its benchmark interest rate at
0.1 percent since December 2008.  
 Weekly Gains  
 Japan’s bonds are still poised for a fourth-straight weekly
gain, the longest streak in a year, on concern the global
recovery is slowing as developed countries unwind stimulus.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of  non-
manufacturing businesses , which makes up almost 90 percent of
the U.S. economy, slid to 55.0 in June from 55.4 a month earlier,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before the release on July
6. Japan’s machinery orders, an indicator of business investment
in three to six months, fell 3 percent in May following a 4
percent gain the prior month, a separate showed ahead of the
July 8 report.  
 “Bond yields will stay low amid increased uncertainties
about growth prospects,” said  Hirokata Kusaba , a senior
economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Research Institute Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s second-largest banking group.  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell 5.5 basis
points this week and the price gained 0.498 yen.  
 The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average has lost 5.3 percent this week,
the biggest decline since the period ended May 21.  
 Yield Spread  
 The difference in  yield , or spread, between 10- and 20-year
bonds narrowed to 68 basis points today, the least since July,
2009, as investors bought longer-dated bonds.  
 “We see better investment opportunities in longer-dated
bonds, which have lagged behind the recent rally in the shorter
end of the yield curve,” said  Akio Kato , team leader of Japanese
debt at Kokusai Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, which runs the
$38.5 billion Global Sovereign Open fund.  
 A yield curve is a chart that plots the yields of bonds of
the same quality and different maturities. It steepens when
yields on shorter-maturity notes fall, those on longer-dated
bonds rise, or both happen simultaneously.  
 Twenty-year yield dropped 9.5 basis points to 1.78 percent
this week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        