-- Japan's Yields May Surge to 1.75% Amid `Bubble Signs,' Nikko Cordial Says
-- Yumi Ikeda
-- 2010-07-02T00:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/japan-s-yields-may-surge-to-1-75-amid-bubble-signs-nikko-cordial-says.html

          
          
             Japan’s 10-year bond  yields , mired in
the past week at the lowest levels in seven years, may surge to
1.75 percent by year-end as the nation’s economic recovery proves
resilient, according to Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  
 Benchmark 10-year yields fell 31 basis points in the
quarter ended in June, the most since the last quarter of 2008,
while sentiment among Japan’s largest manufacturers advanced to
a two-year high. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “I’m seeing bubble signs increasingly,”  Shinji Nomura ,
chief debt strategist in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial, a unit of
Japan’s third-largest banking group said yesterday. “The
economy continues to recover gradually, but yields have dropped
as if taking into account a new recession. That’s widened a gap
between yields and the economic outlook.”  
 The Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan index, released
yesterday, gained 15 points to plus 1 in the second quarter.
That meant optimists outnumbered pessimists for the first time
in two years.  
 “Judging from the Tankan’s results, I see no need for the
BOJ to move toward additional easing,” Nomura said.  
 Following calls to act from the government the Bank of
Japan in December unveiled a credit program that it doubled to
20 trillion yen ($228 billion) in March. Last month, Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  and his policy board introduced a 3 trillion
yen program aimed at encouraging lending to businesses.  
 The central bank has held its benchmark interest rate at
0.1 percent since December 2008.  
 Ten-year yields touched 1.055 percent yesterday, the lowest
since August 2003. Japan’s government bonds handed investors a
return of 2.2 percent between January and June, the best first
half since 2001, according to an index compiled by Merrill Lynch
& Co.  
 ‘Going Wrong’  
 Yields are lower now than in the wake of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse, though Japan’s economy is in a better
state now than it was then, Nomura said. The  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average , which dipped below 7,000 in October 2008, closed at
9,191.60 yesterday.  
 “As we enter a new quarter, I’m sure investors are mulling
over whether they can keep buying at current yield levels,”
Nomura said. “They may be getting a sense that something is
going wrong.”  
 Ten-year yields  slipped to a record 0.43 percent on June 11,
2003, as investors kept buying government debt even after the
economy bottomed out, causing an asset bubble, Nomura said.
Yields surged to 1.4 percent on July 4, 2003, as bond prices
tumbled.  
 “The situation is getting similar to that 2003 bubble,”
he said.  
 Risk Premiums  
 Ten-year rates may rise to 1.75 percent by year-end, the
highest level since June 2008, Nomura said. Should his forecast
prove accurate, investors who buy the securities today will
incur a 5 percent loss, Bloomberg data show.  
 Bond yields may also surge as optimism about the
government’s fiscal strategy fades following this month’s
midterm elections, Nomura said. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , who
took over when  Yukio Hatoyama  resigned after nine months on the
job, announced a plan on June 22 to balance Japan’s books within
10 years, restrict debt sales and overhaul the tax system.  
 “Kan’s administration may be short-lived,” he said. “If
that happens, investors may think nothing has changed.”  
 Japan’s public debt, the world’s largest, is nearing 200
percent of gross domestic product, according to the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 Ikeda4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        