-- Japan Bonds Advance for Fourth Week on Concerns Global Growth Is Slowing
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-02T22:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/japan-bonds-advance-for-fourth-week-on-concerns-global-growth-is-slowing.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  rose for a fourth week
on signs the global recovery is losing momentum, boosting demand
for the relative safety of debt.  
 Benchmark yields reached the lowest level since August 2003
during the week before reports that economists said will show
U.S. services activity slowed and Japan’s machinery orders
declined. Japan’s debt securities fell the most in a month
yesterday on speculation yields near a seven-year low will deter
investors at debt sales next week.  
 “Bond yields will stay low amid increased uncertainties
about growth prospects,” said  Hirokata Kusaba , a senior
economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Research Institute Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s second-largest banking group.  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell five basis
points this week to 1.095 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent
security due June 2020 rose 0.452 yen to 101.839 yen. The yield
reached 1.055 percent on July 1, the lowest since August 2003.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery rose 0.54 this
week to 141.60 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average lost 5.5 percent this week,
the biggest decline since the period ended May 21.  
 Machinery Orders  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of  non-
manufacturing businesses , which makes up almost 90 percent of
the U.S. economy, slid to 55 in June from 55.4 a month earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey before the July 6 release.
Japan’s machinery orders, an indicator of business investment,
fell 3 percent in May following a 4 percent gain the prior
month, a separate showed ahead of the July 8 report.  
 Longer-dated bonds led gains this week as investors shifted
allocations from a shorter-end of the yield curve.  
 The difference in  yield , or spread, between 10- and 20-year
bonds narrowed to 67 basis points yesterday, the least since
July 2009, as investors bought longer-maturity debt.  
 “We see better investment opportunities in longer-dated
bonds, which have lagged behind the recent rally in the shorter
end of the yield curve,” said  Akio Kato , team leader of
Japanese debt at Kokusai Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, which
runs the $38.5 billion Global Sovereign Open fund.  
 A yield curve is a chart that plots the yields of bonds of
the same quality and different maturities. It steepens when
yields on shorter-maturity notes fall, those on longer-dated
bonds rise, or both happen simultaneously.  
 Twenty-year yield dropped 11 basis points to 1.765 percent
this week.  
 Daily Loss  
 Bonds dropped for the first time in four days yesterday
before the  Ministry of Finance  auctions 2.2 trillion yen in 10-
year securities on July 6 and 600 billion yen of 30-year bonds
two days later.  
 Primary dealers, companies that are required to bid at
government debt sales, often reduce holdings of bonds before an
auction in case prices decline before they can pass on the
securities to investors.  
 “Yields have already fallen to unsustainable levels,”
said  Akitsugu Bandou , senior economist in Tokyo at Okasan
Securities Co. “A lower coupon may throw cold water on investor
demand for new bonds.”  
 Ten-year yield rose three basis points yesterday, the
biggest increase in the yield since May 27.  
 Japan’s 10-year  yields  may surge to 1.75 percent by year-
end as the nation’s economic recovery proves resilient,
according to Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  
 ‘Bubble Signs’  
 “I’m seeing bubble signs increasingly,”  Shinji Nomura ,
chief debt strategist in Tokyo at the unit of Japan’s third-
largest banking group, said on July 1. “The economy continues
to recover gradually, but yields have dropped as if taking into
account a new recession. That’s widened a gap between yields and
the economic outlook.”  
 The Bank of Japan said on July 1 its Tankan survey of
sentiment among large manufacturers gained 15 points to plus 1
in the second quarter, meaning optimists outnumbered pessimists
for the first time in two years.  
 The central bank in December unveiled a credit program that
it later doubled to 20 trillion yen. Last month, Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  and his policy board introduced a 3 trillion
yen program aimed at encouraging lending to businesses. The BOJ
has held its benchmark interest rate at 0.1 percent since
December 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        