-- Indian Rupee, Korean Won Have Biggest Weekly Drops Among Asian Currencies
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-07-02T21:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/korean-won-indian-rupee-have-biggest-weekly-drops-among-asian-currencies.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won and India’s rupee
declined the most among  Asian  currencies this week on concern
China’s economic slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis will deter
investors from buying emerging-market assets.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered China’s growth forecast
for this year in a research report yesterday. Confidence among
U.S. consumers sank more than economists forecast this month,
while household spending and wages in Japan declined in May,
according to reports this week. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell
3.4 percent this week, the most since the period ended May 21.  
 “The bottom line is, risk indicators are still high,”
said  Mitul Kotecha , the Hong Kong-based head of global foreign-
exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB. “We’re still in a
consolidation phase.”  
 The won fell 1.1 percent this week to close at 1,228.75 per
dollar in Seoul. The rupee declined by as much, completing the
worst week in more than a month, to 46.79, after a central bank
report on June 30 showed the nation’s  current-account  deficit
widened to a record. Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.3 percent to
NT$32.278 on signs the central bank intervened to help
exporters.  
 Goldman economists Yu Song and  Helen Qiao  said they lowered
China’s 2010 economic growth forecast to 10.1 percent, from 11.4
percent. Consumers in China and the U.S. are the biggest
overseas buyers of South Korean goods.  
 Current Account  
 The  Reserve Bank of India  said the current account, a
measure of trade and investment flows, posted a $13 billion
shortfall last quarter, more than twice the $5.75 billion median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The nation
has become more vulnerable to global slowdowns and financial
crises as foreign trade plays a bigger role in the economy, the
bank said in a separate report on July 1.  
 “There are near-term weakening pressures on the rupee,
exacerbated by external uncertainties,” Pranjul Bhandari and
 Tushar Poddar , Mumbai-based analysts at Goldman Sachs, wrote in
a research note. “We believe the current-account deficit will
remain high this fiscal year. On a six- to 12-month horizon,
however, we expect higher growth and rates to drive inflows and
appreciation of the rupee.”  
 Ringgit Gains  
 Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.3 percent yesterday and
strengthened 0.8 percent this week to 3.2250 per dollar.  
 The country’s exports climbed at an annual rate of  21.9
percent  in May, after rising 26.6 percent in April, the trade
ministry said in a statement in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. The
ringgit was Asia’s best-performing currency this week, excluding
the yen.  
 “The recovery story is one of the drivers for the ringgit,
the other being the general interest-rate advantage in Asia,”
said  Tan Voon Ching , a currency trader at OSK Investment Bank
Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “While talk of a slowdown may be
intensifying, regional economic conditions are relatively better
than in Europe or the U.S. for now.”  
 Yuan forwards completed a fourth weekly gain. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards jumped 0.2 percent to 6.6690 per dollar
and strengthened 0.14 percent in the week. The contracts reflect
bets that the yuan will appreciate 1.5 percent in one year. The
central bank yesterday set the reference rate for yuan trading
at 6.7720, 0.2 percent stronger than the previous day’s fixing.  
 Yuan Climbs  
 “What has been happening in the past two weeks is a
gradual move down in the dollar-yuan but the NDFs have not
priced this in,” said  Mirza Baig , a Singapore-based currency
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s largest foreign
exchange trader. “They are cheap.”  
 Spain sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.4 billion) of five-year
bonds at an auction on July 1, reaching the maximum sale target.
The  Dollar Index  tumbled 1.7 percent after reports on U.S.
manufacturing, employment and home sales signaled slower growth
in the second half of 2010.  
 Thailand’s baht, which was little changed this week, was at
32.41 per dollar yesterday. Central bank data this week showed
Thailand had a current-account surplus of $1.04 billion in May,
compared with an April deficit of $423 million. Exports rose the
most since July 2008.  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.1 percent this week to
9,063, for its third weekly gain. The Philippine peso traded at
46.49 against the dollar and was down 0.1 percent from June 25.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        