-- Nadal Beats Murray to Move to Wimbledon Final Against Berdych
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-02T19:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/nadal-defeats-murray-to-advance-to-wimbledon-final-against-czech-berdych.html

          
          
             Top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  defeated
fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  in straight sets to reach the
Wimbledon final against  Tomas Berdych .  
 Nadal won 6-3, 7-6 (8-6), 6-4. He faces Berdych, who beat
third-seeded  Novak Djokovic  6-3, 7-6 (11-9), 6-3 to advance to
his first Grand Slam final. The championship is set for July 4.  
 “For me was an amazing day,” Nadal said in a news
conference. “Very important victory for me, one of the more
difficult victories of my career because the opponent was
playing well and I needed really to play my best tennis to try
to win.”  
 Nadal, who met English soccer star  David Beckham  after the
match, played better at the most important moments, converting
three of four breakpoints. The fourth-seeded Murray, trying to
become the first British man to reach the Wimbledon final since
1938, converted only one of three chances on the Nadal serve.
Nadal committed 13 errors, six less than Murray.  
 “He’s one of the greatest players ever,” Murray said in a
news conference. “Disappointed. I had chances in all of the
sets.”  
 Putting Murray under pressure from the back of the court
with his forehand, Nadal took the first set after he broke serve
at 4-4.  
 Missed Chances  
 In the second set, Murray squandered his first two chances
to break as the Spaniard served at 3-4. Murray hit a forehand
into the net on the first breakpoint, while a backhand drifted
long on the second after a long rally in which Nadal took the
initiative.  
 Watched by  Prince Andrew , Nadal’s forehand came to the
rescue once again as he trailed 2-0 in the tie-break.  
 Serving two aces in a row, Murray took a 5-4 lead. A double
fault by Nadal handed Murray his first set point, but the No. 1
player on the ATP World Tour ranking saved it with a backhand
cross-court volley on Murray’s serve. Nadal got his first set
point with a shot that hit the net cord, changing its direction
and causing Murray to miss a volley at the net. Murray threw his
racket on the Centre Court grass as a Nadal forehand won the
second set.  
 The forehand that worked so well in the first two sets
deserted Nadal in his opening game of the third set, when he
lost serve after two straight errors. The second-seeded Nadal
broke back for 4-4. Serving to stay in the tournament, Murray
faced his first match point as he sent a forehand long.  
 Final Point  
 Another forehand handed Nadal the match, and he fell on his
back on the grass. He’ll play in two days against Berdych
seeking his second Wimbledon title in three years and his second
straight Grand Slam championship, after winning the French Open
last month.  
 Berdych, from the Czech Republic, was a semifinalist at the
French Open and reached the Wimbledon quarterfinals in 2007. He
beat defending champion and top-seeded  Roger Federer  in the
quarterfinals two days ago.  
 “The feeling is absolutely amazing,” Berdych said in a
televised interview on the British Broadcasting Corp. “I reach
another victory, over Novak Djokovic, who is a great player.”  
 His match against Djokovic hinged on the second set, when
the players traded break points and each had set points. They
held serve until 5-5, when Berdych got three break points.
Djokovic, a 23-year-old Serb, saved one but missed an overhead
smash to give the game to Berdych. He then broke back in the
next game with a sliding forehand.  
 Missed Serve  
 In the tiebreaker, Djokovic was down 5-2, went for a big
second serve, and missed. Berdych wasn’t able to convert either
of his serves, making it 6-5. After a 21-shot rally, Djokovic’s
defensive lob was ruled out, but the call was overturned. The
Serb won the replay to even the tiebreaker, and then the players
traded set points. Djokovic double-faulted to lose the set,
hitting his chair with his racket and getting a warning from the
umpire.  
 In the final set, Djokovic was able to trade games until 4-
3, when he tried to hit big second serves and missed, giving the
Czech the break. Berdych held serve and was on his way to the
final, where he said he yearned to be as a child.  
 “This is the dream,” Berdych said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Rafael Nadal of Spain plays a shot during the Men's Semi Final match against Andy Murray of Great Britain at Wimbledon. Photographer: by Clive Brunskill/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
