-- Namibia Rejects Absa's Bid for Controlling Stake in Capricorn Investment
-- Chamwe Kaira
-- 2010-07-02T15:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/namibia-rejects-absa-s-bid-for-controlling-stake-in-capricorn-investment.html

          
          
             Namibia  rejected  Absa Group Ltd. ’s
proposed acquisition of a majority stake in Capricorn Investment
Holdings Ltd., saying it wanted the owner of the country’s
third-biggest lender to remain domestically held.  
 Allowing the purchase would result in South African lenders
controlling all of Namibia’s four biggest banks, Ipumbu Shiimi,
governor of the Bank of Namibia, told reporters today in the
capital, Windhoek.  
 “The Bank of Namibia is concerned that should the
transaction be approved, all domestic banks will be majority
foreign-owned, which is not in line with national development
objectives,” Shiimi said. “Secondly, this could further expose
the Namibian banking industry to a single-country risk, a
situation that is not desirable.”  
 Absa, South Africa’s largest retail bank by assets,
announced in February that it planned to buy a controlling stake
in Capricorn for an undisclosed sum. The Namibian, a Windhoek-
based newspaper, reported yesterday that the deal was worth
about 1.5 billion Namibian dollars ($194 million).  
 “Absa is obviously disappointed at this turn of events, and
will now study the decision,” the lender said in a statement to
Johannesburg’s stock exchange today.  
 Capricorn owns  Bank Windhoek , which is Namibia’s biggest
bank by assets after  FNB Namibia Holdings Ltd.  and  Standard Bank
Group Ltd.   
 Shiimi said the  Bank of Namibia  advised Capricorn to enable
Namibian investors to acquire a majority stake in Capricorn in
order for Bank Windhoek to continue to be Namibian-owned.  
 Bank Windhoek has assets of more than 13 billion Namibian
dollars and a market share of 32 percent of loans and advances
in Namibia, according to the Bank of Namibia.  
 Absa is a unit of  Barclays Plc , the U.K.’s third-biggest
bank.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chamwe Kaira in Windhoek at 
 ckaira@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        