-- Natural Gas Slides After U.S. Factory Orders Decline More Than Predicted
-- Asjylyn Loder
-- 2010-07-02T19:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/natural-gas-declines-on-concern-hot-weather-won-t-erode-u-s-supply-glut.html

          
          
             Natural gas futures fell in New York
after orders placed with U.S. factories dropped, signaling that
demand from manufacturers may be slow to rebound after the worst
recession since the 1930s.  
 Futures dipped after orders declined 1.4 percent in May,
more than forecast and the largest drop since March 2009, the
Commerce Department said today. Industrial users account for 28
percent of gas demand, according to the Energy Department.  
 “We need factories to restart, we need industry to start
back up and manufacturing to be robust,” said  Michael Rose ,
director of trading at Angus Jackson Inc. in Fort Lauderdale,
Florida. “Manufacturing is the key. It’s the key to the
economy, and the key to the economy is the key to natural gas.”  
 Natural gas for August delivery fell 16.7 cents, or 3.4
percent, to settle at $4.687 per million British thermal units
on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gas has dropped 16 percent
this year on forecasts that U.S. inventories will be near record
highs at the end of the injection season in October.  
 Stockpiles will reach 3.805 trillion cubic feet in October,
the Energy Department estimated in its monthly Short-Term Energy
Outlook on June 8. Supplies rose to a record 3.84 trillion cubic
feet in November 2009. Gas inventories increased 60 billion
cubic feet to 2.684 trillion in the week ended June 25, the
Energy Department reported yesterday.  
 Industrial Use Below Average  
 The Federal Reserve’s industrial production report last
month showed capacity utilization, which measures the amount of
a plant that is in use, was 74.7 percent in May, below the 20-
year average of 80 percent. Manufacturing accounts for about 11
percent of the economy.  
 “Until we get some economic numbers that create demand,
natural gas is going to tread water between $4 and $5 all summer
long,” Rose said.  
 Traders are waiting to see whether above-normal
temperatures will dent rising stockpiles, said  Teri Viswanath ,
director of commodities research for Credit Suisse Securities
USA in Houston.  
 “While the market continues to remain nervous about high
end-of-season storage levels, the fact is we’re only halfway
through the injection season and a lot could happen,” Viswanath
said.  
 The eastern and western U.S. can expect above-normal
temperatures for the next week to 10 days, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of the Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland, in his daily report.  
 “For the Northwest, this should be the hottest weather of
the season so far,” Rogers said. “For the East Coast, Midwest,
and interior Deep South, this should either match or exceed the
hottest weather so far.”  
 96 Degrees in New York  
 Temperatures in New York are forecast to reach 96 degrees
Fahrenheit (36 degrees Celsius) by July 6, according to the
National Weather Service. Temperatures in Washington are
expected to reach 100 degrees that day.  
 “Inventories are still high, there’s no hurricane threat,
and while it’s forecast to be hot, it’s already been hot and we
still put 60 bcf in storage,” said  Kyle Cooper , a managing
director at energy consultant IAF Advisors in Houston.  
 If predictions have moderated by July 6, when the Nymex
reopens after the U.S. July 4 holiday weekend, gas will plunge,
Viswanath said.  
 “There’s too much uncertainty about the heat of the summer
in the North, so the market doesn’t want to price it too high,”
said  Laurent Key , natural gas analyst with Societe Generale in
New York.  
 Wholesale natural gas at the benchmark  Henry Hub  in Erath,
Louisiana, rose 17.69 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $4.717 per
million Btu, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
174,940 as of 2:47 p.m., compared with a three-month average
total of 259,000. Volume was 286,197 yesterday. Open interest
was 772,780 contracts, compared with the three-month average of
843,000. The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting
open interest and full volume data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        