-- Record Power Demand Pushes Natural Gas Higher: Energy Markets
-- Mario Parker
-- 2010-07-02T00:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/natural-gas-price-jumps-as-heat-drives-u-s-power-demand-energy-markets.html

          
          
             New Yorkers running air conditioners
during the hottest June in 16 years means natural gas for August
delivery is trading at the highest price relative to longer-
dated futures since 2004.  
 Record  electricity demand cut the discount for August
natural-gas delivery versus January to 82 cents on the New York
Mercantile Exchange from $2 a year earlier. The last time the
gap was narrower was six years ago, when it fell to 67 cents.
Temperatures across New York, New Jersey and Connecticut rose to
as much as 5 percent above normal last month and natural gas
jumped 6.3 percent in June, the most for the month in two years.  
 “You’re seeing a lot of strength on the front end,” said
 Ed Kennedy , a senior vice president of energy trading at Hencorp
Becstone Futures in Miami. “The spreads are narrowing. The
weather forecast on temperatures for next week is a doozy.”  
 Natural gas and coal are used to generate 70 percent of the
nation’s electricity. Natural gas for August delivery traded at
$4.616 per million British thermal units on June 30 on the
Nymex. Gas for January delivery, when prices typically peak for
the year, was $5.434. The discount for August futures versus
January has averaged $1.87 since 2004, more than twice this
year’s difference, at the end of June.  
 Power prices in PJM, the largest U.S. electricity market,
surged 42 percent to an average $58.45 a megawatt-hour on the
Intercontinental Exchange in June, compared with $41.18 a year
earlier. In New York, power was up 36 percent from June 2009.  
 “Summer came early this year,”  Lewis Hay , chief executive
officer of Juno Beach, Florida-based NextEra Energy Inc., the
fourth-biggest producer of electricity in the U.S., said in a
June 23 interview in New York. “Demand has been strong up and
down the East Coast.”  
 Higher Than Normal  
 Temperatures in New York’s Central Park averaged 4.9
percent above normal in June, according to Matt Scalora, a
forecaster at the National Weather Service in Upton, New York.
Readings in Newark, New Jersey, and Bridgeport, Connecticut,
were about 5 percent higher than normal, he said. New York,
which had its fourth-warmest June on record, will be hit by
temperatures reaching 93 degrees Fahrenheit (34 Celsius) by July
4, according to the weather service.  
 Coal consumption by U.S. utilities climbed 18 percent from
a year earlier during the week ended June 24, according to
Genscape Inc., a Louisville, Kentucky-based provider of real-
time power-market information. In the mid-Atlantic region,
plants held 37 days of coal supplies, down from 63 days a year
earlier, Genscape said.  
 ‘Hyperventilating’ at Prices  
 Consol Energy Inc. , a coal and natural-gas producer,
received a call on June 29 from a utility customer seeking two
train cars full for delivery this month, a request the
Pittsburgh-based company hadn’t seen in “a long time,” said
 Bob Pusateri , executive vice president of energy sales.  
 “We gave them a price and after they stopped
hyperventilating, they did not say no,” Pusateri said. “That
tells me that things are starting to turn.”  
 Coal in Pennsylvania averaged $59.85 a ton in June, up 35
percent from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. On the Nymex, coal had its best June since 2008,
rising 5.9 percent to $62.90 a ton.  
 Utilities from New York to Florida have reduced inventories
and are now seeking supplies through next year, Pusateri said.  
 “They’re burning coal like crazy and they’re going to
have to replace it,” he said. “Every coal unit that can run is
running.”  
 Inventories Decline  
 Gas inventories fell 1 percent below year-earlier storage
levels last week, the U.S. Energy Department said yesterday.
They were 5 percent above the previous year as of the end of
April. Cash prices for natural gas in New York were 25 percent
higher than the average in June 2009, reaching $5.20 per million
British thermal units.  
 Rising power output has benefited  Consolidation Edison Inc. 
as the owner of New York City’s largest utility gained 1.2
percent in June even as the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  sank 5.4
percent.  
 ConEd, which delivers power to about 3.2 million customers
in New York and its suburbs, asked some customers to cut usage
this week because temperatures strained distribution cables.  
 Electricity demand in New York as of June 28 was 12.8
million megawatt-hours, up from 11.4 million a year earlier,
largely because of the hotter weather,  Ken Klapp , a spokesman
for the New York Independent System Operator, which runs the
state’s grid and power market, said in an interview.  
 Power production in the U.S. totaled 89,513 gigawatt hours
in the week ended June 26,  the highest  for that time of year
since at least 1989, according to the Edison Electric Institute.  
 Unusually high temperatures are also forecast for much of
the country this month, according to the  weather service .  
 “With this warm weather that we’re having, the East Coast
is hot, the Carolinas are warm, Florida’s warm,” Consol’s
Pusateri said. “One good hurricane in the Gulf and gas prices
will shoot up. Life’s good.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        