-- Dutch Upset Brazil 2-1 at World Cup; Uruguay Ousts Ghana
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-02T23:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/netherlands-beats-10-man-brazil-2-1-to-reach-soccer-world-cup-semifinal.html

          
          
             World Cup favorite Brazil was upset
2-1 yesterday by the Netherlands, knocking the record five-time
champion out in the quarterfinals and putting its coach’s job in
question. Uruguay beat Ghana 4-2 in a shootout after staying in
the game when forward Luis Suarez used his hands to stop a goal.  
 Wesley Sneijder  scored after 68 minutes with a header to
clinch victory in Port Elizabeth, South Africa. Brazil’s Felipe
Melo, whose own goal allowed the Dutch to tie the game, was red-
carded after 73 minutes for fouling  Arjen Robben .  
 Suarez pushed out the ball with his hands in the last
minute of extra time to keep the score 1-1. After the Uruguayan
player was sent off, Asamoah Gyan failed to score from the
resulting penalty kick, hitting it against the crossbar.  
 Sebastian Abreu  scored the winning penalty kick after Ghana
missed two more efforts.  
 It’s the Netherlands’s first World Cup win against Brazil
since 1974. The South Americans were knocked out in the
quarterfinals for the second straight World Cup. Brazil coach
Dunga’s future will be clarified after he holds talks with team
officials, Brazilian soccer federation spokesman Rodrigo Paiva
said in an interview.  
 “We are all extremely saddened, we did not expect this,”
Dunga told reporters. “We knew it would be delicate, difficult
game. In the first half we played better than the second, where
we were not able to maintain the same rhythm.”  
 Brazil was the 5-2 tournament favorite with U.K. bookmaker
William Hill before the game.  
 Next Games  
 The Netherlands, a two-time runner-up in the 1970s, will
face Uruguay in the semifinal on July 6 in Cape Town. Uruguay
was champion in 1930 and 1950 and last reached the semifinals in
1970.  
 Today, Argentina meets Germany in Cape Town at 4 p.m. local
time, while Paraguay takes on Spain in Johannesburg at 8:30 p.m.  
 Robinho gave Brazil the lead in the 10th minute after
collecting a 35-yard pass from Melo and putting a shot by
goalkeeper  Maarten Stekelenburg . It came two minutes after he
had a goal disallowed for offside.  
 The Dutch tied the game in the 53rd minute after Brazil
goalkeeper  Julio Cesar  failed to clear Sneijder’s free-kick and
it deflected off Melo into the net.  
 Sneijder then sealed the win with 22 minutes left with a
header following a corner kick.  
 “In the first half it seemed almost impossible,” Sneijder
told Dutch television. “Then you’re in the dressing room at
halftime and you say to each other, these are the last 45
minutes of a World Cup, we should give all we have. I think we
did. This is great, this is great.”  
 Uruguay Match  
 In Johannesburg, Uruguay’s  Diego Forlan  canceled out  Sulley Muntari’s  goal after 55 minutes with a 30-yard free kick. In
extra time, Suarez left the field in tears after he was red-
carded for a hand ball only to start punching the air when he
turned to see Gyan miss the penalty kick.  
 “Saying that we cheated Ghana out of victory is too hard a
word to use,” Uruguay coach Oscar Tabarez said. “Yes, he stuck
his hand out but that’s not cheating. I really don’t like that
word I don’t think it’s fair. I think it was instinctive.”  
 Gyan scored with his penalty kick in the shootout as did
teammate  Stephen Appiah . Jonathan Mensah and Dominic Adiyiah
missed for Ghana, allowing Abreu to clinch victory by dinking
the ball into the middle of the net as goalkeeper Richard
Kingson dived to the right.  
 Ghana’s elimination deprives an African nation the chance
of winning the first World Cup on that continent.  
 “All I can say is this is football,” Ghana coach Milovan
Rajevac said. “We really had big support and it would have been
a fairy tale had it ended well.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wesley Sneijder of the Netherlands celebrates his teams win over Brazil following their 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa Quarter Final match in Port Elizabeth, South Africa. Photographer: Jamie McDonald/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
