-- New Tax Discriminates Against Coal, Ore, Energy Miners, WA's Barnett Says
-- Jason Scott
-- 2010-07-02T01:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/new-tax-discriminates-against-coal-ore-energy-miners-wa-s-barnett-says.html

          
          
             Australia’s new resources tax, which
was changed by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in an announcement
today, is still flawed and disciminates against coal, iron ore
and energy miners, Western Australia Premier  Colin Barnett  said
in an interview on ABC Radio today.  
 “It will be interesting when they draft legislation, if
they are returned to government, what happens in terms of
passage of this through the Commonwealth parliament,” Barnett
said. “If it is a tax on the resource, they may have
constitutional issues in putting that legislation through.  
 ‘‘I don’t support a new mining tax. We don’t know what it
means for the North-West Shelf project, which was underpinned by
the state of Western Australia 30 years ago.  
 ‘‘As far as the iron ore industry goes, sure they’ve spoken
to the  BHP  and Rio, which are the large producers, but where
does it leave the new producers, such as the magnetite
producers. Are they going to be drawn into this?   
 ‘‘This is by definition, discriminatory in the mining
industry. It’s coal, iron ore and petroleum today. If the nickel
price trebles, will it become nickel tomorrow? It’s a lot better
than it was, I concede that. But we now have discriminatory
taxation, a new tax on mining and one that I think is highly
uncertain into the future. It is taking more wealth from this
state. My concern is not for the big companies; they’ve done
their deal and they are presenting it as a deal for the mining
industry and presumably for this state. They’re not representing
Western Australia, they’re representing their own interests.
They do not speak for the mining industry.”   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        