-- New York MTA Shrinks Build America Bond Sale 16% as Yield Premium Jumps
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-07-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/new-york-s-mta-shrinks-week-s-largest-taxable-sale-as-yield-spreads-widen.html

          
          
             The Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, which runs New York City’s subways, buses and
commuter trains, shrank a $555 million taxable debt offering by
16 percent as it struggled with a deficit and as investors
sought to avoid risk.  
 The MTA issue of $467.7 million in federally subsidized
Build America Bonds represented about 10 percent of the $4.6
billion that states and municipalities brought to market this
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the
 lowest  total for a non-holiday week since April 9, Bloomberg
data show.  
 The MTA, grappling with an $800 million deficit, paid 2.75
percentage points more than yields on 30-year Treasuries,
according to Bloomberg data. Four months earlier, the so-called
spread on the MTA’s 29-year Build Americas was 2.1 percentage
points.  
 “Any issue with a hint of a credit component is
struggling,” said  Dan Close , a portfolio manager of the $650
million Nuveen Build America  Bond Fund  based in Chicago. Top-
rated credits “are getting placed fairly easily. Investors are
demanding more yield for the non-gilt-edge credits.”  
 The MTA sales on June 30 and in February, backed by
transportation revenue, were rated A, the fifth-lowest
investment grade, by Standard & Poor’s. In March, bonds backed
by dedicated state levies such as fuel taxes, rated three steps
higher at AA by S&P, sold for 1.5 percentage points above
comparable Treasuries.  
 “We’ve been very hesitant about the MTA,” said  Howard Cure , managing director at New York-based Evercore Wealth
Management LLC, which oversees about $1.5 billion. “They still
rely on the state for additional support, and the state is not
in a position to offer any of that.”  
 Service Cuts  
 The MTA resorted to service cuts to balance its budget
after New York state withheld already appropriated funds in
December to help bridge the state’s own projected deficit,
Moody’s Investors Service said. Moody’s rates the MTA’s
securities A2, fifth-lowest, with a negative outlook.  
 Aaron Donovan, a spokesman for the authority, declined to
comment on this week’s sale.  
 The MTA, which carries  8.5 million people  on an average
weekday, will save $93 million through its latest  service cuts ,
Donovan said. The agency eliminated the V and W subways and
dropped 15 percent of its bus lines, amounting to more than
three dozen routes.  
 Since Feb. 15, the average Build America yield spread above
30-year Treasuries has widened about  47 basis points , to about 2
percentage points. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Underperformed Treasuries  
 Tax-exempt municipal bonds underperformed U.S. Treasuries
in the first half of the year as default speculation drove state
and local government  yields  to the highest level relative to
federal bonds in 13 months.  
 Build America securities yielded  5.89 percent  on average on
June 30, according to a Wells Fargo index. Benchmark 30-year
 Treasuries  yielded about 3.89 percent. Investors sought the
perceived safety of Treasuries amid concern this week that the
economic recovery may be slowing.  
 Yields on top-rated tax-exempts maturing in 10 years fell
yesterday for an  eighth straight day , the longest streak since
April 2009, according to Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal
Market Advisors. Borrowing costs on the debt dropped 3 basis
points to 3.04 percent, the lowest since March 23, MMA data
show.  
 “It’s fear,” said  Matt Dalton , chief executive officer of
Belle Haven Investments Inc. in White Plains, New York. “Fear
drives money into fixed income. Yields will stay in this range,
if not continue to grind lower because of the outlook of the
economy and equities overall, which is pretty bleak.”  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS, whose rum shipments to the mainland in
2009 reached 8 million “proof gallons,” a measure for
calculating federal excise tax, plans to offer about $396
million of tax-exempt debt through its public finance authority
as soon as next week. About $308 million of the issue is senior
obligations rated BBB+ by Fitch, third-lowest. The remaining
subordinate bonds are rated BBB, second-lowest. Underwriters led
by Jefferies & Co. will market the securities. (Added June 30)  
 MISSISSIPPI DEVELOPMENT BANK , created in 1986 by the state
legislature to issue bonds on behalf of local governments and
counties, plans to offer about $165 million in tax-exempt
municipal bonds as early as next week to refinance existing
debt. The bonds, rated AA by S&P and Fitch, third-highest, will
be marketed by a group led by Morgan Stanley. (Added July 1)  
 MONROE COUNTY , New York, with about 735,000 residents on
the shore of Lake Ontario, will issue $85 million in tax-free
municipal bonds through a competitive sale July 7. The debt,
rated BBB+ by S&P, third-lowest, and A2 by Moody’s, fifth-
lowest, will be used for public projects including bridges,
highways and parks. (Added July 2)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        