-- New Jersey Lawmakers May Refuse Christie Call to Meet
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-07-02T18:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/new-jersey-lawmakers-governor-head-for-legal-fight-over-weekend-sessions.html

          
          
             Democrats who control the  New Jersey 
Senate skipped a special legislative session called by Governor
 Chris Christie  on property-tax limits, as he threatened court
action to force them to meet during the U.S. holiday weekend.  
 Twenty-two of the Democratic lawmakers in the Senate didn’t
show up at a 12:30 p.m. meeting today, as all 17 Republicans
called for the body to act on the matter. Senate President
 Stephen Sweeney  broke up the session after three minutes when
Republicans were unable to raise a quorum.  
 “This is nothing but political theater on his part,”
Sweeney, a Democrat from West Deptford, said of Christie today
before a meeting of the Senate Budget and Appropriations
Committee to map out a schedule of weekly hearings on the
subject. “We’re here. I expect him to file suit to force us to
do what we’re already doing.”  
 Republican senators met in private with Christie after the
brief session, then left the Statehouse for the day saying they
will return tomorrow for the 10 a.m. session ordered by the
governor.  
 Christie, who received a standing ovation as he entered the
Republican meeting, declined to comment on his strategy as he
entered the conference room and when he left 20 minutes later.  
 Assembly members convened as Christie had demanded at 1:30
p.m., and adjourned within seconds after 75 of the 80 members
had indicated they were present.  
 Assembly Democrats won’t meet during the holiday weekend,
when most workers in the U.S. won’t work July 5, according to
Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver , a Democrat from East Orange.  
 Private Meeting  
 After a private 40-minute meeting with the governor late
yesterday, in which Christie rejected a plan to turn the
property-tax issue over to a committee, Sweeney said he will
consult the chamber’s counsel on whether additional sessions are
required. Christie called for legislative meetings at midday
today and tomorrow to consider tax limits.  
 By going to court, the Republican chief executive would
open a new front in his battle over taxes with the Democrats who
control the Legislature. Christie, 47, had demanded an amendment
to the state constitution to curb increases in  property levies ,
already the highest in the U.S. Yesterday, he agreed to accept a
less rigid, legislated cap, while insisting on rapid action.  
 Compelling Reason  
 The full Senate and Assembly must meet when Christie finds
a compelling reason, and he may seek court orders to force them
to convene, said spokesman  Michael Drewniak . The law says the
governor must only determine that sessions are required by “the
public interest.”  
 “It is our belief that if they are called into session, a
session is a session,” Drewniak said. “We would really hate to
have to ask the attorney general of the state of New Jersey to
sue the Legislature to meet its constitutional obligations.”  
 A legal opinion from Albert Porroni, the legislative
counsel, indicates that the full 120-member Legislature doesn’t
need to convene again at Christie’s request, Sweeney, 51, told
reporters in Trenton yesterday.  
 Christie, who took office in January, yesterday offered to
accept a legislated 2.5 percent cap on annual levy increases,
with specific conditions. While he dropped his demand for a
 constitutional amendment , the governor still wants to put the
measure before voters in November. Christie said he’ll keep
calling special legislative sessions until lawmakers choose
either his conditional cap or an amendment.  
 Exceptions Considered  
 The exceptions to the 2.5 percent limit that he is willing
to consider would be to pay for debt service, existing union
contracts or through a public referendum in which at least 60
percent of voters approve a higher increase, Christie said. The
Democrat-controlled Legislature earlier this week approved a 2.9
percent ceiling on tax increases that the governor said had too
many loopholes.  
 “What I will not accept is this: inaction,” Christie told
a joint session of the Senate and Assembly in a 13-minute
speech. “We must work every day until we get a solution. Our
citizens cannot take a break” from property taxes.  
 New Jersey has the highest average property-tax bills of
any U.S. state at $7,281 in 2009, according to state  data . The
levies, which increased 72 percent since 1999, are the prime
source of revenue for the state’s 566 municipalities and more
than 600 school districts.  
 Constitutional Amendment  
 As recently as two days earlier, Christie said he wouldn’t
sign into law any legislation that would impose a tax-ceiling
without submitting it to voters in November as a constitutional
amendment. He said his compromise would institute a 2.5 percent
cap that would be exceeded only to cover bond payments or
through a public referendum.  
 The proposed amendment would need to be approved by three-
fifths of the Legislature by early July for the issue to appear
on the November ballot, Christie has said. Adoption requires a
simple majority of the popular vote.  
 Democrats control the Assembly 47-33 and the Senate 23-17.
Legislators approved their  version  of the cap June 29 after
voting for Christie’s $29.4 billion budget. The spending plan
closed a record $11 billion deficit without raising sales,
personal income or business taxes.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. Photographer: Tim Larsen/Office of the Governor via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
