-- New York Senate Delays Vote on Revenue Plan as Talks Continue on Medicaid
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/new-york-senate-delays-vote-on-revenue-plan-as-talks-continue-on-medicaid.html

          
          
             The  New York  Senate adjourned without
voting on a $1 billion package of tax and revenue measures
needed to pay for spending bills they passed four days earlier.  
 The delay is necessary to develop a contingency plan should
as much as $1 billion in extra federal Medicaid money fail to
arrive, said Senate Democratic leader  John Sampson  of Brooklyn.  
 “A responsible budget means having a responsible back-up
plan,” Sampson told reporters at the state Capitol. A plan
developed with Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver  was submitted to
Budget Director  Robert Megna  late June 30, Sampson said. He
declined to describe it.  
 If there isn’t a negotiated agreement on a Medicaid
contingency plan and on Governor  David Paterson ’s $419 million
veto of aid to local school districts, “we are definitely
considering” calling for an override, Sampson said. Overriding
Paterson’s veto requires a two-thirds majority in each chamber.  
 “I can’t divulge my methods,” Sampson said regarding how
he may get Republicans to provide some of the 42 Senate votes
needed for an override. Democrats hold a 32 to 30 majority in
the upper chamber, and a 107 to 42 advantage in the Assembly.  
 Paterson said the willingness of lawmakers to prepare a
Medicaid contingency plan won’t stop him from vetoing spending
measures they passed, including about 6,800 “member items”
that legislators can insert to benefit local organizations.  
 “I’m not going to sit here and kill myself trying to sign
6,900 vetoes as some sort of a ploy for negotiations,” Paterson
said at an Albany event for reporters to witness the signing.  
 In Deficit  
 “Because they didn’t pass the revenue bill, we are a
billion dollars in deficit, not even counting the Medicaid
money,” Paterson said. If the revenue bill had passed, the
governor had estimated a $400 million to $1.5 billion imbalance,
which he has reduced by about $500 million with vetoes.  
 The governor has promised a total of about 6,900 vetoes,
including about 3,000 already signed, according to  Morgan Hook ,
a Paterson spokesman. In addition to striking out the additional
 aid to local schools , Paterson will veto $91 million added to
higher education and the member items that total $193 million
for not-for-profit groups and others in lawmakers’ districts,
said Erik Kriss, a spokesman for the Division of Budget.  
 The package on hold in the Senate includes applying the
sales tax on clothing purchases of less than $110 and a new levy
on hedge-fund managers to help close a $9.2 billion deficit.  
 Paterson was critical of a tax increase on some hedge-fund
managers. The measure might lead some of the investment
companies to flee the state, he said yesterday.  
 While the gap remains, Sampson said the “budget is passed
and government will continue to operate.” The spending plan for
the year that began April 1 is the most delayed since 2004, when
the budget wasn’t passed until August.  
 Negotiation Agenda  
 Negotiations with Paterson and Silver will include
proposals to cap annual increases in local school and government
 property taxes , Sampson said. A plan to give the state and city
 university systems  more flexibility to increase tuition and
operate independently from the Legislature is also on the
agenda, he said. Silver, the Assembly leader from Manhattan,
opposed both measures.  
 Silver couldn’t be reached immediately for comment.  
 The Assembly passed the revenue bill last night, and it is
pending in the Senate. The measure must be passed by both
chambers before it can be presented to Paterson, who can accept
it or veto it in whole.  
 Medicaid Impasse  
 A measure to provide extra subsidies for the health-care
program for the poor failed to move forward in the U.S. Senate
last week as Republicans balked at the cost. The additional
subsidies, which would have been extended by six months, were
raised as part of last year’s economic-stimulus package and are
set to expire in December.  
 Under the state Legislature’s plan, spending will increase
from last year by about 2 percent. The proposal needs the
revenue and tax-raising measure to be complete, said Austin
Shafran, a spokesman for Senate Democrats. “This would be only
the fourth time in the last 30 years that spending rose less
than inflation,” he said.  
 New York law requires the governor to propose a balanced
budget, though there isn’t any requirement that the budget
passed by the Legislature be balanced, said  Robert Ward , deputy
director of the Albany, New York-based  Rockefeller Institute of
Government .  
 Relying on Hope  
 If the Legislature’s budget isn’t balanced, “you just
cross your fingers and hope there’s no problem,” Ward said.  
 Other analysts aren’t sure spending will match revenue.  
 “More work may need to be done to balance this year’s
budget,”  Elizabeth Lynam , deputy research director at the
 Citizens Budget Commission , said on its website. A $2.4 billion
deficit is possible, if Congress doesn’t approve the added
Medicaid funds and other spending and revenue assumptions prove
inaccurate, she said. The independent group monitors the state
budget.  
 Paterson has said he may call lawmakers back to Albany
later this year if the budget they presented falls out of
balance. Sampson said he didn’t want that to happen.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        