-- Nigeria's Senate Says Government Should Complete Sale of Nitel to Bidders
-- Paul Okolo
-- 2010-07-02T12:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/nigerian-senate-says-government-should-complete-sale-of-nitel-to-bidders.html

          
          
             Nigeria ’s government should approve
the sale of Nigerian Telecommunications Ltd. to the companies
that bid $2.5 billion for the state-owned fixed-line phone
operator, the head of a Senate oversight committee said.  
 New Generation Telecom Ltd., consisting of  China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. , Minerva Group of Dubai and Nigeria’s GiCell
Wireless Ltd., won the bidding for 75 percent of Nitel on Feb.
16. Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  suspended the
transaction on March 12 and told a committee including senior
ministers to conduct further due diligence on the bidders.  
 “I don’t see why we can’t go ahead,” Ayo Arise, chairman of
the Senate Committee on Privatization, said in a telephone
interview on June 30. “The bidding process appeared to be quite
transparent.”  
 Jonathan ordered the review after China Unicom, China’s
second-biggest mobile-phone carrier, denied any involvement in
the winning group. The Chinese operator later said one of its
units was interested in “providing technical and managerial
support.” The head of Nigeria’s Bureau of Public Enterprises,
the agency that sells state-owned assets, was suspended in March
by the government. It didn’t give a reason for the decision.  
 In April, the acting head of the BPE, Bolanle Onagoruwa,
urged Jonathan to award Nitel to New Generation. Failure to do
so would send the wrong signal that Nigeria can’t abide with
“simple processes and procedures,” Onagoruwa said.  
 ‘No Decision’  
 Chukwuma Nwokoh, a spokesman for the BPE, said last month
that no action would be taken until Jonathan makes a ruling on
the investigation he ordered. Ima Niboro, Jonathan’s spokesman,
didn’t answer his mobile phone today when called for comment.  
 Nitel’s sale to New Generation must be canceled should the
group of investors fail to pay $2.5 billion, Arise said this
week. The minimum price for Nitel should be $1 billion, he said.  
 “There’s a whole lot of money buried in Nitel and it
shouldn’t be sold for less than $1 billion,” Arise said.  
 Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst  Danny Chu  wrote in a report in
February that the $2.5 billion offer for Nitel was “relatively
high” compared with  Bharti Airtel Ltd. ’s $9 billion purchase of
the African wireless assets of Zain. Nitel’s annual Ebitda, or
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
was estimated at about $13 million, according to Chu.  
 A previous attempt in 2006 to sell Nitel to  Transnational
Corp.  was annulled after the Lagos-based investment company
failed to comply with sale conditions.  
 Since then, Nitel’s 500,000 fixed lines in service have
dropped to 45,000, its workforce has declined to 2,000 from
12,000 and the company has $500 million of debt,  TeleGeography ,
a Washington-based research company, said last year. Nitel has
lost market share to rivals including MTN Nigeria Ltd., a unit
of  MTN Group Ltd. , Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company.  
 Nigeria is Africa’s most-populous nation, with more than
140 million people, and the continent’s fastest-growing
telecommunications market.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        