-- Nomura Said to Consider Delaying Ashikaga IPO by Two Years as Stocks Fall
-- Shingo Kawamoto
-- 2010-07-02T06:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/nomura-said-to-consider-delaying-ashikaga-ipo-by-two-years-as-stocks-fall.html

          
          
             Nomura Holdings Inc. , Japan’s largest
brokerage, may postpone an initial public offering of regional
lender Ashikaga Holdings Co. by as much as two years, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  
 Nomura expects to sell shares in Ashikaga by March 31, 2013,
two years later than originally planned, the people said,
declining to be identified as deliberations on the IPO are
private. The Tokyo-based firm is Ashikaga’s biggest shareholder
with a 46 percent stake.  
 The  Topix Banks Index , which tracks 83 Japanese lenders,
fell to the lowest since at least January 1983 yesterday, almost
a week after Mizuho Financial Group Inc. announced a plan to
sell as many as 6 billion shares. That offering will add to more
than $43 billion of stock sales by Mizuho and its two largest
publicly traded rivals in the past two years.  
 “There is no need for Nomura to rush the IPO with Mizuho’s
share still pending and investors remaining cautious about the
banking industry,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , chief strategist in
Tokyo at Toyota Asset Management Co., which oversees the
equivalent of $15 billion. “There is a risk for Nomura in
holding a long-term interest in the bank, so they should sell
off at the right time as a private equity investor.”  
 Companies worldwide shelved 50 IPOs in the past three
months, the most in six quarters, on concern the end of
government stimulus and widening budget gaps from Greece to
Spain will curb the global economic recovery.  
 Plan Revision  
 Ashikaga, based in Tochigi prefecture north of Tokyo, said
in a business plan released in February 2009 that it aimed to
list this fiscal year. Nomura spokeswoman  Keiko Sugai  declined
to comment on whether the IPO will be postponed. Yasuhiro Akutsu,
a spokesman for Ashikaga, reiterated the bank’s plan to prepare
for a listing this year.  
 Nomura President  Kenichi Watanabe  is spending part of almost
$8 billion raised in public share sales since March 2009 on
expanding operations overseas to compete with global rivals such
as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc.  
 The brokerage  is hiring as many as 35 bankers in the U.S.
this year, and said yesterday it hired four people to expand its
equities business in Germany.  Net income  rebounded to 18.4
billion yen ($210 million) at Nomura for the three months ended
March 31, compared with a loss of 215.8 billion yen a year
earlier, the company said April 28.  
 ‘Shrinking Economies’  
 Nomura  in 2008 led a group of investors to buy Ashikaga
from the Japanese government, which nationalized the lender in
2003 after its capital adequacy ratio fell to negative. Nomura
and other investors bought the bank for about 280 billion yen. A
fund backed by a Nomura-affiliated venture capital firm owns 5.6
percent of Ashikaga as of March 31, according to the bank.  
 Japan’s regional banks are struggling to boost profit as the
population in many regional centers declines and competition for
business intensifies. About 40 percent of the nation’s 84 listed
regional lenders forecast income to fall this year as benchmark
interest rates remaining close to zero, according to data from
Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 Japanese bank shares  trade at about a two-thirds discount
to lenders in Hong Kong based on price to book value, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Book value measures a company’s
common equity.  
 “There is a reason why Japanese regional banks are trading
around 0.6 to book, and that’s because they will have a tough
time in boosting profit in shrinking economies,” Hamasaki said.
“I am not very optimistic about the ability of Japan’s banks to
boost  revenue , particularly regional banks.”  
 Bank shares in Hong Kong trade at an average 1.9 times book
value, Bloomberg data shows. Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., the world’s largest lender by market value, trades
at 2.41 times book value, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Ashikaga, which has 5 trillion yen of assets, reported a
profit of 25.5 billion yen for the 12 months ended March 31,
compared with a loss of 6.6 billion yen in the year-earlier
period.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo  Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A cyclist rides past the Ashikaga Bank Ltd. heasquarters in Utsunomiya City, Japan.  Photographer: Robert Gilhooly/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
