-- Obama Says Jobs Report Shows U.S. Economy Improving, `Stark Turnaround'
-- Catherine Dodge
-- 2010-07-02T14:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/obama-says-jobs-report-shows-u-s-economy-improving-stark-turnaround-.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said today’s
unemployment figures, while showing a “stark turnaround” from
last year, indicate there’s still a “great deal” of work to do
to repair the economy and get Americans back on the job.  
 “Make no mistake, we are headed in the right direction,”
the president said at Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington.
“We are not headed there fast enough for a lot of Americans.
We’re not headed there fast enough for me either.”  
 The Labor Department said the June jobless rate fell to 9.5
percent from 9.7 percent in May. Analysts expected the report to
show an increase to 9.8 percent.  
 Even so, employment fell in June for the first time this
year, reflecting a drop in federal census workers and a smaller-
than-forecast gain in private hiring. Payrolls declined by
125,000 last month as the government cut 225,000 temporary
workers conducting the 2010 census, Labor Department figures
showed today.  
 Economists projected a decline of 130,000 payrolls,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Employment at companies rose 83,000.  
 Obama said the report “showed the sixth straight month of
job growth in the private sector.” The economy has created
almost 600,000 private-sector jobs this year, the president
said.  
 Obama heads into the campaign season and the November
elections facing public anxiety over the economy, jobs and
deficits and the potential penalty of a loss of Democratic seats
in the U.S. House and Senate.  
 “To every American who is looking for work I promise you
we are going to keep on doing everything that we can,” Obama
said. “I will do everything in my power to help our economy
create jobs and opportunity for all people.”  
 Joblessness reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in
October, reflecting the more than 8 million jobs lost during the
recession that began in December 2007.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  at Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland, at +1-
   rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        