-- Hog Futures Decline as Meatpackers May Cut Hours on Holiday; Cattle Fall
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-07-02T19:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/hog-futures-decline-as-meatpackers-may-cut-hours-on-holiday-cattle-fall.html

          
          
             Hog futures fell to a three-week low
and cattle dropped as meatpackers reduce production because of
the U.S. Independence Day holiday on July 4.  
 The price of  hogs  for immediate delivery to slaughterhouses
fell 3.2 percent this week through yesterday, and  spot-market
steers  are little changed, U.S. Department of Agriculture data
show. Meat processors are cutting hours for the holiday, and
demand for meat for grilling tends to ebb in July and early
August, as temperatures in the U.S. peak, said  Walt Hackney , the
owner of Hackney Ag in Omaha, Nebraska.  
 “Packers are cutting back to some extent today, and there
won’t be very much activity tomorrow,” Hackney said. “There’ll
be more dark kill-lines on Monday. The combination of today,
tomorrow and Monday will see a considerable cutback on
slaughter.”  
 Hog futures for August settlement fell 1.8 cents, or 2.2
percent, to 80.05 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Earlier, the price touched 79.9 cents, the lowest for
a most-active contract since June 10. Futures were down 4.6
percent for the week, the biggest weekly decline since late
March.  
 Cattle futures for August delivery dropped 0.475 cent, or
0.5 percent, to 89.475 cents a pound. The most-active contract
rose 0.1 percent this week, the third straight weekly gain.  
 Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement added 0.075
cent to $1.12675 a pound.  
 Tyson Holiday Closure  
 Gary Mickelson , a spokesman for Tyson Foods Inc., said all
of the company’s beef and pork plants will be closed on July 5.
A spokeswoman for Smithfield Foods Inc., the largest U.S. pork
producer, did not return an e-mail seeking comment.  
 Meatpackers processed about 365,000 hogs today, or 7.8
percent fewer than the same day last week, according to USDA
estimates. Cattle slaughter today was unchanged from last week.  
 “Concerns about the economy” and the outlook for meat
demand also pressured livestock futures today, said  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst at Northstar Commodity Investment Co.
in Minneapolis. Private employers added fewer workers to
payrolls in June than forecast, reinforcing concerns the
recovery will weaken if Americans curtail spending.  
 Wholesale pork  rose 0.6 percent yesterday to 82.32 cents a
pound, according to the USDA. The price is still down 2.3
percent in the past week. Wholesale- choice beef  was little
changed at midday at $1.5572 a pound.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        