-- Tomas Berdych Beats Third-Seeded Novak Djokovic to Reach Wimbledon Final
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-07-02T15:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/tomas-berdych-defeats-third-seed-djokovic-to-reach-wimbledon-men-s-final.html

          
          
             Tomas Berdych  defeated third-seeded
 Novak Djokovic  in straight sets at Wimbledon to reach his first
Grand Slam tennis final.  
 The 24-year-old Berdych, seeded 12th, beat Djokovic 6-3, 7-6
(11-9), 6-3. He’s the first Czech to reach the final since  Ivan Lendl  23 years ago, and will face either  Andy Murray  of Britain
or  Rafael Nadal  of Spain, who play in the other semifinal today.  
 “The feeling is absolutely amazing,” Berdych said in a
televised interview on the British Broadcasting Corp. “Another
victory, over Novak Djokovic, who is a great player.”  
 Berdych was a  semifinalist  at the French Open last month
and reached the Wimbledon quarterfinals in 2007. He beat
defending champion and top-seeded  Roger Federer  in the
quarterfinals two days ago.  
 Today’s match on Centre Court hinged on the second set,
when the players traded break points and each had set points.
They held serve until 5-5, when Berdych got three break points.
Djokovic, 23, saved one but missed an overhead smash to give the
game to Berdych. He then broke back in the next game with a
sliding forehand.  
 In the tiebreaker, Djokovic was down 5-2, went for a big
second serve, and missed. Berdych wasn’t able to convert either
of his serves, making it 6-5. After a 21-shot rally, Djokovic’s
defensive lob was ruled out, but the call was overturned. The
Serb won the replay to even the tiebreaker, and then the players
traded set points. Djokovic double-faulted to lose the set,
hitting his chair with his racket and getting a warning from the
umpire.  
 In the final set, Djokovic was able to trade games until 4-
3, when he tried to hit big second serves and missed, giving the
Czech the break. Berdych held serve and was on his way to the
final, where he said he yearned to be as a child.  
 “This is the dream,” Berdych said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        