-- London Luxury-Home Prices Driven Up by Overseas Purchasers
-- Peter Woodifield
-- 2010-07-02T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/london-luxury-home-prices-driven-higher-by-russians-overseas-purchasers.html

          
          
             Luxury-home prices in central London
are increasing in value twice as fast as the U.K. market as a
whole as the weaker pound leads more overseas buyers to shrug
off higher taxes and seek bargains in the most expensive
neighborhoods, according to  Knight Frank LLP .  
 Prices of properties costing more than 2 million pounds ($3
million) rose 20 percent in June from a year earlier, the
London-based real estate broker said in an e-mailed report
today. U.K. house prices gained 8.7 percent in the same period,
Nationwide Building Society, Britain’s largest customer-owned
lender, said June 30.  
 “Central London is now a market apart,”  Liam Bailey , head
of residential research at Knight Frank, said in the report.
“The recovery in prices has been driven in large part by the
strength of demand from international buyers.”  
 Prices are still 6 percent below the March 2008 peak. Since
then, the pound’s declines against the dollar, the Chinese yuan
and other Asian and Middle East currencies has meant an
effective drop in values of 25 percent to 30 percent for many
overseas buyers, according to Knight Frank.  
 Led by Russians and Americans, international buyers now
account for 68 percent of purchases of London properties costing
more than 5 million pounds, up from 39 percent in December 2008,
the broker said. In the neighborhoods of Mayfair, Knightsbridge
and Hampstead, they account for more than 60 percent of all
prime market purchases. The number of different nationalities
buying in central London has grown to 51 from 30 in mid-2008.  
 Fewer Mortgages  
 In central London, three out of five homeowners don’t have
mortgages. That compares with two out of five on average in the
U.K. as a whole, Knight Frank said.  
 “One of the main things that has kept prices rising is
that supply is very difficult,” Bailey said an interview. The
number of new sales instructions received in May and June was 30
percent below average, he said.  
 Buying an illiquid asset such as a house in London at a
time when taxes on rich people are going up is making a
statement, Bailey said. “It is saying, ‘I am confident, despite
higher taxes, that London is somewhere I want to buy.’”  
 The top rate of tax on people earning more than 150,000
pounds a year increased to 50 percent from 40 percent in April
as the U.K. sought to raise more money from wealthy people to
help reduce government borrowing.  
 Russian Buyers  
 Russians were the biggest single group of international
buyers of prime London properties in the past 12 months, making
up 14 percent of overseas purchasers. They were followed by
Americans at 11 percent and Italians at almost 9 percent, Knight
Frank said.  
 Minerva Plc, the developer of the most office space in
London’s main financial district, said this week it’s sold more
than half of the  77 luxury apartments  it’s developing in the
affluent Lancaster Gate neighborhood overlooking London’s Hyde
Park. The homes were sold for a total of 230 million pounds, at
prices between 2 million pounds and 20 million pounds.  
 Prices for luxury homes climbed 0.9 percent on a monthly
basis in June, the smallest increase since March, Knight Frank
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past a luxury property in central London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
