-- Hong Kong Retail Sales Increased 19.7% by Value in May From a Year Earlier
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-07-02T09:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/hong-kong-retail-sales-rise-at-faster-pace-on-spending-by-record-tourists.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s  retail sales  rose for a
ninth month in May as a record number of tourists to the city
supported spending.  
 Sales grew 19.7 percent to HK$25.9 billion ($3.3 billion)
from a year earlier, after gaining a revised 15.5 percent in
April, the government said today on its website. That was higher
than six of the seven economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The
median estimate was for a 17.3 percent increase.  
 Visitor arrivals jumped 39 percent in May from a year
earlier to a record 2.8 million, with those from mainland China
leading the gain, according to the Hong Kong Tourism Board.
May’s increase in the  unemployment rate , the first in 11 months,
could damp the pace of growth in the coming months, economists
including  Joanne Yim  said.  
 “The growth of retail sales value is likely to have
continued to hold up well in May amidst solid consumer
confidence and vibrant inbound tourism,” Yim, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Hang Seng Bank Ltd., said before today’s report.
“Rising unemployment does not bode well for consumer confidence
and spending.”  
 Yim expects the city’s retail sales to grow as much as 12
percent this year.  
 The expansion in spending in May was “aided by the sharp
rebound in inbound tourism from the low base in the same month
last year” when visitor numbers slumped due to the outbreak of
swine flu, an unidentified government spokesman said in today’s
release. By volume,  retail sales  rose 16.2 percent in May from a
year earlier, today’s report showed.  
 China Spenders  
 Sa Sa International Holdings Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest
cosmetics retailer and a favorite among visitors from China,
said last week its profit for the year ended March rose 21
percent due to higher spending by mainland customers.  
 Hong Kong’s economy expanded 8.2 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace in four years, on higher retail
spending and a recovery in exports. Growth may top 5 percent
this year, barring “major external shocks,” the government
said last month.  
 Still, the entry of graduates and school leavers into the
labor market will put pressure on employment,  Matthew Cheung ,
secretary for labor and welfare, said on June 17. The
“uncertain” global outlook is also making employers more
reluctant to hire, he said.  
 “Local consumer demand will be subject to uncertainties in
the prevailing global recovery stemming from the evolving
sovereign debt crisis in Europe,” the government spokesman said
in today’s retail sales statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        