-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall, Erase Gain, on U.S., China Economies; Foxconn Drops
-- Saiyu Zhou
-- 2010-07-02T09:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/hong-kong-stocks-fall-erase-gain-on-u-s-china-economies-foxconn-drops.html

          
          
             Hong Kong stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to its first weekly drop in six, after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. cut its China economic growth forecast and
worse-than-estimated U.S. economic reports fueled concern the
global recovery may falter.  
 Foxconn International Holdings Ltd., the world’s biggest
contract maker of mobile phones, sank 4.5 percent.  Aluminum Corp.
of China Ltd. , the nation’s No. 1 producer of the metal, slid
3.2 percent after cutting alumina spot price. China Coal Energy
Co. led the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index to its longest
losing streak in a decade. Shares also declined on concern over
banks’ fundraising plans after Caixin Online said  Bank of China
Ltd.  will sell shares.  
 The  Hang Seng Index  dropped 1.1 percent to 19,905.32,
widening its losses in this holiday-shortened week to 3.8
percent. That halted the gauge’s five straight weeks of gains,
and was its biggest weekly fall since the five days ended May 7.
The measure rose as much as 0.2 percent today.  
 “Investors would prefer to hold more cash,” said  Danny Yan , a portfolio manager at Taifook Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees $400 million. “They would prefer stocks that won’t be
affected by eternal factors, such as shares in telecommunication
and consumer sectors.”  
 The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H-shares
of Chinese companies retreated 1.9 percent to 11,247.10. The
measure has declined for eight straight days, its longest losing
streak since January 2000.  
 The Hang Seng Index has dropped 9 percent this year as
worries about budget deficits in Europe and tighter monetary
policy in China dented confidence in the strength of the global
economy.  
 Goldman China Forecast  
 Shares on the benchmark index are priced at an average  13.1
times  estimated earnings, down from 18 times on Nov. 16, the
highest level in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “The Hong Kong market isn’t at a very low level yet,” Yan
said. “It isn’t time for investors to hunt for bargains.”  
 China Coal, a unit of the nation’s second-biggest producer,
declined 4.4 percent to HK$9.46.  China National Building
Material Co. , a cement producer, slid 4.2 percent to HK$12.02.
The shares posted the biggest drop on the H-share index.  
 Goldman Sachs trimmed its real gross domestic product
growth forecast for China this year to 10.1 percent from 11.4
percent as government restrictions on lending and property slow
the nation’s economic expansion.  
 Meanwhile, the government raised its 2009 growth estimate
by 0.4 percentage point to 9.1 percent.  
 Foxconn plunged 4.5 percent to HK$4.88, the sharpest slump
on the Hang Seng Index. Cosco Pacific Ltd., a container-terminal
operator, lost 2.6 percent to HK$9.07.  
 U.S. Data Disappoints  
 Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in June at the slowest
pace this year. The Institute for Supply Management’s
manufacturing gauge fell to 56.2 last month from 59.7 in May,
trailing the median forecast of 59 in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  
 The index of pending home resales dropped 30 percent in May
from April, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed yesterday. The decline was the biggest in records dating
to 2001, and more than a 14 percent decrease forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  
 Bank of China  
 Shares also declined on concern over banks’ fundraising
plans.  
 Trading in  Bank of China , the nation’s No. 3 lender by
market value, was suspended. The lender will raise up to 60
billion yuan ($8.85 billion) by offering shares in Hong Kong and
Shanghai, Caixin Online reported yesterday, without citing
anyone. Bank of China is studying a fundraising plan approved by
shareholders and will make an announcement “once there’s
concrete progress,” said a spokeswoman who declined to identify
herself, citing company policy.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  lost 1.8 percent
to HK$5.62. The world’s biggest lender by market value plans to
sell 22 billion yuan of bonds as soon as next month, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter.  
 Chalco, also known as  Aluminum Corp. , fell 3.2 percent to
HK$5.83. The company said yesterday it cut the spot price for
alumina by 7 percent to 2,650 yuan a metric ton.  
 Separately, Chalco ended a 2007 accord with Australia’s
Queensland state to develop an A$3 billion ($2.54 billion)
bauxite project after market conditions deteriorated.
Queensland’s government will continue talks with the company on
possible investments, the Australian newspaper reported, citing
Premier  Anna Bligh .  
 I-Cable Communications Ltd., a pay-television operator in
Hong Kong, sank 7.6 percent to HK$1.10 after saying it expects
to post a net loss for the first half because of higher
programming costs for events such as the World Cup soccer
tournament and the Winter Olympics.  
 Futures on the Hang Seng Index declined 1 percent to 19,873.
Twenty-eight stocks fell while 12 gained among the gauge’s 43
constituents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        