-- Honus Wagner Tobacco-Card Proof Is Offered at Baseball All-Star Auction
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-02T19:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/honus-wagner-tobacco-card-proof-is-offered-at-baseball-all-star-auction.html

          
          
             The proof strip that produced the
most valuable baseball card, featuring  Honus Wagner , and cards
of two other Hall of Fame players is up for sale in an auction
attached to Major League Baseball’s All-Star Game.  
 The strip has the pictures of Wagner, Mordecai Brown and  Cy Young , along with former players Frank Bowerman and Johnny
Kling.  
 It is  listed at $121,000  on-line by Hunt Auctions and will
be sold on July 13 at a live auction during the  All-Star FanFest 
in Anaheim, California.  
 The pictures in the proof strip were used for the T-206
card series, issued by the American Tobacco Co. from 1909
through 1911. The Wagner card, the most expensive card in
existence, has fetched as much as $2.8 million.  
 David Hunt, president of Exton, Pennsylvania-based Hunt
Auctions, said in an interview that the strip should sell for
around $250,000. The proofs were discovered among the Wagner
family estate and cosigned for this auction from a private
collection. It has been certified as authentic after being
professionally graded by  Sportscard Guaranty , a Parsippany, New
Jersey-based company that authenticates and grades sports
memorabilia.  
 Wagner  was an eight-time National League batting champion,
who played with the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1900 through 1917
after starting his career with the Louisville Colonels.  
 The Wagner card itself has become an item of rarity because
it was recalled after very limited production. One theory is
that the card was recalled because Wagner objected to the use of
his photograph in selling cigarettes. There are between 50 and
100 T-206 Wagner cards in existence, according to Hunt Auctions.  
 Economic Impact  
 Hunt said the problems that rattled the economy in recent
years didn’t have a huge impact on the market for high-end
sports memorabilia.  
 “Amazingly, it’s remained very, very stable throughout our
market during this entire economic situation,” he said. “I
think that’s a testament to sports in general. If you think
about sports, whether there’s wars, tough economic times,
there’s still sports. Do I think it would have brought more? I
don’t.”  
 In May, the rookie card of Washington Nationals pitcher
 Stephen Strasburg  in the ‘s Topps 2010 Bowman Chrome
Superfractor collection was sold for $16,403 on EBay Inc.’s on-
line auction site. Hunt said the Strasburg card never will
approach the status of Wagner’s, no matter how good the young
pitcher with a 100-mile-a-hour fastball becomes.  
 “They weren’t created back then to be worth money -- they
were products,” he said. “Now these things are created to last
and be in perfect condition. They’re actually being created to
be marketable pieces.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Rothbard  in New York at 
 brothbard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        