-- Topix Rises for First Time in Nine Days on Australian Mining Tax; JX Gains
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-07-02T08:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/topix-rises-for-first-time-in-nine-days-canon-advances-on-mizuho-rating.html

          
          
             Japanese  stocks  rose, driving the
Topix index to its first gain in nine days, as resource
companies climbed after the Australian government scaled back a
proposed tax on mining companies.  
 JX Holdings Inc. , Japan’s biggest oil refiner and copper
producer, and Inpex Corp., the country’s No. 1 oil explorer,
advanced more than 1 percent. Both have rights to mines or oil
fields in Australia. Komatsu Ltd., which supplies earthmoving
machinery to Australia’s two largest mining companies, climbed 1
percent. GS Yuasa Corp. sank 3.3 percent on concern the maker of
batteries will lose its exclusivity with a top customer.  
 The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.1 percent to 9,203.71
at the 3 p.m. market close in Tokyo. The broader  Topix  gained
0.3 percent to 830.98, with more than three stocks advancing for
every two that fell. Both gauges reversed a 0.3 percent retreat.
Oil and coal producers had the second-biggest gain among the
Topix’s 33 industry groups, followed by mining companies.  
 “The new tax on mining companies is lighter than the
earlier proposal,” said  Koichi Kurose , chief strategist in
Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., part of Japan’s fourth-largest
banking group. “In the long term, the new resources tax is
negative because it will lead to declining investment in mining
projects.”  
 The Nikkei 225 dropped 5.5 percent this week and the Topix
lost 4.2 percent, their second straight decrease and their
 biggest declines  since the week ended May 21.  
 Before today, the Topix had fallen for eight consecutive
days, taking its drop this year to 8.7 percent and cutting the
average price of its stocks to 16.1 times  estimated earnings ,
the lowest level since November 2008.  
 Nikkei Approaches Bear  
 Equities have fallen this year on concern Europe’s debt
crisis and China’s steps to curb property prices will hurt
global economic growth. The Nikkei 225 has decreased 18.8
percent from its 52-week high on April 5, approaching the 20
percent threshold that some analysts consider as the beginning
of a  bear market .  
 JX Holdings climbed 2.3 percent to 444 yen, and Inpex
advanced 1.2 percent to 491,500 yen. Komatsu, Asia’s biggest
maker of earth-moving machinery, gained 1 percent to 1,607 yen.
It supplies BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, Australia’s
largest mining companies.  
 The government of Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
said today it reached an agreement with mining companies on the
tax changes, ending a dispute that cost her predecessor his job.  
 The government exempted most commodities, raised the
threshold and cut the tax to 30 percent on coal and iron ore
earnings, compared with a previous plan to collect 40 percent of
all resource profits.  
 Canon, Fluctuations  
 Canon Inc. , the world’s largest maker of cameras, gained
1.1 percent to 3,260 and was the most-active stock by value in
Japan. Mizuho Securities Co. increased its investment rating to
“outperform” from “neutral,” citing stronger-than-expected
sales of digital single-lens-reflex cameras.  
 The Nikkei 225 crossed between gains and losses about 15
times today. Yesterday in New York, the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  retreated 0.3 percent as weaker-than-estimated data on
manufacturing and home sales fueled concern that the economic
recovery is in peril.  
 “The theme in the market is that the U.S. is heading to an
economic slowdown,” Resona’s Kurose said. “The economy is
recovering, but its momentum is weakening. People aren’t sure if
the recovery is coming back to a normal pace or if it’s slowing
down into a double dip.”  
 ‘Getting Cautious’  
 The U.S. Labor Department is scheduled to announce payrolls
today. Economists estimate the number of employees declined by
130,000 in June, compared with an increase of 431,000 in May,
according to a survey by Bloomberg News. U.S. markets will be
closed on July 5 for Independence Day.  
 “Investors are getting cautious ahead of the U.S.
unemployment rate today and then the three-day weekend,” said
 Hideyuki Ookoshi , general manager in Tokyo at Chuo Securities Co.
“People are holding off from trading actively until they see
the market reaction in the U.S.”  
 GS Yuasa Corp. slumped 3.3 percent to 565 yen, making it
the  largest drop  in the Nikkei 225 and the second-most-active
stock in Japan. Toshiba Corp. said it’s working with Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. to develop batteries for electric vehicles. GS
Yuasa has a partnership with the carmaker to provide lithium-ion
cells. Toshiba rose 1.6 percent to 446 yen.  
 Mitsubishi Corp. fell 2.3 percent to 1,826 yen, leading a
drop by trading companies after oil and metal prices plunged
yesterday. Sumitomo Corp. retreated 1.3 percent to 884 yen.  
 The  London Metal Exchange Index  of six metals including
copper and zinc dropped 2.8 percent yesterday in London. Crude
oil for August delivery declined 3.5 percent to $72.95 a barrel
in New York, the lowest settlement price since June 8.  
 “Trading companies, which are often affected by moves in
commodity prices, are declining after oil and metal prices
dropped,” Ookoshi said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        