-- Orders to U.S. Factories Declined in May More Than Forecast
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-02T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/orders-to-u-s-factories-fall-more-than-forecast-in-sign-recovery-cooling.html

          
          
             Orders placed with U.S. factories
declined in May more than forecast, a sign that manufacturing may
be starting to cool.  
 The 1.4 percent decrease in  bookings  was the biggest since
March 2009 and followed a revised 1 percent gain in April, the
Commerce Department said today in Washington. Economists forecast
orders would drop 0.5 percent, according to the  median  projection
in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Manufacturers are seeing a pause in demand after the
industry helped the world’s largest economy emerge from the worst
recession since the 1930s. Today’s figures underscore the Federal
Reserve’s concerns that the European debt crisis poses a risk to
a self-sustaining U.S. recovery.  
 “Manufacturing has been the star of the economy this year
so any signs that conditions are turning would cause some
concern,” Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors
Inc. in Holland, Pennsylvania, said before the report. “The
demand for products is slowing.”  
 Estimates of total orders in the Bloomberg survey of 70
economists ranged from a decline of 2 percent to a gain of 1.5
percent. The decrease in May was the first in nine months.  
 Manufacturing in June expanded at the slowest pace this year
as factories received fewer orders and demand from abroad slowed,
a report showed yesterday. The Institute for Supply Management’s
manufacturing gauge fell to 56.2 from 59.7 a month earlier.
Readings greater than 50 indicate expansion. The Tempe, Arizona-
based group’s new orders measure fell to the lowest level since
October.  
 June Employment  
 Earlier today, the Labor Department said the U.S. lost
125,000 jobs in June, reflecting a drop in the number of federal
census workers and a smaller-than-forecast gain in private
hiring. Factory employment rose by 9,000 in June, the smallest
gain this year.  
 Demand for  durable goods , which make up just over half of
total factory demand, decreased 0.6 percent in May. Shipments of
durable goods fell 0.3 percent.  
 Bookings of non-durable goods, including food, petroleum and
chemicals, decreased 2.1 percent. The decline reflected a drop in
the value of orders for petroleum products, clothing, fertilizers
and beverages.  
 Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, increased 3.9
percent after a 2.8 percent drop in April. Shipments of these
goods, used in calculating gross domestic product, rose 1.4
percent after rising 0.4 percent.  
 Factory Inventories  
 Factory inventories declined 0.4 percent in May, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.25 months at the
current sales pace.  
 Sales and inventories “are very much in sync,” Samuel
Allen, chief executive officer of Deere & Co., said in a June 23
interview in reference to the manufacturer’s agricultural
business. “We do believe the recovery is underway,” he said.
“We do believe it is moving slowly.”  
 Manufacturing, which accounts for about 11 percent of the
economy, faces the risk of a slowdown in exports as the debt
crisis threatens Europe’s economy and factory activity in China
cools.  
 China’s manufacturing in June expanded slower than
economists forecast, and a gauge of factory output in the 16-
member euro region weakened for a second month, reports showed
yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Orders to U.S. factories declined more than forecast  
                       
                         
                           Naroff Economic Advisors.  via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc.  Source:  Naroff Economic Advisors.  via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Guy Lebas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, discusses the June U.S. employment report released today and outlook for the economy.
     Payrolls declined by 125,000 last month as the government cut 225,000 temporary workers conducting the 2010 census, Labor Department figures showed. Employment at companies rose 83,000. The jobless rate fell to 9.5 percent from 9.7 percent. Lebas talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
