-- Most Asian Stocks Fall on Chinese Growth Concerns
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-07-02T10:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/most-asian-stocks-rise-as-australia-reaches-mining-tax-deal-bhp-rio-gain.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  fell, dragging the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to its biggest weekly decline since May,
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its Chinese economic
growth forecast.  
 Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest producer
of the metal, fell 1.7 percent in Shanghai.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s
largest offshore oil producer, slumped 3.3 percent in Hong Kong.
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. lost 1.8 percent in
Hong Kong amid fundraising concerns. Acer Inc., a Taiwanese
laptop maker, climbed 1.8 percent on optimism a Taiwan-China
trade accord will foster agreements with other nations.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  lost 0.3 percent to 111.70 as
of 7:32 p.m. in Tokyo. The measure has fallen 3.4 percent this
week, the most since the period ended May 21. The gauge has
fallen 14 percent from its high this year on April 15 amid
speculation budget deficits in Europe and Chinese efforts to
curb property prices will hurt global economic growth.  
 “Despite accommodative monetary policy in various parts of
the world we’re yet to reach a point of self-sustaining
recovery,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1.1
billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “The Goldman
Sachs revision on China is far from disastrous, but will create
increased nervousness about global recovery.”  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  gained 0.4 percent, paring
the benchmark index’s biggest weekly drop in 16 months, as
investors speculated recent losses were excessive. The index
earlier fell as much as 2.3 percent following Goldman Sachs
lower growth forecast. The country’s National Bureau of
Statistics later raised its estimate for 2009 economic growth.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 1.1 percent.  
 U.S. Data  
 Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 1.1 percent after President  Ma Ying-jeou  said a trade accord signed with China this week will
help the island “accelerate economic integration” in Asia.
Japan’s Topix index rose 0.3 percent.  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.1
percent. The gauge declined 0.3 percent yesterday to a nine-
month low as weaker-than-estimated data on manufacturing and
home sales, alongside an increase in initial jobless claims,
fueled concern the economic recovery is faltering.  
 Aluminum Corp. dropped 1.7 percent to 8.76 yuan in Shanghai.
Shenzhen, southern China-based Foxconn International Holdings
Ltd., the world’s biggest contract maker of mobile phones,
plunged 4.5 percent to HK$4.88 in Hong Kong. Cnooc slumped 3.3
percent to HK$12.94.  
 Goldman Sachs cut its full-year 2010 forecast for growth in
China’s real gross domestic product to 10.1 percent from 11.4
percent, economists  Yu Song  and  Helen Qiao  wrote in a report.  
 Resources Tax  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  has tumbled 6.7 percent this
week after manufacturing growth slowed more than economists
forecast in June and the Conference Board lowered its April
gauge for China’s economic outlook.  
 “The prospect of economic development is not looking very
good,” said  Conita Hung , head of equity markets at Delta Asia
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “China can’t rely on internal
needs only. But growth in internal needs in China is partly
offsetting decreased foreign demand.”  
 In Hong Kong,  Industrial & Commercial Bank  lost 1.8 percent
to HK$5.62. The world’s biggest lender by market value plans to
sell 22 billion yuan of bonds as soon as next month, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter.  
 Fundraising Plan  
 Trading in  Bank of China , the nation’s No. 3 lender by
market value, was suspended in Hong Kong. The lender will raise
up to 60 billion yuan ($8.85 billion) by offering shares in Hong
Kong and Shanghai, Caixin Online reported yesterday, without
citing anyone.  
 Bank of China is studying a fundraising plan approved by
shareholders and will make an announcement “once there’s
concrete progress,” said a spokeswoman who declined to identify
herself, citing company policy.  
 In Kuala Lumpur,  Genting Malaysia Bhd.  fell 4.4 percent to
2.62 ringgit on concern plans to buy its Singapore affiliate’s
U.K. casino businesses will dent earnings. HwangDBS Vickers
Research Sdn. downgraded the stock to “fully valued” from
“buy,” describing the move as an “inefficient” use of
resources, according to a report today.  
 GS Yuasa Corp.  dropped 3.3 percent to 565 yen in Tokyo
after rival Toshiba Corp. said it’s working with Mitsubishi
Motors to develop batteries for electric vehicles. GS Yuasa,
based in Kyoto, has a partnership with the carmaker to provide
lithium-ion cells for Mitsubishi’s electric cars.  
 Taiwan, China Accord  
 Stock declines in the past two months have dragged the
average  price  of stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index to about
13.6 times estimated profit, compared with 24 times a year ago.  
 In Taipei, Acer rose 1.8 percent to NT$75.4 on speculation
increased trade flow within Asia will boost shipments of its
products.  
 Taiwanese banks, insurers and stock and futures brokerages
will each be allowed to invest in one Chinese counterpart and
vice versa, the Financial Supervisory Commission said in March.  
 Chinatrust Financial Holding Co. , the island’s fourth
largest listed financial services company, surged 6.3 percent to
NT$18.45. SinoPac Financial Holdings Co., an investment holding
company, jumped 4 percent to NT$10.45.  
 In Sydney,  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. , Australia’s third-
largest iron-ore miner, advanced 2 percent to A$4.08 after
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  agreed with mining
companies on a new tax structure. Alumina Ltd. climbed 0.7
percent to A$1.51, as the deal ended a dispute that cost
Gillard’s predecessor,  Kevin Rudd , his job.  
 ‘Rational Alternative’  
 The mineral resources tax will be 30 percent, applying to
iron ore and coal, while the levy on oil and gas projects will
be 40 percent, the government said. The government said the tax
will only apply to the profits of iron ore, coal, onshore
petroleum and gas, representing three-quarters of the value of
exports, unlike the earlier Rudd proposal that also included
most minerals extracted in Australia.  
 The latest agreement “is a much more rational alternative
and should largely remove sovereign risk elements that have been
overhanging the Australian resources industry,” said Pengana
Capital’s Schroeders. “It appears a sensible compromise.”  
 In Tokyo, Canon Inc. rose 1.1 percent to 3,260 yen. The
world’s biggest maker of cameras and office equipment was
boosted to “outperform” from “neutral” by  Ryosuke Katsura ,
an analyst at Mizuho Securities Co.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Jerry Lou, China strategist at Morgan Stanley, talks with Bloomberg's Susan about his investment strategy for Chinese stocks.
     Lou, speaking from Singapore, also discusses China's shift in its currency policy, and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
