-- Toyota to Recall Lexus Models in U.S., Japan for Engine Flaws
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-07-02T20:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/toyota-to-recall-lexus-luxury-car-models-in-japan-to-fix-engine-problem.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  plans to recall
Lexus models in the U.S. as well as Japan after saying engines
in as many as 270,000 vehicles worldwide may have defective
valve components that can lead to stalling.  
 The automaker will notify U.S. regulators of the recall
next week, according to a statement yesterday. The company will
inform Japan’s transport ministry on July 5,  Ririko Takeuchi , a
spokeswoman, said earlier yesterday by phone. Model years
affected are 2006, 2007 and 2008, depending on the vehicle.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, is working to
restore its reputation for quality after  recalling  about 8
million vehicles globally for defects linked to unintended
acceleration. The company recalled about 13,000 Lexus GX 460
sport-utility vehicles in April after Consumer Reports labeled
the model a “safety risk” because it could roll over. The
designation was removed in May.  
 “Toyota’s latest recall may further fuel the carmaker’s
drop in market share in the U.S.,” said  Masatoshi Nishimoto , a
Tokyo-based analyst at consulting company IHS Automotive.
“While sales are rising as the market recovers from the
recession, they are already losing share to U.S. and other Asian
carmakers.”  
 Toyota’s U.S. sales rose 6.8 percent in June from a year
earlier, compared with Hyundai Motor Co.’s 35 percent surge.
Toyota’s market share may drop to as low as 15 percent this year
from 16.9 percent in 2009, IHS Automotive estimates.  
 The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
said it hasn’t received official notification of the recall.  
 “Toyota will take similar required action in the other
markets where these vehicles are sold,” said  Paul Nolasco , a
spokesman.  
 ‘Abnormal’ Noise, Stalling  
 About 90,000 vehicles in Japan and 138,000 in the U.S. may
have engine problems ranging from “abnormal” noise and idling
to stalling while the vehicle is moving, according to the
company.  
 As many as eight models may be affected by the latest flaw,
Takeuchi said. The models are the Lexus GS 350, GS 450h, GS 460,
IS 350, LS 460, LS 600h and LS 600hL, and the Toyota Crown,
according to the company.  
 “Due to slight variations during the manufacturing
process, some foreign material may have contaminated the valve
springs, resulting in potential breakage,” Toyota said on its
 website .  
 The latest recall may cost the carmaker 20 billion yen
($228 million), the Asahi newspaper reported. Takeuchi declined
to comment on the potential cost.  
 ‘Backbone Models’  
 Koji Endo , an analyst at Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo,
said the recall may cost about 10 billion yen. “Lexus cars are
Toyota’s backbone models and the most expensive,” he said.
“The amount won’t hurt Toyota so much, but Toyota’s brand will
hurt as Lexus models are its most high-end.”  
 Toyota shares rose 0.3 percent yesterday to close at 3,020
yen in Tokyo. Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each equal
to two ordinary shares, fell 44 cents to $68.23 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 The engine problem may result from “contaminated materials
used in valve springs,”  Mark Templin , U.S. group vice president
and general manager of the Lexus brand, said July 1 on a
conference call. “We want to take care of customers better than
anybody and take care of this as quickly as possible.”  
 The Toyota City, Japan-based company said last week it
would recall hybrid Lexus HS250h sedans because of a fuel-leak
risk.  
 Toyota, which paid a record U.S. fine of $16.4 million this
year for not complying with auto-safety regulations, said June
25 it would recall the HS250h after too much gasoline spilled in
U.S. government crash tests, posing a fire risk.  
 The company also said it completed repairs on more than 4
million, or 78 percent, of U.S. vehicles recalled this year for
flaws linked to unintended acceleration,  Bob Carter , U.S. group
vice president, said on a conference call yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Iwatani  in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Visitors look at Toyota Motor Corp.'s Lexus LS600hL hybrid vehicle at the company's showroom in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
