-- Pakistan Death Toll in Lahore Shrine Bombing Rises to 41, With 175 Injured
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-07-02T18:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/pakistan-death-toll-in-lahore-shrine-bombing-rises-to-41-with-175-injured.html

          
          
             Pakistan’s  death toll in yesterday’s
twin suicide attacks on the shrine of a Sufi saint in the
eastern city of Lahore rose to 41. At least 175 people were
injured.  
 The first bombing took place at 11:20 p.m. in the basement
of the tomb, an area reserved for ablutions, and the second bomb
exploded minutes later in the main prayer area which was crowded
with worshippers who gather every Thursday for special rituals,
Khusro Pervez, Lahore’s commissioner, told reporters. The shrine
of Persian Sufi saint Syed Abul Hassan Bin Usman Bin Ali Al-
Hajweri is also known as Data Gunj Baksh.  
 The bombings in Lahore, Pakistan’s cultural capital, follow
the deaths of more than 100 people in twin attacks on mosques of
the minority Ahmadi community in the city on May 28. At least
550 people have been killed in retaliatory attacks by militants
in cities nationwide after Pakistan’s military started
operations last year against al-Qaeda and Taliban guerillas in
the northwest tribal regions.  
 This was the second assault on the tomb of a Sufi saint,
after militants blew up the Rehman Baba shrine in Peshawar in
March 2009. Hard-line religious militants oppose followers of
the Sufi interpretation of Islam, a moderate belief system based
on mysticism.  
 “The extremists have shown that they respect neither human
dignity nor the fundamental religious values of Pakistani
society,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in an e-
mailed statement. “Violating the sanctity of this revered
shrine is a particularly sinister attempt to destabilize
Pakistan and to intimidate its people.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        