-- Pakistan Plans Sukuk-Bill Expansion to Attract Gulf Banks: Islamic Finance
-- Haris Anwar
-- 2010-07-02T07:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/pakistan-plans-sukuk-bill-expansion-to-attract-gulf-banks-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Pakistan, the world’s second-largest
Muslim nation, plans to expand its Shariah-compliant banking
industry and attract more investors from the Persian Gulf by
boosting sales of sukuk bills.  
 State Bank of Pakistan is seeking to sell sukuk maturing in
a year or less in the domestic market in the quarter ending
September, spokesman  Syed Wasimuddin  said in an e-mail yesterday.
The plan is part of an effort to double Islamic banking services
in the next three years to 12 percent of the total. The
securities pay profit rates rather than interest.  
 “Islamic banks and Shariah-compliant mutual funds are dry
in terms of investment opportunities,”  Irfan Malik , head of
fixed income at National Fullerton Asset Management Ltd., which
has the equivalent of $160 million in assets, said yesterday in
an interview in Karachi. “Securities of less than one-year
maturity and Islamic interbank lending will attract local and
foreign investors. We will participate in the auction.”  
 Pakistan, whose population of 170 million is second to
Indonesia among Muslim nations, is aiming to attract the wealth
of the oil-rich Persian Gulf to help finance its budget deficit
and revive an economy hurt by nine years of fighting with the
Taliban militants.  
 Deficit Widens  
 The government said last month the $150 billion economy has
suffered a loss of about $35 billion since the fight against the
Taliban that spread from neighboring Afghanistan in 2001 hurt
investment. The cost to deploy 100,000 troops in the northwest
tribal areas widened the country’s  budget deficit  to 5.6 percent
of gross domestic product last fiscal year ended June 30,
exceeding the target of 4.9 percent.  
 At least 41 people were killed and 175 were injured when
two suicide bombers blew themselves up at the shrine of a Sufi
saint in Pakistan’s eastern city of Lahore yesterday, Khusro
Pervez, Lahore’s commissioner, told reporters. The attack came a
month after 100 people were killed in twin attacks on mosques of
the minority Ahmadi community in the city.  
 Pakistan is selling Islamic debt to finance a deficit
projected to be 4 percent of GDP in the year started July 1.  
 Global sales of Islamic bonds fell 24 percent to $6.5
billion so far this year, from the same period in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2
billion last year, up from $14.1 billion in 2008. Pakistan
raised $600 million from its first sale of sukuk in the overseas
market in January 2005. Acting central bank Governor Yaseen
Anwar said in June more developed money markets would help
create benchmarks for Islamic products.  
 “Geopolitical uncertainty is keeping Gulf investors wary
of investing in Pakistan,”  Abdul Kadir Hussain , chief executive
officer at Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd., which manages $2 billion
of mainly Gulf assets, said in an interview in Dubai yesterday.
“Investors need definitive clarity on the political front
before committing funds in this market. The long-term
implications of the war with the Taliban aren’t clear.”  
 Trailing Malaysia  
 The difference between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed two
basis points yesterday to 441, and 26 basis points so far this
year, according to  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index .  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic notes due
June 2015 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
3.54 percent this week, according to prices from Royal Bank of
Scotland Group. The government sold $1.25 billion of the notes
in May, its first international offering in eight years.  
 Pakistan’s Islamic banking industry is a 30th of the size
of Malaysia’s, which has the world’s biggest market for sukuk.  
 The 303.3 billion ringgit ($93.2 billion) of assets held by
Islamic banks in Malaysia accounted for 19.6 percent of the
total last year, the central bank said in March. Pakistan’s
equivalent deposits, at 300 billion rupees ($3.5 billion), are
about 6 percent of the total, according to State Bank of
Pakistan’s  website .  
 Islamic Banks  
 Bank Negara Malaysia, which began selling Islamic bills
weekly in 2006, had 14 billion ringgit of outstanding short-term
notes as of June 30, according to central bank data.  
 Pakistan has 42 billion rupees of local-currency
denominated Islamic notes outstanding, the State Bank of
Pakistan’s  website  shows. That compares with 260 billion ringgit
in Malaysia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Middle Eastern banks make up half of Pakistan’s Shariah-
complaint lenders. These include Al Baraka Islamic Bank, owned
by Bahrain’s Al Baraka Banking Group, the United Arab Emirates-
based Dubai Islamic Bank Pakistan Ltd. and Emirates Global
Islamic Bank. Al Baraka Banking offers Shariah-compliant
corporate loans, housing and car financing in Pakistan through
its Islamic unit.  
 Foreign Investment  
 Faysal Bank Ltd., based in Bahrain, and  Bank Alfalah Ltd .,
owned by the Abu Dhabi Group, are conventional lenders offering
Islamic services in Pakistan.  
 Issuance of short-term and long-term Islamic securities
will address the problem of a lack of investment opportunities
for the mutual fund industry, according to National Fullerton’s
Malik. Without a developed money market, funds are holding sukuk
until the debt matures, he said.  
 Companies based in the U.A.E. invested $209 million in the
11 months through May in Pakistan, or about 9 percent of total
foreign investment, according to the central bank’s website. The
Gulf nation was the fourth-biggest investor after the U.S., U.K.
and the Netherlands.  
 In 2006, Pakistan sold a 26 percent stake in Pakistan
Telecommunication Co., the biggest phone-service provider, to
Emirates Telecommunications Corp., the U.A.E.s largest phone
company, for $2.6 billion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        