-- Pao de Acucar, Bahia Revise Merger Agreement, Globex Capital Increase Plan
-- Jim Silver
-- 2010-07-02T12:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/pao-de-acucar-bahia-revise-merger-agreement-globex-capital-increase-plan.html

          
          
             Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo
Pao de Acucar , Brazil’s biggest retailer, will invest in its
 Globex Utilidades SA  unit and gain a larger stake under revised
terms for the takeover of rival Casas Bahia Comercial Ltda.  
 The retailer will spend at least 689.8 million reais ($385
million) buying Globex shares for 16 reais each and will own at
least 52 percent of the unit following its takeover of Casas
Bahia, Sao Paulo-based Pao de Acucar said today in a statement.  
 The terms of the takeover were revised seven months after
the transaction was announced in December. The Klein family,
which controls Casas Bahia, will own 47 percent of Globex,
compared with 49 percent under the previous agreement. The
purchase will make Pao de Acucar Brazil’s biggest home-appliance
seller as the company seeks to diversify from food retailing to
take advantage of growth in Latin America’s largest economy.  
 “The association will allow the companies to capture
synergies from now on,” the retailer said in the statement.  
 The revised agreement stipulates that both sides must keep
their Globex shares for at least 24 months. The previous accord
allowed Bahia to sell some shares after 12 months. Casas Bahia’s
real estate assets aren’t included in the transaction and Pao de
Acucar will pay 140 million reais a year to rent the stores.  
 Casas Bahia Chief Financial Officer Michael Klein will be
chairman of Globex and its marketing director Raphael Klein will
be the company’s chief executive officer.  
 The companies expect to implement the agreement within 120
days, according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francisco Marcelino  in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Silver in Lisbon at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        