-- U.S. Economy: Payrolls Grew Less Than Forecast in June
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-07-02T20:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/payrolls-in-u-s-fell-125-000-in-june-jobless-rate-at-9-5-.html

          
          
             Private employers added fewer workers
to payrolls in June than forecast, reinforcing concerns the
recovery will weaken as Americans curtail spending.  
 Employment at companies rose 83,000, less than the 110,000
gain forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Including government, payrolls fell for the first time this year
because of a drop in federal census workers. The  jobless rate 
dropped to 9.5 percent from 9.7 percent as the labor force
shrank, the Labor Department reported today in Washington.  
 Declines in the average workweek and hourly earnings make
it more likely consumers will pull back, hurting sales at
retailers including Best Buy Co. The report caps a month of data
that points to weakness in housing and a slowdown in
manufacturing, leaving the U.S. more vulnerable to fallout from
the European debt crisis and cooling growth in China.  
 “We have economic recovery, but not at the pace people had
expected or hoped,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells
Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina. “It is
neither a V-shaped recovery nor a double-dip recession. It is
very frustrating to a lot of people.”  
 Stocks declined after the report, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index  falling 0.5 percent to 1,022.58 at 4 p.m. in
New York, its lowest close since Sept. 4. The dollar weakened to
$1.2549 per euro from $1.2527 late yesterday.  
 Overall payrolls declined by 125,000 last month as the
government cut 225,000 temporary workers conducting the 2010
census. Economists projected a decline of 130,000 payrolls,
according to the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey.
Employment rose a revised 433,000 in May.  
 Best Buy  
 Best Buy , the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, last month reported first-quarter profit that rose
less than analysts projected as some U.S. shoppers bought fewer
games and movies.  
 At Finish Line Inc., an athletic footwear retailer based in
Indianapolis, Indiana, Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Lyon  said
he foresees a “less than robust consumer environment” in the
second half of the year.  
 “We will be facing headwinds in the form of inconsistent
customer traffic” and more challenging sales comparisons, Lyon
said on a June 25 conference call with analysts.  
 Average hourly earnings fell 2 cents to $22.53 in June,
today’s report showed. The average work week for all workers
declined to 34.1 hours in June from 34.2 hours the prior month.  
 The economy, jobs and the budget deficit are likely to be
top issues in November elections that will decide control of
Congress.  
 ‘Right Direction’  
 President  Barack Obama , speaking at Andrews Air Force Base
outside Washington, said today’s unemployment figures show that
the economy is “headed in the right direction,” though “we
are not headed there fast enough for a lot of Americans.”  
 The pace of hiring signals it will take years for the
world’s largest economy to recover the more than 8 million jobs
lost during the recession that began in December 2007.
Joblessness, which reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in
October, will take time to recede as the number of previously
discouraged jobseekers returning to the labor force exceeds the
number of available jobs.  
 A report yesterday from the  Institute for Supply Management 
showed manufacturing, which has been leading the recovery,
expanded in June at the slowest pace this year as factories  as
orders and exports cooled.  
 Home Purchase Contracts  
 The number of contracts to purchase previously owned houses
plunged 30 percent in May after a homebuyer tax credit expired,
the National Association of Realtors said yesterday. The drop
was the biggest in records dating to 2001.  
 Last week, the Commerce Department reduced its estimate for
the pace of economic growth in the first quarter to 2.7 percent
from 3 percent, reflecting weaker consumer spending and a larger
trade deficit.  
 Labor-market weakness “will lead to second-half
consumption growth well below the first half,” said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets in Boston.  
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said the June employment
report suggests “very slow economic and job growth going
forward.”  
 “I don’t think the Federal Reserve can raise interest
rates in the face of unemployment near 10 percent,” Gross,
Pimco’s co-chief investment officer, said during a radio
interview on Bloomberg Surveillance with Tom Keene.  
 Record-Low Rates  
 Fed policy makers last month repeated their pledge to keep
the benchmark interest rate near a record low for an “extended
period” and warned that financial-market turmoil linked to the
European debt crisis may harm U.S. growth.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 12 percent from
April through June, breaking a four-quarter winning streak that
sent the benchmark gauge up 47 percent. The drop was the biggest
since the last three months of 2008. Treasury securities soared,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.93
percent at the close on June 30 compared with 3.83 percent on
March 31.  
 China’s efforts to cool its economy, the world’s third
largest, may also temper the global expansion, reducing overseas
demand for U.S. goods.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its growth forecast for China
this year to 10.1 percent from 11.4 percent as government
restrictions on lending and real estate slow expansion in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  
 Manufacturing Payrolls  
 U.S. m anufacturing payrolls  increased by 9,000 in June, the
smallest gain this year and less than the survey median of a
25,000 increase, today’s Labor Department figures showed.  
 In another sign manufacturing may be slowing, orders placed
with factories declined 1.4 percent in May, more than economists
forecast, according to a Commerce Department report today. The
decrease in bookings was the biggest since March 2009 and
followed a revised 1 percent gain in April.  
 Private employment in June was led by gains in education
and health services, transportation and leisure and hospitality.  
 Economists surveyed forecast the jobless rate, which fell
to the lowest level since July 2009, would rise to 9.8 percent
last month. The decline in June reflected a 652,000 decrease in
the size of the labor force.  
 The drop in census workers left 339,000 temporary employees
still working on the population count, indicating more cuts to
come that will keep distorting the employment figures for
months. For that reason, economists say private payrolls, which
exclude government jobs, will be a better gauge of the state of
the labor market for much of 2010.  
 Number Unemployed  
 The number of unemployed in June was 14.6 million. Of those,
the largest number, or 3.46 million, were between the ages of 25
and 34. The jobless aged 45 to 54 numbered 2.72 million,
followed by 35 to 44 year-olds at 2.62 million.  
 The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- decreased to 16.5 percent
from 16.6 percent.  
 The number of temporary workers increased 20,500. Payrolls
at temporary-help agencies often pick up before companies take
on permanent staff.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A worker assembles components for an automated teller machine (ATM) at the Diebold Inc. manufacturing plant in Greensboro, North Carolina. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Christina Romer, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, talks about the U.S. economy and job market.
     Romer talks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Guy Lebas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, discusses the June U.S. employment report released today and outlook for the economy.
     Payrolls declined by 125,000 last month as the government cut 225,000 temporary workers conducting the 2010 census, Labor Department figures showed. Employment at companies rose 83,000. The jobless rate fell to 9.5 percent from 9.7 percent. Lebas talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, discusses the outlook for employment and the potential implications of an offshore oil drilling moratorium for his home state.
     Payrolls declined by 125,000 last month as the government cut 225,000 temporary workers conducting the 2010 census, Labor Department figures showed. Employment at companies rose 83,000. The jobless rate fell to 9.5 percent from 9.7 percent. Brady talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Avery Shenfeld, chief economist at CIBC World Markets, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman and Lori Rothman about the outlook for the U.S. economy and the June employment report. 
     Private employers added fewer workers to payrolls in June than forecast, reinforcing concerns the recovery will weaken as Americans curtail spending. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- John Silvia, chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC, discusses the outlook for the U.S. labor market and economy.
     Silvia talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 23 (Bloomberg) -- Samuel Allen, chief executive officer of Deere & Co., talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and the company's spending on research and development.
     Allen speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks during a nationally televised address from the White House in Washington. Photographer: Jim Lo Scalzo/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
