-- Peru State Development Bank Plans First Global Bonds Sale by End of Year
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-07-02T17:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/peru-state-development-bank-plans-first-global-bonds-sale-by-end-of-year.html

          
          
             Corporacion Financiera de Desarollo
S.A., Peru’s state development bank, plans to sell its first
international bond this year as it seeks to raise as much as
$450 million for local financing projects, the lender’s chief
financial officer said.  
 The bank known as Cofide plans to issue as much as $250
million of bonds in overseas market, Chief Financial Officer
 Carlos Linares  said in an interview yesterday in Lima, where
Cofide is based. The lender is “almost ready” to begin a sol
bond issue worth $200 million in the local market, its first
since January 2009, Linares said.  
 Cofide is selling long-term debt as it boosts lending to
local infrastructure projects, Linares said. The bank has lent
about $750 million to highway, transportation and energy
projects and is evaluating financing for other infrastructure
projects requiring up to $1.2 billion of investment, he said.  
 “Peru’s need for infrastructure is huge,” Linares said.
“The government is trying to promote foreign investment in a
long list of projects.”  
 Cofide is turning to international debt markets as
investors bet Peru will win rating increases after the country
cut debt, extended maturities and lured foreign investment.
Moody’s Investors Service increased Peru’s rating to Baa3, the
lowest investment grade and in line with the BBB- ranking from
S&P and Fitch, in December.  
 ‘Market Conditions’  
 Cofide plans to start looking for one or two banks to
manage its overseas bond offering within the next two months,
Linares said. The sale will depend “on market conditions and
our needs at the time,” he said.  
 Infrastructure financing, including a highway linking Peru
and Brazil, account for about half of Cofide’s loan portfolio,
Linares said. New financing in the works include up to $20
million for an operative leasing fund administered by  Sigma Safi
S.A. , a Lima-based asset manager that invests in infrastructure.
Cofide may co-finance the fund with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,
Linares said.  
 The government is boosting investment in infrastructure as
it seeks to increase exports by almost 50 percent by 2013 to
spur economic growth. Companies may invest $6.9 billion in
electricity and infrastructure projects through 2012, the
 central bank  said June 18.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        