-- Petronas May Begin Gas Exports From Ethiopia in Five Years, Ministry Says
-- Fred Ojambo
-- 2010-07-02T09:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/petronas-may-begin-gas-exports-from-ethiopia-in-five-years-ministry-says.html

          
          
             Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , Malaysia’s
state-owned oil company, may begin exporting natural gas from
 Ethiopia  in five years, when production starts at a plant it is
building in the country, a Mines Ministry official said.  
 Fields being developed by Petronas in Ethiopia contain as
much as 4 trillion cubic feet of gas, Eshetu Chala, senior
economist at the Addis Ababa-based ministry, said in an
interview yesterday in Kampala, Uganda. Annual production
figures have yet to be determined, he said.  
 “After five years Ethiopia will become a producer of
natural gas,” Chala said. “Our focus is on the export sector
since the local market will consume little.”  
 Petronas paid $80 million in 2007 for the rights to develop
the Calub and Hilala gas fields in Ethiopia’s Ogaden basin,
according to  the Reporter , an Addis Ababa-based newspaper. The
Malaysian company may also build a gas-treatment plant and a gas
pipeline to a port in neighboring  Djibouti  at a cost of $1.9
billion, the newspaper said.  
 “Drilling is going on, but the output capacity will be
determined after an appraisal of reserves,” said Chala.  
 The Reporter said last month that Petronas suspended work
in the Ogaden basin because of security problems. The suspension
came after a British geologist was killed in April by bandits,
it said. In May, the rebels said they had captured the Hilala
gas field. The government denied the attack, saying the fighters
were “fabricating rumors.”  
 Azman Ibrahim , a spokesman for Petronas in Kuala Lumpur,
didn’t respond to a voicemail request for comment when called
outside normal business hours. Rizan Ismail, Petronas’s country
manager for South Africa, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  
 Rebels  
 Ethnic Somali rebels from the Ogaden National Liberation
Front are seeking independence for the Ogaden region, an arid
area twice the size of England largely inhabited by nomads. In
April 2007, the group attacked a Petronas exploration site
operated by China’s  Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau ,
killing nine Chinese workers and 65 Ethiopians.  
 Ethiopia has issued 16 natural gas concessions to nine
companies, with Petronas the only one in a “more advanced” stage
of development, Chala said. The country has six exploration
basins covering 350,000 square kilometers (135,136 square
miles), he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        