-- Poland's East Backs Kaczynski as Workers Commute 4 1/2 Hours to Find Work
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-07-02T11:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/poland-s-east-backs-kaczynski-as-workers-commute-4-1-2-hours-to-find-work.html

          
          
             The 5:02 a.m. train to Warsaw is
packed every day with Radom residents who travel 100 kilometers
(62 miles) to work because factory jobs in their hometown
vanished with plant closures in the late 1990s.  
 Szczepan Iskierka, the father of two such commuters, plans
to back  Jaroslaw Kaczynski  in the July 4 presidential election
because he says the former prime minister will fight for his
sons. Kaczynski, 61, is the leader of Poland’s biggest
opposition party, Law & Justice, and the brother of the late
President  Lech Kaczynski  who died in an April 10 plane crash.  
 “The government boasts Poland was the only one to escape
recession last year, but Radom surely was left behind so my two
sons spend 4 1/2 hours on the train every day,” said Iskierka,
a 56-year-old pensioner. “When will someone bring an investor
to Radom? It can only be a man who understands ordinary Poles
and is concerned about the common good, like Kaczynski.”  
 Kaczynski’s better-than-expected performance in the first
round of voting two weeks ago raised investor concern that his
eventual victory would block budget cuts needed to bring the
deficit in line with European Union limits. His chances in the
runoff rest on places like Radom, where the unemployment rate
was 21.8 percent in April, almost double the national average.  
 Acting President  Bronislaw Komorowski , 58, the candidate of
Prime Minister  Donald Tusk ’s Civic Platform, won 41.5 percent of
the vote on June 20, compared with 36.5 percent for Kaczynski.
The mean of 17 polls in the three weeks before the election
forecast the margin of victory at 11 percentage points.  
 The race may have tightened further, with two surveys
published today showing the race too close to call.  
 Protecting Poor  
 Poland’s  budget deficit  swelled to 7.1 percent of gross
domestic product last year, more than double the EU limit of 3
percent, as slowing a slowing economy cut tax revenue and the
government increased spending to stimulate growth. The economy 
expanded 1.7 percent in 2009, the  slowest  in almost a decade.  
 “The Platform is incapable of dealing with the crisis so
it’s going to cut the budget at the expense of the poorest
people as there is no one to protect them,” said Grazyna Wernio
a 49-year-old news agent from Radom. “That’s why Kaczynski must
become president to stand up for us.”  
 A Komorowski victory would unite the presidency and prime
minister’s office under Civic Platform, reducing the risk of a
veto as the government seeks to control spending and sell assets
to raise as much as $10 billion this year. Tusk’s government has
said 2015 is a “realistic” date for adopting the euro.  
 The EU plans to fine countries that fail to meet deficit-
cutting pledges after Greece’s  budget gap  widened to 13 percent
of GDP, undermining confidence in the euro.  
 ‘Strong Public Finances’  
 Jaroslaw Lenkajtis, a 27-year-old computer specialist from
Pila, a city of about 80,000 in northwestern Poland, said he
plans to vote for Komorowski.  
 “Even the government has realized that without reforms we
will end up like the Greeks,” he said. “I’ve got a mortgage in
Swiss francs, so I care about strong public finances.”  
 The zloty has fallen 2.1 percent against the euro since the
first round of the election, making it the worst performing
currency in eastern Europe.  
 The two candidates typify the split between what
sociologists call Poland A and Poland B.  
 Poland A is made up of the cities and western parts of the
country, which have benefited most since the country joined the
EU in 2004. Poland B comprises rural areas and the eastern part
of the country, where many people feel they were left behind
after the collapse of communism.  
 Rural Versus Urban  
 Komorowski outpolled Kaczynski 46.0 percent to 31.8 percent
in urban areas during the first round. Kaczynski garnered 45.3
percent of the vote in rural districts, compared with 31.0
percent for Komorowski.  
 About 52 percent of those with university degrees supported
Komorowski versus 18 percent for Kaczynski, according to a June
17 poll by Warsaw-based researcher CBOS. By contrast, 40 percent
of voters without specific  job qualifications  backed Kaczynski,
compared with 32 percent for Komorowski. The survey of 997
people had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  
 “Since the Platform came to power only capitalism and
liberalism matter,” said Czeslaw Lubacz, 62, who more than a
decade ago lost his job at Radom-based Radoskor, Poland’s
largest shoemaker before it went bankrupt in 1999. “Nobody
cares that the post-Communist transition had costs that someone
had to bear. We accepted it hoping for better future, but does
anybody remember about this?”  
 Anita Pesta, a 22-year-old law student from Warsaw, is
concerned Kaczynski will hinder the government’s effort to push
through austerity measures needed to help the economy.  
 “All he cares about are political games and the past,
while there is an economic crisis now and we need someone with a
strong feeling of responsibility who will not damage the
economy,” she said. “We are part of the economy and it
concerns all of us.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former prime minister of Poland Jaroslaw Kaczynski. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
