-- Purisima Plans to Cut Philippine Budget Deficit in Half Within Three Years
-- Francisco Alcuaz Jr.
-- 2010-07-02T08:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/purisima-plans-to-cut-philippine-budget-deficit-in-half-within-three-years.html

          
          
             Philippine President  Benigno Aquino ,
who took office this week, aims to halve the budget deficit by
targeting tax evaders while refraining from raising taxes, his
officials said.  
 “There’s a lot of room for improvement in tax collection
efficiency,” Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview from Manila today. The president
believes raising levies “would just overburden the taxed
sector,” Purisima said.  
 The government plans to reduce the budget gap to 2 percent
of gross domestic product in three years, Purisima said. The
shortfall widened to a record 298.5 billion pesos ($6.4 billion)
last year, or 3.9 percent of GDP.  
 Philippine six-year local-currency bonds completed their
best week in a year, pushing the yield to a record low today, on
optimism a reduction in the deficit will help develop an economy
where the World Bank estimates one in every four people live on
less than $1.25 a day. Purisima said earlier this week that a
“manageable deficit” will allow Aquino to invest in health
care and education.  
 “The euphoria over the planned fiscal reforms is giving
markets a boost,” said  Michael Joseph Delfino , head of fixed-
income trading of local-currency debt at Metropolitan Bank &
Trust Co. in Manila. “Now, the government needs to show that it
can implement its promises and raise tax revenue.”  
 Shrinking Revenue  
 The  budget gap  widened last year as economic growth slowed
to an 11-year low, shrinking revenue already weakened by a
culture of tax evasion. Purisima said Aquino’s economic managers
plan to review the previous government’s forecast that the
shortfall will reach 297.2 billion pesos this year, or 3.6
percent of GDP.  
 Lifting tax and tariff collection from the current 12
percent or 13 percent of GDP and boosting asset sales will
increase state income, Purisima said. Tax and tariff revenue
climbed to a record 17 percent of GDP in 1997.  
 Philippine agencies can boost revenue to 15 percent of GDP
in a year without new or higher taxes, Bureau of Internal
Revenue Commissioner  Kim Henares  said yesterday.  
 The bureau, responsible for more than 60 percent of  state
income , will review the list of tax evasion cases and seek ways
to tax the so-called “informal sector,” Henares said in Manila
today. The group, which includes the self employed and many
service providers, makes up about 40 percent of the economy yet
doesn’t pay taxes, she said.  
 Asset Sales  
 The bureau will meet this year’s 830.44 billion-peso
collection target even as it reviews its monthly goals, Henares
said. Asset sales will help boost government revenue, according
to Purisima.  
 “Everything is possible,” he replied when asked whether
he will pursue the sale of a stake in  San Miguel Corp.  planned
by his predecessor,  Gary Teves . That stake was worth about 50
billion pesos, based on Teves’s estimates.  
 Low revenue and a high debt level are constraining the
nation’s debt ratings, Standard & Poor’s Associate Director
 Agost Benard  said this week. The ratings will improve “over a
period of time as they see our ability to execute our
programs,” Purisima said today.  
 Aquino said today a review of the nation’s finances will
have to be the “first priority.” The government will have to
determine how much of the budget is left to spend on important
items, he told reporters in Manila.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francisco Alcuaz Jr . at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        