-- Treasury Yields Hold Near 2010 Lows on Signs of Slowing Economic Growth
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-07T11:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/treasuries-head-for-weekly-gain-as-job-losses-may-add-to-economy-pessimism.html

          
          
             Treasury  two-year note yields were
within three basis points of the all-time low as evidence of
slowing economic growth drove equity markets lower and
underpinned demand for the relative safety of U.S. debt.  
 Ten-year yields were at almost their lowest level this year
as the Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  said yesterday
the U.S. economy faces a “long siege” and a report showed
expansion of U.S. service industries slowed in June. The U.S.
lost jobs last month for the first time this year, the Labor
Department’s payrolls report showed July 2.  
 “The economic data have been patchy, and that’s offered
support to Treasuries,” said  Orlando Green , an interest-rate
strategist at Credit Agricole SA in London. “Recovery hopes
have been damped. Risk sentiment will drive near-term direction
in Treasuries.”  
 The 10-year note yield dropped less than one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.93 percent at 7:53 a.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.5
percent security maturing in May 2020 increased 2/32, or 63
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 104 7/8. The yield fell five
basis points yesterday, the most in a week.  
 Two-year yields slid less than one basis point today to
0.61 percent after touching the all-time low of 0.5856 percent
on June 30. Ten-year yields tumbled to 2.8793 percent on July 1,
the lowest level since April 2009.  
 Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
September declined 0.2 percent.  
 Government Auctions  
 Also supporting Treasuries is a slowdown in new debt
supply, according to  Ciaran O’Hagan , a fixed-income strategist
at Societe Generale SA in Paris.  
 The U.S. government will sell $12 billion in
10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities tomorrow and
announce the sizes of next week’s auctions of 3-, 10- and 30-
year securities. The amounts may be “roughly unchanged from
June levels,” O’Hagan wrote in an e-mailed report today.  
 Krugman, a Princeton University professor, called for more
stimulus and looser monetary policy to prevent a U.S. repeat of
Japan’s decade of economic malaise in the 1990s.  
 “We are looking at what could be a very long siege here,”
Krugman said in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart” program. “We should have a kitchen-sink
strategy. We should be throwing everything we can get at this.”  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which make up about 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 53.8 in June, from 55.4 in the prior month,
signaling a slower expansion.  
 Wells Capital View  
 James Paulsen , an investor at Wells Capital Management Inc.
in Minneapolis, said forecasts for another U.S. recession are
overdone and bond yields may be too low.  
 After the global financial crisis, investors are giving too
much weight to reports showing a slowdown, Paulsen said.  
 “We’re suffering a little bit in the post-2008 crisis from
Armageddon hypochondria,” said Paulsen, who helps manage $349
billion as chief investment strategist. “Profits are still
growing. They’re going to have another great profit quarter
starting next week. If the economy does come back better than
people think, then bond yields are going to go up,” he said on
Bloomberg Television.  
 The 10-year yield will advance to 3.60 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  
 China Holdings  
 The agency that manages China’s foreign-exchange reserves
today said its decision to buy and sell Treasuries “shouldn’t
be politicized” and that investors shouldn’t worry that China
will begin dumping the securities.  
 China’s foreign-exchange  reserves , the world’s largest,
totaled $2.45 trillion at the end of March and the country has
the biggest overseas holdings of U.S. Treasuries. In April, it
boosted its investment in the securities by $5 billion to $900.2
billion. The total is still down from the record $939.9 billion
recorded in July 2009.  
 Benefits from investing in U.S. debt include “relatively
good” safety, liquidity and low trading costs, the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange said on its website. Changes
to Chinese U.S. debt holdings are “normal,” with decisions
made based on market conditions, the agency said.  
 Concern that China might consider the “nuclear” option of
dumping its Treasury assets is “completely unnecessary,” the
foreign-exchange agency said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
    Paulsen, speaking from Minneapolis, also discusses his investment strategy for U.S. stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
