-- Reliance Power to Consider Plan to Combine With Reliance Natural on July 4
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-07-02T12:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/reliance-power-to-consider-plan-to-combine-with-reliance-natural-on-july-4.html

          
          
             Reliance Natural Resources Ltd.  and
 Reliance Power Ltd. , both owned by billionaire  Anil Ambani , will
consider a plan to merge after a fresh natural gas sales
contract was signed with Reliance Industries Ltd.  
 The boards of Reliance Natural and Reliance Power will meet
on July 4 to consider their merger, the two companies said in
separate statements to the Bombay Stock Exchange today, without
providing additional details.  
 Anil Ambani and his brother Mukesh, who controls Reliance
Industries, May 23 ended accords that helped fuel their feud
after they split the family business in 2005. India’s Supreme
Court earlier that month ordered Reliance Natural, which
procures fuel for Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group’s power
projects, to buy natural gas from Reliance Industries in
accordance with the federal government’s policy.  
 “The merger was a possibility since the day the Supreme
Court announced its gas verdict and that Reliance Natural
couldn’t trade in gas and earn money,” said  Deven Choksey, 
chief executive officer of Mumbai-based KR Choksey Shares &
Securities. “Reliance Natural wouldn’t work just as a shell
company.”  
 Reliance Power gained 3.4 percent, the most since June 15,
to 175.30 rupees in Mumbai trading. Reliance Natural  shares  fell
1.5 percent to 63.95 rupees, while the benchmark  Sensitive Index 
fell 0.3 percent. The announcements were made after the markets
closed.  
 Fresh Agreement  
 The top court’s order meant Reliance Natural would buy gas
from India’s largest field on approval from the federal
government and at a higher price than stated in the family
agreement. Reliance Natural and Reliance Industries said last
month they signed a revised gas contract to comply with the
court order.  
 By merging the companies, Reliance Power may be able to get
gas through Reliance Natural’s supply agreements without having
to pay potential extra marketing margins, Choksey said.  
 Reliance Power is building a total of 33,780 megawatts of
capacity, Chief Executive Officer Jayarama Chalasani said in
December, without giving a completion date.  
 The merger may involve a share-swap deal, CNBC-TV18
reported earlier, citing people it didn’t identify.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        