-- Hatch Says He Will Oppose Kagan for Supreme Court
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-07-02T20:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/republican-hatch-announces-opposition-to-kagan-supreme-court-confirmation.html

          
          
             Senate Republicans began lining up
against U.S. Supreme Court nominee  Elena Kagan , as Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  and  Orrin Hatch  announced they will vote
against President  Barack Obama ’s second appointee to the court.  
 McConnell said today Kagan failed to convince him during
confirmation hearings that she can become an impartial judge and
abandon a political past that includes working for former
President  Bill Clinton .  
 “I do not have confidence that if she were confirmed to a
lifetime position on the Supreme Court she would suddenly
constrain the ardent political advocacy that has marked much of
her adult life,” McConnell, of Kentucky, said in a statement.  
 Hatch, of Utah, a senior member of the  Senate Judiciary
Committee , said in a statement he “cannot ignore disturbing
situations” in which Kagan’s personal opinions appeared to
drive her legal views.  
 The Judiciary committee, with 12 Democrats and seven
Republicans, yesterday completed four days of hearings on
Kagan’s nomination. The panel will vote later this month and set
the stage for action by the full Senate well before the Supreme
Court begins its next term in October. Democrats control 58 of
the Senate’s 100 seats, practically ensuring Kagan’s
confirmation.  
 Hatch is the first of the panel’s Republicans to announce
his stand on the nomination. He voted in favor of Kagan last
year when Obama appointed her as the first woman to be U.S.
solicitor general, the administration’s top courtroom lawyer.  
 Murkowski in Opposition  
 Another Republican senator,  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, also
announced her opposition to Kagan’s confirmation. Murkowski, who
supports abortion rights and has worked across party lines on
energy and some other issues, said Kagan lacks experience. She
also said Kagan’s answers to many questions at the hearings were
“not terribly revealing and in many cases evasive.”  
 McConnell has been raising concerns about Kagan’s views on
issues such as corporate campaign contributions and gun rights
since she was first nominated. Hatch signaled his opposition to
Kagan in a floor speech last week. He also opposed the
nomination last year of  Sonia Sotomayor , Obama’s first
appointment to the Supreme Court.  
 Kagan, 50, was nominated by Obama on May 10 to replace
Justice  John Paul Stevens , who has retired from the nine-member
court. She is a former dean of  Harvard Law School  and worked for
four years in President  Bill Clinton ’s White House as a lawyer
and policy adviser.  
 Activist Judge  
 In his statement today, Hatch said Kagan’s testimony before
the Judiciary Committee and her record suggest she would be an
activist judge. She also lacks the experience to serve on the
high court, he said.  
 “Supreme Court justices who, like General Kagan, had no
prior judicial experience did have an average of 21 years in
private legal practice,” he said. “General Kagan has two. The
fact that her experience is instead academic and political only
magnifies my emphasis on judicial philosophy as the most
important qualification for judicial service.”  
 He said he was particularly concerned that, as an aide to
Clinton, Kagan promoted the administration’s “extreme position
on abortion,” including support for a procedure opponents call
partial-birth abortion.  
 Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a
Vermont Democrat, today set July 13 for a panel vote on Kagan’s
nomination. Republicans can delay that for a week to allow more
time to review her record.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elena Kagan, U.S. solicitor general and Supreme Court nominee, right, meets with Senator Orrin Hatch, a Republican from Utah, in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
