-- Tribune Bankruptcy Examiner Gets More Time for Probe of Buyout by Sam Zell
-- Joel Rosenblatt
-- 2010-07-02T13:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/tribune-bankruptcy-examiner-granted-more-time-for-investigation-of-buyout.html

          
          
             The bankruptcy examiner probing
 Tribune Co. ’s 2007 buyout won two more weeks to investigate
whether the deal is subject to a court challenge.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin J. Carey  in Wilmington,
Delaware, signed an order yesterday giving  Kenneth N. Klee , the
examiner, until July 26 to file his report, according to court
documents. The report had been due July 12.  
 Klee is investigating claims by low-ranking  bondholders 
that the leveraged buyout led by billionaire  Sam Zell  included
fraudulent transfers because it loaded at least $8.7 billion in
 debt  onto Tribune and didn’t benefit the company. The owner of
the Los Angeles Times and the Chicago Tribune filed for
bankruptcy in December 2008, one year after the buyout.  
 Klee will give his conclusions about remedies or damages
creditors might receive should the bankruptcy judge find that
voidable fraudulent transfers made up part of the LBO. Klee
isn’t to provide an opinion about the merits of a proposed
settlement, which some creditors oppose.  
 After beginning his investigation in May, Klee, a
University of California at Los Angeles law professor who helped
rewrite the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the late 1970s, said in a
court filing that he still needs to interview more witnesses.
Klee is a founding partner of the law firm Klee, Tuchin,
Bogdanoff & Stern LLP in Los Angeles.  
 To give Tribune creditors time to digest Klee’s report,
Carey extended their deadline to vote on the company’s
reorganization plan, saying votes must be postmarked by Aug. 6.
Objections to the plan must be filed by Aug. 13, and Cary moved
a confirmation hearing for the plan to Aug. 30.  
 The  buyout  has divided creditors. The lenders behind the
deal are split over whether to fight the allegations of lower-
ranking creditors or settle with some of them, according to
court documents.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        