-- Tropical Storm Alex Is Downgraded as It Dissipates Over Mexican Mountains
-- Yee Kai Pin
-- 2010-07-02T04:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/tropical-storm-alex-is-downgraded-as-it-dissipates-over-mexican-mountains.html

          
          
             Alex, the earliest hurricane of the
Atlantic storm season since 1995, was downgraded to a tropical
depression as it dissipated over the mountains of central Mexico
while ports along the Texas coast prepared to reopen.  
 The storm system was packing maximum sustained winds of 30
miles (48 kilometers) per hour about 35 miles north-northeast of
Zacatecas in Mexico, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in
an  advisory  posted on its website just before 11 p.m. Miami time
yesterday. Alex, which peaked June 30 as a  Category 2  hurricane
reaching 100 mph, was moving west at 12 mph.  
 “Winds associated with the remnants of Alex will continue
to decrease overnight,” according to the advisory. “Alex has
moved over the rugged terrain of central Mexico at elevations
between 5,000 and 8,000 feet. A well-defined center of
circulation no longer exists.”  
 Alex’s biggest threat is potentially heavy rain across the
southern plains of the U.S. and in northern and central Mexico,
the center said. Isolated accumulations of as much as 20 inches
may fall in mountainous regions of Mexico and cause “life-
threatening” flash floods and mud slides.  
 The  National Hurricane Center , which has lifted coastal
watches and storm warnings, said it won’t be issuing further
public advisories on Alex.  
 Gulf Output  
 Six rigs and 69 production platforms in the Gulf of Mexico
were evacuated because of Alex and 21 percent of U.S. oil output
in the area and 14 percent of natural-gas flows remain idled,
according to the U.S. government.  
 About 342,000 barrels a day of oil output was offline along
with 877 million cubic feet of gas, the  Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement  said yesterday.  
 The Gulf of Mexico makes up about 31 percent of U.S. oil
output, 10 percent of its gas production and seven of the 10
busiest ports.  
 The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port , which serves tankers in
deep water off eastern Louisiana, halted offloading on June 29
because of rough seas, according to spokeswoman  Barb Hestermann .
Ports along the Texas coast prepared to reopen and ship pilots
started to board vessels.  
 BP Spill  
 Swells of up to 10 feet forced skimming and booming
operations around the worst oil spill in U.S. history to be
suspended for a second day, said Brian Ferguson of the Joint
Information Center.  
 BP Plc’s damaged Macondo oil well has been spewing as much
as 60,000 barrels a day into the Gulf since April 20. The
company’s first intercept well aimed at plugging the gusher is
ahead of schedule and about 600 feet from the leaking well,
National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said yesterday.  
 The rough seas prevented work by a relief ship designed to
suck up 25,000 barrels a day of oil, according to Coast Guard
Rear Admiral Paul Zukunft. The ship won’t be able to start
working until at least July 7.  
 Alex also tore oil-containment booms and sent streamers of
crude into parts of Louisiana’s coast that had been spared
earlier, Zukunft said.  
 The Gulf Coast is home to 43 percent of operable U.S.
refining capacity, according to the Energy Department. Gulf
Coast refiners in August and September 2008 lost about 20
percent of production capacity due to hurricanes Ike and Gustav.  
 Allison, Bill  
 Alex was the  earliest  Atlantic hurricane since Allison
formed on June 3, 1995. Last year,  Bill  became the season’s
first hurricane on Aug. 15. The Atlantic storm season runs from
June 1 through Nov. 30.  
 The storm has been blamed for the deaths of at least 16
people. Thirteen were reported killed in Central America earlier
this week as the storm moved from the Caribbean and three people
died in Mexico.  
 As Alex faded away, forecasters started to look at signs
another storm may develop in the Caribbean,  Jim Rouiller , a
senior energy meteorologist at  Planalytics Inc.  in Berwyn,
Pennsylvania, said yesterday.  
 Rouiller said conditions in the Caribbean were ripe for a
storm next week. Earlier this week,  Joe Bastardi  of AccuWeather
Inc. said it was possible another storm could form by early July.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        