-- Rubber Gains, Rebounding From 3-Week Low as China Replenishing Inventories
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-07-02T08:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/rubber-declines-set-for-worst-week-since-may-on-concern-over-growth-yen.html

          
          
             Rubber rebounded after sliding to the
lowest level in three weeks as Chinese buyers began replenishing
the lowest inventory level since 2003.  
 Futures in Tokyo advanced as much as 1.1 percent after
earlier falling to the lowest since June 10. The price has
slumped 6.4 percent this week, the biggest drop since the week
ended May 7, on concerns over the health of the global economy.  
 “Bargain hunting after recent sharp falls erased losses in
the market,” Katsumi Kinoshita, senior manager of the
institutional department at Okata Shoji, said from Kobe. “Some
investors stepped in on the hope that China would build up its
low stockpiles,” he added.  
 The December-delivery contract rose as much as 2.8 yen to
267.5 yen per kilogram ($2,041 a metric ton) before settling at
266.6 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
gained 0.2 percent to settle at 21,385 yuan ($3,157) a ton.  
 China’s natural rubber inventories increased 1,211 tons
this week to 15,982 tons, based on a survey of 10 warehouses in
Shanghai, Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin, the Shanghai
Futures Exchange said today.  
 Tight Supply  
 Tight global supply amid strong demand, especially from
China, will support prices, the Association of Natural Rubber
Producing Countries said in its June newsletter.  
 The possibility of any “marked improvement” in supply in
the short term is limited, given aging rubber trees and weather
constraints, the association said June 30.  
 Worries over a slowdown in the U.S. economy raised concern
that demand for the commodity may weaken, pressuring rubber
prices earlier today.  
 “U.S. data this week added to speculation that the
economic recovery may stall,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at
Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co., said today by phone.  
 Reports on U.S. manufacturing, employment and home sales
pointed to slower growth in the second half of the year, just as
government spending to stimulate the economy begins to wane.
Economists said data today will show the jobless rate in the
world’s largest economy rose for the first time this year.  
 Cash prices in Thailand declined as investors were
disappointed with U.S. economic data and worried about the
global economic recovery, the Rubber Institute of Thailand said
on its website today. The Thai benchmark price tumbled 2.6
percent today to 112.60 baht ($3.47) a kilogram, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        