-- Ruble Debt Tops International Bonds by Most Since 2005 on Declining Rates
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-02T12:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/ruble-debt-tops-international-bonds-by-most-since-2005-on-declining-rates.html

          
          
             Ruble bonds are outperforming
Russia’s international debt by the widest margin since at least
2005, paying investors almost 5 percentage points more profit in
a signal of increased confidence in the currency’s stability.  
 Government ruble notes  returned  7.5 percent in the first
half compared with a 2.6 percent  advance  for foreign-currency
securities, the biggest gap in the period since JPMorgan Chase &
Co. started indexes for the bonds five years ago. Ruble bonds
climbed 1.5 percent in April through June, posting a fifth
quarterly advance, while international debt  fell  for the first
time since 2008.  
 Domestic bonds are benefiting from the  ruble ’s 3.9 percent
climb against a basket of dollars and euros this year and 14
interest rate cuts that helped drive yields lower. Falling
volatility in the ruble, which plunged more than 70 percent
against the dollar after the government’s 1998 default, may
encourage companies to borrow more locally, said VTB Group Chief
Executive Officer  Andrei Kostin .  
 “The problem previously was that the ruble wasn’t very
stable,” Kostin, who heads the nation’s second-largest lender,
with 3.6 trillion ruble ($115 billion) in assets, said in an
interview at the G20 meeting in Toronto last week. “Nowadays
the ruble is quite strong, and more important than strong, is
stable.”  
 14 Rate Cuts  
 The yield on Russia’s 8.5 percent ruble bond due in
November 2021 dropped 160 basis points, or 1.60 percentage
points, this year to 7.31 percent. The yield on the country’s
dollar bond maturing in 2030 fell 20 basis points in the same
period to 5.36 percent.  
 The ruble strengthened this year against the basket of
dollars and euros used by the central bank. It appreciated 11.6
percent versus the euro, while weakening 2.7 percent against the
dollar.  
 Russia’s central bank lowered its  main interest rate  by a
quarter point to 7.75 percent in May, its 14th reduction in as
many months, to bolster the economic recovery after gross
domestic product shrank last year by the most since the Soviet
Union’s 1991 collapse. Russia is the last of the so-called BRIC
countries, which also include Brazil, India and China, to end a
policy of lowering rates in response to the global credit
crisis.  
 Diminishing Depreciation  
 Bank Rossii reduced its rate after a decline in inflation
to 6 percent from 15 percent two years ago. The central bank
pledged June 30 to keep interest rates at the lowest level on
record.  
 The average volatility of the ruble versus the dollar in
the past 10 days has declined to 9 percent, from a 10-month high
of 23 percent on May 27 and 16 percent at the end of 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The reduced swings helped cut the
cost of contracts used to hedge against exchange-rate losses to
the lowest in at least five years. Ruble non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, show the currency will weaken 4.18 percent in
a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The same contracts a year ago predicted a 14 percent slump
and in November 2008 projected a record 37 percent slide, the
data show. The currency tumbled 30 percent in the six months to
January 2009 as the global credit crisis caused a 70 percent
plunge in oil, Russia’s biggest export earner.  
 Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said June 29 the ruble rate
is “balanced.”  
 Dollar Bonds  
 The ruble climbed 0.3 percent to 31.1156 per dollar by 2:15
p.m. in Moscow. NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements as they allow foreign investors and companies
to fix the exchange rate at a specific level in the future, show
the ruble at 31.5630 per dollar in three months.  
 The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 sold in
April fell 4 basis points yesterday to 5.466 percent, falling
from the highest since June 25.  
 Credit-default swaps linked to Russian debt rose 7 basis
points to 202 on July 1, the highest level since June 8. The
contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses on debt
or speculate on creditworthiness, pay the buyer face value if a
borrower reneges on its obligations.  
 Russia credit-default swaps cost 4 basis points more than
the same contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower
at Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service. That  difference  has
narrowed from 40 basis points on April 20.  
 Fluctuations  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries is up 1 basis points to 285 today,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ Indexes. That compares with 183 for
debt of similarly rated Mexico and 249 for Brazil, which is
rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  
 The so-called  yield  spread on Russian bonds is 58 basis
points below the average for emerging markets, according to
JPMorgan Indexes.  
 Bank Rossii pledged on Jan. 22, 2009 to defend the ruble
against excessive fluctuations hurting country’s exporters,
introducing a target trading band of 26 to 41 against a basket
of dollars and euros. The ruble touched the weakest end of the
range at 41 in February 2009 and has gained 19 percent since
then as Russia’s economy rebounded. Rising bank deposits and
credit are fueling an economic expansion that Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. says may reach 7 percent this year.  
 The credit crisis pushed hedge funds out of Russia’s debt
markets, leaving domestic banks and pension funds that prefer to
“buy and hold” as the main investors, said  Sergey Dergachev ,
who helps oversee about $6 billion of emerging-market debt at
Union Investment in Frankfurt.  
 ‘Fast Money Guys’  
 “What we are seeing now is more long-term debt investors,
not fast money guys,” said Dergachev. “This is a very positive
development from a technical standpoint. Most investors want
ruble debt because they see low volatility. There is huge demand
for ruble debt now.”  
 Russian companies have sold 315 billion rubles ($10.1
billion) of domestic bonds so far this year, a 21 percent
increase from the same period last year and the busiest start
since 2007. Corporate issuance of foreign-currency bonds has
totaled $9.3 billion so far in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 Russia may sell ruble-denominated Eurobonds this year or
next, Kudrin told a conference in Yalta, Ukraine today. “We
will promote the ruble on global markets,” he said, in comments
confirmed by his spokesman.  
 The yield on ruble bonds sold by OAO Gazprom, Russia’s
biggest company, is 176 basis points above the same-maturity
Gazprom debt in dollars, down from a yield difference of 600 a
year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread narrowed
to as little as 115 on June 11.  
 ‘Defensive Play’  
 “We expect people to more comfortably hold ruble debt as
it is becoming a more stable and liquid asset class,” said
 Mikhail Galkin , director of fixed-income research at VTB
Capital. VTB of Moscow is the biggest underwriter of ruble debt
and third-largest organizer of Russian Eurobonds this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “Ruble bonds have become a defensive play in times of
volatility because they are more stable,” said  Elena Kolchina ,
head of fixed income products at Renaissance Asset Managers in
Moscow, which has $1.5 billion in assets under management.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     VTB Group CEO Andrei Kostin pauses during the St.Petersburg International Economic Forum in St. Petersburg. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
