-- Rupee Heads for Worst Week in a Month on Widening Current-Account Deficit
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-02T04:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/rupee-heads-for-worst-week-in-a-month-on-widening-current-account-deficit.html

          
          
             India’s rupee headed for the biggest
weekly loss in a month after a central bank report showed the
nation’s  current-account  deficit widened to a record.  
 The  Reserve Bank of India  said June 30 the current account,
a measure of trade and investment flows, posted a $13 billion
shortfall last quarter, more than twice the $5.75 billion median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The nation
has become more vulnerable to global slowdowns and financial
crises as foreign trade plays a bigger role in the economy, the
bank said in a separate report yesterday.  
 “There are near-term weakening pressures on the rupee,
exacerbated by external uncertainties,” Pranjul Bhandari and
 Tushar Poddar , Mumbai-based analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
wrote in a research note. “We believe the current-account
deficit will remain high this fiscal year. On a six- to 12-month
horizon, however, we expect higher growth and rates to drive
inflows and appreciation of the rupee.”  
 The rupee slid 0.7 percent this week to 46.625 per dollar
as of 9:33 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 46.7825 yesterday, the weakest level since
June 11. The rupee completed its worst quarter since March 2009
on June 30 with a 3.3 percent loss, the second-worst performance
among Asian currencies after South Korea’s won.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the Indian currency will trade
at 47.28 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations of 46.91 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  
 “The shift in the composition of aggregate demand towards
exports during the current decade has made the Indian economy
more susceptible to global developments,” the Reserve Bank of
India’s research department said in a report in Mumbai yesterday.
Trade represents 35 percent of gross domestic product, up from
21 percent a decade earlier, according to the central bank’s
latest data.  
 India’s external debt rose 16.5 percent to $261.4 billion
at the end of March from a year earlier, the RBI said June 30.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Indian currency research: TNI INB ANAFX BN <GO>
Most read Indian currency and bonds stories: MNI INB BN <GO>
For Indian rupee forecasts: FXFC INR <GO>  
          
          


  


        