-- Santos Welcomes Equal Status of Onshore, Offshore Oil, Gas Under New Tax
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-07-02T07:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/santos-welcomes-equal-status-of-onshore-offshore-oil-gas-under-new-tax.html

          
          
             Royal Dutch Shell Plc, among
companies planning more than $40 billion of investment in
Queensland gas projects, said Australia’s revised resources tax
offers the appropriate benefits for the public and companies.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , 48, reached a pact with
mining companies on the tax proposals, ending a dispute that
cost her predecessor  Kevin Rudd  his job. As part of the change,
the 26-year-old Petroleum Resource Rent Tax will be extended to
cover onshore as well as offshore oil and gas projects.  
 The petroleum tax “is a regime under which the oil and gas
industry has been operating since the 1980s,”  Ann Pickard ,
Shell Australia chairman and executive vice president for oil
and gas exploration and production, said in an e-mailed
statement. It “strikes a balance” between returns on natural
resources for Australians and for companies that develop them.  
 BG Group Plc and  Santos Ltd.  are due this year to make
final decisions on whether to build projects in Queensland that
will convert gas extracted from coal seams into liquefied
natural gas. The change keeps a 2010 development decision “on-
track” for its gas project, BG said in a separate statement.  
 “Fiscal certainty” will allow BG and Santos to proceed
with final development decisions on their projects,  Nik Burns ,
an analyst at RBS Morgans in Melbourne, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “There are still a number of issues we
await clarity on, such as the payment of state royalties and
transitional arrangements for existing projects.”  
 ‘Treated Equally’  
 Santos, which has  declined  13 percent since the start of
the year, dropped 14 cents, or 1.1 percent, to A$12.22 in Sydney.
That compares with a 0.3 percent increase in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index. Origin, which plans an LNG venture with
ConocoPhillips, rose 1.4 percent to A$14.83.  
 “We’ve argued since the start that all oil and gas
companies, whether they are onshore or offshore, needed to be
treated equally,” Santos spokesman  Matt Doman  said by phone
from Adelaide. “That’s been achieved, so we welcome that.”  
 The tax reforms will apply from July 1, 2012, Gillard said
in a joint statement with Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Resources
Minister  Martin Ferguson .  
 The government exempted most commodities, raised the
threshold and cut the tax to 30 percent on coal and iron ore
earnings, compared with a previous plan to collect 40 percent of
all resource profits.  
 Under the petroleum tax, levied at 40 percent, money spent
on exploration, development and production is deductible and the
scheme doesn’t take effect until revenue exceeds costs.  
 ‘Full-Steam Ahead’  
 “This is great news for Queensland and the Queensland
economy,” the state’s, Premier  Anna Bligh , said in an e-mailed
statement. The LNG projects proposed for development at the port
of Gladstone can now move “full steam ahead,” she said.  
 Coal-seam gas is mostly methane found on the surface of
coal. The gas can be extracted when pressure on the seams is
reduced, usually by removing water. LNG is natural gas chilled
to liquid form for transport by ship to destinations not
connected by pipeline.  
 While the change is an improvement on the original
proposal, Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration
Association Chief Executive  Belinda Robinson  said it’s not clear
how smaller businesses will be affected.  
 “Australia’s oil and gas sector, however, goes beyond
large companies and includes many small explorers and producers
who will be struggling to see how this reform will not lead to
them being worse off,” Robinson said in a statement posted on
the lobby group’s website.  
 More than A$50 billion ($42 billion) of spending is planned
for the Queensland coal-seam gas industry, which is expected to
generate 20,000 jobs, Santos Chairman  Peter Coates  said May 6.  
 Deutsche Bank AG estimates the development by Santos with
partner Petroliam Nasional Bhd. of two processing plants
with a capacity to export 7.2 million metric tons of LNG per
year will cost A$16.4 billion. The partners are yet to update an
initial capital cost of A$7.7 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        