-- Saudi Aramco May Cut Asia August Heavy Oil Price as Refiner Profits Drop
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-07-02T03:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/saudi-aramco-may-cut-asia-august-heavy-oil-price-as-refiner-profits-drop.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
biggest crude exporter, may cut the official selling price of
its August-loading Heavy grade to Asia as processing profits for
refiners producing fuel oil have declined.  
 Arab Heavy , the country’s densest grade, may drop by 35
cents a barrel from the July price, according to the median
estimate of a survey of nine refiners from Japan, Taiwan, India,
China and South Korea. The company, known as Saudi Aramco, is
expected to issue prices next week.  Arab Light , Aramco’s largest
export type, may drop by 10 cents a barrel, said the refiners,
who asked to remain unidentified, citing company policy.  
 Saudi Aramco will seek to increase the gap between Heavy
and Light grades to better reflect the decrease in fuel oil
profits and the increase in gasoil margins. This spread between
the products, known as the black-white differential, increased
from $17.32 a barrel on June 1 to a high on June 21 of $20.42.  
 “The fuel oil crack has started coming down,” said Osamu
Fujisawa, a Tokyo-based independent oil economist. “In that
case they will have to cut the prices in August from July. In
view of the differential change between gasoil and high-sulfur
fuel oil, Saudi Aramco would like to raise the lighter grade.”  
 Arab Medium  may be reduced by 11 cents a barrel from July,
said the survey.  Arab Extra Light  may remain unchanged, the
refiners said.  
 Arab Heavy yields 53 percent fuel oil during basic
processing, according to data from Energy Intelligence Group.
Fuel oil’s  discount  to Persian Gulf benchmark Dubai widened to a
six-week high of $7 a barrel on June 21, according to data from
PVM Oil Associates Ltd. Gasoil’s  premium  climbed to $13.61 a
barrel on the same day, the highest since Jan. 19, 2009.  
 Limiting Saudi Aramco’s ability to raise prices is the
increasing discount of Persian Gulf benchmark Dubai’s price for
prompt delivery to later dated supplies, a market situation
known as a contango, said Fujisawa, a former Aramco economist.  
 Dubai Discount  
 August loading Dubai’s  discount  to October cargoes has
widened from 88 cents a barrel on June 1 to as much as $1.19 on
June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Last month, Saudi Aramco cut the price of all its grades
for July loading for buyers in Asia.  
 Arab Light was slashed 40 cents to a discount of 20 cents a
barrel to the average of benchmarks Oman and Dubai. Extra Light
decreased 70 cents to a premium of 65 cents and Super Light
declined 95 cents to a premium of $1.25.  
 Arab Medium was cut by 15 cents to a discount of $1.75 a
barrel to the benchmark’s average. Arab Heavy dropped 5 cents to
a discount of $2.95 a barrel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        