-- HSBC, Intesa Sanpaolo Said to Be Among Bidders for Allied Irish Bank Unit
-- Sonia Sirletti
-- 2010-07-02T13:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/hsbc-intesa-sanpaolo-said-to-be-among-bidders-for-allied-irish-bank-unit.html

          
          
             HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA  are among bidders for a controlling stake in  Bank Zachodni
WBK SA , the Polish lender, valued at about $3 billion that Allied
Irish Banks Plc is selling, said two people with knowledge of
the matter.  
 The U.K. and Italian banks made offers before a bid
deadline expired last month and may proceed to analyze taking
the 70 percent stake in Bank Zachodni, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter is confidential.
 OAO Sberbank , Russia’s largest lender, said it didn’t bid for
the stake, while some other potential buyers refused to say
whether they made offers.  
 AIB is selling 70 percent of Poland’s third-biggest bank by
market value, to help meet capital requirements set by Irish
banking regulators. Purchasing the lender would give a foreign
bank a foothold in Poland, which was the only European Union
economy to avoid recession last year. Dublin-based AIB plans to
shortlist bidders around mid-July and complete the sale in
September, Rzeczpospolita newspaper said, citing unnamed people
familiar with the transaction.  
 AIB spokesman  Ronan Sheridan  in Dublin declined to comment.
Intesa Chief Executive Officer  Corrado Passera  told reporters on
June 11 that the Italian bank is “looking at” Bank Zachodni.
An Intesa spokesman said today the bank has no further comment.
HSBC spokesman  Patrick McGuinness  in London declined to comment.  
 Poland’s PKO Bank Polski SA, Societe Generale SA and BNP
Paribas SA are considering a bid, three people with knowledge of
the matter said June 15. Nordea Bank AB is also among bidders,
the website of Poland’s Rzeczpospolita newspaper reported today.
 Bank Pekao SA  of Poland is bidding, as is Apax Partners, a U.K.
private-equity firm, Dow Jones reported yesterday.  
 BNP Paribas spokeswoman  Christelle Maldague  declined to
comment.  
 Postponed Vote  
 State-controlled PKO, Poland’s largest bank, postponed a
dividend vote after Treasury Minister  Aleksander Grad  said it
would bid for Bank Zachodni and might need to use last year’s
profit to pay for the stake. Pekao, Poland’s second-largest
lender, was analyzing a bid, Chief Executive Officer  Alicja Kornasiewicz  said June 14.  
 Arkadiusz Mierzwa , a spokesman for Pekao, declined to
comment today.  Marek Ryczkowski , a spokesman for PKO, also
declined to comment.  
 Polish law requires an investor that buys more than 66
percent of a publicly traded company to bid for the rest of the
shares.  
 While Nordea’s “main track” in eastern Europe is to expand
its existing business, it has a duty to shareholders to look at
any bank that is coming up for sale and would never rule out a
potential acquisition, said  Thomas Neckmar , head of the bank’s
Polish, Baltic and Russian business, in April.  
 Ragnar Roos, a spokesman for Nordea, declined to comment
today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        