-- Sberbank Denies Bid for Poland's Zachodni as Nordea, Pekao, PKO Keep Mum
-- Nathaniel Espino
-- 2010-07-02T09:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/sberbank-denies-bid-for-poland-s-zachodni-as-nordea-pekao-pko-keep-mum.html

          
          
             OAO Sberbank , Russia’s largest
lender, said it didn’t bid for a controlling stake in Poland’s
 Bank Zachodni WBK SA , denying a media report, while other
potential buyers refused to say whether they submitted offers.  
 Sberbank didn’t bid for the stake being sold by Allied
Irish Banks Plc, for which offers were due June 28, a Sberbank
spokesperson said by phone today, declining to be identified in
line with bank policy.  PKO Bank Polski SA  and Bank Pekao SA of
Poland and Stockholm-based Nordea Bank AB declined to comment on
a Dow Jones report yesterday that named them as bidders.  
 AIB is selling the 70 percent stake, valued at 9.72 billion
zloty ($2.9 billion) at today’s market price, to raise capital
in line with demands from Irish regulators. The sale could give
a foreign bank a foothold in the Polish market, the only
European Union economy to avoid recession last year.  
 Polish state-controlled PKO, the country’s largest bank,
postponed a dividend vote from June 26 after Treasury Minister
 Aleksander Grad  said it would bid for Zachodni and might need to
use last year’s profit to pay for the stake.  Pekao , Poland’s
second-largest lender, was analyzing a bid, Chief Executive
Officer  Alicja Kornasiewicz  said June 14.  
 Arkadiusz Mierzwa , a spokesman for Pekao, declined to
comment today.  Marek Ryczkowski , a spokesman for PKO, also
declined to comment.  
 While Nordea’s “main track” in eastern Europe is to grow
its existing business, it has a duty to shareholders to look at
any bank that is coming up for sale and would never rule out a
potential acquisition,  Thomas Neckmar , head of the bank’s
Polish, Baltic and Russian business, said in April.  
 Ragnar Roos, a spokesman for Nordea, declined to comment
today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net 
 Nathaniel Espino  in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        