-- Schwarzenegger Minimum-Wage Plan Legal, Court Rules
-- Christopher Palmeri
-- 2010-07-02T22:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/schwarzenegger-s-plan-to-pay-state-workers-minimum-wage-is-upheld-by-court.html

          
          
             A  California  court ruled that state
Controller  John Chiang  must comply with an order by Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger  to slash the pay of almost 200,000 state
workers to the minimum wage until a budget is passed.  
 The ruling comes as Schwarzenegger sought for a second time
to cut state workers’ pay to the federal minimum wage amid a
spending-plan stalemate. In 2009, Chiang appealed a similar
order, claiming the instruction was illegal. Chiang, a Democrat,
said today he will appeal the decision on that case from the 3rd
Appellate District court in Sacramento.  
 The Republican governor issued a new pay-cut order
yesterday, after lawmakers failed to send him a budget before
the fiscal year began July 1. He and the Democrat-controlled
Legislature are at odds over how to bridge a $19.1 billion
deficit. In 2003, the state’s high court ruled that California
can withhold salaries during budget impasses as long as it
complies with federal law, which requires paying at least
minimum wage, currently $7.25 an hour.  
 “This underscores the fact that everyone loses when we
have a budget impasse,” Schwarzenegger’s press secretary,  Aaron McLear , said in a statement. “Every day the Legislature fails
to deliver a budget costs the state $50 million.”  
 Conserving Cash  
 California would save about $1.2 billion a month with the
move, according to the state  Department of Finance , which is a
division of the governor’s office. Workers are entitled to back
pay at their regular rate once a budget is enacted.  
 A 2008 pay-cut order, the subject of Chiang’s 2009 appeal,
was intended to conserve cash during an impasse over a $17
billion deficit that year. At the time, finance officials were
concerned that they wouldn’t have enough cash to pay bills amid
a protracted stalemate. Schwarzenegger signed the budget Sept.
19 of that year, the latest in the state’s history.  
 This time, Chiang has said the state has enough cash to pay
bills through August and has called the governor’s pay-cut order
a ploy. Chiang also has said his office isn’t equipped to make
the salary reductions.  
 “This is not a simple software problem,” Chiang said
today in a statement. “Reducing pay and then restoring it in a
timely manner once a budget is enacted cannot be done without
gross violations of law unless and until the state completes its
overhaul of the state payroll system and payroll laws are
changed,” he said.  
 Seeking Resolution  
 “I will move quickly to ask the courts to definitively
resolve the issue of whether our current payroll system is
capable of complying with the minimum-wage order in a way that
protects taxpayers from billions of dollars in fines and
penalties,” Chiang said.  
 California has enacted a budget by its July 1 deadline just
10 times in the past 34 years. In part that’s because the
spending plan, under the state constitution, requires a two-
thirds vote of the Legislature. While Democrats have majorities
in both chambers, they are short of the two-thirds level by two
votes in the Senate and by five in the Assembly.  
 Democrats oppose the $12 billion in cuts proposed by
Schwarzenegger, who in May called for the complete elimination
of the state’s main welfare program. Schwarzenegger has vowed to
block any tax increases favored by Democrats to fill the gap.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento, California, at   mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        