-- SEC Sues Utah Man For $145 Million Commercial Real Estate Investing Fraud
-- Joshua Gallu
-- 2010-07-02T16:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/sec-sues-utah-man-over-alleged-145-million-real-estate-investment-fraud.html

          
          
             The Securities and Exchange
Commission sued a Utah man for falsely telling customers their
$145 million would be invested in commercial real estate while
instead directing funds to other ventures, including a sandwich-
in-a-can business.  
 Travis Wright, 47, sold promissory notes for his Waterford
funds to about 175 investors from 2001 to 2009, the SEC said in
a lawsuit filed at U.S. court in Salt Lake City yesterday.
Wright used only $6 million of investor money in a manner
consistent with his promises, the agency alleged.  
 The SEC said Wright, who used more than $15 million of
clients’ money to pay for a “lavish” lifestyle for himself and
his friends, told investors he would use their funds to make
loans secured by liens on commercial real estate. Of 20
investments, about five were made in accordance with his
promises, according to the lawsuit.  
 Instead, Wright invested funds in other ventures, including
a company that wanted to develop a sandwich in a can to be sold
in vending machines, a company that sold watches over the
Internet, a company that sold rose petals with sentiments
printed on them, and a company, owned by Wright and his brother,
that owned the rights to a film about a Boy Scout pinewood derby
car race.  
 In late 2008, a group of investors confronted Wright after
they stopped receiving interest payments when their notes
matured, the SEC said. The investor group persuaded Wright to
transfer them all the assets, as well as most of his personal
assets, causing the fund to declare bankruptcy in March 2009,
the lawsuit said.  
 The agency is seeking disgorgement and unspecified fines,
as well as an order that Wright be prohibited from selling
securities.  
 No one could be reached at two telephone numbers listed to
Travis L. Wright in Ogden, Utah. A phone number for Waterford
Funding, LLC, was busy. Court documents did not list a lawyer
for Wright.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        