-- SEC Said to Investigate Marketing of Principal-Protected Structured Notes
-- Joshua Gallu
-- 2010-07-02T16:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/sec-said-to-investigate-marketing-of-principal-protected-structured-notes.html

          
          
             The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has asked several financial firms how they market
“principal-protected” notes after investors said they lost
more than $1 billion on the securities when  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  collapsed, according to people familiar with the
matter.  
 The agency’s Division of Corporation Finance is looking at
how companies describe the products’ risks and whether the term
“principal protected” misleadingly implies the investment is
guaranteed not to decline in value, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the inquiry isn’t public.  
 Citigroup Inc., which used the phrase in its May marketing
materials, removed it from a brochure filed June 15 with the
SEC. “Citi is working with other banks and industry
participants regarding the description of these products,” said
spokesman  Alexander Samuelson , who declined to comment on the
inquiry.  
 Barclays Plc, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp. are
among banks that in offering documents filed with the SEC
describe some structured notes, which are bonds packaged with
derivatives, as “principal protected.” Individual investors in
the U.S. bought $34 billion of all types of structured notes
last year, according to StructuredRetailProducts.com, a database
used by the industry.  
 Findings made by the SEC’s corporation finance division may
be referred to the enforcement division, which investigates
fraud.  Kenneth Lench , head of the agency’s Structured and New
Products enforcement unit, declined to comment on whether the
enforcement division is looking into the securities.  John Heine ,
an SEC spokesman, also declined to comment.  
 ‘Marketing Materials’  
 Firms must include “full and accurate” disclosures of
risks when marketing complex products, such as principal-
protected notes, to individual investors, Lench said in a June
25 telephone interview.  
 “You’ve got these long disclosure documents, but
oftentimes there are marketing materials and those have to be
accurate as well,” Lench said.  
 Kristin Friel , a spokeswoman for Barclays, Mark Lake, a
spokesman for Morgan Stanley, and  Selena Morris , a spokeswoman
for Bank of America, declined to comment.  
 Issuers of principal-protected notes combine bonds with
derivatives to offer investors bets on stocks and commodities,
with a promise to return their initial outlay regardless of
performance. That still leaves counterparty risk, or the danger
of not being fully repaid because the issuer itself goes out of
business, which is generally spelled out in the prospectuses.  
 ‘Properly Sold’  
 When Lehman Brothers went bankrupt in September 2008, the
principal-protected notes that it had guaranteed plummeted in
value. A group of investors said in a lawsuit seeking class-
action status that the firm sold at least $1.7 billion of the
securities. The investors also claimed that UBS AG brokers
provided “misleading” information when using the term “100
percent principal protection” to market the notes.  
 Allison Chin-Leong , a spokeswoman for UBS, said that the
Zurich-based bank “properly sold” the Lehman products,
“following all regulatory requirements, well-established sales
practices and client disclosure guidelines.”  
 In April, Citigroup offered to compensate more than 2,700
Spanish investors who lost money on Lehman structured notes,
without admitting liability. Some buyers of Lehman principal-
protected notes have won restitution from their brokers in
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration cases.
Finra, the industry-funded brokerage regulator, sent a  notice  to
brokers last year telling them to ensure that marketing
materials for the securities are “fair and balanced.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zeke Faux  in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The headquarters building of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission stands in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
