-- Seinfeld Directs, Portugal The Man, 4th Fireworks: N.Y. Weekend
-- Zinta Lundborg
-- 2010-07-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/seinfeld-directs-portugal-the-man-4th-fireworks-n-y-weekend.html

          
          
             It’s tough guys versus smart guys in
Colin Quinn’s “Long Story Short,” a funny, politically
incorrect history of the world. Directed by his pal  Jerry Seinfeld , Quinn’s 75 minute routine hits a variety of targets,
including the Catholic Church: “It’s hard to confess to a
priest who likely has a Justin Bieber poster on his wall.”  
 The only props are a drink and an armchair he never really
sits in, as Quinn pops up to explain that  Marie Antoinette  would
never have lost her head for “Let them eat cake,” if she
could’ve added “LOL.”  
 An experienced stand-up, Quinn spent five seasons on
“ Saturday Night Live .” He co-stars in the new  Adam Sandler 
comedy “Grown Ups.”  
 At the Bleecker Street Theater, 45 Bleecker St.
Information: +1-212-260-8252;  http://www.45bleecker.com   
 Afterwards, head to Lil’Frankie’s for Neapolitan pizza with
artichokes, mushrooms, prosciutto and mozzarella, or fresh trout
with lemon and caper sauce. Sit in the backyard garden and
sample the extensive Italian wine list.  
 Lil’Frankie’s is at 19 First Avenue at First Street;
+1-212-420-4900.  
 Saturday Afternoon  
 Climb through the weird leafy grandeur of “Big Bambu” on
the roof garden of the  Metropolitan Museum of Art . Doug and Mike
Starn’s winding ramps rise 40 feet above the roof and 110 feet
above Central Park.  
 The artists and a team of rock climbers will continue
building the bamboo structure through the fall. To ascend, you
need a ticket, nerves of steel and the right shoes.  
 When you descend, wander around the Met’s Picasso show or
take in Leon Levinstein’s photos of “Hipsters, Hustlers and
Handball Players.” Have a bite in the cafe at the Petrie Court
or the American Wing before heading off into the park for some
serious people watching.  
 The Met is at 1000 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-535-7710;
 http://www.metmuseum.org   
 Saturday Night  
 Escape the heat and hop a ferry to  Governors Island  for the
pop-psychedelia of  Portugal. The Man . Self-conscious punctuation
aside, Portugal. The Man crunch out addictive, anthemic rock so
sexy your clothes will stick to you regardless of the humidity.  
 Lead singer John Baldwin Gourley is a native of  Sarah Palin ’s hometown of Wasilla, Alaska, so he may know something
about warming up a crowd with vocal acrobatics.  
 Governors Island ferries leave from the Battery Maritime
Building and the doors open at 6:00 p.m. when wristbands will be
distributed.  
 Get there early for openers Alberta Cross and Hopewell.
Information:  http://www.portugaltheman.com  or
 http://thebeachconcerts.com   
 Sunday Afternoon  
 Grab a ribbon with someone’s wish printed on it, write your
own deepest desire on a piece of paper and stick it into a hole
in the wall at the  New Museum  and you become part of Rivane
Neuenschwander’s show, “A Day Like Any Other.”  
 You can also describe your first love to a police sketch
artist and add the resulting portrait to the exhibit.  
 The museum is filled with the Brazilian artist’s painting,
sculpture and film, and there is a playfully paranoid
installation exploring our disappearing privacy, based on
 Francis Ford Coppola ’s “The Conversation.”  
 The New Museum is at 235 Bowery. Information: +1-212-219-
1222;  http://www.newmuseum.org   
 Sunday Night  
 “American Harmony” is the theme of  Macy’s  no-holds-barred
fireworks extravaganza this year. Beginning at 9:20 p.m, more
than 40 thousand shells will explode at the rate of 1,500 per
minute, some reaching 1,000 feet, from Hudson River barges
stationed between 24th and 50th Streets.  
 Bring a chair and some major refreshment and head over to
the West Side Highway, closed to traffic for the annual party.
Book a dinner cruise to see the sky light up from the water.
Information:  a dinner cruise to see the sky light up from the
water. Information:  http://social.macys.com/fireworks  and
 http://www.newyorkcruises.com   
 Or repair to the  Empire Hotel  rooftop for the Liberty Belle
Spectacular, featuring Gelber @ Manning and the Star Spangled
Orchestra, Susquehanna Industrial Tool & Die and Jezebel
Express, with guest mixologist Fredo Ceraso.  
 The hotel is at 44 W. 63rd St. Information: +1-212-265-
7400;  http://www.libertybellespectacular.com   
 For a more elegant celebration of the nation’s birthday,
head up to  Caramoor , a bosky 90-acre estate with villas, art
collections, gardens and an international music festival, for
“Pops, Patriots and Fireworks.”  
 Sousa, Ives, Gershwin, Hermann, Grofe and Tchaikovsky’s
1812 Overture will be performed by the virtuosic  Orchestra of
St. Luke’s  under the baton of Michael Barrett.  
 Order a picnic to enjoy in the gardens or get hamburgers
and hot dogs on the lawn beginning at 5 p.m. The concert starts
at 8 p.m. and fireworks follow.  
 Caramoor is at 149 Girdle Ridge Road, Katonah, New York.
Information: +1-914-232-5035;  Information: +1-914-232-5035;
 http://www.caramoor.org   
 Monday  
 Smell the blooms in the Peggy Rockefeller Rose Garden,
admire hydrangeas and lilies galore and learn to make great
seasonal food in the  New York Botanical Garden ’s Conservatory
Kitchen.  
 Dan Latham, executive chef of the Cornelia Street Cafe,
will demonstrate how to cook Cornelia Black and Blue Berry
Squares and summer corn risotto with tomato basil coulis at 1
p.m. and 3 p.m.  
 The official park gardener, Sonia Uyterhoeven, shows how to
make tasty herbal butters, pesto, vinegar and teas from the
kitchen gardens at 2 p.m.  
 To satisfy your soul, check out Emily Dickinson’s Garden,
“The Poetry of Flowers,” an exhibit of manuscripts, books,
watercolors and photographs that display the poet’s botanical
talents.  
 The Garden is at 200th Street and Kazimiroff Boulevard in
the Bronx. Information: +1-718-817-8700;  http://www.nybg.org   
 (With assistance from  Lili Rosboch .  Zinta Lundborg  is an
editor for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Macy's Fourth of July fireworks display in New York. On Sunday July 4, 2010 at 9 p.m. the annual fireworks will ignite over the Hudson River. Source: Macy's via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Visitors explore Martha Stewart's culinary herb garden at The New York Botanical Garden. "The Edible Garden" display is at the Botanical Garden through October 17, 2010. Photographer: Talisman Brolin/New York Botanical Garden via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Colin Quinn  
                       
                         
                           Rubenstein Communications via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Comic Colin Quinn. "Colin Quinn Long Story Short" is a hilarious look at the ups and downs of great civilizations gone wrong, now playing at the Bleecker Street Theatre through August 15. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Comic Colin Quinn. "Colin Quinn Long Story Short" is a hilarious look at the ups and downs of great civilizations gone wrong, now playing at the Bleecker Street Theatre through August 15. Source: Rubenstein Communications via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Fourth of July fireworks at Caramoor International Music Festival in Katonah, NY. Caramoor's weekend celebration of our nation's birthday kicks off on Saturday, July 3 through Sunday, July 4. Photographer: Gabe Palacio/Cohn Dutcher via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Doug + Mike Starn on the Roof: Big Bambu" in New York. The installation is on view on the rooftop of the Metropolitan Museum through October 31. Source: The Metropolitan Museum of Art via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Empire Hotel Rooftop in New York. The Empire Hotel will be featuring "The Liberty Belle Spectacular," a Fourth of July extravaganza. Source: Empire Hotel via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
