-- Serbia's Central Bank Leaves Rates Unchanged at 8 Percent on Inflation
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-07-02T09:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/serbia-s-central-bank-leaves-rates-unchanged-at-8-percent-on-inflation.html

          
          
             Serbia’s central bank left its key
policy  rate  unchanged as concern over the dinar’s volatility
outweighs economic indications that a cut is warranted.  
 National Bank of  Serbia  policy makers kept the rate at 8
percent for a fourth meeting after cutting the benchmark rate on
May 11 to the lowest since it launched inflation targeting in
August 2006.  
 Serbia’s central bank sees weak aggregate demand and tame
 inflation  as sufficient to keep its policy easing bias, but
cannot continue with rate cuts because of the weak dinar.  
 The country’s dinar has sunk 8.4 percent against the euro
this year so far, making debt repayment more expensive, while
another rate cut after three reductions since Jan. 8 would push
the dinar even lower.  
 Policy makers are struggling between controlling the
currency and boosting economic activity, analysts said before
the rate announcement.  
 “Rates are staying unchanged in the base scenario, though
the central bank seems to still have a bias for lower rates,
while the risk of continued depreciation could trigger hikes,”
Agata Urbanska, an economist for central Europe and the Balkans
at ING Bank in London, said before the report. She sees no
change in borrowing costs for the rest of the year.  
 Holding rates for another two weeks, when the board would
next meet, also gives the government time to work out how to woo
investors to its debt, after a series of Treasury bill sales
over the past month ended undersubscribed, signaling possible
budget-financing trouble.  
 “The central bank is now facing a choice between the two
evils, between raising its interest rate and draining the
reserves,” said  Djordje Djukic , a former central bank board
member, adding the central bank may be forced into frequent and
sharp interest-rate increases.  
 The central bank has spent more than 1.3 billion euros
($1.62 billion) so far this year to slow the dinar declines.  
 The next meeting on rates will be held on July 20, the bank
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        