-- Severed Pipe, Hard Hats Seized by U.S. in BP Well Probe
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/severed-pipe-hard-hats-seized-by-u-s-in-bp-well-probe.html

          
          
             The U.S. Coast Guard seized a section
of pipe from  BP  Plc’s leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico as part
of a federal investigation into the catastrophe that killed 11
rig workers and triggered the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 The 50-foot (15-meter) section of pipe was attached to a
stack of safety valves on the sea floor known as a blowout
preventer, said Coast Guard Lieutenant Commander Jeff Bray.  
 Investigators plan to examine the pipe at a Coast Guard
base in New Orleans for clues about what caused BP’s Macondo
well to spew out of control on April 20, Bray said today. The
well has been pumping as much as 60,000 barrels of crude a day
into the sea for more than two months, fouling fisheries, oyster
beds and beaches.  
 “This is something we’re examining as part of the ongoing
investigation,” Bray said in a telephone interview from
Washington.  
 The 50 feet of pipe was severed from the blowout preventer
in the weeks following the disaster to allow remotely controlled
robots to attempt to cap the leaking well. The section was
originally part of a 5,000-foot string of pipes that connected
the well to the  Deepwater Horizon  rig until the vessel sank on
April 22.  
 The Coast Guard took possession of the pipe section from
 Transocean Ltd.,  the Geneva-based rig owner, under the terms of
a subpoena issued by an investigative panel comprised of Coast
Guard and Interior Department representatives, court documents
show.  
 Debris, Logs  
 Transocean has also been ordered to hand over any debris
from the wrecked rig and personnel logs that cover the period
from when the Deepwater Horizon arrived at the Macondo site
about 40 miles off the Louisiana coast earlier this year, the
documents show.  
 Hard hats and storage tanks used to hold mechanical oil are
among the debris that has been recovered from the disaster zone
and handed over to the Coast Guard for examination, said Guy
Cantwell, a Transocean spokesman. The blowout preventer won’t be
detached from the sea floor and brought to the surface until
the leak has been capped, he said.  
 A BP spokeswoman in the company’s Houston office who declined
to be identified said she was unable to immediately comment.  
 The investigative panel is scheduled to resume hearing
testimony from survivors and company executives on July 19, Bray
said. The panel has yet to determine who it will summon to
provide testimony, he said.  
 At the last round of hearings in late May, Robert Kaluza,
one of two  BP  managers involved in directing the drilling
project aboard the rig, declined to testify, citing his Fifth
Amendment right against self-incrimination.  
 Poor Health  
 Donald Vidrine, the other BP manager who oversaw the
project aboard the Deepwater Horizon, postponed a May appearance
before the panel, telling investigators he was in poor health.  
 In a June 23 interview outside his home in Lafayette,
Louisiana, Vidrine declined to say whether he will testify when
the hearings resume later this month. Vidrine said he had been
on administrative leave from the company since the catastrophe.  
 In addition to the Coast Guard and Interior Department,
investigations are under way by the Justice Department, U.S.
 Chemical Safety and Hazard  Investigation Board and several House
and Senate committees.  
 BP and contractors that included Transocean and Halliburton
Co. were in the process of sealing the Macondo well with cement
plugs when the rig was rocked by two explosions and caught fire.  
 50 Million Barrels  
 BP  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  last month
estimated the well, which lies under almost 1 mile of water,
tapped a field holding 50 million barrels of crude. At current
prices, that much crude is worth about $3.6 billion.  
 London-based BP rose 2.8 percent to 327.95 pence today.
Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, rose 3 percent to
$37.17 in New York trading. Transocean rose 5.5 percent to
$48.89.  
 BP, the largest oil and natural-gas producer in the Gulf of
Mexico, and Anadarko Petroleum Corp., which owns a minority
stake in the well, have each lost half their market value since
the disaster.  
 Mitsui & Co ., the Tokyo-based owner of an indirect stake in
the project, lost almost one-third of its value. Transocean has
tumbled 47 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in New Orleans, Louisiana, at
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward last month estimated the well, which lies under almost 1 mile of water, tapped a field holding 50 million barrels of crude. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
