-- Shallow Gulf Drilling Grinds Toward Halt as Permits Trickle Out
-- David Wethe
-- 2010-07-02T14:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/shallow-drilling-in-gulf-of-mexico-grinding-to-halt-as-permit-pace-slows.html

          
          
             Hercules Offshore Inc.  and  Rowan Cos. 
face the threat of oil drilling in shallow Gulf of Mexico waters
coming to a standstill as the slow pace of U.S. permits after BP
Plc’s spill adds to the impact of a deep-water moratorium.  
 About one in three shallow-water Gulf rigs is idle, double
the normal rate, said  Jim Noe , general counsel at Houston-based
 Hercules , a driller that tripled its workforce during the oil
rally of 2007 and early 2008. The permit process is so slow that
it’s creating a “de facto moratorium” that will sideline most
of the Gulf rig fleet by the end of this month as wells started
before the spill are completed, he said.  
 “We need forward progress,” Noe said in a telephone
interview. “I will not be comfortable until we see a flow of
permits.”  
 Drilling in Gulf waters less than 1,000 feet (305 meters)
deep generates about 6 percent of the nation’s oil and natural-
gas  output , according to government data. Production off
Louisiana’s coast yielded $4.9 billion in federal revenue last
year, according to the  Shallow Water Energy Security Coalition ,
a lobbying group that Gulf contractors formed in May.  
 The Obama administration revamped the U.S. Interior
Department agency that regulates offshore wells and halted deep-
water drilling after an April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater
Horizon rig killed 11 workers and spurred the biggest oil spill
in U.S. history.  
 Rig Rules  
 The agency, now known as the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement, issued 11 permits for
rigs in waters less than 500 feet from June 8 through June 30,
when the first of two new rules was released. The government
normally issues about 10 to 15 permits a week, said  Randall Stilley , chief executive officer for Seahawk Drilling Inc.  
 “We’ve got a long way to go before we get back to that
level,” said Stilley, whose Houston-based  company  provides so-
called jack-up rigs supported by legs that extend to the
seafloor. “It is so slow. We’re having to shut down rigs, and
that’s a bad situation for everybody.”  
 The two rules implemented last month aim to prevent
offshore accidents, said  Kendra Barkoff , a spokeswoman for the
Interior Department. She said permits will continue to be given
as long as applicants comply with the new rules, including
additional documentation attesting to the safety of blowout-
prevention systems.  
 While oil and gas producers also will feel the pain of
slowing shallow-water drilling, it’s their rig contractors that
will be most affected, said  Dan Pickering , an analyst at Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston.  
 Drillers Hurt Most  
 “If you stretch this out a little while longer, the
service  companies  have a bigger challenge because they’ve got
assets and people,” Pickering said in a telephone interview.  
 Apache Corp. and  Chevron Corp.  are among oil producers that
have declared force majeure, a contract clause that allows them
to stop paying rent when forces beyond their control prevent
rigs they’ve leased from being used. Rig contracts typically
have a waiting period before lease payments can stop.  
 “That’s not a good sign,” said Seahawk’s Stilley. “That
tells me that a lot of operators are concerned it’s going to
take a while to get permits issued.”  Seahawk  has parked about
half of its 20 rigs in a process called cold stacking that
prepares them to be idled for an extended period of time.  
 Apache , the biggest independent U.S. oil producer by market
value, is waiting on permits to be approved, said  Robert Dye ,
vice president for corporate services at the Houston-based
company. “There’s still a level of frustration because we put
in permits and we’re continuing to wait,” he said.  
 $80,000 a Day  
 Closely held Arena Offshore, based near Houston, has had an
$80,000-a-day  rig  standing by for more than two weeks while
awaiting a permit.  
 “They’ve really slowed us down,” said Mike Minarovic,
manager of Arena Offshore. “Even if the permitting was to get
fixed overnight, I think you’d see a significant decline in Gulf
of Mexico shelf activity over the next six months to a year
because of all the uncertainty this has caused.”  
 U.S. Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  has promised a new
ban on deep-water drilling after an initial six-month moratorium
was ruled illegal by a Louisiana judge.  
 Some companies have seen signs of progress. Houston-based
 Rowan  said it learned this week that a rig it leased to  McMoRan
Exploration Co.  received a permit to go to work. Bandon Oil &
Gas said it received approval June 25 for a permit applied for
before the April 20 rig explosion.  
 “We had to understand what they wanted and they had to
understand what it is that we could provide,” said  Matt McCarroll , president of Houston-based Bandon. “This is somewhat
new territory.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     DCOR LLC's Edith offshore oil and gas platform, right, and Beta Operating Company LLC's Eureka oil and gas platform stand in the Beta Field off the coast of Long Beach, California. Photographer: Tim Rue/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
