-- India's Singh to Open Delhi Airport Terminal, Easing Travel
-- Subramaniam Sharma
-- 2010-07-03T08:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/singh-to-open-delhi-air-terminal-doubling-capacity-easing-india-travel.html

          
          
             Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
today opened a terminal that will double capacity at  New Delhi
airport  and ease travel into the world’s second-most populous
country.  
 “A good airport would signal the arrival of a new
India,” Singh  said  in New Delhi. “The commissioning of this
terminal will be a significant step forward in developing Delhi
as a vital hub.”  
 Delhi’s Terminal 3 and another planned in Mumbai are part
of a government infrastructure push designed to lure overseas
investment and support travel demand stoked by the nation’s
surging economic growth. The number of domestic passengers is
estimated to grow more than fourfold to as many as 180 million,
and international traffic may exceed 50 million annually by
2020, Singh said.  
 “It is essential for India that T3 is seen as a
success,” said Andreas Schimm, director of economics and
program development at  Airports Council  International, a
Geneva-based trade group. “If significant investments are not
paying off, capacity will not keep pace with demand as
investors will shy away from the airport industry.”  
 The  terminal , spread over 5.4 million square feet, has 78
gates, 97 automated walkways, 95 immigration counters, 20,000
square meters (215,000 square feet) of retail space and parking
for 4,300 cars. The facility, which will begin handling
international flights on July 14, will boost the airport’s
capacity to 60 million passengers a year.  
 India’s aviation industry has the growth potential to
absorb as much as $120 billion of investment by 2020, Singh
said today.  
 $2.7 Billion Terminal  
 Along with other renovations, construction of Terminal 3
cost about $2.7 billion, according to  Kiran Kumar Grandhi ,
chairman, airports at  GMR Group . The facility will be run by a
group backed by Bangalore-based  GMR , state-run Airports
Authority of India Ltd., Frankfurt-based Fraport AG and
Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd.  
 The new facility may boost travel by drawing more carriers,
improving connectivity between flights and easing queues. About
25 million passengers passed through Delhi airport in the year
ended March. Dubai handled 40.9 million travelers in 2009 and
Singapore’s Changi airport moved 37.2 million, according to
Airports Council International  data .  
 “For the first time an Indian airport will rank alongside
Changi, Hong Kong and Dubai,” said  Binit Somaia , director for
South Asia at the Sydney-based  Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation .
“That is a big step forward.”  
 The new facility was completed in 37 months compared with
the 45 months China took to build the terminal that opened in
Beijing ahead of the 2008 Olympics.  
 Travel Hub  
 Carriers including  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. , the nation’s
largest,  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd.  and Air India will move
domestic services to Terminal 3 around the end of the month.
Low-cost carriers such as  SpiceJet Ltd.  will use a different
facility.  
 Domestic carriers need to take advantage of the new
terminal to develop New Delhi as a hub for both domestic and
international travel, Civil Aviation Minister  Praful Patel  told
reporters yesterday.  
 “Lufthansa,  Singapore Airlines  and British Airways, which
are all reputed in the world, have only become big because they
have encashed on the hub,” said Patel in New Delhi. “India
did not have that.”  
 The ministry of civil aviation will pursue other
government departments and state administrations to lower taxes
on aviation turbine fuel and ease transit visa rules to
facilitate development of Delhi as a hub, Patel said.  
 Airbus A380  
 Emirates Airline has applied to fly the Airbus SAS A380
superjumbo to Delhi with the opening of the new terminal,
India’s Director General of Civil Aviation Nasim Zaidi said
last month. AirAsia X, part-owned by Malaysia-based  AirAsia
Bhd. , will add services to the city from Aug. 4. The group may
also add flights from Bangkok, AirAsia Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Fernandes  said last month.  
 “Improved infrastructure such as new terminals help
boost air traffic and enhance the travel experience,” he said
in an e-mailed response to questions. “This will mean a
quicker turnaround time for our aircraft operations, helping
keep costs low and enabling us to offer our lower fares.”  
 Indian air travel has risen alongside an economy growing
at an average rate of 8.5 percent annually during the past five
years and the rise of discount carriers. The number of airports
with scheduled services has climbed to 82 from 50 over the past
10 years, according to the civil aviation ministry.  
 India has 10 airlines operating in the country, compared
with two in 1990 and the number of aircraft deployed by the
carriers has increased fourfold to 400 in the period, Singh
said.  
 The new terminal in Mumbai, India’s financial capital, is
due to open in 2012. The government has also approved plans for
the construction of seven new airports.  
 A proposed new airport near Mumbai should be supported as
capacity at the existing one in the city is nearing saturation,
Civil Aviation Minister Patel told business leaders,
bureaucrats and other people at the opening of the new terminal
today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Prime Minister Manmohan Singh cuts a ribbon  
                       
                         
                           Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Prime Minister Manmohan Singh cuts a ribbon at the opening ceremony of the new Terminal 3 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Prime Minister Manmohan Singh cuts a ribbon at the opening ceremony of the new Terminal 3 Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
