-- Skoda Transportation May Win Vehicle Orders Worth $1 Billion in 2010
-- Lenka Ponikelska
-- 2010-07-02T12:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/skoda-transportation-may-win-vehicle-orders-worth-1-billion-in-2010.html

          
          
             Skoda Transportation AS  and Skoda
Vagonka AS, the largest Czech producer of rail vehicles, may win
21 billion koruna ($1 billion) in orders this year for transport
machinery if it wins tenders in as many as 11 countries such as
Finland, Ukraine, Russia or Italy.  
 “We believe it’s feasible,” sales director  Jaromir Jelinek  said in an interview today in the company’s 
headquarters in Pilsen, southwest of the capital Prague.
“Most orders are likely to come in the second half of 
the year as there were local problems with financing some 
tenders.”  
 Skoda, which has invested as much as 4.2 billion 
koruna in the last three years into research and 
development of new products, is developing new types 
of carriages that use so-called supercapacitors that 
speed stored energy to the  motor when accelerating 
and also the three-system 109E locomotive with a maximum speed 
of 200 kilometers per hour. Skoda is already taking part in a 
tender for trams in Rostock, Germany that would employ the 
equipment.  
 Skoda is also taking part in tenders this year to deliver
vehicles to cities and railways in the Czech Republic, Germany,
Italy, Slovakia, Hungary, Finland, Latvia, Serbia, Lithuania,
Russia, Ukraine, and other countries, Jelinek said.  
 The company that supplied tramcars to Portland, Oregon and
Tacoma, Washington, is also taking part in a tender to supply
metro carriages next year to St. Petersburg in Russia. The
company plans to offer the new type of metro carriage for St.
Petersburg in tenders in Prague, Warszawa and Sofia.  
 Skoda, which makes around 50 percent of its earnings in the
Czech Republic and has projects in Europe, is monitoring
overseas markets like Canada, the U.S., Korea or Vietnam to
diversify its revenue stream, the executive said.  
 Skoda Transportation and Skoda Vagonka’s order backlog was
worth 44 billion koruna at the end of 2009. The company received
a record 21 billion koruna in new orders last year, according to
Jelinek.  
 Skoda Transportation and Skoda Vagonka is a part of Skoda
Investment AS, which sold Skoda Power AS, a maker of power and
nuclear plant equipment, to  Doosan Heavy Industries &
Construction Co.  in September for 451.6 million euros ($656
million).  
 Skoda Investment, which is unrelated to Volkswagen AG’s
Skoda Auto, is owned by the investment fund Appian Group. It had
revenue of 13.6 billion koruna in 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lenka Ponikelska  in Prague 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        