-- Somaliland Opposition Leader Ahmed Mahmoud Silanyo Wins Presidential Vote
-- William Davison
-- 2010-07-02T08:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/somaliland-opposition-leader-ahmed-mahmoud-silanyo-wins-presidential-vote.html

          
          
             Somaliland ’s opposition leader Ahmed
Mahmoud Silanyo won the June 26 presidential election in the
breakaway region of Somalia, in a vote that observers said met
international standards.  
 Silanyo took 49.6 percent of the vote, ahead of President
Dahir Riyale Kahin with 33.2 percent and Faisal Ali Warabe of
the Justice and Welfare Party with 17.2 percent, the National
Electoral Commission said yesterday in Hargeisa, the capital.
Turnout was about 55 percent of the estimated 1 million
registered voters, according to the commission.  
 Silanyo, speaking today by phone, said his Kulmiye party
would introduce a “leaner and more efficient government” that
would be “prepared to work fully with the international
community on issues of anti-terrorism and piracy.”  
 Somaliland declared independence from  Somalia  in 1991,
after the fall of former dictator  Mohammed Siad Barre . No
sovereign state has recognized the region as an independent
nation. The election was delayed for two years because of
wrangling over voter registration.  
 The losing parties have 10 days to make formal complaints
about the preliminary results to the Supreme Court. Mahdi
Gulaid, a legal adviser to the commission, said he expected a
challenge from President Riyale’s party.  
 “I think they have grievances and complaints,” he said
today by phone from Hargeisa. “I think they will complain.”  
 Riyale became president of the former British colony in
2002 and won election to the post in 2003, after his party
defeated Kulmiye by 80 votes. His term expires on July 26.  
 ‘Democratic Adherence’  
 Three U.K.-based groups that monitored the vote said the
election was peaceful and praised the candidates “for their
adherence to the democratic process.”  
 “Despite the many delays in the run-up to the election, the
mission would like to point out that the days prior to the
polling day -- and polling day itself -- were notable for their
spirit of peacefulness and goodwill,”  Progressio , a London-based
development agency that was part of an observer mission of three
groups, said yesterday in a  statement .  
 Silanyo said he hoped the election would prompt the
international community to “give more attention to Somaliland’s
recognition and development.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Hargeisa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        