-- Soybean, Peanut Growing Areas in India Need Rain in a Week to Aid Planting
-- Prabhudatta Mishra
-- 2010-07-02T09:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/soybean-peanut-growing-areas-in-india-need-rain-in-a-week-to-aid-planting.html

          
          
             India’s largest soybeans and peanut
growing areas need rain in a week to aid sowing and avert a drop
in cooking oils output for a second year, officials said.  
 “If the monsoon arrives in one week, sowing activity will
pick up and acreage will increase,” said B.V. Mehta, executive
director of the Solvent Extractors Association of India, in a
phone interview today. “The delay in rains is cause for concern
but it’s too early to jump to any conclusion on output.”  
 India overtook China as the biggest palm oil buyer in 2009
because of rising demand for fried foods and a drought-reduced
oilseed harvest. Higher purchases may support palm oil, which
shed 7.2 percent in the April to June period, the worst decline
since the fourth quarter of 2008. The tropical commodity makes
up almost 80 percent of the nation’s edible oil purchases.  
 Palm oil for September-delivery fell as much as 0.8 percent
to 2,328 ringgit ($722) a metric ton in Kuala Lumpur, the lowest
since Nov. 17. Soybeans on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai rose for the first day in four, gaining
0.1 percent to 1,924 rupees per 100 kilograms.  
 Vegetable oil imports by India dropped for a fifth straight
month in May as buyers ran down inventories. Purchases declined
26 percent to 558,765 tons, from 751,097 tons a year ago, the
Solvent Extractors’ said June 15. Imports may reach a record 9
million tons in the year to Oct. 31, Dorab Mistry, a director at
Godrej, one of India’s biggest buyers, said April 7.  
 Rain in the June-to-September rainy season was 55 percent
below normal as of June 30 in Madhya Pradesh, the top grower of
soybeans, according to the  weather office . Falls were 32 percent
below average in Gujarat, the largest producer of peanuts.  
 Replanting  
 Farmers in Gujarat planted peanuts and cotton in the first
week of June on expectation that showers will be adequate, said
 Govindlal G. Patel , who’s traded edible oils for more than four
decades. In Madhya Pradesh, sowing of soybeans has been delayed
by two weeks,  Rajesh Agrawal , coordinator for one of India’s
biggest oilseeds processors’ group, said in a phone interview
from Indore on June 30.  
 “Some areas in Gujarat will need to be sown again and this
is worrisome,” Patel said in an interview today. “Some soybean
farmers in Maharashtra may also need to plant again.”  
 To be sure, monsoon rains reached the soybean-growing areas
yesterday, after a two-week lag, AnandRathi Commodities Ltd.
said in a report today, citing data from the weather office.
Heavy falls in Madhya Pradesh would hasten soybean sowing and
ease “growing nervousness” about the monsoon, the report said.  
 Nationwide  precipitation  was 16 percent less than average
last month, the weather office said yesterday, reaffirming its
forecast of a normal rainfall this year. The La Nina weather
condition is likely to develop and catalyze monsoon rains, the
forecaster said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        