-- SRF, Navin Flourine Among Firms That May See Carbon Credits Fall on Report
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-07-02T12:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/srf-navin-flourine-may-see-carbon-credits-fall-on-un-panel-recommendation.html

          
          
             India’s top earners of United Nations
carbon credits, including tire-maker  SRF Ltd. , may see revenue
fall after a panel recommended a probe that could bring them
fewer tradable permits than expected, analysts said.  
 SRF ,  Gujarat Fluorochemicals Ltd. ,  Navin Fluorine
International Ltd.  and  Chemplast Sanmar Ltd.  earn credits for
projects limiting emissions of gases called hydrofluorocarbons
or HFCs used in refrigerators and air-conditioners.  
 A UN panel yesterday suggested an investigation after
reviewing 22 HFC projects worldwide. The current carbon credit
system may give incentives to produce more HFCs than necessary,
displace more efficient entrants and extend the life of old
plants, according to the panel’s findings on the UN  website .  
 “There’s no doubt” that UN carbon credits are a
significant source of revenue for these companies, said  Ashish Sethia , lead analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New
Delhi. “There’s obviously a risk that these projects might be
able to get less credits.”  
 The panel recommended reconsidering a cap on such projects,
which determines how many credits companies are eligible to earn.
An alternative benchmark suggested would reduce the number of
permits that the Indian companies could earn by as much as 50
percent, said  Anmol Singh Jaggi , director of Gensol Consultants
Pvt. in Ahmedabad, which advises and brokers carbon projects.  
 “It’s a subtle warning telling these projects, ‘beware
this is coming.’ SRF, Gujarat Fluorochemicals and Navin Fluorine
are going to be massively impacted by this,” Jaggi said.  
 SRF Chief Executive  Roop Salotra  declined to comment when
contacted on his mobile phone.  
 SRF Credits  
 SRF’s refrigerant factory in northwestern Rajasthan state
gets credits for burning and destroying HFC-23, a byproduct and
potent greenhouse gas that was previously released into the air.
HFC-23 can trap 11,700 times more heat per molecule than carbon
dioxide and linger in the atmosphere for as long as 260 years,
according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  
 The UN is set to award SRF as many as 16 million Certified
Emission Reductions on top of the 16.5 million received since
January 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
more than any other Indian project to 2012.  
 SRF sold 3.48 billion rupees ($74 million) of carbon
credits compared with the group’s pretax income of 2.46 billion
rupees, according to the company’s annual report for the year
ending March 31, 2009, the most recent available.  
 “If you remove their revenue from carbon credits, it’s a
major chunk of their cash flows,”  Harish Subramanian , a Mumbai-
based analyst with Tower Capital & Securities Pvt., said by
telephone. “Most of their profits were from carbon credits.”  
 Indian Projects  
 India is the biggest generator of credits after China in
the UN Clean Development Mechanism, the world’s second-largest
carbon market. HFC projects account for 60 percent of India’s
carbon credits to date, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Indian HFC projects may earn 5.06 million credits per year
instead of an expected 10.6 million, based on what the panel is
suggesting, Gensol’s Jaggi said.  
 The four Indian companies with HFC projects had a combined
revenue of 51.2 billion rupees last year, according to Bloomberg
data. In comparison, the 49.2 million credits they’ve won since
2006 may be worth 640 million euros ($800 million), based on
yesterday’s closing price of 13.01 euros for 2012 futures for UN
offsets.  
 Chemplast Chairman P.S. Jayaraman,  Deepak Asher , vice
president at Gujarat Fluorochemicals, and  P. Roychowdhury , vice
president at Navin Fluorine, didn’t respond to e-mails and phone
calls requesting comment.  
 Spreads Widen  
 The discount of UN credits to European Union offset permits
widened today after the panel’s findings. The spread for 2012
contracts, traded as a separate product, gained 0.9 percent to
3.32 euros a metric ton as of 8:46 a.m. on London’s European
Climate Exchange, compared with 3.29 euros yesterday.  
 HFCs gained favor in the 1970s as an alternative to
chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, which scientists linked to
depletion of the ozone layer. While HFCs don’t interfere as much
with the earth’s shield against damaging sunrays, they trap heat
and contribute to global warming.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        