-- Steel Authority, ArcelorMittal, Posco in Talks to Build Two Indian Plants
-- Abhishek Shanker
-- 2010-07-02T06:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/steel-authority-arcelormittal-posco-in-talks-to-build-two-indian-plants.html

          
          
             Steel Authority of India Ltd.  is in
talks with Posco and ArcelorMittal to build two plants in
eastern India after land acquisition delays stymied individual
proposals from the global steelmakers.  
 Posco  and  Steel Authority of India  will complete a plan to
build a 2 million metric ton mill at Bokaro in Jharkhand state
in the next three to four months,  Soiles Bhattacharya , the
state-owned Indian company’s finance director, said today in an
interview. Negotiations are on with ArcleorMittal and Tata Steel
Ltd. for a 6 million ton mill at Sindri in the same state, he
said.  
 ArcelorMittal and Posco, whose proposed steel projects in
India have been delayed for five years due to local farmer
opposition, are looking for partners to tap demand in the
world’s third-fastest growing major economy. Steel demand in
India last year rose 7.6 percent and is forecast to grow 9
percent this fiscal year, helped by sales of cars and spending
on roads and ports.  
 Posco, South Korea’s largest steelmaker, will be offered a
maximum 51 percent stake in the Bokaro project,  Bhattacharya 
said, without giving cost details. A report is being prepared
for the mill that will use Posco’s Finex technology, he said.
The Sindri project, to be built on a 6,000 acre plot belonging
to the fertilizer ministry, will take five years to be planned
and commissioned, he said.  
 Posco  rose 1.3 percent to 466,500 won at the close of
trading in Seoul.  Steel Authority  shares gained as much as 1.2
percent to 191.45 rupees in Mumbai and traded at 190.35 rupees,
up 0.6 percent, as of 11:54 a.m. local time.  
 Ore Output  
 Steel Authority, India’s second-largest producer, will
increase its annual iron ore output to 40 million tons from 25
million tons by March 2013, Bhattacharya said. The company will
lift production at its mines in Jharkhand and Orissa and is
awaiting government approval to mine in some of the Chiria
reserves in Jharkhand, he said.  
 Steelmakers, aiming to set up 160 million tons of capacity
in the eastern states of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Orissa that
together hold more than half of India’s iron-ore reserves, have
failed to win mining licenses from the state governments and
acquire land from protesting farmers. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh’s  government aims to resolve land disputes and delays in
allocating mining licenses to achieve as much as 8.5 percent
economic growth this fiscal year.  
 Posco in June 2005 said it planned to set up a $12 billion
steel plant in Orissa to tap demand in India. ArcelorMittal, the
world’s largest mill, announced a plan to set up a $10 billion
mill in the neighboring state of Jharkhand the same year and
said in 2006 it would build a similar-sized unit in Orissa.  
 Tata Steel, India’s biggest producer, announced a 6
million-ton plant in Orissa in 2004 and a similar-sized plant in
Chhattisgarh the next year. In 2005, Tata also announced a 12
million-ton plant in Jharkhand state.  
 India’s $1.2 trillion economy is likely to expand 8.5
percent in the fiscal year to March, compared with 7.4 percent
the previous year, according to Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee . The economy grew 8.6 percent in the three months to
March, the fastest pace among the major growth economies after
China and Brazil.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        