-- Japan's Biggest China Fund Buying Consumer Shares on Wages, Uehara Says
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-07-02T02:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/sumitomo-mitsui-s-china-fund-buys-consumer-shares-as-wages-spending-climb.html

          
          
             Japan’s biggest China fund is
focusing on consumer stocks in a bet domestic demand will swell
in the world’s most-populous nation, said  Yoshinobu Uehara  who
runs the fund for Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co.  
 The  New China Fund , with more than $800 million in assets,
is buying small-cap retailers, supermarkets and education and
internet-related shares, Uehara said in an interview in Tokyo.
Consumer companies will make up a large part of the world’s
third-biggest economy as wages and purchasing power increase,
according to Uehara. He declined to name specific stocks.  
 “Consumer-related shares will be a market pillar in the
medium to long term,” Uehara said. “It’s not something that
will end in a year or two. China’s economy is still far from
mature.”  
 At least nine Chinese provinces and cities are raising
minimum wages by as much as a third from yesterday as China
tries to boost the incomes of its 468 million industrial and
services workers to increase domestic consumption and reduce the
economy’s reliance on exports and investment for growth.
 Beijing ’s lowest monthly salary will grow to 960 yuan ($142)
from 800 yuan, according to the city government’s website.  
 More than 20 provinces and municipalities plan to increase
minimum wages this year,  Yin Chengji , spokesman for the Ministry
of Human Resources and Social Security, told a press conference
in April.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  has slumped 28 percent this
year through yesterday on concern policy tightening measures
will slow China’s growth at the same time as Europe’s debt
crisis hurts exports. That has sent the price of stocks in the
gauge to 14 times estimated earnings, the lowest level since
February 2009. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index , which
tracks the so-called H shares of Chinese companies listed in
Hong Kong, has fallen 10 percent during the same period.  
 In addition to consumer shares, Uehara’s New China Fund
currently holds stocks including  China Life Insurance Co. , China
Mobile Ltd. and Bank of China Ltd., according to the company’s
weekly  report .  
 The New China Fund is the largest in Japan that invests
directly in Chinese shares. BNP Paribas SA’s  Fortis China
Environmental Related Stock Fund , which exceeds New China Fund’s
assets by about 500 million yen ($5.6 million), invests in other
funds, according to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        