-- Swiss Executive Fricker Appeals Singapore Caning Sentence for Vandalism
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-07-02T10:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/swiss-executive-fricker-appeals-singapore-vandalism-caning-jail-sentence.html

          
          
             Oliver Fricker, the Swiss executive
serving a five-month jail term and waiting to be caned for
breaking into a Singapore depot and spray-painting a commuter
train, appealed his sentence today, his lawyer  Derek Kang  said.  
 Kang, a Singapore-based lawyer with  Rodyk & Davidson LLP ,
didn’t give the basis of the appeal in a phone interview today.  
 Fricker, a software consultant at Zurich-based financial
software maker  Comit AG , was sentenced on June 25 in Singapore’s
Subordinate Courts to three strokes of the cane and three months
in jail for vandalism and two months for trespassing.  
 Fricker, 32, along with an accomplice, painted  SMRT Corp. ’s
train with the words “McKoy Banos” on May 17. Singapore  police 
have placed a global alert for the arrest of British citizen
Lloyd Dane Alexander, 29, who was named as an accomplice.  
 Singapore’s penalties for vandalism gained international
attention in 1994 when U.S. teenager Michael Fay was sentenced
to four months in prison, a fine and six strokes of the cane for
vandalizing cars and possessing stolen goods. His sentence was
reduced to four strokes after a request by then U.S. President
 Bill Clinton . Since 1999, Singapore has caned 21 foreigners for
vandalism offences, according to the city’s Subordinate Courts.  
 Those convicted for vandalism in Singapore may be jailed
for as long as three years or fined as much as S$2,000 ($1,435)
and receive up to eight strokes of a cane. Trespassers into a
protected area may be fined S$1,000 and jailed for as long as
two years.  
 Fricker had “full consciousness that what he was doing was
illegal,” Judge See Kee Oon said when handing down his ruling.
Fricker has agreed to pay SMRT estimated costs of S$11,054.  
 ‘Model Expatriate’  
 The Swiss national had been a “model expatriate worker
contributing to Singapore” since his arrival in the city in
October 2008, Kang said in his defense on June 25. Fricker, who
committed the vandalism for “fun,” not “malice,” also
pleaded guilty at the earliest instance, the lawyer said.  
 SMRT  President  Saw Phaik Hwa  on June 8 apologized for the
“serious security lapse” and pledged to step up vigilance.  
 Graffiti is considered a misdemeanor in countries including
the  U.S.  and the  U.K.,  which has banned the sale of spray-paint
cans in some areas and offers rewards for the arrest of vandals.  
 The case is Public Prosecutor v. Oliver Fricker, Singapore
Subordinate Court, case numbers DAC0024677/2010 and
MAC002548/2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        