-- House Approves War Funding, State Aid After Obama Veto Threat
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/u-s-house-approves-war-bill-10-billion-aid-to-states-after-veto-threat.html

          
          
             The U.S. House approved a war-funding
measure that includes $10 billion in aid to state governments to
prevent thousands of teacher layoffs, after a veto threat from
the White House.  
 Lawmakers voted 239-182 to back a plan the Obama
administration threatened to veto yesterday because the state
aid would be financed in part by cutting $800 million from one
of the administration’s signature education initiatives.
Earlier, the legislation cleared a procedural hurdle with a 215-
210 majority.  
 The vote sends the $80 billion package to the Senate, where
Republicans have signaled they will fight to delete unrelated
items added to a bill primarily designed to fund President
 Barack Obama ’s decision to send an additional 30,000 troops to
Afghanistan.  
 The disputes not only threaten an election-year spending
fight among Democrats, they also promise to delay getting the
long-stalled measure to Obama’s desk until later this month.  
 Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  urged lawmakers earlier this
month to pass the bill before leaving for their weeklong Fourth
of July recess, saying the Pentagon would otherwise be forced to
do “stupid things” such as taking money out of other programs
to ensure adequate war funding. He said the agency may have to
furlough civilian employees if the money isn’t approved by mid-
August.  
 The House bill includes $37 billion for the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan and $13 billion for additional benefits to
people exposed to the defoliant Agent Orange during the Vietnam
War, among other programs.  
 Separately, lawmakers failed to pass legislation extending
unemployment assistance, which means 2 million Americans could
see their aid interrupted by mid-July, according to the Labor
Department. The House yesterday approved a bill extending the
assistance, sending it to the Senate for consideration after
lawmakers return to Washington on July 12.  
 Senate Bill  
 House Democrats considered passing, without change, a
Senate-approved draft of the war bill omitting the teacher
funding in order to get the money to the Pentagon this week.
Democratic leaders opted instead to add the education funding,
which led to the financing dispute with the White House.  
 “The administration is more than willing to work with the
Congress to pursue fiscally responsible ways to finance
education jobs,” a White House statement said. “It would be
short-sighted to weaken funding for these reforms just as they
begin to show promise.”  
 House Appropriations Committee Chairman  David Obey , the
lead sponsor of the legislation, said tough choices were needed
to avoid adding to the  deficit . “I didn’t come here to be  Arne Duncan ’s congressman,” said Obey, a Wisconsin Democrat,
referring to the secretary of Education. “Who do people think
put the money into these programs in the first place? I did,”
Obey said. “Welcome to Washington and welcome to hard
choices.”  
 Additional Programs  
 Democrats also added $5 billion for Pell college tuition
grants, $142 million in aid to fisherman and others affected by
the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and $701 million for border
security. Those costs would be partially defrayed by provisions
clamping down on so-called pay-to-delay payments made by brand-
name pharmaceutical companies to generic-drug makers to delay
lower-priced generic drugs from entering the market.  
 Senator  Thad Cochran , the ranking Republican on the
appropriations committee, said his colleagues won’t accept the
House changes. Reconciling the competing drafts will delay
getting a bill to Obama until “at least” late July, he said.
Representative  James McGovern , a Massachusetts Democrat, said
the House isn’t “a rubber stamp for whatever the Senate does --
we have opinions too.”  
 The war bill is H.R. 4899; the unemployment measure is H.R.
5618.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. secretary of defense Robert Gates testifies at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
