-- U.S. Energy Companies Can Aid Ukraine Independence, Clinton Says in Kiev
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-07-02T22:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/u-s-energy-companies-can-aid-ukraine-independence-clinton-says-in-kiev.html

          
          
             Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said U.S. energy companies can help Ukraine reduce its
dependence on Russian natural gas as she began a visit to
countries in eastern Europe and the Caucasus.  
 “Investing in the energy sector is one of the best ways
the U.S. and other countries can help Ukraine,” Clinton said
during a visit to Kiev yesterday. “An energy sector built on
transparency, market pricing and efficiency can put a permanent
end to the crises that have beset the Ukrainian energy market.”  
 American companies may become involved in Ukraine’s nuclear
power industry, shale gas production and deepwater drilling in
the Black Sea, Clinton said after meeting with Ukrainian
President  Viktor Yanukovych .  
 Clinton is on a four-day trip through five countries that
until two decades ago were either part of the Soviet Union or
under its influence. She arrives in Poland today. President
 Barack Obama ’s attempts to engage Russia have raised concerns in
the region that the U.S. would overlook the interests of smaller
nations.  
 Yanukovych, who came to office in February, is also
improving relations with Russia after the pro-Western foreign
policy of his predecessor,  Viktor Yushchenko , led to repeated
shut-offs by the Russian gas monopoly OAO Gazprom.  
 In April the new president extended the Russian Black Sea
fleet’s lease in Crimea by 25 years in exchange for a gas
discount.  
 Pipeline Request  
 Ukraine has also asked European and Russian companies to
help build a new gas pipeline in an effort to maintain its role
as a transit country, Yanukovych said. Europe gets about 20
percent of its gas from Russia via Soviet-era pipelines in
Ukraine.  
 “What Ukraine is doing in trying to balance its
relationships with the U.S., Europe and Russia makes a lot of
sense,” Clinton said. Yanukovych’s rapprochement with Russia is
in line with the Obama administration’s efforts to “reset”
relations with the country, she said.  
 Clinton declined to comment on the arrests of accused
Russian spies in the U.S., a new irritant in ties with Russia.
Eleven people are accused in the U.S. of working for Russian
intelligence to infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles.  
 Clinton travels to Krakow today for a speech on human
rights at an international meeting on promoting democracy. She
will then continue to the three former Soviet republics of
Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia.  
 NATO Issue  
 While Ukraine has withdrawn its application to join the
 North Atlantic Treaty Organization , it was Yanukovych who asked
Obama to encourage U.S. investment during an April meeting in
April.  
 “The door to NATO remains open,” Clinton said, should
Ukraine choose to join the alliance at a later date. The country
-- squeezed between Russia, Poland and the Black Sea -- will
still hold two traditional military exercises with the U.S. this
year.  
 Clinton, who said she was visiting Ukraine in a “spirit of
pragmatism,” didn’t go into detail about concerns among
Ukrainian journalists that Yanukovych is curbing press freedoms.  
 “Ukraine’s new leadership has already demonstrated a
commitment to democracy,” she said. “It is important obviously
to translate commitments into action.”  
 Ukrainian opposition leader  Yulia Timoshenko , who lost this
year’s presidential election to Yanukovych, said there’s been an
“erosion of democracy” under the new government.  
 “The important accomplishments of the last five years are
being annulled,” she said in an interview before meeting
Clinton. “Those years weren’t easy politically or economically,
but freedom was developing. Unfortunately we’re going backwards
now.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucian Kim  in Kiev at  lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        