-- Anshan's U.S. Investment Draws Lawmaker, Steel Group Protests
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-07-02T20:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/u-s-investment-by-china-s-anshan-draws-lawmakers-steel-group-protests.html

          
          
             Anshan Iron & Steel Group , a Chinese
steelmaker, ran into opposition for its proposal to invest in a
Mississippi factory from U.S. lawmakers and a representative of
competitors such as  Nucor Corp.   
 A group of 50 lawmakers from districts with steel plants
wrote Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  yesterday that an
investment by the company, which they said is controlled by a
Chinese government entity, poses a national security risk.  
 “This investment allows the full force and financing of
the Chinese government to exploit the American steel market from
American soil,” lawmakers led by Representative  Peter Visclosky , an Indiana Democrat, wrote to Geithner. Anshan’s ties
to the government “could allow them to distort the market and
force American steelworkers to compete against a blank check.”  
 Cheap credit and benefits from ties to the Chinese
government would let Anshan undercut competitors, giving it an
unfair advantage against U.S. producers, said Nova Daly, an
international investment adviser at the Washington law firm
Wiley Rein LLP. Daly represents the  Steel Manufacturers
Association , which includes Nucor and  Steel Dynamics Inc.  among
its 36 members.  
 With Chinese foreign investment poised to expand in coming
years, the fight over Anshan may trigger fresh disputes between
U.S. producers and Chinese companies. U.S. communities are
seeking investments by foreign manufacturers. Critics of China’s
trade policies such as Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat,
say they want foreign investors, including from China.  
 ‘Don’t See Downside’  
 “I don’t see any downside,”  Daniel Rosen , principal of
the Rhodium Group, a New York-based advisory group, said in an
interview. “It means money and jobs coming into the United
States, and potentially less imports.”  
 Anshan announced May 18 that it was forming a venture with
Amory, Mississippi-based  Steel Development Co.  on a $200 million
factory that will produce 300,000 tons of rebar a year.
Additional plants may follow, it said.  
 The venture is a milestone in “perfecting the global
industrial chain,” according to a statement by the companies.
The plant would let Anshan study the technology used by Steel
Development, it said.  
 A spokesman for Steel Development, Mark Bula, didn’t return
two telephone messages.  
 A subsidiary of  Tianjin Pipe Co.  of China is building a
steel-pipe plant near Gregory, Texas, and plans to open next
year. By making pipe in the U.S., Tianjin would avoid tariffs on
oil-company tubular goods of more than 29 percent levied in a
complaint by U.S. companies and the United Steelworkers union.  
 Tianjin’s decided to locate in the U.S. before that case
was filed, Leah Olivarri, a spokeswoman for the U.S. subsidiary,
said in an interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        