-- U.S. House Approves Restrictions on Deals Between Drugmakers
-- Jeff Bliss
-- 2010-07-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/u-s-house-approves-curbs-on-drugmaker-deals-that-delay-generic-medicines.html

          
          
             The U.S. House approved a measure
restricting the ability of drugmakers to enter agreements that
the Federal Trade Commission has said keep generic medicines off
the market.  
 Companies could be fined under the measure if the FTC and
courts find they are involved in settlements that preserve a
brand-name pharmaceutical firm’s patent by delaying a generic-
drug maker’s introduction of a lower-priced product. The
proposal, included in a war-funding bill that passed the House
last night, now goes to the Senate.  
 The House action is “just another signal of the growing
support in Congress for ending this unconscionable behavior by
some pharmaceutical companies,” FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said
in an interview before the vote.  
 Leibowitz has made restrictions on so-called pay-for-delay
deals one of his priorities. Such payments are made by brand-
name drug companies to makers of generics to postpone bringing
generic products to market, he said.  
 The restriction was included in an amendment to the war-
funding bill, approved on a 239-182 vote.  
 Drugmakers are lobbying against the provision, and passage
in the Senate isn’t assured. At a June 9 hearing, Senators  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, and  Arlen Specter , a Pennsylvania
Democrat, said they were concerned the FTC campaign against the
deals may discourage agreements that benefit consumers.  
 No Distinction  
 “This is sweeping legislation that doesn’t make a
distinction between pro-competitive and anti-competitive
settlements,” Debra Barrett, senior vice president of
government affairs at  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries  Ltd., said
in an interview.  
 The FTC contends brand-name companies often offer generic-
drug manufacturers licensing rights on a product or other
compensation in exchange for an agreement that delays the
marketing of cheaper drugs.  
 The deals often help consumers, Barrett said. Teva, the
world’s largest generic-drug maker, said yesterday in a
statement that a recent deal allowed it to introduce a version
of Wyeth’s antidepressant Effexor seven years earlier than the
patent would have allowed.   Companies have said the settlements
save time and the cost of litigation.  
 The legislation gives drug companies 30 days to appeal an
FTC ruling on any deal.  
 The measure would also help offset the $10 billion House
Democrats added to the war-funding bill to prevent the layoffs
of an estimated 140,000 teachers.  
 The Congressional Budget Office estimates the restriction
on drug agreements would save the government $2.4 billion over
10 years by reducing the cost of drugs purchased through
Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs, according to a
Democratic summary of the bill.  
 The war bill is H.R. 4899.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz, testifies at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing in Washington. Photographer: Joe Marquette/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
