-- UBS, Lewis Charles, AstraZeneca, Morgan Stanley, Isramco in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-02T10:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/ubs-lewis-charles-astrazeneca-morgan-stanley-isramco-in-court-news.html

          
          
             A former  UBS AG  client who played
soccer on the Soviet national team pleaded guilty to failing to
tell U.S. tax authorities about $2.6 million held in an offshore
account.  
 Leonid Zaltsberg, 75, admitted that he didn’t declare to
the Internal Revenue Service a nominee Panamanian account set up
with the help of a UBS banker and a Swiss lawyer he didn’t
identify in federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  
 “Did you seek advice from UBS employees on how to keep
your foreign bank account hidden from the IRS?” U.S. District
Judge Stanley Chesler asked Zaltsberg, who answered in the
affirmative.  
 UBS, the largest Swiss bank, paid $780 million last year to
avoid prosecution, admitted it aided tax evasion from 2000 to
2007, and gave the IRS data on 250 secret accounts, including
Zaltsberg’s, court records show. UBS later agreed to reveal data
on another 4,450 accounts.  
 The case is United States of America v. Leonid Zaltsberg,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-Lewis Charles Broker Bunn Sentenced to 30 Months  
 A former broker at  Lewis Charles Securities Ltd.  was
sentenced to 30 months in prison yesterday for making
unauthorized trades worth about 38 million pounds ($57 million).  
 Jonathan Bunn pleaded guilty to four counts of false
accounting, the Crown Prosecution Service said in an e-mailed
statement. Bunn was banned in May from holding similar jobs by
the U.K. Financial Services Authority for the trades, which
resulted in losses of 2.7 million pounds.  
 Bunn “went well beyond his authority when he gambled with
his employer’s reputation and money in the hope of bumping up
his commission,” prosecutor David Levy said in the statement.
“It is clear he knew exactly what he was doing when, motivated
by greed and personal gain, he carried out unauthorized
trades.”  
 Bunn, who worked on the inter-dealer broker desk, took a
short position of almost 7 million  HSBC Holdings Plc  shares
without authorization in July 2009 and concealed the trades when
questioned by Lewis Charles, the FSA said.  
 Gregory Fishwick, Bunn’s lawyer, didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  
 For more, click here.  
 AstraZeneca Loses Court Appeal, Has Cartel Fine Cut  
 The European Union’s second-highest court upheld a ruling
that  AstraZeneca Plc  misled patent officials and flouted
antitrust rules to keep a generic competitor off the market,
while reducing the associated fine against the company.  
 The EU’s General Court yesterday cut the company’s  fine 
from 60 million euros ($74 million) to 52.5 million euros. The
court upheld the decision by the region’s antitrust regulator
that AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker, “abused
its dominant position by preventing the marketing of generic
products” of its Prilosec heartburn medicine.  
 AstraZeneca, based in London, had challenged the
commission’s June 2005  decision  to fine it for market abuse and
misleading patent authorities over Prilosec. The court
overturned the commission’s finding that AstraZeneca breached EU
rules by withdrawing market approvals for older versions of the
medicine in Denmark and Norway, which prevented entry by generic
producers and parallel importers.  
 “The company is disappointed that our position wasn’t
confirmed in full,” AstraZeneca spokeswoman Sarah Lindgreen
said in an interview. “Obviously, it’s very complex and we need
to review it in detail to comment further.”  
 The commission welcomed the decision, spokeswoman Amelia
Torres told reporters at a regular briefing in Brussels.  
 The case is T-321/05 AstraZeneca v Commission.  
 For more, click here.  
 Knauf Loses Appeal of Plasterboard Cartel Fine at Top EU Court  
 Knauf Group lost an appeal at the European Union’s highest
court to overturn an 85.8 million-euro ($105.5 million)
antitrust fine for a unit’s collusion on plasterboard prices.  
 The unit, Knauf Gips, “is solely liable for the
infringements committed by the companies constituting the Knauf
Group,” the Luxembourg-based  European Court of Justice , the
EU’s top court, said yesterday, upholding the fine by EU
antitrust regulators.  
 The ruling follows the EU court’s decision on June 17 to
reject a last challenge by  Lafarge SA , the world’s largest
cement maker, of its 249.6 million-euro fine in the cartel. The
penalties are part of a November 2002 decision by the European
Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, to fine four companies
for fixing plasterboard prices in a scheme that ended in 1998.  
 The EU plasterboard market was worth about 1.2 billion
euros at the time of the breach. The Brussels-based commission
said collusion started in 1992 when BPB Ltd. and Knauf Group’s
Gips agreed to end a price war and lessen competition. An EU
court in 2008 cut the fine for BPB, a  Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA 
unit, to 118.8 million euros from 138.6 million euros.  
 Spokespeople at Iphofen, Germany-based Knauf Gips couldn’t
immediately be reached to comment.  
 The case is C-407/08, Knauf Gips v Commission.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Environmentalists Sue U.S. to Stop Hybrid Tree Tests  
 Environmental groups sued the U.S. Department of
Agriculture to block tests of a genetically-engineered hybrid of
the eucalyptus tree in “secret sites” across southern states.  
 The groups, including the Center for Biological Diversity
and the Sierra Club, said yesterday in a statement that the
government agency approved the tests at 28 undisclosed sites in
seven states “with minimal environmental review.” The tests
will be conducted by a joint venture that includes  International
Paper Co , the world’s largest maker of white paper used in
offices.  
 The fast-growing “cold-tolerant” genetically-engineered
eucalyptus trees could displace native species of plants and
increase the risk of wildfires, according to the complaint filed
in federal court in West Palm Beach, Florida.  
 ArborGen LLC, the venture that will conduct the tests, also
includes  MeadWestvaco Corp.  and Rubicon Ltd., according to the
statement. ArborGen may use the trees for pulp and biofuels,
said Marc Fink, with the Center for Biological Diversity. The
test sites are in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana,
Mississippi, South Carolina and Texas.  
 In the complaint, the environmental groups ask the court to
order the agriculture department to set aside the test permits
and prepare an impact study. They also seek a court order
barring ArborGen from allowing any of the trees to flower.  
 “We don’t comment on pending litigation,” Alison von
Puschendorf, a spokeswoman for Richmond, Virginia-based
MeadWestvaco, said in an e-mail. “We are a partner of ArborGen
and support the research to develop safe, reliable solutions to
fiber needs for our products, and trials such as the one
ArborGen is leading are an important part of this research.”  
 Patty Neuhoff, a spokeswoman for Memphis, Tennessee-based
International Paper, deferred comment to ArborGen spokeswoman
Nancy Hood, who wasn’t available.  
 Caleb Weaver, a spokesman for the agriculture department,
said the agency doesn’t comment on “active litigation.” He
described the tests as “limited.” Efforts to reach Auckland,
New Zealand-based Rubicon weren’t successful.  
 The case is Center for Biological Diversity v. U.S.
Department of Agriculture, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (West Palm Beach).  
 Isramco Is Sued by Shareholder Claiming Mismanagement  
 Isramco Inc. , which formerly explored for oil and gas in
Israel and now develops wells in the U.S., was sued by a
shareholder contending some officials including Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Haim Tsuff mismanaged the company.  
 In a lawsuit filed June 30 in Delaware Chancery Court,
investor Yuval Lapiner contends Tsuff, company director Jackob
Maimon and some other directors violated duties to shareholders,
wasted corporate assets and should pay damages to the Houston-
based company.  
 Isramco, which reported a $13.5 million net loss on $31.7
million in revenue last year, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg , said in February 2008 that it paid $102 million to
buy rights to 590 wells in Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico.  
 The lawsuit includes allegations that valuable assets of
Isramco were transferred to entities controlled by Tsuff and
Maimon “at bargain-basement prices.”  
 Tsuff and Edy Francis, Isramco’s chief financial officer,
didn’t return voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  
 The case is Lapiner v. Tsuff and Isramco Inc., CA5612,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 BP Criminal Case in Oil Spill May Be Inevitable, Analysts Say  
 It’s almost a foregone conclusion, legal experts agree,
that the federal investigation of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill
will produce criminal charges, Paul M. Barrett and Justin Blum
report in Bloomberg’s Businessweek. After all, mere negligence
leading to serious oil pollution constitutes a misdemeanor under
the  Clean Water Act , they note.  
 Prosecutors “are very likely to bring criminal charges
against BP and other companies involved,” says David M.
Uhlmann, a former chief of the Justice Department’s
environmental crimes section who now teaches at the University
of Michigan Law School.  
 Whether BP or any individuals will face felony charges --or
even prison time -- is a more complicated question. One hint of
what a broader indictment might look like comes from an unlikely
source: private civil-racketeering lawsuits that have been
brought on behalf of property and business owners in Alabama,
Louisiana, and Florida.  
 One of the suits, filed on June 12 in federal district
court in Pensacola, Florida, by the plaintiffs’ firm, Levin
Papantonio Thomas Mitchell Echsner Rafferty & Proctor, accuses
BP and Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward not only of discrete
instances of pollution; it also alleges the company engaged in
an illegal “enterprise” to mislead regulators over a period of
years.  
 Included in this alleged pattern of wrongdoing was BP’s
failure to improve its safety practices in response to past
incidents, resulting in criminal fines, the suit says. An
explosion in 2005 at BP’s Texas City refinery, which killed 15
workers, and an oil leak in 2006 from a BP pipeline in Alaska
are among the episodes cited in the suit.  
 Taken together with the Deepwater Horizon disaster, the
Florida suit alleges, these events show that BP engaged in a
scheme that violated the civil provisions of the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. The RICO law was
enacted in 1970 to help prosecutors put Mafiosi behind bars. It
has been used more broadly against corporations and high-profile
individuals, including junk-bond impresario Michael Milken in
1989.  
 It allows prosecution of people who operate or oversee an
illegal enterprise, even if they did not commit the main
criminal acts in question. The maximum prison term is 20 years
for each count. In the hands of a bold prosecutor, the facts and
theory that underpin the Levin Papantonio firm’s civil suit
could add up to something more: a criminal indictment.  
 “I would be amazed if the U.S. government didn’t use this
as a road map to some sort of criminal case,” says attorney J.
Michael Papantonio. An outspoken liberal, he appears frequently
on cable-TV talk shows. “This is not a case of a mistake,” he
adds. “This is an intentional effort to subvert the law.”  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 L’Oreal Heiress Tapes Must Be Probed, Trial Stayed, Judge Says  
 Recordings of  L’Oreal SA  heiress Liliane Bettencourt must
be turned over for investigation into their contents, a judge
ordered yesterday, staying a trial into whether the 87-year-old
was manipulated into giving a friend 1 billion euros ($1.23
billion) in gifts.  
 Bettencourt’s only child, Francoise Bettencourt Meyers,
filed a private prosecution against photographer and author
Francois-Marie Banier last year, claiming he manipulated her
mother’s infirmity to get art, real estate and cash gifts. The
mother has opposed her daughter’s effort.  
 “It’s good, this is exactly what we asked for,” Meyers’s
lawyer Olivier Metzner said. “The case could still evolve,” he
said, since Judge Isabelle Prevost-Desprez didn’t specify what
she would do next or give a time frame for resuming the trial.  
 The recordings, on 28 compact discs, were made secretly by
a former butler beginning in May 2009 and given to Meyers. They
have drawn politicians, including French President Nicolas
Sarkozy and Labor Minister Eric Woerth, into the family dispute
and raised questions about whether tax authorities ignored
claims that Bettencourt hid 78 million euros in Swiss accounts.  
 Police have been investigating how the recordings of
Europe’s wealthiest woman discussing political dealings and
Swiss bank accounts were made, after Bettencourt made a privacy
violation complaint.  
 “The decision consists of not deciding,” Bettencourt’s
lawyer Georges Kiejman said of yesterday’s postponement.  
 Banier doesn’t have “a single fear” of a trial, his
lawyer, Herve Temime, said outside the courtroom. “This
additional investigation could clarify not only the recordings,
but how they were made.”  
 For more, click here.  
 Former Ahold Executive Wins Reversal of Conviction  
 The former marketing chief of Royal Ahold NV’s U.S. unit,
who was sentenced to seven years in prison for overstating
earnings, won a new trial after an appeals court said the trial
judge erred.  
 Mark Kaiser was convicted in 2006 of helping U.S.
Foodservice inflate profits from 2000 to 2003 by wrongly
recording promotional rebates as income. The U.S. Appeals Court
in Manhattan yesterday vacated Kaiser’s convictions for
securities fraud, conspiracy and four counts of making false
filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 Prosecutors said Kaiser made fraudulent representations
about U.S. Foodservice’s financial condition in a bid to burnish
his resume and succeed Jim Miller as chief executive officer of
the Columbia, Maryland-based unit. Ahold sold the unit for $7.1
billion in 2007 to buyout firms Clayton Dubilier & Rice Inc. and
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.  
 Lawyers for Kaiser argued during his appeal last year that
his innocence came to light in a SEC administrative proceeding
against U.S. Foodservice’s auditors. Documents showed that
Kaiser didn’t hide the scheme from KPMG LLP, and that others
were the source of information that KPMG relied upon in
preparing financial statements, Kaiser’s lawyers said.  
 “We’re obviously tremendously pleased with the court’s
decision,” Daniel Brown, a Washington-based lawyer who
represents Kaiser, said in a phone interview. “Mr. Kaiser
maintains his innocence.”  
 Yusill Scribner, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara, declined to comment.  
 The case is U.S. v. Kaiser, 04-cr-733, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Morgan Stanley Names Barron as Chief Legal Officer  
 Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets,
hired Frank Barron, a litigation partner at Cravath, Swaine &
Moore LLP, to replace Gary Lynch as chief legal officer.  
 Barron, 59, will join the firm in New York after more than
30 years at Cravath, Morgan Stanley said yesterday in a
statement. Lynch, 59, who announced in February that he would
step down from his post, will remain vice chairman and a member
of the firm’s operating and management committees.  
 Eric Grossman, the bank’s general counsel for the Americas
and global head of litigation, was appointed to Morgan Stanley’s
management committee, the New York-based firm said. Grossman was
a candidate for the chief legal position, a person briefed on
the matter said in February.  
 “The partnership between Frank and Eric will provide
tremendous leadership on the legal and regulatory fronts in this
challenging period for the securities industry,” Chief
Executive Officer James Gorman said in an internal memo obtained
yesterday by Bloomberg News. Morgan Stanley spokeswoman
Jeanmarie McFadden confirmed the memo’s contents.  
 Barron was among Cravath lawyers who advised Morgan
Stanley’s board on its conversion to a bank holding company and
on  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. ’s $9 billion investment
in the firm as its stock plunged after  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. ’s bankruptcy in 2008, according to the  law firm’s website.   
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 Court News  
 National Rifle Association Opposes Kagan Nomination  
 The National Rifle Association said it opposes Elena
Kagan’s  U.S. Supreme Court  nomination, taking a position that
may make it harder for her to pick up Republican support as she
moves closer to confirmation.  
 Kagan said in Senate testimony this week that she considers
two recent high court rulings backing gun rights to be “settled
law.” She said she had “absolutely no reason” to question the
majority’s analysis in the 2008 District of Columbia v. Heller
ruling, which said the Constitution’s Second Amendment protects
individual rights.  
 Those statements weren’t enough for the NRA, which said in
a press release that Kagan “refused to declare support for the
Second Amendment.” The group said it would take the vote on
Kagan into account in deciding whether to endorse senators for
re-election.  
 The NRA pointed to a 1987 memo Kagan wrote as a law clerk
to Justice Thurgood Marshall in a pending gun case. Kagan said
she was “not sympathetic” to an individual’s claim that the
District of Columbia’s firearms law violated his constitutional
right to keep and bear arms.  
 The gun lobby also faulted Kagan, now President Barack
Obama’s top Supreme Court lawyer, for not filing a brief in
McDonald v. Chicago, a firearms case decided by the court this
week. The court ruled 5-4 that the Second Amendment limits gun
control laws by states and cities, as well as the federal
government.  
 Ben LaBolt, a White House spokesman, said Kagan “made
clear during the hearings that Heller and McDonald are the law
of the land and therefore that the Second Amendment guarantees
an individual, fundamental right to bear arms.”  
 Republicans and Democrats alike have said Kagan probably
will be confirmed. Republican Senator John Cornyn of Texas
referred to her June 30 as “soon-to-be Justice Kagan.”
Democrats control 58 of the 100 Senate seats with one vacancy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        