-- Turkish Yields Decline Most Since May as Inflation to Support Low Rates
-- Mark Bentley
-- 2010-07-02T11:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/turkish-yields-decline-most-since-may-as-inflation-to-support-low-rates.html

          
          
             Turkish  bonds  rose, with yields
heading for the biggest weekly drop since May 28, on bets the
central bank will keep the benchmark rate at a record low for
longer and as doubts persisted over the global recovery.  
 Yields on two-year lira debt fell 9 basis points to 8.57
percent at 1:56 p.m. in Istanbul, the lowest since Jan 20. The
lira strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.5769 per dollar. The main  ISE
National 100  index of shares climbed 0.8 percent to 54,971.43,
paring the week’s losses to 1.6 percent.  
 Increasing concern about the health of economies in Europe
and elsewhere means it’s too early to consider lifting the
borrowing rate from a record low of 6.5 percent, Turkey’s
central bank said on June 29. Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  has held
rates unchanged for seven months even after the inflation rate
more than doubled in six months to 10.2 percent in April.  
 “The weak global recovery story is translating into market
support for the central bank’s lower-for-longer strategy,”  Tim Ash , head of emerging market research at Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc in London, said in an e-mailed report to investors today.  
 Inflation  probably slowed to 8.8 percent last month from
9.1 percent in May, declining for a second month, according to
the median estimate of five economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The statistics office in Ankara will publish the data at 10 a.m.
on July 5.  
 The June inflation figures “will provide further support
for the central bank’s prolonged period of loose monetary
policy,”  Ozlem Bayraktar Goksen , an economist for Unicorn
Capital in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed report. “The bank has
been getting more dovish with each policy statement.”  
 U.S. Growth  
 Economic  growth  in the European Union membership candidate
surged 11.7 percent on an annual basis in the first quarter,
the fastest pace among the Group of 20 industrialized nations
except China, even as the debt crisis in Europe and economic
reports in the U.S. increased concern that double-dip global
recession may ensue.  
 The U.S. Labor Department will probably say non-farm
payrolls fell by 130,000 in June, declining for the first time
this year, according to the median estimate of 82 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The employment data, which follow
this week’s disappointing numbers on jobless benefit claims and
company hiring, is due at 8:30 a.m. New York time.  
 Banks  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS  and  Akbank TAS  led gains
on Turkey’s stock index. Garanti rose 10 kurus, or 1.5 percent,
to 6.80 liras. Akbank climbed 15 kurus, or 2 percent, to 7.70
liras.  
 Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius  said he’s
“very happy” with Turkey and he’s increasing holdings in the
country. He spoke to reporters in Paris today.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top Stories: TOP<GO>
Top emerging market news: TOP EM <GO>
On Turkish stocks: TNI TURKEY STK <GO>
Emerging-markets market view: EMMV <GO>  
          
          


  


        