-- Veolia Environnment, BAT Bond Swaps May Trigger More Deals, Barclays Says
-- Sonja Cheung
-- 2010-07-02T11:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/veolia-environnment-bat-bond-swaps-may-trigger-more-deals-barclays-says.html

          
          
             Bond swaps by  Veolia Environnement SA 
and British American Tobacco Plc may pave the way for more
companies seeking to lock in low borrowing costs and sidestep
the volatile new-issue market, according to Barclays Capital.  
 “More companies are looking to manage their maturity
profiles than ever before,” said  Wayne Hiley , head of the
European investment-grade corporate bond syndicate at Barclays
in London. “There’s a pipeline there for companies who don’t
need new cash, but are looking to take advantage of the low
overall yields.”  
 The yield investors demand to hold average European
investment-grade bonds is 3.6 percent, close to the lowest in
more than four years, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. Veolia issued debt as European bond sales fell
74 percent this week to just 3.5 billion euros as investors
shunned riskier assets amid signs global growth is faltering.  
 Veolia swapped 263 million euros ($329 million) of bonds
maturing in 2012 and 2013 for 834.45 million euros of new notes
due 2021. The world’s biggest water utility is paying a yield of
4.247 percent on its new bonds, compared with 5.94 percent on
the old notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Veolia followed  British American Tobacco  which raised  $1.2
billion  in an exchange and tender offer last week. The deal, in
euros and pounds, included 10-year bonds priced to yield 115
basis points more than benchmark midswaps.  
 ‘Win-Win’  
 “Although the market is volatile, the lack of supply means
investors want new paper,” said  Neil Wadey , deputy group
treasurer at BAT, Europe’s second-largest cigarette maker. “We
can obtain low rates for longer-dated maturities while offering
investors what they want. This means a win-win transaction.”  
 Bond sales by European companies have fallen amid continued
concern that measures to halt the sovereign debt crisis may
stall growth and the global economic recovery. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge of U.S.
stock options known as the  VIX , rose to a three-week high of 34
yesterday.  
 Companies including industrial gas producer Air Liquide SA,
airport operator Aeroports de Paris and French retailer Casino
Guichard-Perrachon SA also did debt exchanges earlier this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Veolia, based in Paris, is  rated  A3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, the seventh- and eighth-
highest investment-grade ratings. London-based BAT is also rated
BBB+ by S&P, and a parallel Baa1 by Moody’s.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        