-- Wheat Gains as Hot, Dry Weather May Hurt Crop in Europe, Russia, Australia
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-02T11:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/wheat-trims-biggest-weekly-gain-in-four-months-on-global-economic-concerns.html

          
          
             Wheat futures climbed in Paris and
Chicago on concerns that hot and dry weather will hurt
production in Western Europe, Russia and Australia.  
 Wheat for September delivery rose as much as 0.3 percent to
$5.0125 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, reversing a 1
percent drop, and traded at $5.0075 at 12:02 a.m. Paris time.
Milling wheat for November delivery on NYSE Liffe in Paris
climbed 1 percent to 150 euros ($187.65) a metric ton.  
 Temperatures in France and Germany, the European Union’s
biggest wheat growers, exceeded 30 degrees Celsius (86 degrees
Fahrenheit) this week. Russia said yesterday that grain output
will be lower than expected as the country suffers its worst
drought in a decade, and dry weather in Australia may cause
deterioration of winter crops including wheat.  
 Wheat is “lifted by concerns related to reduced harvest
potential in Europe, but also the Black Sea region after the
publication of the most recent production estimates in Russia,”
Paris-based farm adviser  Agritel  said in a comment.  
 Grain output can be hurt by heat stress. Yields of winter
wheat ripening in daytime temperatures of 35 degrees were 78
percent lower than grain growing in 20 degrees, according to
research by Iowa State University and Kansas State University.  
 “Unfavorable warm and dry conditions are present in
Western Europe to finish the growing season,” agricultural
meteorologist  Gail Martell , head of  Martell Crop Projections ,
said in a July 1 report. “There are concerns over poor grain-
filling in wheat, barley and rapeseed.”  
 Dry Weather  
 Dry weather may hurt yields in the U.K., Europe’s third-
largest wheat producer, Wolverhampton, England-based consultant
ADAS Holdings Ltd. reported yesterday. The U.K. had its driest
first half since 1929, the  Met Office  said June 30.  
 “Very warm spring temperatures have dominated the U.K.
especially, making moisture-stress worse,” Martell said.  
 Russia will cut its forecast for grain production this
year, deputy Agriculture Minister Alexander Petrikov said on
state-run Vesti-24 television two days ago. The previous
forecast was for a grain crop of 88 million to 90 million tons.  
 Australia, the world’s fourth-largest wheat exporter, had
its fourth-driest June on record, the country’s Bureau of
Meteorology reported. A lack of rain is eroding the outlook for
wheat in Western Australia, Colin Tutt, general manager for
operations at exporter CHG Group, said June 29.  
 Chicago-traded wheat has gained 6.4 percent this week, the
biggest weekly gain since November, and milling wheat in Paris
has climbed 7.7 percent in the five-day period.  
 Corn Slides  
 Corn for December delivery fell as much as 0.7 percent to
$3.8175 a bushel in Chicago, and last traded at $3.84 a bushel,
paring the weekly jump to 6.5 percent.  
 The contract surged 12 percent in the two days through
yesterday after the U.S. Department of Agriculture said farmers
in the U.S., the largest grower and exporter, planted less than
they intended in March and inventories from last year’s record
crop were smaller than expected.  
 November-delivery soybeans climbed 0.5 percent to $9.0975 a
bushel. Soybeans gained as investors viewed the oilseed as a
cheap relative to corn,  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at
Astmax Co. Ltd. in Tokyo, said by phone today.  
 Before today, a bushel of soybeans would buy 2.355 bushels
of corn. That ratio has narrowed 11 percent since June 29, a day
before the USDA reported lower-than-expected corn acreage,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Soybeans and corn are ingredients in feeds for animals
including hogs and poultry. Corn accounts for about half while
soybean-meal is about a fifth of the feed-mix. Corn can be
replaced by wheat in the feed-mix.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        