-- Wheat Rises as More May Be Used to Feed Cattle Due to Smaller Corn Crop
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-02T20:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/wheat-rises-as-more-may-be-used-to-feed-cattle-due-to-smaller-corn-crop.html

          
          
             Wheat rose for a third straight day
on speculation that more of the grain will be used in livestock
rations because U.S. production of corn, the main ingredient in
feed, may be less than expected.  
 Farmers sowed 87.872 million acres (35.6 million hectares)
with corn, less than forecast in March, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said earlier this week. Because of declining corn
output, some growers will use low-quality wheat to feed cattle.
Wheat surged 6.8 percent this week, the third gain in four
weeks. The U.S. is the biggest shipper of corn and wheat.  
 “The corn market took off sharply higher off that report,
and wheat is tied in with corn pretty tight as far as feed
usage,” said  Larry Glenn , an analyst at Frontier Ag in Quinter,
Kansas. “The dollar’s been selling off lately, so that’s been
helping support it.”  
 Wheat futures for September delivery rose 3.25 cents, or
0.7 percent, to $5.03 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price gained 3.5 percent in the second quarter, partly as
farmers around the world planted less because of falling prices
and adverse weather.  
 Ukraine grain shipments declined almost 15 percent in the
season that ended on June 30, UkrAgroConsult said today in an e-
mailed statement. Grain exports, including wheat and barley,
totaled 21.1 million metric tons, down from a record 24.7
million tons the prior year, the Kiev-based researcher said.  
 Hot, dry weather in parts of France and Germany, Europe’s
biggest wheat growers, and Russia and Australia may have damaged
crops. Russia yesterday said grain output will be lower as the
country suffers its worst drought in a decade.  
 Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        