-- Wimbledon Favorite Serena Williams Vows to Avoid Overconfidence
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-02T23:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/wimbledon-favorite-serena-williams-vows-to-avoid-overconfidence-in-final.html

          
          
             Defending champion  Serena
Williams , the “hot favorite” to win her fourth Wimbledon
singles title today, learned a lesson about overconfidence
early in her tennis career.  
 The top-seeded Williams is the 1-7 favorite at British
bookmaker William Hill Plc to defeat No. 21  Vera Zvonareva 
in the final at the All England Club, meaning a successful
$7 bet would return $1 plus the original stake. Zvonareva
is 9-2 to win her first major.  
 Williams, 28, who won her 12th major title at the
start of the season at the Australian Open, said she isn’t
underestimating the 25-year-old Russian.  
 “I never, ever get overconfident,” Williams said
yesterday. “I did once maybe a long time ago. Everyone
goes through that where they’re overconfident. They’re up.
Then you end up losing the match. So you never do that
again.”  
 Williams will be playing in her sixth final on the
Centre Court grass. Zvonareva will be playing in her first.  
 “It’s always possible to beat her,” Zvonareva, who
has beaten the American once in six meetings, said in a
news conference yesterday. “I will just have to find my
way tomorrow. I will just have to try to play the game
that’s bothering her the most.”  
 Betting companies expect a win by Williams.  
 “Serena is hot favorite to beat  Vera Zvonareva  as she
can be relied upon to bring her ‘A’ game to the court with
her, while her opponent may be intimidated by the Centre
Court atmosphere,”  Graham Sharpe , a spokesman for William
Hill, said in an e-mail yesterday.  
 Nadal vs. Berdych  
 In the men’s final tomorrow, 2008 champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain will play Czech  Tomas Berdych . Nadal, who
last month won his fifth French Open title, is the 2-7
favorite at William Hill. Berdych, who ousted six-time
champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland in the quarterfinals,
is 5-2 to win his first Grand Slam championship.  
 Williams advanced to her third straight championship
match at the All England Club by beating  Petra Kvitova  of
the Czech Republic 7-6 (7-5), 6-2 in the semifinals.
 Zvonareva  beat  Tsvetana Pironkova  of Bulgaria 3-6, 6-3, 6-2
in the other semifinal.  
 Zvonareva’s only win against Williams came four years
ago on a hard court in Cincinnati.  
 “I never played her on the grass,” Zvonareva said
yesterday. “It’s going to be a very tough challenge.
Serena is one of the greatest players and also greatest
champions. So it’s not going to be easy. But I’m going to
go out there and try my best.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        