-- Accused Spy Vicky Pelaez's Bail Will Be Appealed by Prosecutors in N.Y.
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-06T23:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/two-russian-deep-cover-spy-suspects-denied-release-while-third-gets-bail.html

          
          
             Prosecutors said they will appeal a
decision granting bail to Vicky Pelaez, a New York woman accused
of belonging to a “deep-cover” Russian spy ring.  
 In a one-sentence statement released today, U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara  in Manhattan said his office will appeal the bail
determination by U.S. Magistrate Judge  Ronald Ellis . Pelaez is
one of 11 people charged in connection with a spy ring that
allegedly operated in the U.S. for at least two decades.  
 Ellis ruled July 1 that Pelaez, 55, a columnist for the
Spanish-language newspaper El Diario La Prensa in New York,
could be freed on $250,000 bond secured by $10,000 cash. Ellis
said Pelaez must remain under house arrest with electronic
monitoring while she awaits trial.  
 Pelaez, who was arrested on June 27, remains in custody.
She and her husband, Juan Lazaro, were charged with acting as
unregistered agents of Russia’s intelligence service. Lazaro
hasn’t yet had a bail determination.  
 In his ruling, Ellis said Pelaez didn’t appear to be a
trained agent and said she hadn’t used false identities. Her
lawyer, John Rodriguez, told the judge that the columnist is a
naturalized U.S. citizen born in Peru. Pelaez has a 17-year-old
son, he told Ellis.  
 “It’s within the government’s rights to appeal this
ruling,” John Rodriguez, a lawyer for Pelaez, said in a
telephone interview. “I don’t feel there is any reason why she
should be detained and I intend to argue that she should be
released.”  
 Rodriguez said he expects there will be a bond hearing for
his client tomorrow before U.S. District Judge  Loretta Preska  in
Manhattan.  
 The cases are U.S. v. Metsos 10-MJ-1391; U.S. v. Chapman,
10-MJ-1389, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        