-- Woori Favors Inflation-Linked Bonds as South Korean Growth Raises Prices
-- Jungmin Hong
-- 2010-07-02T05:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/woori-favors-inflation-linked-bonds-as-south-korean-growth-raises-prices.html

          
          
             Woori Asset Management Co. , a unit of
South Korea’s third-largest financial firm, sees opportunity in
inflation-linked bonds on expectations that prices will rise as
economic growth accelerates, the head of fixed-income said.  
 “The South Korean economy will face inflationary pressure
in the coming one or two years, which makes inflation-linked
notes a decent bet,”  Kim Kihyun , Woori’s head of fixed-income,
who helps oversee 10 trillion won ($8.2 billion), said in an
interview in Seoul July 1.  
 The government last week raised its 2010 economic growth
forecast to 5.8 percent, from a December projection of 5 percent,
saying a faster-than-expected global recovery is spurring
exports and local demand. Exports increased for an eighth month
in June, the Ministry of Knowledge Economy said July 1. South
Korea’s consumer prices climbed 2.6 percent in June from a year
earlier, after rising 2.7 percent -- the most in four months --
in May, according to the statistics office.  
 Bondholders dislike inflation because it erodes the value
of their fixed returns. Inflation-linked bonds offer protection
by offering yields pegged to the rate of price increases.  
 South Korea last month sold 333 billion won worth of
inflation-linked bonds maturing in 2020, completing its first
issue since 2008. The government on June 21 priced the notes to
yield 2.77 percent, 2.23 percentage points less than the rate
paid on 1.7 trillion won of conventional 10-year debt sold the
same day. Prices on the inflation bonds rose to 103.7 today, the
highest since issue, according to Nice Pricing Service.  
 The notes are undervalued at current prices as inflation is
expected to rise to above 3 percent from September, said Kim.  
 Likes ‘Riskier’ Debt  
 Woori is also increasing corporate bond weightings in its
portfolio. The company likes lower-rated companies where the
growth rate is enough to offset other risks, and is seeking
opportunities in bonds rated BBB+ or below, as narrower spreads
for higher-rated bonds may “spill over” to lower-rated debt if
the recovery gains momentum, said Kim.  
 The firm is a unit of Woori Finance Holdings.  
 The extra yields investors demand to own three-year, AA+
rated corporate bonds, narrowed 17 basis points last month to 81
basis points while the gap for similar maturity, BBB+ graded
notes widened 3 basis points to 461 basis points, according to
data compiled by the  Korea Financial Investment Association.   
 “The economic upside will likely outweigh downside factors
including the European debt crisis, creating a favorable
environment for riskier asset investments,” Kim said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        