-- Xinjiang Gets Security Cameras as Anniversary of Riots Nears, Post Reports
-- 
-- 2010-07-02T23:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/xinjiang-gets-security-cameras-as-anniversary-of-riots-nears-post-reports.html

          
          
              
China Installs Security Cameras in Xinjiang as Anniversary of
Riots Nears

By Cara Anna
     July 3 (Washington Post) -- BEIJING -- China has installed
about 40,000 high-definition surveillance cameras in the western
region of Xinjiang days before the anniversary of the country's
worst ethnic violence in decades.
     The security cameras with "riot-proof" protective shells
will be monitored by police at more than 4,000 public locations,
including on city streets and buses and in schools and shopping
malls, city government spokesman Ma Xinchun said Friday.
     Long-simmering tensions between Xinjiang's minority Uighurs
and majority Han Chinese turned into open violence in the streets
of Urumqi -- the capital of the traditionally Muslim region --
last July. The government says 197 people were killed. Beijing
accused overseas Uighur groups of plotting the violence, but
exile groups denied that assertion.
     China appeared caught by surprise a year ago when anger over
a brawl between Uighurs and Han in another part of the country
boiled over despite Xinjiang's typically high police presence and
tight Internet monitoring. After the July 5 violence, the
region's Internet, international telephone and text-messaging
links to the outside world were not restored for more than half a
year.
     The installation of the cameras follows a crackdown on
violent crime launched in Xinjiang last month, as well as the
hiring of about 5,000 police officers there.
     Beijing labels those opposing Chinese authority over
Xinjiang as terrorists. Late last month it announced that it had
uncovered a gang of "hard-core terrorists" who it said had
plotted attacks in southern Xinjiang cities between July and
October last year. Public Security Ministry spokesman Wu Heping
took no questions from reporters, and his assertions could not be
independently verified.
     The announcement came a day after Xinjiang officials
launched a "Love the great motherland, build a beautiful
homeland" patriotic education campaign aimed at establishing that
"the ethnic minorities are inseparable from the Han."
     The Washington-based Uyghur Human Rights Project on Friday
called for the Chinese government to support an independent,
international investigation into last year's violence. The group
also asked officials to release Uighurs it says have been
detained without charge, end the use of crackdowns and address
the issues behind the region's tensions.
     Many Uighurs say they suffer discrimination in jobs and
cannot get loans and passports, but Han Chinese in Xinjiang
accuse them of being more concerned with religion than business.
     -- Associated Press
 
          
          


  


        