-- Yuan Forwards Complete Fourth Weekly Advance on Record Daily Fixing, Euro
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-02T09:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-02/yuan-forwards-set-for-fourth-weekly-gain-after-euro-rallies-on-bond-sale.html

          
          
             Yuan forwards completed a fourth
weekly gain as the euro rallied against the dollar after Spain
successfully sold bonds at an auction yesterday.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards jumped 0.2 percent to
6.6690 per dollar as of 5:37 p.m. in Hong Kong and strengthened
0.14 percent in the week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This reflects bets that the yuan will appreciate 1.5
percent in one year. The central bank set the reference rate for
yuan trading at 6.7720, 0.2 percent stronger than yesterday’s
fixing of 6.7858. Government bonds advanced.  
 “What has been happening in the past two weeks is a
gradual move down in the dollar-yuan but the NDFs have not
priced this in,” said  Mirza Baig , a Singapore-based currency
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s largest foreign-
exchange trader. “They are cheap.”  
 Spain yesterday sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of
five-year bonds at an auction, reaching the maximum sale target.
The  Dollar Index  tumbled 1.7 percent, the most since March 2009
after reports on U.S. manufacturing, employment and home sales
signaled slower growth in the second half of 2010.  
 The yuan’s spot rate climbed 0.15 percent to 6.7711,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System. The
currency has gained 0.28 percent in the week. The rate earlier
reached 6.7696 a dollar, the strongest level since the end of
1993.  
 ‘Limited Impact’  
 China’s central bank has allowed the currency to gain 0.8
percent since saying on June 19 that it was resuming a flexible
exchange rate to curb inflation and rebalance the economy away
from exports. The yuan is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on either
side of the daily fixing.  
 Appreciation will have a limited effect on exports even if
the yuan gains up to 3 percent over the next 12 months, Wu Qing,
researcher at the Development Research Center of the State
Council wrote in a commentary in the Shanghai Securities News
today.  
 The yuan will appreciate “in the long run” and Hong
Kong’s offshore yuan market can help manage the foreign-exchange
risk, Joseph Yam?former head of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority,
said in a radio interview today.  
 Bonds Gain  
 Government bonds rose this week as the benchmark money-
market rate receded from a three-week high, reflecting the
increased availability of cash at banks.  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, slid 54 basis points this week to 2.61 percent,
according to the daily fixing rate published by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The rate rose to 3.16 percent at the
end of last week, the highest level since June 2. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “The tight money supply since May has eased, mainly helped
by the central bank’s consecutive cash injections in open-market
operations,” said Wang Fang, an analyst at Beijing-based Galaxy
Securities Co. “People also had more confidence about the bond
market than stocks.”  
 The People’s Bank of China has injected cash into the
financial system for six consecutive weeks via open-market
operations. The  net inflows  of 67 billion yuan ($9.9 billion)
this week compared with 201 billion yuan last week.  
 The Shanghai Composite  Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, has tumbled 6.7 percent this week after
manufacturing growth slowed more than economists forecast in
June, the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday.  
 The yield on the 3.9 percent government note due in August
2014 fell three basis points to 2.49 percent, and the price of
the security added 0.11 per 100 yuan face amount to 105.47,
according to the funding center. For the week, the yield dropped
eight basis points.  
 -- Patricia Lui ,  Judy Chen ,  Belinda Cao . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,
 James Regan   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Jerry Lou, China strategist at Morgan Stanley, talks with Bloomberg's Susan about his investment strategy for Chinese stocks.
     Lou, speaking from Singapore, also discusses China's shift in its currency policy, and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Derek Wong, Woori Financial Group’s director of real estate investment and finance, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's property market.
     Wong also discusses Singapore's property market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
