-- Yale Celebrates Saarinen, Corporate, Campus Image Maker: Review
-- James S. Russell
-- 2010-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-19/yale-celebrates-saarinen-corporate-campus-image-maker-review.html

          
          
             The Gateway Arch in St. Louis rises
majestically in gleaming metal to a tapering summit 630 feet
(192 meters) above the Mississippi River.  
 Ingratiating and confident, yet unbombastic, it is a
monument for a less contentious, more egalitarian America.  
 Formally known as the National Expansion Memorial, the 1965
arch also sums up the career of its Finnish-born architect, Eero
Saarinen. He was the quintessential designer for what  Time
Inc. ’s Henry Luce dubbed “the American Century.”  
 The arch project helped Eero emerge from the shadow of his
father, Eliel, who created the exquisite Cranbrook Academy near
Detroit.  
 Yale University, home to two campus buildings by Eero, has
now mounted a handsome retrospective, “Eero Saarinen: Shaping
the Future.”  
 He died young at 51 of complications from brain-tumor
surgery in 1961, yet more than a dozen of his buildings are
landmarks of the post-World War II era.  
 Saarinen created divinely sleek campuses for A-list
corporate innovators --  IBM , Bell Telephone,  Deere , and General
Motors -- and swaddled these suburban redoubts in gorgeous
landscaping. His black-granite tower for  CBS  looms over Sixth
Avenue in Manhattan.  
 Corporate Man  
 Then there are the Tulip chairs for  Knoll  that are still
ubiquitous.  
 In the catalog, curators Eeva-Liisa Pelkonen and Donald
Albrecht position him as a propagandist of U.S. industry:
branding the nation’s technical prowess through displays of the
newest materials, such as reflective glass fixed with neoprene
gaskets. Albrecht and Pelkonen echo critic Reyner Banham, who
regarded Saarinen as a corporate ad man, rather than a true
architect dedicated to his own vision.  
 Saarinen never settled for one style, but he wasn’t putting
a new wrapper on the same old box. He was reinventing the box.  
 I’ve walked his astonishing General Motors Technical Center
-- 25 buildings, $100 million 1950s dollars (about $780 million
today), finished in 1956. It stylishly integrated air
conditioning, advanced lighting and emerging electronic-data
services in a way that countless buildings would emulate.  
 The steely discipline of the corporate work had nothing in
common with the lusciously womblike terminal he built for TWA at
Kennedy airport -- a dizzy extravaganza that calls out for
pillbox hats and pre-flight martinis.  
 The graceful drape of the Dulles airport roof was another
bravura sculptural gesture, held up, it seemed, on barely more
than sloping planes of glass.  
 Swooping Curves  
 So diverse is the work, that I’m not the only one who finds
the “real” Saarinen elusive. He could be called an auteur: a
singular genius who could collaborate. This proved fortuitous,
as many of his major buildings had to be finished after his
death by talented staffers like Kevin Roche and  Cesar Pelli , who
would go on to distinguished careers of their own.  
 The expressionistic Saarinen, not the cool modernist, built
at Yale. The roof of the 1958 David S. Ingalls hockey rink rises
in a great sine-wave curve then swoops down to turned-up eaves.
Vilified at completion, Ingalls is rightly beloved now, and has
been handsomely restored by  Kevin Roche John Dinkeloo and
Associates LLC , Saarinen’s successor firm.  
 Yale also built one of Saarinen’s least-loved projects, the
Morse and Stiles colleges, a modern take on the medieval Italian
hill town. I find the picturesquely arranged towers and shadowy
undulating walls almost convincing if I walk through with eyes
squinted. Its massive slit-windowed walls are more Flintstones
than Florence.  
 Thank Yale for spending $98.3 million to preserve this
difficult legacy. Philadelphia architecture firm
 KieranTimberlake  is restoring the buildings while remedying
their many shortcomings with a largely invisible underground
addition.  
 Mothballed  
 Age has been unkind even to Saarinen’s best. TWA is
mothballed. The elegant Bell Labs in Holmdel, New Jersey, is
abandoned. A competition is under way to create a less
intimidating landscape around the St. Louis arch.  
 It would be the twilight of a once-lionized artist, except
that these works -- and even mistakes like Morse and Stiles --
still grab us.  
 Saarinen didn’t just design, he inquired, which is rarely
done in the research-free building industry. He asked how
technology fits in buildings. He wondered how to serve the
emergence of mass air travel. He tried to figure out how
tradition could be honored in a contemporary way.  
 When you ask the tough questions, you sometimes get the
wrong answers. Saarinen’s battered legacy is a badge of honor.  
 “Eero Saarinen: Shaping the Future” is at the Yale
University Art Gallery and the Yale School of Architecture
Gallery until May 2, 2010. Information:
 http://artgallery.yale.edu .  
 ( James S. Russell  is Bloomberg’s architecture critic. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gateway Arch  
                       
                         
                           Hunter Public Relations via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gateway Arch in St. Louis, Missouri. Formally known as the National Expansion Memorial, the 1965 arch sums up the career of its Finnish architect, Eero Saarinen. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gateway Arch in St. Louis, Missouri. Formally known as the National Expansion Memorial, the 1965 arch sums up the career of its Finnish architect, Eero Saarinen. Source: Hunter Public Relations via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Architect Eero Saarinen examines models of Morse and Stiles Colleges that were built at Yale University in 1961. Saarinen is the subject of a retrospective at the Yale Art Gallery, "Eero Saarinen: Shaping the Future." Photographer: Bernice Clark/Yale University Archives via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       General Motors Technical Center  
                       
                         
                           Ezra Stoller/ESTO via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The 25-building General Motors Technical Center, finished in 1956, by architect Eero Saarinen. Saarinen is the subject of a retrospective exhibition at Yale University that runs from Feb. 19 to May 2, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The 25-building General Motors Technical Center, finished in 1956, by architect Eero Saarinen. Saarinen is the subject of a retrospective exhibition at Yale University that runs from Feb. 19 to May 2, 2010. Photographer: Ezra Stoller/ESTO via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A design sketch of the David S. Ingalls Hockey Rink that was completed at Yale University in 1958. The architect was Eero Saarinen, subject of a retrospective exhibition at Yale University,  "Eero Saarinen: Shaping the Future." Source: Yale University Archives via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Renovation at Morse and Stiles Colleges at Yale University in New Haven, CT. The buildings were a controversial 1962 addition to Yale by architect Eero Saarinen, subject of a retrospective at the university's art gallery, "Eero Saarinen: Shaping the Future." Photographer: James S. Russell/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
