-- Hangover Lingers From Copenhagen Climate Mosh Pit: Eric Pooley
-- Eric Pooley
-- 2009-12-22T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-21/hangover-lingers-from-copenhagen-climate-mosh-pit-eric-pooley.html

          
          
             Imagine that a Department of Motor
Vehicles office joined forces with an Alitalia ticket counter
and set out to save the world. That’s what the United Nations
climate conference in Copenhagen was like -- a bureaucratic mosh
pit of confusion, rumor, bad food and daylong lines leading to a
toothless accord.  
 Now it’s the morning after, and the hangover is painful.
Many are blaming Copenhagen’s weak outcome on the dysfunctional
UN process. For 193 nations to agree on anything this complex is
simply impossible, they say. Future climate talks should include
only the dozen or so countries that produce most of the
emissions. The face-saving accord  Barack Obama  hammered out with
key players Friday night is the way it will work from now on.  
 That may be true, yet it ignores a crucial fact: All of the
parties knew going in that this conference couldn’t produce a
strong agreement. A truly global deal was out of reach because
the U.S., as Obama said at the end of his grueling 15-hour
visit, “was coming with a clean slate” -- America hadn’t
passed a bill committing itself to cutting greenhouse gas
emissions.  
 The U.S. has kept the world waiting 12 years for that
crucial step, ever since it walked away from the Kyoto Protocol.
U.S. negotiators like to talk about the “lesson of Kyoto,”
which is don’t agree to anything in the UN process that they
can’t sell back home. It’s a valid one.  
 But other nations have a Kyoto lesson of their own: Don’t
agree to anything real until the U.S. proves it is serious by
passing a climate bill of its own. America, after all, enjoyed a
century-long head start on industrialization, yet it is the only
developed nation that has refused to get started with binding
cuts.  
 What Matters  
 So what matters most about the Copenhagen  Accord  is this
question: Does it make it more or less likely that Obama can
overcome opposition to climate action and move a carbon cap
through the Senate?  
 Fence-sitting senators are worried that a U.S. climate bill
would ship jobs to China, so Obama’s marathon talks were focused
on winning concessions from Premier  Wen Jiabao . Now the race is
on in Washington to spin the result. Democrats are proclaiming
that Obama got what he needed to secure the backing of key
Midwesterners. Republicans claim the opposite. Who’s right?
Let’s look at what Obama got, and what he didn’t get.  
 There was never a chance that China would commit to binding
reductions at this conference. Years ago, the UN talks that led
to the  Kyoto Protocol  let China and other developing nations off
the hook for those. That is Kyoto’s original sin and a main
reason the U.S. walked away from it, consigning the treaty to
failure.  
 China Onboard  
 Since then the challenge has been to draw China toward a
deal so the U.S. would finally act, thus helping to get China
fully onboard. And in Copenhagen, for the first time ever,
China, India, and other major developing countries pledged to
take voluntary steps to curb global-warming pollution -- the
most that can be expected of them until the U.S. passes a
climate bill.  
 That constitutes progress, but since fence-sitting senators
don’t trust China to make good on its promises, the bone of
contention between Obama and Wen was whether China would submit
to independent monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV). And
as Obama tried to cut a deal on MRV, Wen snubbed him, sending
underlings to two sit-downs with the president.  
 China obstructed in other areas, as well, even vetoing deep
cuts by developed nations, lest it one day be subject to them.
Obama had to crash a meeting with Wen and the leaders of Brazil,
India and South Africa to reach the final deal.  
 Giving a Peek  
 In that deal, China budged a little. It agreed to full MRV
for emissions reductions paid for by others, but not for
measures it will be making on its own. Those voluntary moves
will be subject to China’s own reporting and verification,
“with provisions for international consultations and
analysis.”  
 China agreed to give outsiders a peek, in other words, but
its promise is so vague it will reassure only senators who want
to be reassured. It’s not going to get Republican skeptics on
board, obviously, but it might give cover to some undecided
Democrats. If it does, Copenhagen will have been a success.  
 Obama knew all of this going in. He baked his cake last
summer, when he decided to push health-care reform and not the
climate bill. He chose not to mount a full-scale public
education campaign on climate science and solutions to counter
the choir of skeptics. That decision ruled out the possibility
of a triumph in Copenhagen.  
 So we are where we were: waiting for Obama to lead the
charge in the Senate. A majority of Americans want to see a
climate bill passed, but support has slipped thanks to the
hacked e-mails known as Climategate -- the latest phony
“proof” that global warming, in spite of mountains of
evidence, isn’t really happening.  
 Obama needs to explain the realities of climate science to
the American people and persuade those willing to listen that a
carbon cap will help revive the U.S. economy, not strangle it.
Until he does that, rush hour diplomacy -- in Copenhagen or on
Pennsylvania Avenue -- simply won’t be enough.  
 (Eric Pooley, a former managing editor of Fortune magazine
who is writing a book about the politics of global warming, is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Eric Pooley at  epooley2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        