-- Darrelle Revis Practices With Jets After Seven-Month Contract Impasse Ends
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-09-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-06/all-pro-revis-new-york-jets-agree-to-contract-before-start-of-nfl-season.html

          
          
             Darrelle Revis  practiced with the
New York Jets yesterday after reaching an agreement on a new
contract that ended a seven-month impasse.  
 “There was an energy in this building, in this team when
we knew that Darrelle was coming back,” coach  Rex Ryan  said.
“You can tell he’s relieved and happy at the same time and his
teammates are happy to see Darrelle back.”  
 All-Pro cornerback Revis, 25, sat out training camp and the
preseason while seeking a deal to make him the highest-paid
cornerback in the National Football League. Jets General Manager
 Mike Tannenbaum  confirmed the agreement during a conference call
without disclosing contract details.  
 Revis and the Jets came to terms on a four-year contract
worth $46 million, including $32 million in guaranteed money,
the New York Daily News said.  
 “I’m sorry for this process and I can’t wait to get back
on the field,” Revis said in a posting on his Twitter social
networking account.  
 The breakthrough came after Ryan traveled to Florida over
the weekend to meet with Revis. Revis agreed to new terms a week
before the Jets host the Baltimore Ravens to open the regular
season on Sept. 13. Ryan said Revis would probably play Week 1.  
 ‘Throw Him Out There’  
 “If we have to just use him in the sub-package, we will,
but I really doubt it,” Ryan said. “Darrelle is in great shape
and we’ll just throw him out there.”  
 Revis had six interceptions last season while anchoring a
Jets defense that made it to the American Football Conference
title game allowing a league-low 252.3 yards a week.  
 Revis also led the league with 37 passes defended and
finished second to Green Bay Packers cornerback  Charles Woodson 
in voting for the NFL’s Defensive Player of the Year Award.  
 He was set to make $1 million in base pay this season in
the fourth year of a six-year contract worth a total of $36
million. Revis asked for $162 million over 10 years, while the
Jets offered $122 million for the same period, ESPN said.  
 Nnamdi Asomugha  of the Oakland Raiders is the NFL’s
highest-paid cornerback in terms of average value, with a three-
year, $45.3 million contract.  
 The Jets and Revis’s representatives agreed last month to
keep negotiations confidential after the sides traded barbs in
the media over their lack of progress.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        