-- China Stocks Rise to 4-Month High as Material Producers Rally; Banks Drop
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-07T07:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-06/baoshan-steel-icbc-guoyuan-securities-zijin-mining-china-stock-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks rose to the highest
in almost four months as speculation the government will curb
overcapacity to meet energy efficiency targets fueled a rally
for the nation’s biggest metal producers.  
 Maanshan Iron & Steel Co.  jumped by the maximum 10 percent
limit after JPMorgan Chase & Co. said steel prices have
“further upside” on policies to reduce energy consumption.
Yunnan Aluminium Co. rose the most in 11 months. The market’s
gains were limited as banks fell after Guosen Securities Co.
said regulators plan to impose loan-loss reserves on lenders.  
 “The government’s plan to save energy will benefit big
players in energy-consuming industries such as steel because it
will weed out smaller rivals,” said  Wei Wei , an analyst at West
China Securities Co. in Shanghai.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, climbed in the last 15 minutes of
trading, gaining 2.11, or 0.1 percent, to 2,698.36 by the 4 p.m.
close. It fell as much as 0.6 percent earlier. The  CSI 300 Index 
added 0.3 percent to 2,983.11.  
 The Shanghai measure has rebounded 14 percent from this
year’s low on July 5 as investors speculated the government
would ease monetary policy to spur growth. That’s trimmed this
year’s loss to 18 percent, after the government increased down-
payment requirements on home sales and ordered banks to set
aside more deposits as reserves to curb asset bubbles.  
 A gauge of material producers rose 1.8 percent for the
biggest gain among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300 Index.
The measure has rallied 11 percent over the past month, fueled
by the prospect of industrial consolidation and speculation the
nation’s economic slowdown has peaked.  
 Industrial Mergers  
 “The worst of China’s economic slowdown has passed and
inflation won’t worsen,” Wei Li, economist at Standard
Chartered Bank (China) Ltd., said in an interview in Shanghai.  
 China will promote consolidation of companies in the
automobile, cement, steel, machinery, rare earth and aluminum
industries via mergers and acquisitions, the State Council said
in a statement yesterday.  
 The rally for China’s steelmakers and metal prices has
“further upside” as the government introduces stricter
policies to reduce energy consumption by the end of the year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 The government faces a “very arduous” task in cutting
energy consumption by year-end to meet an efficiency target,  Xin Guobin , an official with the industry ministry, said at a
briefing today.  
 Maanshan Steel, which announced plans to invest in Anhui
Changjiang Iron & Steel Co., jumped 10 percent to 3.94 yuan, the
biggest gain in a year. Hebei Iron & Steel Co., the listed unit
of China’s biggest steelmaker, added 2.4 percent to 4.29 yuan,
extending yesterday’s 6.9 percent advance.  
 Steel Prices  
 Benchmark hot-rolled steel prices in China rose 3.5 percent
yesterday as steelmakers in Hebei province shut mills after the
local government limited electricity supply to reach power
efficiency targets.  
 Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. , the listed unit of the fourth-
biggest coal miner, added 1.9 percent to 19.02 yuan after saying
it will seek to acquire 51 percent of Inner Mongolia Haosheng
Coal Mining Ltd. to increase its reserves.  
 Industrial output will slow to about 10 percent in the
second half, Xin said. Real-estate curbs and a higher base for
comparisons will also contribute to smaller output gains.  
 The nation’s economy, the world’s second biggest after
overtaking Japan in the second quarter, is still growing
steadily and isn’t at risk of a “second dip,” Xin told
reporters.  
 Banks Decline  
 Industrial Bank, part-owned by a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc,
declined 0.9 percent to 26.25 yuan. China Construction Bank
Corp., the nation’s second-largest lender, lost 0.4 percent to
4.71 yuan.  
 The banking regulator is drafting a plan to require banks
to maintain loan loss reserves of 2.5 percent of total lending,
Guosen Securities Co. analyst  Qiu Zhicheng  said in a note
distributed to clients today. The report cited an unidentified
China Banking Regulatory Commission official speaking at a
financial conference hosted by the securities firm.  
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission currently doesn’t
oblige banks to keep a ratio of their total loans as reserves.
Instead, it requires them to maintain reserves of at least 150
percent of non-performing loans. The nation’s lenders had an
average coverage ratio of 186 percent by the end of June,
according to the regulator.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        