-- Etisalat May Consider Idea Cellular for India Mobile Expansion
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-09-07T08:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-06/etisalat-may-consider-idea-cellular-for-india-mobile-services-expansion.html

          
          
             Emirates Telecom Corp. , the United
Arab Emirates’ biggest phone company, said it’s considering
investing in  Idea Cellular Ltd.  to expand its business in the
world’s second-largest wireless market.  
 “There are many options in India, and we are not excluding
Idea Cellular,”  Jamal Al-Jarwan , chief executive officer for
international investments at  Emirates Telecommunications , also
known as Etisalat, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
 Rajat Mukarji , a spokesman at Mumbai-based Idea, declined to
comment.  
 An investment in India would allow Etisalat to fulfill
Chairman  Mohammed Omran ’s goal of being “an active player” in a
market that is forecast to approach 1 billion users by 2014. In
June, Omran cited the possibility of acquiring a stake in
billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s Reliance Communications Ltd. Idea, the
nation’s best-performing wireless stock, has net debt that’s
about a third of Reliance’s.  
 Al-Jarwan declined to comment on the status of possible
talks with Reliance, India’s second-biggest mobile operator,
which yesterday said a separate deal to sell its
telecommunications towers had collapsed, and it had begun
discussions with other potential investors. Omran said in June
that the Abu Dhabi-based company was considering several
opportunities in India.  
 Aditya Birla Group  
 India’s  Aditya Birla Group  controls Idea with a 46 percent
stake in the company.  Pragnya Ram , a group spokeswoman in Mumbai,
declined to comment.  
 Idea  advanced 3.9 percent to 74.50 rupees at 12:59 p.m. in
Mumbai trading today. Reliance rose 0.3 percent to 163.35 rupees.
Idea has gained 28 percent this year, while Reliance has
declined 5.3 percent.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. , India’s largest
mobile-phone operator, has risen 4.6 percent in 2010.  
 Etisalat owns a 45 percent stake in  Etisalat DB Telecom
Pvt. , a venture with India’s  DB Group . Etisalat DB got its phone
license in 2008 and started services this year under the Cheers
Mobile brand. It had 20,000 customers as of June, according to
data from India’s telecommunications regulator, out of India’s
market of 636 million wireless subscribers. China’s 805 million
mobile-phone accounts make it the largest market.  
 Idea’s  debt  exceeded cash and equivalents by 96.5 billion
rupees ($2.1 billion), while Reliance’s net debt was 284 billion
rupees at the end of June, according to the companies. Idea
added customers at a faster pace than Reliance in June, ending
the month with 69 million subscribers. India’s mobile phone
market is forecast to exceed 993 million users by the end of
2014, researcher Gartner Inc. said in a July 15 report.  
 Malaysia’s Axiata Group Bhd.  owns  19 percent of Idea.
Axiata isn’t “involved or aware of the expressed interest,”
the company wrote in an e-mail. “We are unable to comment on
behalf of Etisalat or Idea.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Etisalat May Consider Idea Cell for India Mobile Expansion  
                       
                         
                           Namas Bhojani/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An acquisition in India, the world’s second-largest market for mobile-phone services, would allow Etisalat to become “an active player” in India, as outlined by Chairman Mohammed Omran 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An acquisition in India, the world’s second-largest market for mobile-phone services, would allow Etisalat to become “an active player” in India, as outlined by Chairman Mohammed Omran Photographer: Namas Bhojani/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
