-- Japan's Bonds Rise as Concern Eases Ozawa Will Lead Nation, Boost Spending
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-09-07T06:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-06/japan-s-benchmark-bonds-may-advance-as-yield-at-11-week-high-spurs-demand.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  rose for the first
time in five days as speculation waned that Ichiro Ozawa will
become the nation’s next leader and boost spending.  
 Benchmark 10-year  yields  fell from an 11-week high after a
key supporter of Ozawa, the head of the ruling Democratic Party
of Japan’s largest faction, said his chances of replacing Prime
Minister Naoto Kan have declined. Bonds maintained gains after
the Bank of Japan today kept borrowing costs and the size of its
liquidity injections unchanged, taking a pause in monetary
stimulus to monitor the yen’s moves and U.S. economic data.  
 “Should Ozawa lose, a government led by Kan will likely
focus on fiscal rehabilitation rather than debt-fueled
spending,” said  Susumu Kato , chief Japan economist in Tokyo at
Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA. “We cannot expect the BOJ to
increase interest rates until the yen’s appreciation halts.”  
 The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond fell five basis
points to 1.135 percent as of 3:21 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
price of the 1 percent bond due in September 2020 rose 0.441 yen
to 98.787 yen. The yield climbed to as high as 1.195 percent
yesterday, the most since June 22.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery added 0.38 to
141.55 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 The situation is “very severe” regarding support for
Ozawa, Banri Kaieda, one of 25 lawmakers to sign a petition
supporting Ozawa’s candidacy, said today.  
 Election  
 Ozawa, who will challenge Kan for leadership in a ballot on
Sept. 14, has pledged to double a monthly childcare allowance
and extend subsidies for energy-efficient household appliances.
The winner of the ballot is ensured of being prime minister
because the DPJ controls parliament’s lower house.  
 Japanese voters favor Kan to remain prime minister over
challenger Ozawa by a margin of more than three to one,
according to two surveys released yesterday. Sixty-six percent
of those polled prefer Kan as leader compared with 18 percent
for Ozawa, the Yomiuri newspaper reported, while a survey by the
Asahi newspaper showed a similar result.  
 Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his board
today left the bank-loan facility at 30 trillion yen ($357
billion) after boosting it by 10 trillion yen at an Aug. 30
emergency meeting. Policy makers held the benchmark overnight
rate at 0.1 percent, where it’s been since December 2008.  
 The central bank will “take policy actions in a timely and
appropriate manner” if needed, it said in a  statement .  
 “The BOJ has shown it’s ready for additional easing if
necessary,” said  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  
 The Japanese currency, which appreciated to a 15-year high
of 83.60 yen per dollar on Aug. 24, traded at 84.06 from 84.21
yesterday. A stronger yen reduces the value of overseas sales at
Japanese companies when converted into their home currency.  
 The  Ministry of Finance  will sell 600 billion yen of 30-
year bonds tomorrow. The last sale of the debt on July 8 drew
bids valued at 4.06 times the amount on offer, compared with a
so-called  bid -to-cover ratio of 2.25 in June.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        