-- Key Will Subsidize Wages in New Zealand's Quake-Ravaged Canterbury Region
-- James Paton
-- 2010-09-07T08:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-06/key-will-visit-quake-ravaged-christchurch-as-new-zealand-starts-cleanup.html

          
          
             New Zealand Prime Minister  John Key 
promised subsidies for workers as he started a two-day visit to
Christchurch, which was hit by a magnitude-7  earthquake  that cut
power, damaged hundreds of buildings and closed the central
business district.  
 The government has pledged NZ$350 ($252) a week for workers
at companies with 20 or fewer staff, Key said. The plan will
keep employees in work, Key said after arriving in Christchurch
today, according to a  statement  on his website.  
 New Zealand faces a NZ$2 billion damage bill and
Christchurch, a city of 348,000 on South Island, is under a
state of emergency after the quake struck on Sept. 4. Key plans
to meet today with local mayors in the Canterbury region and
visit welfare centers after canceling plans to fly to Europe on
Sept. 10, spokesman Kevin Taylor said.  
 “I can well appreciate the magnitude of loss that people
have suffered,” Key said. “I was awestruck by the power of the
earthquake and the damage that it has caused in the city I grew
up in.”  
 The water supply and damage to as many as 100,000 homes are
among the biggest problems to be addressed, Key said in a speech
yesterday after a Cabinet meeting. The quake buckled roads,
ruptured sewer lines and water pipes and ripped facades off
buildings.  
 The state of emergency will remain until at least tomorrow,
when schools in the city and two surrounding districts may be
allowed to open, the  Ministry of Civil Defence & Emergency
Management  said on its website.  
 The NZX 50 Index  of stocks rose 1 percent to 3,174.14 at
the 5 p.m. close in Wellington. New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.43
percent to 72.02 U.S. cents at 8:31 a.m. London time.  
 A Ghost Town  
 Parts of the city center remain cordoned off by police and
troops, with access being granted to business owners and those
involved in the cleanup. Some city hotels are also open.  
 By late yesterday, some of the buildings worst hit by the
quake were already demolished. A block of two-story, brick shops
about 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) from the city center was razed
after engineers assessed it as beyond repair. An aftershock
around noon on Sept. 6 further stressed the already damaged
buildings.  
 Evidence of damage and the repair job ahead marks most of
the city. Cranes and trucks work in residential streets removing
broken chimneys, reroofing and repairing buckled streets. Walls
and shop verandahs slump over suburban footpaths surrounded by
emergency tape. More than 30 streets are without water.  
 In the city center yesterday, a busy pedestrian-only
shopping street was silent and cafes normally frequented by
crowds of business people sat empty.  
 Damaged Buildings  
 About 500 buildings were damaged in the quake, 90 in the
downtown area, the  Christchurch City Council  says. Between 300
and 400 farms have been affected, 150 “severely” with most
damage done to buildings, the prime minister said yesterday.  
 Power has been restored to most of the city with fewer than
1,000 customers without electricity,  Orion New Zealand Ltd.  said
on its website. About half the utility’s 200,000 users lost
power immediately after the quake.  
 Lyttelton Port Co. , which handles coal exports about 12
kilometers southeast of Christchurch, is “fully operational,”
according to a  statement  on its website  
 The main quake struck about 50 kilometers from the city,
 according  to the U.S. Geological Survey. One person received
serious injuries and about 100 others minor ones, the government
said.  
 Aftershocks followed, including four of magnitude 5 or
higher, the USGS said on its website. A 5.2 aftershock struck at
11:40 p.m. yesterday.  
 The last quake to cause casualties in the nation hit in
December 2007, when buildings in Gisborne collapsed. Eleven
people were injured and one died of a heart attack, according to
GeoNet, an earthquake-monitoring site.  
 The country, the biggest global exporter of dairy products
and lamb, is affected by about 15,000 earthquakes each year,
GeoNet said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Christchurch at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Key to Visit Quake-Ravaged New Zealand City  
                       
                         
                           Greg Wood/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         New Zealand faces a NZ$2 billion ($1.4 billion) damage bill and a massive clean-up. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     New Zealand faces a NZ$2 billion ($1.4 billion) damage bill and a massive clean-up. Photographer: Greg Wood/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
