-- Wheat Supplies in Australia See `Very Strong Interest,' AWB's Morison Says
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-09-07T06:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-06/wheat-supplies-in-australia-see-very-strong-interest-awb-s-morison-says.html

          
          
             Wheat shipments from Australia will
continue at high levels, after jumping in July, as drought cuts
supply from Black Sea region countries,  CBH Group , the country’s
second-largest exporter of the grain, said.  
 Monthly volumes could continue at around 1.3 million metric
tons for the next few months, Tom Puddy, wheat marketing manager
for Perth-based CBH Group’s export division said by phone today.
Shipments rose to 1.6 million tons in July from 1.2 million tons
in June, according to Australian Bureau of Statistics data.  
 Demand for wheat from Australia, the fourth-largest shipper,
is rising after Russia banned exports because of the worst
drought in half a century. Output has also dropped in Ukraine
and Kazakhstan while in northern Europe weather damage has
reduced supply of higher-quality milling wheat,  AWB Ltd.  General
Manager Commodities Mitch Morison said today in a statement.  
 “There is very strong interest for Australian wheat, both
to make up for the lost volume in the global trade and supply
higher-quality needs,” said Morison. “The interest is helping
to generate better physical prices for Australian wheat on top
of the general improvement in world prices.”  
 Wheat for December delivery in Chicago rose 0.4 percent to
$7.445 a bushel at 4:40 p.m. Melbourne time on speculation that
the U.S. Department of Agriculture may pare its estimate of
global inventories. The contract reached a 23-month high of
$8.68 a bushel on Aug. 6.  
 Wheat Stockpiles  
 Australian wheat stockpiles may decline to 4.5 million tons
at the end of October after dropping to 7.9 million tons at the
end of July, Puddy said. The largest destinations for the
exports in July were Indonesia, Yemen, Japan and Bangladesh,
according to shipping data.  
 “We are expecting routine tender business to emerge from
the Middle East for new crop shipping,” Puddy said, referring
to the December-January period.  
 The country’s next crop is mostly harvested from October to
early January. Some early crop has already been gathered in
central Queensland, said Morison, who is visiting customers in
Asia. East coast production from Queensland to South Australia
had just received a boost from widespread rainfall, he said.  
 “Notwithstanding the unfortunate people suffering from
localized flooding in some areas, it’s a great start to the
spring growth period and the timing couldn’t have been much
better from the market’s perspective,” he said.  
 The country’s wheat crop was forecast at 22.4 million tons,
National Australia Bank Ltd. said Aug. 26, with risks from dry
weather in Western Australia and a locust plague expected in
eastern states. South Australia this week raised its wheat
output forecast to 3.97 million tons from a July outlook of 3.5
million tons and said there was “good upside potential if
spring goes well.”  
 Production in Western Australia may range from about 5.5
million tons to 6 million tons, depending on rain, Puddy said.
Output in the state last season was 8.2 million tons, according
to the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        