-- Shaw Workers Sue Over Exposure in Radioactive Cleanup
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2007-11-27T21:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-27/shaw-workers-sue-over-exposure-in-radioactive-cleanup-update3-.html

          
          
             Shaw Group Inc .'s environmental unit
negligently exposed employees to high-level radioactive materials
during a botched cleanup of a Texas warehouse, 17 workers claim
in a New York lawsuit.  
 The employees, who'd had a similar suit dismissed in federal
court last month, sued Shaw Environmental in state court in
Rochester yesterday, claiming they'd been battered through
``offensive and provocative contact'' with radioactive materials.  
 The state battery suit is a legal end run suggested by U.S.
Magistrate Judge  Stephen Smith  when he found the workers' first
complaint hadn't satisfied federal rules governing proof of
damage from radioactive materials.  
 ``The damage caused by such radiation exposure cannot be
reversed or healed, and may in the future lead to related
injuries which will require additional medical care,'' according
to the new, state complaint. ``The plaintiffs fear developing
cancer or other diseases and have suffered emotional distress.''  
 Shaw Environmental, a unit of the Baton-Rouge, Louisiana-
based power-plant builder Shaw Group, claims the workers aren't
injured and weren't exposed to radiation in excess of federally
approved levels, according to papers filed in the federal case.
 Sean Clancy , spokesman for Shaw Group, declined to comment,
citing company policy against discussing pending litigation.  
 `Catch-22'  
 The workers claim a range of physical injuries, including
infertility, internal bleeding and joint pain. Smith found these
claims insufficient under federal rules covering such cases.  
 ``There's a Catch-22 with radiation claims,'' said workers'
lawyer  Linda Shaw , who is based in Rochester and isn't related to
the company. ``You can't wait until you get cancer to sue,
because that can take 20 years and, by then, the statute of
limitations will have run out,'' she said in an interview,
referring to the legal-deadline law on filing.  
 As proof of their radiation exposure, the workers point to a
2006 urine test that Shaw Environmental paid for in an effort to
resolve the case. The workers' urine all tested positive for
Americium-241, a bone-destroying radioactive isotope as ``toxic
as plutonium,'' according to their lawyer.  
 ``That is proof they've been exposed and are still being
exposed inside their bodies,'' attorney Shaw said. ``Four years
later, it's still there.''  
 She said she filed the worker's ``offensive contact'' claim
against Shaw Environmental in New York because more of the
cleanup workers and their lawyers live there. The workers are
asking for medical monitoring costs and economic and punitive
damages harsh enough to warn other remediation companies to be
more careful.  
 Proof  
 ``Here, there is proof Shaw corporate management was fully
aware of the problems at the site and took no steps to correct
them,'' the workers claim. ``Shaw needs to be punished to set an
example for this industry.''  
 Judge Smith ruled in dismissing the federal claims last month
that the plaintiffs ``simply have no expert testimony or other
evidence that excludes other possible causes of their injuries
with reasonable certainty,''  
 Shaw Group fell 17 cents to $58.41 at 4:04 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading  and has risen 74 percent this
year.  
 The state case is Cotroneo v. Shaw Environmental, 56427/07,
Supreme Court, Genessee County, New York (Rochester). The federal
suit is Cotroneo v. Shaw Environmental, 4:05-cv-01250, in the
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston, Texas,
At   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
At   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick Oster  at   poster@bloomberg.net ;
 Kevin Miller  at   kmiller@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        