-- Warren Buffett's Berkshire in its own bear market
-- By Jonathan Stempel
-- Mon Jul 14, 2008 2:05pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/14/businesspro-berkshire-buffett-bearmarket-idUSN1442641220080714

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - It's a bear market for Warren 
Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc ( BRKa.N )( BRKb.N ), too. 

  The shares of the billionaire's insurance and investment 
company have dropped more than 20 percent from their most 
recent peak, the first time that has happened since February 
2003.  A 20 percent decline is a traditional sign of a bear market 
in stocks. The Nasdaq  .IXIC  went through that level on Feb 6, 
the Dow Jones industrial average  .DJI  on July 2 and the 
Standard & Poor's 500  .SPX  on July 9.  Berkshire Class A shares had through Friday fallen 22.5 
percent from their December 11, 2007 record high of $151,650. 
In Monday afternoon trading, they fell another $1,650 to 
$115,850. Class B shares trade at about 1/30th of the Class A 
price.  "It makes a lot of sense for this to happen," said Vahan 
Janjigian, the author of "Even Buffett Isn't Perfect," in an 
interview.  "Insurance makes up the bulk of Berkshire profits, and they 
can't command the premiums they had in the recent past," he 
continued. "I think it's even good news that Berkshire stock is 
down only 20 percent. When you compare it with Citigroup ( C.N ), 
Fannie Mae FNM.N, Freddie Mac FRE.N or other large 
financial companies, Berkshire is actually doing quite well."  Berkshire was not immediately available for comment.  At Berkshire's May 3 annual meeting in Omaha, Nebraska, 
Buffett said there was "absolutely no question" the company's 
returns would decline. Shareholders who expected performance to 
replicate the past should sell their stock, he said.  Berkshire generates about half its profits from insurance. 
The Standard & Poor's insurance index .GSPINSC had through 
Friday fallen 32 percent since December 11.  Buffett owns about 27 percent of Berkshire, whose market 
value was about $182 billion on Friday. Forbes magazine in 
March called him the world's richest person. Buffett, 77, is 
gradually donating much of his net worth to charity.  Berkshire owns some 76 business that sell such things as 
car insurance, carpeting, corporate jet leases, ice cream, 
manufactured homes, paint and underwear.  It also ended March with some $111 billion of stock and 
bond investments, including in such brand-name companies as 
American Express Co ( AXP.N ), Coca-Cola Co ( KO.N ), Procter & 
Gamble Co ( PG.N ) and Wells Fargo & Co ( WFC.N ).
  BUFFETT THE BANKER  Many stock holdings have lost value as equity markets 
declined. On Monday, the shares of M&T Bank Corp ( MTB.N ), in 
which Berkshire has reported a 6.1 percent stake, fell to a 
7-1/2-year low after the mid-Atlantic regional bank said credit 
losses contributed to a 25 percent drop in quarterly profit.  And yet, Berkshire has become something of a banker, ready 
to finance transactions as tight capital markets make it harder 
to get mergers and acquisitions done.  Last week, Buffett put up $3 billion to help finance Dow 
Chemical Co's ( DOW.N ) purchase of rival Rohm and Haas Co 
ROH.N. And in April, he committed $6.5 billion to help Mars 
Inc buy chewing gum maker Wm Wrigley Jr Co WWY.N.  Berkshire ended March with $35.6 billion of cash and has 
long held "triple-A" credit ratings. Its new municipal bond 
insurance unit is also winning business after rivals MBIA Inc 
( MBI.N ) and Ambac Financial Group Inc ABK.N faltered by 
insuring securities linked to soured subprime mortgages.  "This is actually an environment good for Berkshire," said 
Thomas Russo, a principal at Gardner, Russo & Gardner in 
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, a Berkshire shareholder. "Given the 
liquidity it enjoys, it is in the fortunate position of having 
opportunities rather than burdens."  Buffett has long told shareholders to ignore short-term 
performance bumps. He has also projected volatile quarterly 
results because of derivatives contracts designed to make 
Berkshire money over the long term if stock indexes rise and 
junk bonds stay out of default.  In May, Buffett traveled to Europe to scout out investment 
opportunities, including acquisitions. Janjigian expects him to 
use current market travails as an opportunity to make 
acquisitions or buy big stakes in established companies.  "You can bet that, given the weakness in the stock market, 
we'll see a lot more news coming from Berkshire," he added.  (Editing by  Andre Grenon )