-- Raspadskaya Has $317 Million Set Aside to Buy Rivals
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-01-18T16:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-18/raspadskaya-has-317-million-set-aside-to-buy-rivals-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Raspadskaya,  Russia 's second-
largest miner of coal used in steelmaking, has $317 million set
aside to buy domestic rivals, and plans to spend a further $327
million on expanding production.  
 The funding for acquisitions comes from a share sale in
November, while the remaining money will be generated from income
and loans, Chief Executive Officer Gennady Kozovoy told reporters
at a briefing in Moscow today. The $327 million will be spent
through 2010, the head of the Siberian-based company said.  
 ``We have set up a solid base on which to consolidate''
domestic competitors,'' Kozovoy said. ``As soon as offers come
in, we will look at them.''  
 Demand for so-called coking coal has surged as steelmakers
increased production by more than half in the decade to the end
of 2005. Still, mining companies have also expanded output and
analysts expect benchmark prices to decline for a second
consecutive year from April.  
 Raspadskaya is 50 percent-owned by steelmaker Evraz Group
SA, which is in turn part-owned by billionaire  Roman Abramovich .  
 Raspadskaya plans to increase coal production by a fifth
this year to 12.8 million metric tons, and has a target of 17
million tons by 2010. The company also processes the coal into a
product that can be used as a raw material for making coke, an
ingredient in steelmaking. Sales of processed coal will expand by
50 percent to 9.5 million tons, Kozovoy said.  
 Production Capacity  
 Processed coal sold for an average of $58.60 a ton last
year. On that basis, an increase of 50 percent in Raspadskaya's
sales would add $77 million of revenue. The coal miner is
spending $126 million on a processing plant with a capacity of
10.5 million tons by 2008, 3 million tons more than the company's
current capacity.  
 Raspadskaya expects to sell coal for the first time to
 India ,  South Korea ,  Japan , and increase sales to Ukraine and
 Romania . A three-year contract with an unidentified state-owned
Indian steelmaker may be signed within the next several months,
Kozovoy said.  
 Raspadskaya sells processed coal to almost all of Russia's
steelmakers. Evraz signed a contract to increase deliveries from
1.3 million tons last year to as much as 3.5 million tons within
five years, said Alexander Andreyev, deputy director for strategy
at Raspadskaya.  
 OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel, which runs Russia's biggest
steel mill, today signed a five-year contract with Raspadksaya.
This year, the steelmaker will buy 2.2 millions tons of processed
coal at $70 a ton, Kozovoy said. The price is 17 percent higher
than last year.  
 The coal miner's other major customer, OAO Novolipetsk
Steel, will buy 1.6 million tons from the coal miner this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Cook in Moscow at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Fried in Amsterdam at 
 mfried@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        