-- Goldman Parachute Awaits Geithner to Ease Fall: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-01-26T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-25/goldman-parachute-awaits-geithner-to-ease-fall-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner
is scheduled to testify to the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee tomorrow. The hearing is certain to be good
theater. Whether it reveals good government, or a government
working for the few at the expense of the many, is another
matter.  
 If it turns out Geithner failed to act in the best interest
of taxpayers in the bailout of American International Group,
Inc., he is unworthy of the public trust and should step down.  
 That thought may have crossed President Barack Obama’s mind
as well. When Obama proposed new limits on the size and scope of
commercial banks last week, standing at his side was Paul
Volcker, head of the president’s Economic Advisory Board, whose
height (6 feet 7 inches) belies his diminished influence --until
now. Volcker has long advocated banning commercial banks from
speculating with federally insured deposits, but his voice was
drowned out by the pro-Wall Street sympathies of Geithner and
Larry Summers, another Obama economic adviser.  
 The House Oversight Committee, chaired by Edolphus Towns, a
Democrat from New York, subpoenaed documents from the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York relating to the AIG bailout in
September 2008, when Geithner was president of the New York Fed.
The Fed turned over about 250,000 pages of documents, some of
which have been leaked to the press.  
 Lawmakers are particularly interested in the decision to
pay AIG’s counterparties, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Societe Generale SA, 100 cents on the dollar to cancel, then and
there, the credit default swaps the insurer sold them. They also
want to know why the New York Fed pressured AIG to withhold that
information in its regulatory filings.  
 Secrecy’s Downside  
 So do we. Secrecy surrounding the AIG bailout has worked to
compound suspicions the New York Fed did something fishy, that
it found a back-door way to pump money into the banks and, in
the process, hosed the rest of us.  
 Geithner has testified that the Fed’s hands were tied, that
the bank could not “selectively default on contractual
obligations without courting collapse.” If that’s the case, why
hide the evidence? CDSs are customized, privately negotiated
contracts. We have no idea how they were written. Only the
parties to them do.  
 Through a Treasury spokesman, Geithner has said he recused
himself from “working on issues involving specific companies,
including AIG,” after his Nov. 24 nomination as Treasury
secretary.  
 How likely is it Geithner was unaware or uninvolved in the
negotiations? The New York Fed did not respond to multiple
inquiries on the nature of the recusal.  
 Body Language  
 “It’s not necessary to speak words or render a decision to
cause influence,” says Jacob Frenkel, a former federal
prosecutor and Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement
attorney now in private practice. “Mere presence can affect the
outcome.”  
 Geithner’s problems pre-date AIG. After Obama nominated him
to the Treasury post, a job that put him atop the Internal
Revenue Service, we learned he cheated on his taxes. He settled
his 2003 and 2004 tax liability after a 2006 IRS audit but
didn’t pay back taxes for 2001 and 2002 until Obama nominated
him.  
 Obama rushed Geithner’s confirmation process through the
Senate on the grounds that he was the only man for the job. The
main selling point? In his position at the helm of the New York
Fed since 2003, he was familiar with the crisis story line and
was involved in the various rescue efforts.  
 He also fiddled while the biggest banks, most of which are
in the New York Fed’s district, burned.  
 Escape Clause  
 Geithner has been a public servant his whole life, holding
various positions at the Treasury, the International Monetary
Fund and the Fed. Somehow he managed to shed the stigma of tax
scofflaw, but now BOTH Democrats and Republicans in Congress
want blood. His may be just the scalp Obama needs to pacify the
populist outrage, especially since he’s perceived as being too
cozy with bankers.  
 Following the loss of the late Ted Kennedy’s Senate seat in
Massachusetts, Obama is trying out his populist voice. By all
rights, he should sacrifice one of his political advisers, who
seem to have miscalculated the Massachusetts election and
misjudged the public’s appetite for health-care reform when the
chief concern is jobs.  
 Axing Geithner might be good for president and Treasury
secretary alike. Obama would be seen as an ally of the people.
Geithner would be free to claim his just reward: that plum offer
from Goldman Sachs. The circle would be squared. Obama would
have his man on the inside.  
 (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        