-- Obama Ready to Short U.S. With Japan Inc. Talk: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-01-26T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-25/obama-ready-to-short-u-s-with-japan-inc-talk-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             When President  Barack Obama  delivers
his State of the Union address tomorrow, he’ll do it in English.
But what he says would sound just fine in Japanese.  
 That’s because the policies the president will outline are
closer to those of traditional Japan than those of traditional
America. The promulgation of such policies may help the
president’s party in the short term, but isn’t optimal for the
country’s long-term future.  
 Consider what the president is likely to do. The first
thing is bow to a long list of established interest groups. The
president is certain to devote time in the speech to flattering
organized labor. Labor’s political support is all the more
critical after the president’s health-care setback. You also can
bet teachers will get a mention, along with the middle class.  
 The private sector will get a nod too. The president
learned last week that bashing business leads to instant losses
in the stock market. So he’ll leave it to the Democratic lobbies
to call out  Goldman Sachs  greed.  
 Instead he will praise an enlightened company or two, as
well as its founder or chief executive. There will probably be
one old-line outfit -- say General Electric and  Jeff Immelt  --
and a newer company, maybe Microsoft and  Bill Gates , or Google
and  Sergey Brin .  
 Expect the president to elaborate on the importance of
green keiretsu, though he probably won’t use that Japanese word.
He will talk about how companies can work together with each
other and government to achieve greener economic growth.  
 National Harmony  
 All this is highly Japanese -- the idea that the country,
and also the economy, is made up of groups, not individuals, and
the idea that the nation as a whole benefits most from a harmony
of such groups.  
 Next Obama will talk a little bit about infrastructure,
such as the rumored high-speed rail funding for Florida. Word
has it that Obama has a plan to create green construction- or
technology-related jobs.  
 To the Japanese this will sound more than familiar. When
their economy hit troubles in the early 1990s, they turned to
infrastructure spending to stimulate growth. By the end hundreds
of billions had been spent. The coast was lined with concrete
and Japan had new airports and bridges to nowhere.  
 But the  stock market  wasn’t back to its old levels, and
 unemployment  more than doubled, from 2.1 percent in 1990 to 4.6
percent in 1999.  
 Finally there’s financial reform. The president will talk
about the need to halt risk-taking such as proprietary trading
at commercial banks so that depositors won’t be hostage to
foolhardy derivatives bets. You will hear about safe, federally
guaranteed deposits at banks or thrifts.  
 Missing Opportunities  
 This idea is the most Japanese of any he will present, in
both a good and bad sense. The president is right: depositors
should be able to count on most of their deposits being there.
But to establish a system in which insured deposits of citizens
reside at banks or thrifts that can’t participate in many of the
opportunities of the global economy is to replicate the bad
aspects of the Japanese postal bank system.  
 That sounds appealing given the ruction of the past two
years. But over the course of history Japan’s postal banks, as
well as their analogues in Germany, have offered limited returns
to their depositors. It will cut depositors out of some of the
opportunity that lies ahead. The result of the sequestering of
their cash has been a safe life, but a lower standard of living,
for the Japanese.  
 Too Big  
 The real reason that the administration feels the need to
push for such protections is also Japanese -- an unwillingness
to do something more fundamental, end the too big to fail
doctrine. If there were no too big to fail doctrine, and banks
were allowed to fold, many banks would indeed evaporate. Others
would reconfigure themselves, and some would thrive. The market
would clear.  
 As difficult as it is to imagine, a few big failures would
lead to a healthier scenario, in which our financial
institutions are small enough not to cause catastrophe when they
swoon.  
 But Washington prefers to keep things murky. No one in the
U.S., or anywhere else, is going to have any idea of what the
U.S. financial sector is really worth. The industry’s values
will move up, and  prices  will move down, but in a less reliable
fashion than they would if markets alone were determining them.
That means, as in Japan, that over time people will be wary of
investing in it.  
 This Japanification -- an America that is anxious but safe,
or safe but anxious -- may appeal to the president’s Democratic
constituents. It will offer the promise, but only the promise,
of a place like America in the 1950S.  
 Not Worth It  
 But Japanification isn’t worth it, for it is more likely to
yield an economy like Japan’s in the 1990s, with an average
growth  rate  of about 1.5 percent, than America’s in the 1950s,
when growth zipped along. By postponing dealing with many of our
economic problems we are ensuring stagnation.  
 Economist  Martin Feldstein  is predicting average annual
growth of 1.9 percent for the U.S. in the coming decade. That’s
already below the 3 to 4 percent averages that Americans used to
take as their birthright in the days of  Bill Clinton  or before.
But what proposals like Obama’s effectively are saying is: we’d
love 1.9 percent, but we’d be fine with 1 percent, or 0.5
percent, as long as there were no global economic crises. And
that resignation is the most Japanese of all.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
          
          


  


        