-- Wall Strasse Beats Wall Street on Obama Bank Bill: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-01-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-25/wall-strasse-beats-wall-street-on-obama-bank-bill-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             U.S. President Barack Obama has
taken a sledgehammer to the model that Wall Street investment
banks have created over the last three decades.  
 And yet, as is always the case in business, one man's
misfortune is another man's opportunity.  
 If Europe plays this right, it could establish its banks
and financial centers as the industry's leaders. The dominance
of Wall Street may be coming to an end.  
 In effect, "Wall Strasse" can overtake Wall Street:
European financial centers can lure refugees from the tightly
regulated New York markets, and the big European banks can start
offering customers the all-in-one service that their U.S. rivals
won't be able to anymore.  
 The impact of Obama's assault on the investment banks is
clear. The U.S. plans to prevent banks from proprietary trading
-- that is, taking positions in stocks, bonds, currencies or
other instruments on their own account. And it intends to stop
them from owning hedge and private-equity funds.  
 It remains to be seen whether the legislation can be
passed, and whether the banks can find a clever way of
sidestepping the rules.  
 But Europe's response should be very simple: The region
should do precisely nothing.  
 Resist the Pressure  
 There will be plenty of pressure to match the U.S.
proposals with their own restrictions. George Osborne, the
Treasury spokesman for the U.K.'s opposition Conservative Party,
has already hinted as much. Regulators in Frankfurt, Paris and
Brussels will be told they should copy the new rules.  
 They should resist.  
 Obama's proposals are senseless. They are driven by
populist fury at the greed and irresponsibility of the banking
industry rather than a cold-headed analysis of the problems.  
 Admittedly, that is understandable. The way the banks have
gone straight back to paying huge bonuses so soon after many of
them collapsed has displayed breathtaking arrogance, and a lack
of political savvy for which they will pay a high price. In
effect, they may well have blown up their whole industry for the
sake of a single year's bonus. Not smart.  
 Yet fury is rarely a good basis for drafting legislation.
There is no reason why banks shouldn't be allowed to own hedge
and private-equity funds. There weren't any banks that went bust
because those units lost a bundle of money. Sure, some of the
funds suffered in the recession of the past year. But there is
no evidence they caused the crisis.  
 Goldman as Survivor  
 Nor is there any reason why the banks shouldn't be allowed
to trade on their own account. Again, where is the proof that it
was proprietary trading that caused the crash?  
 The bank that is among the most involved in hedge funds,
private-equity funds and proprietary trading is also the one
that came through the credit crunch in best shape: Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. If you look at the facts, you would be forced to
conclude that the banks should deepen their involvement in hedge
funds, and trade their own books more, not less.  
 So there is no reason for Europe to follow the U.S. lead.  
 True, there is a problem with banks being "too big to
fail." That needs to be fixed. But the important words in that
sentence are "big" and "fail." What we need are rules that
make sure that badly run banks can collapse without causing
systemic damage. And we may well need to break up banks into
smaller units. But while they may become smaller, we don't need
to micromanage bank businesses.  
 Bank Refuge  
 Instead, Europe should take advantage of the U.S. bank
bill. It can do that in two ways.  
 First, it can provide a refuge for the big U.S. banks
concerned about the impact of the new rules. Goldman Sachs
moving to London? JPMorgan Chase & Co. to Frankfurt? Why not?
Companies go through huge transformations all the time to
maintain and expand their businesses. Shifting the location of
your headquarters across an ocean isn't such a big deal. If
that's what you need to do, get on with it.  
 Second, the main European banks, unshackled by these
restrictions, can move into the space that their U.S. rivals
will be forced to vacate.  
 Integrated investment banks, including hedge and buyout
funds, and trading their own books, weren't created because
bankers just wanted to take wild and crazy risks (although a few
probably did). It was how they served their customers.  
 Full Service  
 A company coming to an investment bank didn't just want
advice on a merger: It wanted a bank that could arrange the
finance as well even if that meant buying a subsidiary for its
private-equity fund, or taking some stock onto its own books.
They didn't just want a sponsor for an initial public offering:
They wanted a bank that could buy the shares as well.  
 Once Obama's bill is pushed through, the U.S. banks won't
be allowed to offer the full range of services anymore.  
 That doesn't mean the demand won't be there. The customers
will shrug and switch to the banks that give them what they
want: the likes of Deutsche Bank AG, Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, and Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 For three decades, the growth of the European banking
industry was constricted by their inability to become major
players on Wall Street. New York was the center. If you weren't
dominant there, you couldn't compete at the highest level.  
 But Obama has given "Wall Strasse" the chance to overtake
Wall Street. Europe's banks should seize the opportunity to
become the dominant force in global finance.  
 (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        