-- Telekomunikacja Plans to Cut Fixed-Line Calls Prices
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2007-01-31T16:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-31/telekomunikacja-plans-to-cut-fixed-line-calls-prices-update1-.html

          
          
             Telekomunikacja Polska SA,  Poland 's
former phone monopoly, plans to cut prices for fixed-line calls
this year to compete better and keep its share of the market.  
 ``We assumed in this year's budget that because of the
increasing competition, our prices will fall,'' Chief Executive
Officer Maciej Witucki said in an interview from Paris today. ``We
already filed the proposed new pricelist to the regulator.''  
 Telekomunikacja, controlled by  France Telecom SA (FTE) , is still
adjusting to the loss of its monopoly and yesterday reported an
unexpected 21 percent decline in profit for the fourth quarter
after the company cut prices amid tougher competition.  
 The regulator forced the company to rent its infrastructure
to companies such as  Sweden 's  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  and local rival Netia SA,
which are starting a subscribed fixed-line service to gain some of
Telekomunikacja's more than 10 million customers.  
 ``This company is not a monopolist fighting for a survival,''
said Witucki, who took over as CEO in November. ``It's a future-oriented firm operating on a free market.''  
 The company, which still controls about 80 percent of the
fixed-line market in Poland, expects to keep customers by adding
more services, Witucki said. Last year it introduced a service
called ``triple play,'' providing telephone, TV, video on demand
and broadband services using one line for a single fee.  
 Market Share  
 The new products and price cuts may mean the company's loss
of fixed-line market share won't be significant this year, Witucki
said, declining to elaborate.  
 Telekomunikacja expects sales to fall by 1 percent in 2007
after rising 1.5 percent to 18.6 billion zloty ($6 billion) last
year. The guidance doesn't include any ``new, sudden and
unexpected'' charges from the regulator, Witucki said.  
 The company is interested in buying other mobile phone and
Internet operators in Poland or neighboring countries.  
 ``Telekomunikacja is based in a very interesting region and
we have certain ambitions referring to this region,'' he said. It
doesn't plan to sell online portal Wirtualna Polska SA, he added.  
 The dividend policy of at least 1.40 zloty per share payout
is based on the assumption that the company may spend some capital
on acquisitions and new products, Witucki said. The dividend may
be higher if Telekomunikacja finds itself with cash, Witucki said.  
 Witucki came to the company from Lukas Bank SA, a Polish unit
of  France 's Credit Agricole SA. Founded in 1998, Lukas was one of
the first Polish lenders to emphasize Internet and telephone
banking, and the supervisory board said Telekomunikacja needs to
follow the bank's example on  customer service .  
 Shares of Telekomunikacja have risen 10 percent during the
past 12 months, giving the company a market value of about $11.9
billion. Magyar Telekom Nyrt.,  Hungary 's former phone monopoly,
has risen 2.3 percent over the same period. The company has a
market value of about $5.3 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Warsaw at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Barrett in London at 
 tbarrett4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        