-- Norilsk Billionaires Prokhorov, Potanin Split Assets
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-01-31T16:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-31/norilsk-billionaires-prokhorov-potanin-split-assets-update3-.html

          
          
               Russia  billionaires  Vladimir Potanin  and  Mikhail Prokhorov  agreed to split their assets,
raising investor expectations the world's largest nickel miner
will be sold to the state or a strategic investor.  
 Prokhorov will resign his post as chief executive officer
of OAO GMKN  Norilsk Nickel  and sell his shares in the mining
company to Potanin, their holding company Interros said in an e-
mailed statement today. The business partners' 54.8 percent of
Norilsk is worth $17.2 billion, based on today's share price.  
 Potanin, a government loyalist who has promised to invest
in President  Vladimir Putin 's bid to hold the 2014 winter
Olympics in Russia, had left the day-to-day running of Norilsk
to Prokhorov while focusing on new investments through Interros.
The two men bought Norilsk from the state in 1994.  
 ``One of the most politically aware oligarchs in the
country is now in charge of a strategic asset,'' said  Roland Nash , chief strategist at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow. This
``begs the question'' whether Potanin will sell Norilsk to a
state company.  
 Shares of Norilsk rose $3, or 1.9 percent, to $165.5 as of
6:38 p.m. in Moscow today, giving the palladium and nickel
producer a market value of $31.5 billion.  
 Tightening Grip  
 Putin is tightening his grip on Russian industries deemed
key to national security by buying stakes from foreign companies
after threatening to revoke licenses. He forced the bankruptcy
of OAO Yukos Oil Co. and the eventual sale of most of its assets
to friendly hands.  
 Nickel, used in steelmaking, rose to a record last week as
supplies monitored by global exchanges dropped to the equivalent
of two days use.  
 ``Potanin is much more likely to sell a stake,'' said James Fenkner, managing director of Red Star Asset Management in
Moscow, which has $100 million of assets. ``The question is
whether the state has enough desire to pay for a stake they sold
much cheaper years ago or it's a potential cross-border
transaction.''  
 The Interros statement gave no timeframe or reason for
Prokhorov's resignation, saying he would finish ``a series of
projects.''  
 Prokhorov and Potanin will also split other assets, such as
gold miner OAO Polyus, turbine maker OAO  Siloviye Mashiny (SILM) , media
holding Prof-Media, real estate developer Open Investments and
lender Rosbank, Interros said. Prokhorov will take full control
of the holding's energy and hydrogen assets. A new company will
be created to hold his stakes.  
 Potanin, 46, and Prokhorov, 41, have discussed the split-up
for many months, Potanin said in the statement. Their Interros
holds disparate assets that could be managed more effectively
separately, he said.  
 `Hunting Alone'  
 ``In general these guys hunt alone, they don't hunt in a
troop,'' said  Eric Kraus , who manages $20 million at the Moscow-
based Nikitsky Russia Fund. ``Their business interests have been
diverging for some time.''  
 Kraus said he hasn't seen evidence of government interest
in Norilsk.  
 Prokhorov will take control of Smart Hydrogen, a joint
venture between Interros and Norilsk Nickel, which also holds a
35 percent stake in Plug Power Inc. of the U.S, a developer of
electricity-producing fuel cells. In April, when the Russians
bought into Plug Power, they vowed to sink $285 million in cash
and securities to expand the developer's business.  
 ``Such investment demands significant intellectual and
financial commitments,'' Prokhorov said today. ``Hydrogen
technology will allow Russia to create an innovative economy.''  
 Prokhorov will acquire at least 14 percent in OAO OGK-3, a
wholesale power generation company based in west Siberia
currently held by  Norilsk Nickel (GMKN)  and Interros. The nickel miner
also owns Arctic power company Taimyrenergo and 24.8 percent of
electricity producer Kolenergo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        