-- SEC Seeks to Foster Competition for Credit-Raters
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2007-01-31T23:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-31/sec-seeks-to-foster-competition-for-credit-raters-update2-.html

          
          
             The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission proposed rules making it easier for credit-rating
companies to get federal approval, part of an effort to encourage
competition for  Standard & Poor's  and Moody's Investors Service.  
 The SEC today proposed allowing debt-rating firms in
business for at least three years to register for federal
designation as long as they provide details on their ratings
performance and certifications from clients. Congress mandated
the SEC rules in a law passed last year.  
 ``Standard & Poor's and Moody's yield enormous influence,''
SEC Chairman  Christopher Cox  said at an agency meeting in
 Washington . ``The goal of this new law is to improve ratings
quality by fostering competition.''  
 SEC recognition gives S&P, Moody's,  Fitch Ratings  and two
other firms an edge in selling services to fund managers who make
investment decisions based on their ratings. The collapse of
Enron Corp., which had an investment-grade rating from S&P and
Moody's four days before its 2001 bankruptcy filing, fueled
congressional demands for more competition.  
 Corporations pay debt-rating companies to rank the credit-worthiness of their businesses, as well as the bonds and
preferred stock that they issue. S&P, Moody's and Fitch account
for more than 90 percent of the global  credit-rating  market,
according to the companies' regulatory filings.  
 Other Firms  
 A.M. Best Co. and Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd. are the
only other firms recognized as a ``nationally recognized
statistical rating organization'' by the SEC. Once the proposed
SEC regulations become final, the agency may have to monitor the
industry to prevent saturation, said Sean Egan, who is seeking
federal recognition for his firm, Haverford, Pennsylvania-based
Egan-Jones Ratings Co.  
 ``The positive is that the act opens up the industry,'' Egan
said. ``The negative is that the market will have to sort out the
timely and accurate and independent firms.''  
 The rulemaking would also boost the SEC's oversight of
credit-rating firms by giving the agency ``recordkeeping and
examination'' authority for the first time, agency commissioner
Annette Nazareth said.  
 Credit-rating firms would have to report to the SEC audited
financial statements, client lists and procedures aimed at
preventing the release of non-public information to investors.
Conflicts of interest, such as a firm assigning a credit rating
to a subsidiary, would be prohibited.  
 The regulation calls for the SEC to respond to completed
applications within 90 days. The agency's five commissioners have
to approve or deny an application. Currently, SEC staff decides
whether a credit-rating company should receive federal
recognition.  
 Since 1975, only nine rating companies have been granted
nationally recognized status by the government, according to the
SEC. Only five now hold that designation because of mergers.  
 The SEC will take public comment on the proposal for 30 days
before deciding whether to make it final.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Erik Schatzker  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        