-- Sitronics Sets IPO Price at Between $12 and $15
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2007-01-31T09:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-31/sitronics-sets-ipo-price-at-between-12-and-15-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Sitronics, the technology unit
of Russian billionaire Vladimir Yevtushenkov's holding company
 AFK Sistema (SSA) , is selling stock for between $12 and $15 each in
the fifth initial public offering by a Sistema company.  
 The range is for global depositary receipts and values
Sitronics at between $1.92 billion and $2.4 billion before
taking into account the proceeds received in connection with the
IPO, the Moscow-based company said in a regulatory filing,
without saying how many shares it plans to sell. Sitronics plans
to sell ordinary shares at between 24 and 30 cents.  
 Sitronics is selling existing and new shares and will list
the proxy stock on the London Stock Exchange and the ordinary
shares on the RTS and Micex exchanges in Moscow. One depositary
receipt equals 50 ordinary shares, Sitronics said.  
 ``It is in line with the management previous estimates when
it said it plans to raise up to $550 million from the share
sale,'' said Konstantin Belov, an analyst with UralSib Financial
Corp. in Moscow. ``The key issue is whether investors will
believe the company. There are many uncertainties.''  
 Sitronics's niche micro-electronics products provide steady
orders from government agencies such as the defense ministry and
transportation companies. Even so, the company faces
international competition in consumer electronics.  
 The company intends to use 50 percent of the proceeds from
the offering for acquisitions, including for the consolidation
of minority interests in its subsidiaries, Sitronics said. It
will also use 25 percent to pay off debt and the remaining 25
percent for general corporate purposes.  
 Sitronics spokesman Sergei Filippov said that company will
announce the size of the stake it plans to sell in the first
half of February.  
 Sistema last year said that it planned to sell about 20
percent of Sitronics in an IPO in February, and expected the
company to be valued at about $2.5 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        