-- YM Biosciences Halts Trial; Fails to Boost Survival
-- Luke Timmerman
-- 2007-01-31T00:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-31/ym-biosciences-halts-trial-fails-to-boost-survival-update2-.html

          
          
             YM Biosciences Inc. said a safety
monitoring group advised it to shut down a breast cancer drug
trial because it's ``very unlikely'' the experimental treatment
will improve patients' survival. The shares dropped 49 percent.  
 The independent panel of experts monitoring the trial
analyzed data on 351 patients in the study, YM Biosciences, a
cancer-drug developer, said in a statement today. The trial
wasn't stopped because of safety concerns about the medicine,
tesmilifene, the company said.  
 The drug only works on tumor cells that are resistant to
chemotherapy, said  David Miller , president of Biotech Stock
Research, an independent equity research firm in Seattle. The
trial may have failed because patients enrolled in the trial from
overseas may not have been as sick as patients in North America
and Western Europe, he said.  
 Miller said he's still optimistic about the company's
Nimotuzumab cancer drug, because it has shown fewer side effects
than other similar drugs.  
 ``This company is not going to vanish,'' Miller, who owns
shares of YM, said in an interview. He wrote in a note to clients
today that YM is in good shape financially, with C$80 million
($67.8 million) to C$90 million in cash, and spending of about
C$10 million per quarter.  
 YM shares plunged in extended trading after the news, to
$1.94 a share from $3.77, as of 7:29 p.m. New York time on the
American Stock Exchange.  
 The company scheduled a conference call to discuss the
results with analysts tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. New York time.  
 Selective Aim  
 Tesmilifene was being tested in a late-stage clinical trial,
in tandem with two chemotherapy drugs for breast cancer that has
spread to other organs. YM's drug selectively aims for multiple
drug-resistant tumor cells and sensitizes them to chemotherapy,
the company said. The company has two other products in late-
stage development, Nimotuzumab for cancer and AeroLEF, an
inhalable pain reliever.  
 ``We are very disappointed by this outcome and will be
evaluating the data to understand why tesmilifene did not add a
clinical benefit in this trial,'' said  David Allan , chairman and
chief executive officer of the Mississauga, Ontario-based
company, in the statement.  
 The breast cancer study of tesmilifene included a total of
723 patients and completed enrollment in September 2005. YM said
it plans to continue reviewing the data and submit it for
presentation at a medical meeting.  
 In a previous study of 305 patients with metastatic breast
cancer, the drug showed a 50 percent increase in median survival
time of patients, the company said on its Web site. The trial
participants were enrolled by the National Cancer Institute of
Canada, the company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luke Timmerman  in San Francisco at 
 ltimmerman@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Simison  at   rsimison@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        