-- Knight Acquires EdgeTrade Algorithmic Brokerage
-- Edgar Ortega
-- 2007-11-19T22:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-19/knight-acquires-edgetrade-algorithmic-brokerage-update4-.html

          
          
             Knight Capital Group Inc., the
second-largest matchmaker of Nasdaq stocks, plans to acquire
closely held EdgeTrade Inc. for about $59.5 million to bolster
its electronic trading business.  
 Knight will pay $29.5 million in cash and 2.3 million
unregistered shares for EdgeTrade, the  Jersey City , New Jersey-based brokerage said today in a statement. The transaction will
be completed in first quarter of 2008 pending regulatory
approvals and add to Knight's earnings in 2009.  
 Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce has made five
acquisitions since 2005, decreasing Knight's reliance on trading
revenue from making markets in equities. Commissions from
handling electronic orders for institutional investors represent
36 percent of Knight's total revenue this year, more than double
that of 2004. With EdgeTrade, Knight may benefit from investors'
growing use of mathematical algorithms to automatically complete
equity trades more cheaply.  
 ``It's just not cost effective in this day and age to build
your own algorithmic trading product,'' Joyce told analysts in a
conference call today. ``We really don't have a lot of home-grown
algorithms. So, now we are in a really great position to fill a
gap in our offering.''  
 Algorithmic Strategies  
 Algorithmic trading will account for more than half of all
the shares that change hands in the U.S. by 2010 as hedge funds
and other institutional investors adopt automated strategies to
lower transaction costs, according to Aite Group LLC, a Boston-based consultant. As much as 40 percent of the shares traded
today are handled algorithmically.  
 EdgeTrade, founded 11 years ago, started focusing on
algorithmic trading in 2002. About 60 percent to 75 percent of
EdgeTrade's business comes from algorithmic transactions handled
for its 220 customers, President Kyle Zasky said in an interview
in September.  
 EdgeTrade's revenue has increased more than 25 percent over
the past six months, Joyce said. Knight plans to sustain growth
by giving its almost 2,000 customers access to the EdgeTrade
algorithms and expanding into trading strategies for European
equities, currencies and options.  
 ``It's going to drive a lot of business Knight's way,''
 Joyce said. ``They are participating in volume growth in
general, and are picking up market share in particular. We really
like the way the momentum is right now.''  
 Deephaven Hedge Fund  
 Knight fell 53 cents,  or 4.1 percent, to $12.51 at 4:23
p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading on concern the purchase would
slow the company's share buyback program, according to Banc of
America analyst  Chris Allen , who has a ``buy'' rating on the
stock. The acquisition will reduce earnings next year by less
than 5 percent, Chief Financial Officer Steven Bisgay said.  
 Shares of Knight have dropped 35 percent this year after the
company said its Deephaven hedge fund unit may have to return
money to investors because of turmoil in the credit market. The
American Stock Exchange Broker/Dealer index that tracks 12 rivals
has dropped 17 percent this year.  
 Joyce increased the firm's profitability last year by
automating its market-making unit through the use of trading
algorithms. Knight is now offering institutional investors
similar programs from other brokerages through its direct
electronic trading system.  
 The purchase of New York-based EdgeTrade is three times
larger than Knight's most recent acquisition, the $18.2 million
acquisition of the electronic bond trading system ValueBond Inc.
in October 2006, according to a regulatory filing. In April 2006,
Knight paid $77.5 million for the electronic currency trading
system Hotspot FX Inc.  
 Direct Trading Institutional, which gave Knight an
electronic trading system in 2005, has cost the brokerage $52.7
million so far with an additional payment due this quarter,
filings show. Knight hasn't disclosed the value of its 2005
acquisition of the Direct Edge equity market.  
 UBS AG,  Europe 's biggest bank by assets, is the largest
matchmaker of Nasdaq stocks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edgar Ortega in  New York  at 
 ebarrales@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Otis Bilodeau at 
 obilodeau@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        