-- Holiday Sales May Be Worst Since '02 on Forecast Cuts
-- Cotten Timberlake
-- 2007-11-19T21:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-19/holiday-sales-may-be-worst-since-02-on-forecast-cuts-update3-.html

          
          
             The holiday sales season may be the
grimmest for U.S. retailers in at least five years as reduced
profit forecasts by  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , Starbucks Inc. and FedEx
Corp. show the effects of a slowing economy.  
 ``The reports this past week indicate that things are
really bad,'' Patricia Edwards, a Seattle-based money manager
at Wentworth, Hauser & Violich, said Nov. 16. Her firm manages
$11.9 billion in assets, including shares of several store-chains. ``Early indications are this is going to be a much
slower time going forward than previously expected,'' she said.  
 High gasoline and home heating prices, as well as levels
of consumer debt, are discouraging Americans from spending,
according to a survey released today. Retailers reported
slowing sales in September and October, and analysts said
chains catering to middle-income customers may be hurt the most
in the next six weeks.  
 FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the second-largest U.S. package-shipping
company, cut its profit forecast on Nov. 16 for a second time
because of rising fuel costs and weak freight demand.  
 Shares of retailers have been plunging since the holiday
sales season started Nov. 1. The Standard & Poor's 500
Retailing Index fell 3 percent to 407.06 at 4:14 p.m. The index
is down 12 percent this month, including a 27 percent drop by
J.C. Penney, the third-largest U.S. department-store chain.  
 Two Affirmed Forecasts  
 The holiday selling season's losers may be the companies
that don't manage to adjust their variable costs like store
hours and advertising to compensate for decelerating sales.
Such discipline helped  Macy's Inc. (M)  and Williams-Sonoma Inc.
affirm their profit forecasts this past week.  
 Thirty-five percent of Americans surveyed said they intend
to lower their holiday spending this year, the most in eight
years and up from 32 percent last year, the Consumer Federation
of America and the Credit Union National Association said
today.  
 ``By a wide margin, the strongest negative influence is
the high cost of gasoline and home heating,'' the credit union
group's chief economist, Bill Hampel, said at a news
conference.  
 Sales in November and December represent 20 percent of
retailers' annual revenue, according to the National Retail
Federation, a Washington-based trade group. U.S. jewelers tally
the highest percentage of their sales during the season, 31
percent, and  department stores , 24 percent, the NRF said. The
fourth quarter accounts for almost a third of retailers' annual
profit, according to the International Council of Shopping
Centers.  
 Impact on Economy  
 Spending by consumers also accounts for two-thirds of U.S.
gross domestic product.  
 ``They felt rich a year ago,'' said Kurt Barnard,
president of Retail Forecasting LLC in Upper Montclair, New
Jersey. ``Now they feel put upon. That robs them of a certain
freedom to spend what they like.''  
 The ICSC, a New York-based trade group, projects November
and December comparable sales at the approximately 70 chains it
tracks to climb 2.5 percent, the slowest in three years. The
NRF in September predicted a 4 percent gain in total retail
sales to $475.5 billion for November and December, the smallest
gain since a 1.3 percent rise in 2002.  
 ``Unbeknownst to us, we saw economic headwinds that quite
frankly came up probably stronger than I thought,'' Starbucks
Chief Executive Officer Jim Donald said in an interview Nov. 15
after the world's largest chain of coffee shops lowered its
profit and sales outlooks. The company also reported its first-ever decline in U.S. customer visits.  
 Lowered Forecasts  
 J.C. Penney on Nov. 15 reduced its fourth-quarter profit
forecast by as much as a third. A day earlier, Macy's, the
second-largest after  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , trimmed its sales
estimate for the year-end period.  
 Williams-Sonoma, the biggest U.S. gourmet-cookware chain,
said fourth-quarter profit will be at the low end of its
prediction.  
 ``The macro environment is weakening,'' Williams-Sonoma
Chief Executive Officer Howard Lester said in a Nov. 15
statement. ``Retail traffic is slower than we would have
expected.'' Retailers are ``struggling,'' he said on a
conference call.  
 Kohl's Corp. (KSS) , the fourth-largest  department store  company,
and Home Depot Inc., the world's largest home-improvement
retailer, also cut profit projections last week.  
 Wal-Mart's Outlook  
 Bucking the trend was  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world's
largest retailer. On Nov. 13, it boosted its full-year forecast
after reporting higher third-quarter profit than analysts
estimated. The discounter made more numerous price cuts on
holiday items this year, starting with toys in October.  
 Some luxury retailers, which cater to wealthier consumers,
have raised warning flags. Polo  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  this month
reported a slowdown in September  sales  and cut its annual
profit forecast for a third time.  
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  reduced expectations earlier, in October,
cutting its third-quarter profit outlook because it has had to
take markdowns to clear excess  inventory . It reports earnings
today. Other retailers releasing quarterly results this week
are  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest discounter, and luxury
retailer Saks Inc., which both report tomorrow, and Gap Inc.,
which does so on Wednesday.  
 The traditional kick-off to the holiday rush, known as
Black Friday because the season may determine whether retailers
are profitable, is in four days.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Customers take advantage of Black Friday sales, early Friday morning, in Spotsylvania, Virginia, on Nov. 24, 2006. Photographer: Tom Starkweather/Bloomberg News.  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A shopper pushes his cart past a Christmas tree display at a Lowe's store in Trevose, Pennsylvania Nov. 17, 2007.  Photographer: Mike Mergen/Bloomberg News.

  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
