-- Peru Stocks Fall on Metal Demand Concern: World's Biggest Mover
-- Romina Nicaretta
-- 2007-11-19T22:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-19/peru-stocks-fall-on-metal-demand-concern-world-s-biggest-mover.html

          
          
             Peru's main stock index fell the most
in three months, led by  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , on concern that
slowing U.S. and Chinese demand will reduce mining profits.  
 The  Lima general index  of mostly commodity producers
retreated 1,014.91, or 5.3 percent, to 18,195.49. It was the
biggest move among markets included in global benchmarks and the
measure's steepest drop since Aug. 16.  Brazil 's main index fell
3.5 percent. Mexican markets were closed for a public holiday.  
 Metal prices tumbled on rising supplies and concern that
demand will weaken.  China 's banking regulator said it's guiding
banks to cool lending, while the number of economists forecasting
the U.S. will slip into recession almost doubled over the last
two months, according to a survey by the National Association for
Business Economics.  
 ``The slump in the mining sector'' is driving today's fall,
said Jose Menor, an analyst at Juan Magot y Asociados SAB in
 Lima . ``A reduction in global demand is being anticipated and
that's what's generating all of this.''  
 Southern Copper, the world's fifth-largest copper producer,
lost 6.2 percent to $102.50. Copper fell 5.4 percent to the
lowest since March in New York.  
 Volcan Cia. Minera SAA, the world's eighth-largest zinc
producer, lost 7.5 percent, to 10.93 soles, after zinc fell to a
20-month low in  London  as shipments from China accelerated on
speculation the government will end a tax rebate on exports.  
 Brazilian Shares Fall  
 Brazil's main stock index fell on speculation that a slowing
U.S. economy and widening credit losses will hurt corporate
profits.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and  Cia. Vale do Rio Doce  paced a
decline in commodity producers.  
 The  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index of the most-traded stocks on the Sao Paulo
exchange slid 2,273.36, or 3.5 percent, to 62,336.02. The Morgan
Stanley Capital International index of Latin American shares
declined 2.9 percent to 4,320.42.  
 ``Stock markets are falling because of concern the U.S.
economy will slow and this could end up affecting us,'' said
Guilherme Sand, who helps manage 600 million reais of ($344
million) for Solidus CCVM in Porto Alegre, Brazil.  
 Vale, the world's largest iron ore producer, retreated 3.6
percent to 50.15 reais. Petrobras, Brazil's state controlled oil
company, dropped 1.9 percent to 77.3 reais.  
 U.S. stocks fell to three-month lows after Goldman, Sachs &
Co. told investors to sell Citigroup Inc. shares and Lowe's Cos.
cut its earnings forecast for the second time in two months.  
 Bank Stocks Slide  
 Investors are selling Brazilian banking stocks because of
concern the global credit crisis will increase borrowing costs,
Solidus's Sand said.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , the country's second-
biggest non-state bank, dropped 5 percent to 53.19 reais.  
 Trading in Brazil may have been affected today by the
maturity of option contracts, Sand said. Trading has been lower
than average because tomorrow is a holiday in the country.  
 Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  fell the most in three months after Quanex Corp.
said it will sell its vehicular-products unit to Latin America's
biggest steelmaker for about $1.67 billion. Gerdau may need to
reduce its dividend in the ``short term'' to finance the deal,
said Januario Hostin Jr., who helps manage 60 million reais of
stocks and bonds at Leme Investimentos Ltda. Gerdau lost 4.7
percent to 50.5 reais.  
 In other Latin American markets, the main indexes in
Argentina, Chile and Colombia all fell, while  Venezuela 's was
little changed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Romina Nicaretta in Sao Paulo at 
 rnicaretta@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at  at  chrisnagi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        