-- Wavefield Calls for New Review of TGS-Nopec Merger
-- Vibeke Laroi
-- 2007-11-19T15:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-19/wavefield-calls-for-new-review-of-tgs-nopec-merger-update3-.html

          
          
             Wavefield Inseis ASA asked to
postpone a merger with  TGS-Nopec Geophysical Co. (TGS)  until after a
new review of TGS-Nopec's lower sales is conducted, presenting a
further obstacle to the combination of the Norwegian oil and gas
surveyors.  
 ``There's tension between the two companies and it's
uncertain whether the merger will go through,'' said analyst
Morten Nystroem at Kaupthing Bank in Oslo, who has a ``reduce''
rating on TGS-Nopec shares and a ``buy'' on Wavefield. ``TGS
shares fell because people are speculating that the merger won't
go through or that the terms will be improved for Wavefield
shareholders.''  
 TGS-Nopec  shares  dropped 5.8 percent to close at 76 kroner
in Oslo, while Wavefield stock fell 0.2 percent to 41.1 kroner.  
 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP was asked by TGS-Nopec to study
the reasons for worse-than-expected third-quarter sales, and the
extent to which the company could have been aware of a revenue
shortfall when shareholders of TGS-Nopec and Wavefield met on
Sept. 20 to approve the merger.  
 The accounting firm said it didn't find any changes to the
third-quarter sales forecast given by management in June that
would have required the company to provide information before,
or at the time of, the shareholders meeting, Naersnes-based TGS-
Nopec said today in a statement.  
 Wavefield Request  
 Wavefield had requested the review and a presentation of
the results at an extraordinary shareholders meeting today.  
 Wavefield's board hasn't yet received the Pricewaterhouse
report and is therefore not in a position to advise shareholders
at a meeting to be held at 4:30 p.m. central European time, the
board said in a statement today.  
 The board will recommend that  shareholders  vote to postpone
the merger until it has ``reasonable evidence'' that conditions
for completing the tie-up have been fulfilled, it said. Calling
for new review, the board said an independent party chosen by
Wavefield must have full access to all relevant TGS-Nopec data.  
 The resolution is supported by about 18 percent of
shareholders as well as by the board, Wavefield Chief Executive
Officer Atle Jacobsen said in an interview today.  
 ``The resolution is to postpone the merger until all the
facts are on the table,'' Jacobsen said, declining to comment on
whether the planned merger might be terminated. ``We will have
to wait and see what the shareholders say.''  
 Sales Forecast  
 Everest Capital Ltd. and Audley Capital Advisors LLP, which
together hold more than 8 percent of Wavefield shares, had
called for a shareholders meeting to study the merger plan after
TGS-Nopec said Oct. 9 that third-quarter revenue would miss
management estimates because of delays to vessels and sales.
TGS-Nopec stock slumped 13 percent that day, the most in five
years. Wavefield  shares  dropped 14 percent.  
 The board of Wavefield said today it can at any time
convene a new extraordinary shareholders meeting to vote on any
``substantive improvement'' in the terms of the merger.  
 TGS-Nopec sees no legal basis for altering or terminating
the merger plan, and the independent review and two legal
opinions have all confirmed that TGS-Nopec acted in an
appropriate manner and hasn't violated the merger agreement,
Chief Executive Hank Hamilton said on a conference call today.  
 ``Any delays or terminations would have extreme economic
consequences,'' Hamilton said. ``Once the creditor period
expires tomorrow, all the conditions will have been met. If the
merger is terminated or delayed without good reason, that would
be not legal.''  
 In July, TGS-Nopec offered 0.505 of a share for each
Wavefield share in a deal that would create the fourth-biggest
oilfield-mapping service. Oil and gas surveyors are merging to
offer clients a wider range of services as rising energy prices
prompt companies including Exxon Mobil Corp. and StatoilHydro
ASA to step up exploration.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Vibeke Laroi in Oslo at 
 vlaroi@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        