-- Ambac 3rd-Quarter Profit Rises, New Premiums Fall
-- Christine Richard
-- 2006-10-25T16:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-10-25/ambac-3rd-quarter-profit-rises-new-premiums-fall-update1-.html

          
          
             Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the
world's second-largest bond insurer, said third-quarter profit
rose 22 percent even amid a drop in new business as a reduction
in reserves related to  Hurricane Katrina  bolstered results.  
 Third-quarter net income rose to $213.5 million, or $1.98 a
share, from $175.1 million, or $1.61 a year earlier, the New
York-based company said in a statement today. Profit excluding
investment gains was $1.92 a share, the company said.  
 The company said it was releasing $35.6 million of its
reserves that were set aside in the third quarter of 2005 to
cover exposure to credits affected by Hurricane Katrina. ``The
decrease is primarily due to significant state and federal
support recently provided to the region, particularly the
greater New Orleans area,'' Ambac said in the statement.  
 Ambac's so-called credit enhancement production, a measure
of all new business, fell 16 percent to $216.2 million in the
quarter amid less public finance issuance and more competition,
sending the company's shares down the most in more than a year.
The production decline was due to a 36 percent drop in upfront
premiums from insuring U.S. public finance deals, Ambac said.  
 Ambac shares fell as much as 3.7 percent earlier today in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest one-day
drop since April 20, 2005. The shares were down $1.96 or
2.3 percent, to $82.70 as of 12:25 p.m.  
 ``There is some disappointment with their production'' said
Andrew Wessel, a JPMorgan Securities Inc. analyst in New York.
``The public finance market has been extremely competitive.''  
 MBIA Inc., the world's biggest bond insurer, is scheduled
to report third-quarter results tomorrow.  
 Excess Capital  
 Credit enhancement production, which doesn't adhere to
generally accepted accounting principles, is defined by Ambac as
gross upfront premiums and the present value of estimated
installment premiums on insurance policies and structured  credit
derivatives .  
 A slowdown in new business written means that the company
will build up the amount of capital it has in excess of what's
needed to maintain a triple-A debt rating, Ambac Chief Financial
Officer Sean Leonard said on a conference call with investors.  
 The company may use excess capital to buy back shares
rather than boost its dividend as that provides it with more
flexibility, Leonard said. Ambac said today that its board
authorized the buy back of as many as 6 million more shares.  
 Premium Income  
 Accelerated premiums dropped 50 percent to $24.5 million
amid less demand from issuers to refund outstanding bonds.
Refundings allow bond insurers to accelerate the recognition of
premiums into the quarter in which those deals are refinanced.  
 Analysts largely discount refundings because the boost in
income is offset by a reduction in future earnings. Taking that
into account, the company reported profit from operations, minus
the refundings and investment gains, of $1.79 a share.  
 The bond insurance industry is awaiting a draft proposal
from the  Financial Accounting Standards Board  which will give
guidance on how insurers should recognize premiums and reserve
against potential losses. Practices vary widely, making
comparisons between companies difficult.  
 At its last meeting on Sept. 13 in Norwalk,  Connecticut ,
FASB tentatively agreed with how Ambac sets aside reserves based
on deterioration of individual credits. The methodology differs
from that used by MBIA, which sets aside 12 percent of scheduled
earned premiums each period.  
 To Early  
 The accounting board also reached a preliminary decision to
require bond insurers to report premium income at the same pace
as the bonds they insure pay down. Currently, bond insurers
recognize premiums more rapidly.  
 The new rule, for example, would mean that bond insurers
wouldn't be permitted to recognize any income on a zero coupon
bond until the final maturity date. Currently, bond insurers
recognize income over the life of the bond even though no
payments are made.  
 Leonard said it's too early to estimate the effect of the
FASB guidelines on future earnings.  
 ``Shrinking supply and an aggressive competitive
environment are causing declines'' in the public finance
segment, Leonard said. He added that the company had closed two
stadium finance transactions in the third quarter.  
 FASB is still working on a final proposal which is expected
to be released in the fourth quarter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Richard in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        