-- Wheeling-Pitt, Defying Gendell, Agrees to CSN Merger
-- Dale Crofts
-- 2006-10-25T20:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-10-25/wheeling-pitt-defying-gendell-agrees-to-csn-merger-update3-.html

          
          
             Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corp., a West
Virginia-based steelmaker, said it agreed to merge with  Brazil 's
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA in defiance of opposition from some
shareholders including hedge fund manager Jeffrey Gendell.  
 Wheeling-Pittsburgh, based in Wheeling,  West Virginia , will
hold 50.5 percent in a new company to be formed with Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional. CSN will invest $225 million and add its
steel processing facility in  Terre Haute ,  Indiana , to the new
business, Wheeling-Pittsburgh said today in a statement.  
 The announcement comes over the objections of Wheeling-Pittsburgh's third-largest shareholder, the Tontine Management
LLC hedge fund run by Gendell. The deal undervalues Wheeling-Pittsburgh, said Gendell, owner of stakes in at least 10 steel
companies, and U.S. Steel Corp's largest shareholder.  
 Gendell, who holds about 9.5 percent of Wheeling-Pittsburgh's shares, said in an Oct. 13 letter to the company's
board that the steelmaker should remain independent ``absent
dramatic enhancements'' to ``change-of-control proposals'' from
CSN and from Esmark Inc. He also urged the board to begin
searching for a new management team ``immediately.''  
 Esmark's Proposal  
 Esmark, a Chicago-based steel distributor, is proposing to
elect an alternative slate of directors at Wheeling-Pittsburgh's
annual shareholder meeting on Nov. 17 and aims to strike down
the proposed combination with CSN in favor of its own offer to
merge.  
 Shares of Wheeling-Pittsburgh fell 12 cents to $19.82 at
4:22 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. They have gained 53
percent from a year ago. CSN dropped 60 centavos, or 0.9
percent, to 67 reais in  Sao Paolo .  
 ``The board of directors and executive management has once
again revealed their lack of business judgment and disregard for
shareholders, employees and retirees by entering into a shotgun
marriage,'' Esmark said today in a release.  
 Esmark wants to be acquired by Wheeling-Pittsburgh in a deal
that includes getting $200 million from Esmark investors,
including funds controlled by Franklin Mutual Advisers LLC.  
 The United Steelworkers union also opposes the merger with
CSN, preferring a deal with Esmark. It's already had labor
contract negotiations with Esmark and says a special clause in
its contract with Wheeling-Pittsburgh gives it the power to
block the CSN agreement. Wheeling-Pitt says the union isn't able
to block the deal.  
 Tontine Financing Offer  
 Tontine has offered as much as $100 million in financing
to Wheeling-Pitt through a share sale. ``Significant and
immediate change is necessary to enable the company to address
the operating challenges it still faces and embrace the
opportunities emerging in the global marketplace,'' Tontine said
in the Oct. 13 letter.  
 Tontine is the biggest shareholder of AK Steel Corp., the
third-largest U.S. steelmaker by 2005 revenue, with a 10 percent
stake as of June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Gendell has about 6.3 percent of U.S. Steel, and a 4.8 percent
stake in steel distributor Ryerson Inc.  
 ``Together, we will create an integrated, value-added
production chain that will result in a more flexible cost
structure, broader value-added product offerings and significant
incremental earnings potential,'' said Marcos Lutz, CSN managing
director for infrastructure and energy, in the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dale Crofts in  Chicago  at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        