-- Corus Auction Begins Jan. 30, With Tata, CSN Bidding
-- Stuart Wallace
-- 2007-01-26T17:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-26/corus-auction-begins-jan-30-with-tata-csn-bidding-update2-.html

          
          
             Corus Group Plc, the U.K.'s biggest
steelmaker and valued by investors at 5.2 billion pounds ($10.2
billion), will be auctioned off on Jan. 30 with bidding from  Tata
Steel Ltd. (TATA)  and Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA.  
 The auction will start at 4:30 p.m., with a maximum of nine
rounds of bidding, the U.K.'s Takeover Panel said today in a
Regulatory News Service statement. The cash bids may continue until
Feb. 1 and all parties have agreed to the terms set by the panel,
an independent body that supervises takeovers.  
 Corus, formerly British Steel Plc, has become a prize for Tata
and CSN as they seek to enter more mature markets, increasing their
bargaining power with suppliers and clients and providing new
outlets.  
 Tata bid 500 pence for London-based Corus on Dec. 10 and CSN
offered 515 pence on Dec. 11. Tata initially offered 455 pence a
share on Oct. 20, and CSN topped that on Nov. 17. Shares of Corus
closed 5 pence, or 0.9 percent, higher at 558 pence in London.  
 Buying Corus will help Tata add finishing mills in  Europe  that
supply automakers Ford Motor Co. and Volvo AB to plants in  India ,
the world's second  fastest  growing major economy after  China .
Brazilian steelmakers, bolstered by record profit, are turning to
 North America  and Europe for deals because of limited growth at
home.  
 Tata's Offer  
 Tata Steel's Dec. 10 offer was 5.03 times Corus's earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda,
based on the U.K. steelmaker's  earnings  in the 12 months to June
30. CSN's bid is 5.73 times Corus's Ebitda.  
 Mittal Steel Co. bought Arcelor SA last year for $38.3
billion. The offer for Arcelor was 4.46 times the Luxembourg-based
company's earnings.  
 Tata Steel, which was borrowing 3.3 billion pounds for the
initial bid, arranged additional $800 million funding for its 500
pence offer from Standard Chartered Bank Plc and Standard Chartered
First Bank Korea Ltd.  
 Moody's Investors Service and  Standard & Poor's  have said they
may lower Tata's debt rating. Rio de Janeiro-based CSN has said its
debt will  rise  $2.5 billion after the Corus purchase.  
 Arcelor Mittal accounts for about 10 percent of world steel
output and steelmakers want to get bigger, partly to cut the cost
of buying raw materials. Cia. Vale do Rio Doce, BHP Billiton Ltd.
and Rio Tinto Group control three-quarters of the iron-ore trade.  
 Global iron-ore contract prices climbed for the four year by a
record 19 percent gain in 2006, spurring companies to seek
alliances that will cut costs and secure iron-ore supplies. Prices
rose again for 2007, by 9.5 percent.  
 Corus was created through the combination of British Steel and
the Netherlands' Royal Hoogovens in 1999. Chief Executive Officer
Philippe Varin, who took over in 2003, has returned the company to
profit after job cuts and plant closures.  
 Lazard Ltd. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are financial
advisers to CSN. UBS AG is also CSN's corporate broker. Credit
Suisse Group, JPMorgan Cazenove and HSBC Holdings Plc are advising
Corus. NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG and ABN Amro
Holding NV are advising Tata.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Wallace in  London  at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net .
Debarati Roy in Mumbai at 
 Droy5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at   jcarrigan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        