-- As GM Goes So Goes California in Pensions: Roger Lowenstein
-- Roger Lowenstein
-- 2009-06-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-06-02/as-gm-goes-so-goes-california-in-pensions-roger-lowenstein.html

          
          
             Did pension debts ruin General
Motors?  
 I said they did in “ While America Aged ,” a book published
last year. The thesis was that many decades of inflated pension
and health-care benefits forced the company to redirect its free
 cash flow  to retired workers. As a result, there was little or
nothing left for the shareholders.  
 It was as if, I wrote, the company had secretly been sold
and now belonged to the retired workers and their dependents.
That turned out to be only partly right. When GM is reorganized,
the United Auto Workers union will probably end up with 17
percent of the stock. The government will get most of the rest.  
 But among the obligations that caused GM to file for
bankruptcy, two are directly related to worker entitlements. In
2003, GM sold $13.5 billion in bonds -- one of the biggest  debt 
offerings ever -- and plowed the money into its pension fund.
Then, in 2007, after the UAW went on strike, GM agreed to funnel
more than $30 billion into a special trust for retiree health
care.  
 Both the pension bond and the retiree-trust obligation
helped topple GM into Chapter 11  bankruptcy . Of course, they
weren’t the only causes. The great recession, which cut deeply
into sales, was the biggest proximate cause. You can add years
of poor engineering, corporate bureaucracy and a culture that
was too hidebound to change.  
 Though the country has rightly focused on the mortgage
mess, retirement obligations still loom as a daunting
obligation. Thanks to plunging stock markets, which have
decimated retirement accounts, they are more pressing than ever.  
 Trenchant Lessons  
 And of all GM’s problems, the retiree burden provides the
most trenchant lessons. Some companies will always design better
cars than others. But at least, if a company builds a lemon, it
can try again. Or it can close a factory and shrink to a size
appropriate to its sales.  
 Pensions are different. Once promised, they can never be
rescinded. GM’s pension hailed from a negotiation with the UAW
in 1949. The result, known as the Treaty of Detroit, produced a
pension of only $125 a month. GM was selling cars like hotcakes,
its labor force was young, and the pension was easy to afford.  
 But observers such as  Peter Drucker , then a young
consultant, wondered what would happen if GM’s business turned
 south  while its pension obligation remained. And the pension
didn’t just remain, it steadily grew, and so did health care.  
 Easier Choice  
 With each new labor contract, GM management found it easier
to grant sweeter future benefits than to raise current wages.
Over time, benefits went up much more quickly. That left GM with
a daunting unfunded health-care obligation. As retirees lived
longer -- one died in 2006 at age 111 -- and the cost of
providing health care mushroomed, the expense grew beyond
anything imagined in 1949.  
 GM stayed current on pensions, but the money it funneled
into retirement plans left less for engineering and restyling.
And shareholder dividends? Forget ‘em. Over a 15-year stretch,
GM plowed $55 billion into pensions and only $13 billion into
 dividends . That’s why I said the shareholders had been
disenfranchised.  
 Eventually, when the competitive landscape turned, GM fell
behind on pensions too. By 2002, GM’s pension fund was $20
billion under-funded. It borrowed to make the pension fund
whole, but that merely transferred the problem to the  balance
sheet .  
 Delphi Spinoff  
 GM tried to unload some of its retiree obligations by
spinning off its auto-parts business, Delphi Corp. But Delphi
preceded it into bankruptcy, and GM’s continuing obligation to
the Delphi workers was another factor leading to its demise.  
 The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., the federal agency that
may have to bail out GM workers, is now $33.5  billion  in the
red. Many more private pension failures loom.  
 Pensions also pose a huge problem for many cities and
states. California’s government, one of the most profligate in
awarding pensions, is on the verge of going broke. In many other
states, pension funds are grossly under-funded. And even more so
than in the private sector, public pensions, once agreed to, are
impossible to modify.  
 Last but not least, retirement is a daunting problem for
the federal government. Last month, the Social Security
Administration announced that  deficits  will occur sooner than
thought for Social Security and Medicare. Those obligations are
on top of the skyrocketing federal  deficit , estimated at $1.75
trillion for the current year. These are all symptoms of the
same disease.  
 Viral Symptoms  
 I am not against retirement benefits; older people need to
be able to retire with dignity and a decent life. The lesson of
GM is that benefits must be paid for as they are incurred.
Corporations with under-funded pensions should be brought to
heel. Otherwise, as with Delphi and other failed companies,
pensions agreed to by private parties will end up being paid for
by the public.  
 At the government level, pensions are a subset of a rampant
fiscal virus: promising goodies without funding them. States
that are behind, such as Illinois and New Jersey, must recognize
that either they raise taxes and fund their pensions, or they
reduce benefits for future employees. No other solution exists.  
 Congress also must bite the bullet and get Social Security
on a sounder footing. That probably means raising the payroll
tax. In the case of Medicare, fiscal prudence will likely demand
higher taxes and service cuts. Neither private nor public
pension sponsors can keep making promises that are above their
means, or that they fail to fund. General Motors proved it.  
 ( Roger Lowenstein , author of “When Genius Failed,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the author of this column:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Flags fly outside the General Motors Corp. headquarters in Detroit, May 14, 2009. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
