-- Gazprom Warns Ukraine Over Payments as Deadline Approaches
-- Torrey Clark
-- 2009-06-02T15:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-06-02/gazprom-warns-ukraine-over-payments-as-deadline-approaches.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom warned Ukraine that it
may have supplies of natural gas reduced should it fail to make
payments in full for deliveries after Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  cast doubt on the country’s ability to pay.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  discussed payments
with Oleh Dubina, his counterpart from Ukrainian state energy
company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, in Moscow today, state-run  Gazprom 
said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Naftogaz must meet a June 7 payment deadline for imports of
gas from  Russia  under agreements hammered out in January which
helped resolve a dispute that halted deliveries to  Europe  for
almost two weeks. Should Naftogaz fail to meet the deadline fro
last month’s supplies, Gazprom “has every right” to demand
100% prepayment for gas, Miller said.  
 “Even if it comes to switching to advance payments,
Naftogaz will decide itself how much gas to receive,” Miller
said after the meeting according a statement e-mailed by
Gazprom. “What they pay for is what they will get. How is that
a cutoff?”  
 Medvedev proposed on May 22 that Russia and Europe work
together to arrange a loan for Ukraine, which has turned to the
 International Monetary Fund  for a $16.4 billion loan. Naftogaz
needs more than $4 billion to pay for 19.5 billion cubic meters
of gas to be pumped into storage before the winter, Medvedev
said after meeting with the European Union’s leadership.  
 “It’s still unclear whether Naftogaz Ukrainy can pay for
deliveries of gas in May in full and on time,” Miller said
after meeting Dubina.  
 Valentyn Zemlyanskyi, a spokesman for Naftogaz, declined to
comment on how much the company should pay for supplies in May
before the deadline.  
 Gazprom, which supplies about a quarter of Europe’s gas,
cut deliveries to Ukraine on Jan. 1 after the two sides failed
to agree on a contract for 2009. Supplies to Europe were halted
for almost two weeks amid the spat until Russian Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  and his Ukrainian counterpart, Yulia Timoshenko,
negotiated the accord that restored flows.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        