-- MySpace Tightens Web Chat Rules, Adds Amber Alerts
-- Cecile Daurat
-- 2007-01-23T21:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-23/myspace-tightens-web-chat-rules-adds-amber-alerts-update3-.html

          
          
             MySpace,  News Corp. (NWSA) 's social-networking Web site, tightened its rules to deter predators and
started to distribute Amber alerts for missing children.  
 The Web site will block users over 18 from contacting users
under that age and will limit instant messaging to users listed
on each person's friend list, MySpace said today in a statement.  
 MySpace, which hosts more than 150 million personal pages,
increased restrictions to protect young users after being sued
this month over claims that five teenage girls were sexually
abused by adults they met on the site. The Amber alerts, which
are urgent bulletins about abducted kids issued by the  National
Center for Missing & Exploited Children , went live today.  
 ``MySpace is one solution to get that information out to the
public in a quick and easy way,'' said Bob Hoever, associate
director of training at the Alexandria, Virginia-based center.
``The more eyes and ears you have out there, the better.''  
 Notices will be sent to all MySpace users who are within the
postal Zip codes that have been used to broadcast an Amber alert,
the Los Angeles-based company said.  
 The Amber alert program is a voluntary partnership between
law-enforcement agencies, broadcasters and transportation
authorities to broadcast urgent bulletins regarding abductions.
It has helped recover 314 children since its creation 11 years
ago, Hoever said.  
 The program was named after Amber Hagerman, 9, who was
kidnapped and murdered in 1996 in Arlington,  Texas . The crime
remains unsolved.  
 In addition to the new age-based restrictions, all MySpace
users must now provide a valid e-mail address to sign up and
confirm their membership, the company said. MySpace said it
removes an average 25,000 profiles each week because of age
misrepresentation.  
 Class A shares of  News Corp. (NWS)  gained 43 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $23.21 at 4:03 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite  trading . They have gained 44 percent in the past year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Daurat in New York at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@Bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        