-- Russian Stocks Advance to Highest Since May, Led by Lukoil
-- Michael Heath
-- 2006-11-29T16:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-29/russian-stocks-advance-to-highest-since-may-led-by-lukoil.html

          
          
             Russian stocks gained, with the
benchmark  RTS Index (RTSI$)  reaching the highest since its record close
in May.  OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  and  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  led the advance after oil
climbed.  
 OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MTSS) , eastern  Europe 's biggest mobile-
phone company, surged to an all-time high after it said third-
quarter profit rose 40 percent.  
 The dollar-denominated RTS Index added 2.1 percent to
1765.20, 0.15 points lower than its record 1,765.35 close on May
6. The ruble-based Micex Index rose 1.7 percent to 1546.95.  
 Lukoil,  Russia 's biggest oil producer, climbed 2.6 percent
to $87.80. OAO Rosneft, Russia's state-controlled oil company,
increased 1.9 percent to $9.19. Gazprom, the world's largest
natural gas producer, advanced 3.4 percent to $11.60.  
 ``The strong performance of the Russian equity market over
the past days should continue, as most drivers remain
supportive,'' Moscow-based UralSib Financial Corp. said in a note
to investors. ``Oil prices are still rising and expected to rise
further as colder weather is forecast.''  
 Crude oil for January delivery increased as much as 1.8
percent to $62.10 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange,
the highest intraday price since Oct. 10. Oil advanced after a
government report showed a decline in U.S. inventories of heating
oil.  
 Mobile TeleSystems jumped 4.9 percent to a record $8.29
after the company reported net income of $486.3 million, beating
the $398 million median profit estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
nine analysts. Sales rose 30 percent to $1.8 billion.  
 Price Estimate Raised  
 Shares of OAO Volga Telecom, a provider of
telecommunications services to Russia's Volga region, climbed 4.8
percent to $4.35 after ING Groep NV, the largest Dutch financial-
services company, raised the stock to ``buy'' from ``hold'' and
increased its price estimate by 44 percent to $5.70.  
 OAO Sberbank increased 1.8 percent to an all-time high of
$2,500. Sberbank's government-dominated supervisory board will
meet in the ``near future'' to vote on a share sale by Russia's
biggest lender, central bank Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev 
said.  
 State-run Sberbank is planning to raise as much as $8.8
billion in capital selling new shares to boost lending and needs
unanimous consent by its supervisory board. The vote was delayed
yesterday because two supervisors, Economy Minister German Gref
and Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, were out of town.  
 `Delay Immaterial'  
 ``The delay in itself is immaterial, but the issuance plan
would definitely benefit from improvements,'' said Alex Kantarovich, head of research at Moscow-based MDM Bank. Investors
may be hoping for a Western listing and a share split, he said.  
 The stock of  OAO Peter Hambro Mining Plc (POG) , Russia's third-
biggest gold miner, plunged 15 percent to 1,015 pence in  London 
after Russia's environmental watchdog said it may revoke five of
the company's licenses.  
 The environmental inspectorate asked the subsoil resources
agency to revoke the permits for violating the terms they were
awarded under, the ministry said in an e-mailed statement today.
The inspectorate and agency are both part of the ministry.  
 The ministry said the inspectorate will begin checking Peter
Hambro's other 45 licenses ``soon,'' according to the statement.
Peter Hambro has 50 licenses to explore and mine deposits of
gold, titanium, chrome and other metals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Moscow at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        