-- Nasdaq appoints new management for China
-- 
-- Wed Mar 14, 2007 12:03am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/14/businesspro-nasdaq-china-dc-idUSSHA1762420070314

 

 SHANGHAI/HONG KONG  (Reuters) - The Nasdaq Stock Market 
( NDAQ.O ) has appointed new management in Asia, seeking to boost 
listings by companies in China and elsewhere in the region. 


  Eric D. Landheer was made Head of Asia Pacific, based in 
London, the exchange said in a statement late on Tuesday. He 
was previously managing director for new listings at Nasdaq.  Guang Xun Xu becomes the company's co-chief representative 
in China, based in the country. Xu was previously a consultant 
in China and Nasdaq's managing director for Asia between 1994 
and 2004.  Nasdaq currently has 38 companies from China with a market 
capitalization of about $30 billion listed on its exchange.  Five Chinese firms listed there last year, raising a 
combined $534 million, according to market data firm Dealogic, 
down from seven companies raising $803 million in 2005.  This year is off to a strong start as three companies, 
including media and advertising firm Xinhua Finance Media Ltd. 
XFML.O and solar cell maker JA Solar Holdings Co. ( JASO.O ), 
have already raised $694 million on Nasdaq.  But the exchange, and similar international markets such as 
the Growth Enterprise Board in Hong Kong, faces growing 
competition in attracting Chinese companies, as China 
accelerates its effort to build its own Nasdaq-style second 
board in Shenzhen.  More than 50 companies floated shares on the Small and 
Medium Enterprises Board (SME) of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange 
from June to December last year, after China lifted a ban on 
initial public offers in May 2006.  Beijing aims to transform the SME into a Nasdaq-style 
second board as early as this year. Authorities are encouraging 
companies to list domestically instead of overseas, in order to 
absorb domestic liquidity and curb inflows of funds into China.  More than 120 Chinese companies are now listed on the SME, 
and at the current pace the number could exceed 200 by the end 
of this year.  Nasdaq is the largest U.S. electronic equities exchange, 
with approximately 3,200 companies listed.