-- Aberdeen Bets Malaysian Bonds Will Benefit From Strength in Chinese Yuan
-- Shelley Smith
-- 2010-07-07T03:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/aberdeen-bets-malaysian-bonds-will-benefit-from-strength-in-chinese-yuan.html

          
          
             Aberdeen Asset Management Plc is
buying Malaysian ringgit bonds, betting an appreciation in
China’s yuan will also boost the value of the Southeast Asian
nation’s currency.  
 “We increased our exposure to Malaysia local-currency
bonds because we look at Malaysia as another proxy to play the
Chinese renminbi revaluation,” said  Kevin Daly , an emerging-
market money manager, who helps oversee $525 million in
Aberdeen’s  Global Emerging-Market Bond Fund .  
 Aberdeen expects Malaysia to benefit from any gain in the
yuan, which is also known as the renminbi, because China is an
increasingly important market for its commodities exports such
as oil, gas and palm oil.  
 China loosened its currency peg to the dollar on June 19
when the People’s Bank of China said it will increase
“flexibility” of the currency. Between 2005 and 2008, when the
yuan was last allowed to trade more freely, the values of the
yuan and the ringgit were closely correlated.  
 “If you look at how much it appreciated between 2005 and
2007, over 20 percent against the dollar, we expect a similar
trend over the next few years,” Daly said in an interview in
Hong Kong yesterday, referring to the yuan.  
 Aberdeen’s Global Emerging-Market Bond Fund has grown by
$100 million to $525 million in the last 12 months. Money is
moving to emerging market bonds  amid optimism borrowers there
are better placed to weather the financial crisis fallout.  
 Palm oil exports from Malaysia climbed 1.5 percent in June,
with shipments to China jumping 22 percent from May, according
to independent cargo surveyor Intertek on June 30. China, as the
largest user of cooking oils, accounted for nearly one-third of
Malaysia’s palm oil exports last month, Intertek said.  
 Yuan Revaluation  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help the
country’s exporters cope with the credit crisis. The currency
appreciated 21 percent in the three years following a managed
float against a basket of currencies was introduced in 2005.  
 China is seeking to let the yuan strengthen gradually to
deflect criticism from its trading partners and curb inflation,
while protecting a recovery in its exports.  
 Aberdeen has also added Indonesian corporate and government
bonds to its portfolio in recent months, Daly said. Indonesia is
rated BB by Standard & Poor’s, the second-highest junk rating.  
 “There’s a strong case for Indonesia getting to investment
grade in the next two-to-three years,” Daly said. With
continued stability, improving debt ratios, more foreign direct
investment, the rating companies may make that move up,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        