-- Thai Finance Ministry Plans Policy Around Early 2011 Election, Korn Says
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-07-07T05:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/thai-finance-ministry-plans-policy-around-early-2011-election-korn-says.html

          
          
             Thailand’s government is crafting
economic policy on the basis that an election will take place
six to eight months from now, Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij 
said today.  
 “That is the working assumption we are using with regards
to the potential timing of the election,” Korn, a deputy leader
of Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrat party, said in an
interview in Bangkok. “Nothing needs to be read into that.”  
 Anti-government rallies earlier this year to pressure
Abhisit into calling an immediate election led to 89 deaths.
Protesters failed to disperse after he offered to hold an
election in November, prompting him to send in troops to clear
the demonstrators from Bangkok’s commercial center.  
 An election win for the ruling party may give Abhisit the
legitimacy his opponents say he’s lacked since taking office in
a December 2008 parliamentary vote. The government yesterday
extended a state of emergency in Bangkok and 18 provinces to
provide “stability and security” after the country’s worst
political violence in two decades, Korn said.  
 “As long as we are taking firm steps in the right
direction, I believe we will win over the trust of those who may
not necessarily at the moment agree with us,” said Korn, 46, a
former chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Thai unit. “That in
itself will help rebuild the level of confidence in Thailand in
the minds of potential investors.”  
 Overseas investors have sold $569.6 million more of Thai
stocks than they bought this year, the most in Asia after Taiwan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  SET Index , the
second-best performer this year among Asia’s 10 biggest
benchmarks, was little changed at 12:14 p.m. local time.  
 Export Strength  
 The economy may “conservatively” grow 5.5 percent this
year, Korn said. Automakers Ford Motor Co., General Motors Co.
and  Mitsubishi Motors Corp.  all announced plans to build new
factories in Thailand in the past month, underscoring the
nation’s attractiveness as an export base.  
 “We are an economy that heavily relies on trade,
international trade in particular, and that’s why our economy
continues to be strong,” he said. “We could do a lot better if
we were to be freed of the level of political discourse that
we’ve seen over the past few years.”  
 Abhisit has set up at least five committees to work on
political reforms to bring reconciliation before his term
expires at the end of 2011. His opponents, backed by fugitive
billionaire former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , have won
the past four elections and retain the support of poorer areas
in Bangkok and the country’s northeast.  
 Thaksin, ousted in a 2006 coup, fled Thailand in 2008 to
avoid a two-year jail sentence for abuse of power. He has
orchestrated protests from abroad ever since in a bid to win
back power and clear his name.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Thai Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Thai Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij speaks during an interview in Beijing. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Thai Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij speaks during an interview in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
