-- Thai Rubber, Sugar Output to Gain as Extra Planting Offsets Drought Impact
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-07-07T03:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/thai-rubber-sugar-output-to-gain-as-extra-planting-offsets-drought-impact.html

          
          
             Damage from drought to Thai sugar,
rubber and rice production will probably be limited as an
increase in planting more than offsets losses from parched trees
and plants, according to the  Office of Agricultural Economics .  
 Cane output may gain 2.7 percent to 70.6 million metric
tons in the year from November, while natural-rubber production
may rise 2.3 percent to 3.1 million tons,  Apichart Jongskul , the
office’s secretary-general, said in an interview. Both the minor
and main rice crops may drop, Apichart said yesterday by phone.  
 Thailand is the world’s biggest exporter of rice, the most
important foodstuff in Asia. The kingdom is also the world’s
leading rubber producer, and second-largest sugar exporter.
Drought spread across 44 provinces, nearly 60 percent of the
snation, with damage estimated at about 14 billion baht ($432
million), farm minister  Theera Wongsamut  said last month.  
 “Damage has been mitigated as farmers increased planting
following attractive prices,” said Apichart. Rice prices may
face “downward pressure” from December as the delayed main
harvest starts to come onto the market, he said.  
 Thai 100 percent grade-B white rice, the  benchmark  for Asia,
touched $469 a ton on June 9, the lowest level in at least two
years, according to data from the Thai Rice Exporters
Association. Rice futures in Chicago have tumbled 34 percent
this year and traded yesterday at $9.90 per 100 pounds.  
 El Nino, La Nina  
 Drought linked to the El Nino weather pattern affected a
swathe of Asia in the first half, damaging crops from China to
Southeast Asia. Still, forecasters have said there may be a
shift to wetter-than-usual conditions in the months ahead as a
La Nina takes hold. Thailand’s Meteorological Department has
said there may be heavy rain and floods in September and October.  
 The “drought damaged cane crops but farmers replanted,
offsetting the decline,” Apichart said. The area planted to
sugar cane increased 4 percent to 6.56 million rai (2.6 million
acres), he said.  
 “Drought lowered latex output and trees in some areas are
still young, generating low yields,” Apichart said, referring
to the sap. The area planted to rubber has increased 12 percent
to 12.1 million rai (4.8 million acres), Apichart said.  
 The minor rice harvest of unmilled grain that began in
April and accounts for about 25 percent of annual output may
fall 1.9 percent from the previous crop year to 8.26 million
tons, he said. That’s less than an earlier forecast for more
than 9 million tons, Apichart said.  
 Production of main-crop rice, planting of which has been
delayed since May, will probably decline by 0.9 percent to
23 million tons, he said.  
 Concepcion Calpe , a senior economist at the United
Nations’  Food and Agriculture Organization,  said on June 29 that
production of Thailand’s main rice crop may be 22 million tons
in the year from October, the smallest since 2002.  
 The main Thai rice crop is usually planted in May, with
harvesting from October. The government advised farmers on  June
23  to postpone planting for a second time to the end of July
because of delayed rains.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        