-- Taipei Office Vacancies Set To Increase to a Record 20%, Jones Lang Says
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-07-07T00:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/taipei-s-prime-office-vacancies-rate-will-continue-rising-jones-lang-says.html

          
          
             Taipei’s prime commercial-property
vacancy rate will climb to a record this year as tenants move
out of the city center and public transport improvements make
suburban locations more attractive, according to  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc.   
 “Starting from the financial crisis, as the unemployment
rate increased, companies surrendered office space,”  Sherry Wu ,
Taipei-based National Director of Investments and Markets at
Jones Lang Taiwan, said in an interview yesterday. “Now that
they’ve started hiring, they’d rather spend money on staff than
on rent so they’re decentralizing.”  
 Hewlett-Packard Co. , the world’s largest computer maker, is
among tenants in Taipei’s downtown Xinyi district that will move
to outer Taipei City premises by the end of the year, helping
push the Grade-A vacancy rate to 20 percent. It may take two to
three years for tenants from China to ease the oversupply after
Taiwan reduced restrictions on mainland companies doing business
on the island, Wu said.  
 Grade-A office vacancies climbed 1.09 percentage points in
the second quarter from the prior period to 16.08 percent, and
will hit 20 percent by year end, Wu said. Gross achievable rent
per ping (3.3 square meters) fell about 3 percent from a year
earlier to NT$2,379 ($74) and will remain flat or slightly down
through the end of the year, she said.  
 Warmer Ties  
 Taiwan and China last month signed a landmark economic
cooperation framework agreement which will remove duties on
imports to the mainland for about 500 products. The two sides
have eased restrictions on cargo and passenger transport,
banking, and tourism since  Ma Ying-jeou  was elected Taiwan
President in 2008.  
 HP will move most of its workers, which include engineers,
administration and procurement teams, from different locations
in central Taipei to a single location in outer Taipei’s Nangang
District by the end of the year, Nancy Liu, a Taipei-based
spokeswoman, said yesterday.  
 State-owned Chinese companies are among those most likely
to take up space in Taipei’s prime locations since they have
high budgets while rents in Taiwan’s capital are around 50
percent less than in Shanghai’s Puxi business district, Wu said.  
 Higher Rates  
 Taiwan requires Chinese banks to have a representative
office on the island for at least one year before they can open
a branch. The branches will then be allowed to offer local
currency services after a year of operation, the Financial
Supervisory Commission said in a June 24 statement.  
 Taiwan’s central bank on June 25 unexpectedly raised its
benchmark interest rate from a record low and directed banks to
limit the amount of money they lend for mortgages as it seeks to
cool the local housing market amid the economic rebound.
Construction loans rose for a fourth month while Taiwan’s
jobless rate fell to a 17-month low in May as the economy heads
for its strongest growth in six years.  
 Taiwan’s statistics bureau  forecasts  the economy will grow
6.14 percent this year, the fastest since 2004, boosted by
increasing trade with China, its largest export-destination.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Street traffic moves at night in Taipei. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
