-- German Stocks Gain; Deutsche Bank Shares Lead Benchmark DAX Index Higher
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-07-07T15:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/air-berlin-volkswagen-shares-may-be-active-german-equity-market-preview.html

          
          
             German stocks  rose for a second day,
led by banks, amid speculation that stress tests of European
lenders will be less severe than forecast.  
 Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank AG advanced more than 3
percent, leading gains on the benchmark DAX Index, as people
familiar with the matter said European Union banking supervisors
may outline the methodology used for bank stress tests today.
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  advanced 1.9 percent after
Tagesspiegel reported sales of its 5-series cars have beaten
forecasts this year.  
 The  DAX Index  gained 0.9 percent to 5,992.86, reversing an
earlier decline of as much as 1.6 percent. The Committee of
European Banking Supervisors, which is coordinating the tests,
may disclose the process ahead of the results that are due to be
published on July 23, according to two people familiar with the
situation who declined to be identified.  
 This “is being met with a bit of relief as it means
greater transparency and there is also a degree of guess work
going on that they will not be overly rigorous, which had been
feared,” said Joshua Raymond, a markets strategist at City
Index Ltd. in London.  
 Stocks in Germany, an economy that was overtaken by China
last year as the world’s biggest exporter, have outperformed
European peers this year as UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG advised
increasing holdings of shares more geared to global growth. The
DAX has fallen 5.4 percent from its April 26 high, whereas
France’s CAC 40 Index and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index are more
than 10 percent below their highest levels this year. Stocks
have fallen on concern that the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe
and slowing growth in China and the U.S. will hurt German
companies.  
 Factory Orders  
 A report today showed German  factory orders  unexpectedly
fell in May for the first time in five months as demand for
goods made in Europe’s largest economy waned. Orders, adjusted
for seasonal swings and inflation, lost 0.5 percent from April.
That compares with the median forecast for a 0.3 percent gain in
a Bloomberg survey of economists.  
 German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet today approved a
four-year package of budget cuts, stepping up pressure on fellow
European governments to reduce debt that risks tearing apart the
euro area.  
 Deutsche Bank rose 3.8 percent to 47.47 euros and
Commerzbank advanced 3.7 percent to 6.21 euros.  
 BMW rose 1.9 percent to 39.75 euros. The world’s biggest
luxury-auto manufacturer’s new 5-Series has posted better-than-
expected sales in Germany this year, Tagesspiegel reported,
citing the company’s German sales chief,  Karsten Engel . Sales of
the model in Germany through June rose 17 percent compared with
the same period last year, to 20,956 vehicles, the newspaper
cited him as saying.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        