-- Air China Cuts Agencts' Commission on Overseas Flights 2 Percentage Points
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-07T10:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/air-china-denies-report-that-it-has-cut-commissions-for-domestic-tickets.html

          
          
             Air China Ltd. , the nation’s largest
international carrier, reduced the commission paid to travel
agents for sales on overseas flights by 2 percentage points to
pare selling costs.  
 The change was made last month, Wang Kai, a spokesman for
the airline, said today by phone, without giving the new rate.
The commission on domestic fares was unchanged at 3 percent, he
said.  
 Online travel agents  Ctrip.com International Ltd.  and  eLong
Inc. , which both generate 100 percent of sales in China, plunged
in New York yesterday after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said that
China’s big three carriers had reduced commissions. Worldwide,
airlines have cut commissions and boosted ticket sales via their
own websites to reduce expenses.  
 “This trend will continue as there are too many sales
channels,” Hu Fajin, Air China’s senior manager for e-commerce,
said today at an aviation conference in Beijing. Online travel
agents may eventually have to charge customers, he said.  
 China Eastern Airline Corp. spokesman  Li Jiang  declined to
comment. China Southern Airline Co. Board Secretary  Xie Bing 
didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone. China Southern and
China Eastern are the nation’s two biggest carriers.  
 Hasn’t Received Notice  
 ELong hasn’t received any notice from Chinese airlines
about changes in commissions, the agency said in an e-mailed
reply to Bloomberg News.  Jane Sun , chief financial officer at
Ctrip.com, couldn’t be reached for comment at her office.  
 Ctrip.com declined 14 percent yesterday in New York to
$32.81, the biggest drop since December 2008.  ELong , part-owned
by Expedia Inc., fell 8.4 percent to $12.  
 Commission rates will decline by about two percentage
points to around 3 percent of ticket prices, Goldman Sachs said
in a note to clients, citing Chinese media.  
 “It’s expected for airlines to cut commissions under
today’s cost pressure,”  Wang Liqun , general manager of
marketing and commerce at Beijing-based China United Airlines,
said in Beijing. “An aggressive projection is that there won’t
be any more agents in two years.”  
 -- Vincent Ni  and  Li Xiaowei . Editors:  Neil Denslow ,  Dave McCombs .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Vincent Ni in Beijing at 
 vni1@bloomberg.net ;
Li Xiaowei in Shanghai at 
 Xli12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        