-- Alleged Al-Qaeda Members Charged in Foiled New York City Subway-Bomb Plot
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-07T22:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/alleged-al-qaeda-members-charged-in-foiled-new-york-city-subway-bomb-plot.html

          
          
             Adnan Shukrijumah, one of Al-Qaeda’s
top operatives allegedly in charge of attacks on the U.S., was
among five purported members of the group named in a new
indictment in last year’s attempt to bomb New York subways.  
 The indictment, unsealed today in Brooklyn, New York, adds
criminal charges against Shukrijumah, 34, of Saudi Arabia.
Shukrijumah, 34, is described by prosecutors as one of the
“leaders of al-Qaeda’s external operations program” has been
sought by the Federal Bureau of Investigation for years and
remains at large.  
 Prosecutors in the office of Brooklyn U.S. Attorney  Loretta Lynch  said Shukrijumah recruited three New York men,  Najibullah Zazi ,  Zarein Ahmedzay  and Adis Medunjanin, for the foiled subway
plot, instructing them to return to the U.S. and conduct
terrorist attacks here. The indictment charges six people, one
whose name has been blacked out.  
 The case has already resulted in the guilty pleas of two
men who admitted conspiring in a terrorist plot launched by al-
Qaeda leaders in Pakistan.  
 Zazi and Ahmedzay, both immigrants from Afghanistan who
live in Queens, New York, pleaded guilty to conspiring in the
al-Qaeda plot to conduct multiple suicide bombings in Manhattan
subways.  
 ‘Marriage’  
 The U.S. also said they have determined that al-Qaeda
leaders in Pakistan, including Shukrijumah, were involved in a
separate plot to attack a target in Manchester, U.K.  
 One of the defendants charged, named by prosecutors only as
“Ahmad,” was in communication with a second defendant charged
today, Abid Naseer. Naseer, who was in the U.K., sent messages
back and forth using the same e-mail account to communicate with
those in the U.S.  
 “In the messages, Naseer used coded language to refer to
different types of explosives,” the U.S. said. Prosecutors said
that in April 2009, Naseer used coded language telling Ahmad,
“that he was planning a large ‘wedding’ for numerous guests”
for a planned U.K. attack.  
 In early September, just before he left Denver to drive to
New York, Zazi e-mailed Ahmad saying, “The marriage is ready.”  
 ‘Well-Known Structures’  
 Ahmedzay described the foiled plot during his guilty plea,
telling a U.S. magistrate judge in Brooklyn that he consulted
with three al-Qaeda leaders in Pakistan in 2008 and that
terrorist leaders initially asked him to attack “critical,
well-known structures” in New York City. Shukrijumah wasn’t one
of the al-Qaeda leaders he named in court. The men later changed
their plans after they returned to the U.S., Ahmedzay said.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Knox told U.S. District
Judge  Raymond Dearie , who is presiding over the case, that the
bombing plot was “undertaken at the direction and under the
control of al-Qaeda leadership.”  
 Knox also said additional “overseas” defendants are
“likely” to be charged and that the government may also bring
more charges against Ahmedzay and Medunjanin.  
 In April, a fourth person was arrested in Pakistan in
connection with the foiled plot, a person with knowledge of the
case said. The fourth unnamed individual was in custody, the
person said.  
 Shukrijumah, who carries a Guyanese passport and speaks
English, is suspected of planning terrorist attacks against the
U.S., the Federal Bureau of Investigation said in an alert
released in 2003.  
 He lived in the U.S. for 15 years and has tried to return
using various passports, FBI Director  Robert Mueller  said in
March 2004. The FBI asked for the public’s help in locating
Shukrijumah at the time and released his photo as part of seven
suspected terrorists being sought by the U.S.  
 Trained Pilot  
 Authorities said then he was a trained pilot and also could
be interested in using trucks as a weapon.  
 Shukrijumah was named as one of the “most likely
individuals” to be used for operations in the U.S. or Europe by
 Abu Zubaydah , an alleged al-Qaeda operative who was captured by
the U.S. in March 2002 and is being held at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, according to a September 2006  statement  from the Office of
the Director of National Intelligence.  
 “We know a lot about him,” New York City Police
Commissioner  Ray Kelly  told reporters on July 1.  
 Shukrijumah is “somebody that’s been on the radar screen
for a long time actually to a certain extent before September
11,” Kelly said. “We know he’s been in New York, we know he’s
spent a lot of time in Florida, we know his father, I believe,
had a mosque in Florida. We know a lot about this particular
subject but the connectivity is something we’re going to leave
to the federal authorities.”  
 Pakistan, Qatar  
 Ahmedzay, a naturalized U.S. citizen, told U.S. Magistrate
Judge  Steven Gold  during his April 23 guilty plea that he, Zazi
and Medunjanin traveled to Qatar and Pakistan in August 2008 in
an attempt to reach Afghanistan. They intended to “conduct
jihad against the America occupier,” he said.  
 Zazi said during his Feb. 22 guilty plea that the foiled
plot was to explode multiple bombs in Manhattan subways in a
plot which he called a “martyrdom operation.”  
 The government may recommend at Zazi’s request that he be
issued a so-called S visa, which allows an alien who assists in
probing terrorist activities to remain in the U.S. for a period
of time, according to his plea agreement that was unsealed
today.  
 Ahmedzay said in his guilty plea that he met with Saleh al
Somali, who he said was al-Qaeda’s chief of external operations,
and  Rashid Rauf , who he said was a key operative of the group,
in Pakistan in 2008.  
 Alleged Mastermind  
 Rauf was also described in the new charges as being part
of the al-Qaeda leadership who directed Zazi in the plot. Rauf
was described by authorities in 2008 as the alleged mastermind
of a 2006 trans-Atlantic airplane bombing plot. He was killed in
a U.S. missile strike in the North Waziristan region of Pakistan
in November 2008, the U.S. said.  
 Medunjanin, who was previously named in the plot with Zazi
and Ahmedzay, was named in this new indictment. He is in custody
and awaits trial. The other three defendants are fugitives, the
U.S. said.  
 Abid Naseer, was arrested today in the U.K. on the U.S.
indictment, according to a federal law enforcement official. He
was taken into custody last year in the U.K. and later released.  
 Defendants, Charges  
 “The government from the beginning has threatened to add
defendants and charges,” Robert C. Gottlieb, Medunjanin’s
lawyer, said in an interview. “Nothing in the superseding
indictment changes the fact that he intends to go to trial. He
has vehemently said he is not guilty.”  
 The U.S. also added a charge that Medunjanin tried to
conduct a “suicide attack” by trying to crash his car as
federal authorities chased him on the Whitestone Expressway in
Queens, New York.  
 The case is U.S. v. Ahmedzay, 1:10-cr-00018, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        