-- Allstate CEO Says U.S. State, Local Borrowing `Out of Control'
-- Erik Schatzker
-- 2010-07-07T13:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/allstate-ceo-says-government-borrowing-out-of-control-munis-may-suffer.html

          
          
             Allstate Corp.  Chief Executive
Officer  Thomas Wilson  said a surge in borrowing by U.S. state
and local governments may trim the value of municipal debt
holdings, and called for political leaders to cut costs.  
 “Government borrowing is way out of control.” Wilson, 52,
said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview from Aspen,
Colorado. “We need to get our house in order.”  
 Wilson said concerns about budget deficits and funding
shortfalls will probably lead to market-value declines in the
municipal bond market rather than widespread defaults. Allstate,
the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto insurer, cut its
municipal-bond portfolio in three straight quarters through the
end of March, reducing its holdings to $20.1 billion from $23.1
billion as of June 30, 2009. The insurer hasn’t released second-
quarter results yet.  
 Property-casualty insurance companies, whose investments
pay for claims tied to car crashes, earthquakes and corporate
board malfeasance, cut their holdings of municipal debt 3.3
percent to  $369.4 billion  in the 12 months ended Dec. 31,
according to the Federal Reserve. U.S. banks added more than $84
billion to their holdings since 2003, according to the Fed.  
 “The way the bankruptcy laws work, you generally get your
money back” on defaulted municipal debt, Wilson said. “But in
the meantime, the value of those securities will go down as
people readjust risk. We’re more worried about the market value
than ultimately not getting our money back.”  
 Allstate’s Portfolio  
 Allstate’s $100 billion portfolio is mostly comprised of
municipal debt and corporate bonds, a class that rose 15 percent
to $34.5 billion in the nine months ended March. Allstate, based
in Northbrook, Illinois, sold stocks in the first quarter as
Wilson bet on debt issued by companies.  
 Billionaire  Warren Buffett , whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
sells auto policies and catastrophe coverage, told the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission last month that municipal bonds faced
a “terrible problem.” The U.S. government may be compelled to
rescue at least one state facing default, he told shareholders
at Berkshire’s annual meeting May 1.  
 Travelers Cos., the insurer added to the Dow Jones
Industrial Average last year, said in May that municipal
investors may avoid defaults as taxpayers demand budget cuts.  
 Companies are 98 times more likely to default than
municipal issuers over a 10-year period, data from Moody’s
Investors Service show. Nineteen issuers have defaulted on about
$1 billion of municipal debt this year, the Distressed Debt
Securities Newsletter reported in its June issue. In the two
previous years a combined $14.5 billion defaulted, a rate of
$3.6 billion every six months.  
 Muni Yields  
 Default speculation and a move by investors to the safest
securities drove  municipal bond yields  to a 13-month high
relative to U.S. Treasuries in the first half of the year. The
9.5 percent U.S. unemployment rate and slump in property prices
have slashed local governments’ ability to pay bills and led
officials to consider raising taxes.  
 The middle class is “going to bear the brunt of the impact
from all the things that we haven’t fixed in the past whether
that’s borrowing too much money at the state of Illinois or a
bad education system,” Wilson said.  
 Illinois , whose $13 billion deficit is about half its
budget, had the cost of insuring debt against default more than
double earlier this year. The state’s debt is rated fifth-
highest by Moody’s, at A1, matching California’s as the worst
among U.S. states. The Illinois debt rating from Standard &
Poor’s is A+.  
 Waiting for Disaster  
 “Nobody has the intestinal fortitude to actually move
forward to try to change anything,” Wilson said of government
debt at the federal, state and local levels. “They’re just sort
of sitting there waiting for disaster to happen.”  
 Wilson said he is positioning  Allstate  to weather an
eventual increase in interest rates. Futures on the CME Group
Inc. exchange showed a 16 percent chance of the Fed raising its
target lending rate for overnight bank loans by at least a
quarter-percentage point by December.  
 “We think there’s a greater chance that interest rates
will go up and we’re spending hundreds of millions of dollars
hedging off our portfolio for a large spike,” Wilson said.  
 The insurer has also been cutting assets tied to commercial
properties, said Wilson. He said the office market, which tends
to improve with employment gains, has been weak as companies put
off rehiring workers.  
 “We’re still concerned about what’s happening in real
estate, both commercial real estate and residential,” Wilson
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Thomas Wilson, chief executive officer of Allstate Corp., listens during a panel discussion in Washington in this file photo. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
