-- Germans Deaf to U.S. `Nonsense' as Exports Power Growth
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-07-08T07:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/hamburg-deaf-to-u-s-nonsense-as-german-recovery-reliant-on-port-exports.html

          
          
             Hamburg, the port city that sends 1
million tons of goods to foreign markets each week, has a reply
to those who say Germany’s economy is too reliant on exports.  
 “Nonsense,” said Frank Horch, the city’s Chamber of
Commerce president, in a June 24 interview in the offices of the
345-year-old  trade group . “You cannot say Germany has to stop
exports, it makes no sense. Germany was born out of this.”  
 Hamburg, Germany’s largest port and a crossroads in
European trade since at least the 13th century, is the city with
the most to lose from U.S.-led calls on Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
to reduce the trade surplus in Europe’s biggest economy.  
 As figures released today showed global demand for German
goods  surging , Merkel is torn between fostering the export boom
and honoring a Group of 20 pledge to bolster domestic growth and
rely less on foreign trade. Her Cabinet’s backing yesterday of a
$100 billion domestic savings program suggests she’s ignoring
calls by President  Barack Obama  to tackle what some say are
German imbalances.  
 “Germany is very skilled at exporting, and it’s neither
possible nor desirable for it to meet U.S. and European calls to
curb exports,” said  Fredrik Erixon , director of the  European
Centre for International Political Economy  in Brussels. “It’s
politically convenient for some leaders and people to keep
raising export surpluses, even if they know Germany can’t and
won’t do anything about them.”  
 Hanseatic League  
 The message resonates in  Hamburg , located on the  River Elbe 
between the Baltic and North seas. Germany’s second-biggest city
after Berlin traces its trading credentials back to the medieval
 Hanseatic League , a network of merchants’ guilds from London to
Novgorod that dominated northern European trade for 200 years.  
 Hamburg, with a population of 1.8 million, is the richest
of Germany’s 16 states, with a per capita gross domestic product
of 48,229 euros ($60,700) last year, almost double Berlin’s and
the European Union average,  government statistics show . The city
also has the country’s biggest red-light district, the
Reeperbahn, a boulevard stretching from the port that includes
bars where the Beatles played some of their first gigs.  
 Where merchants once dealt in amber, fish and timber, port
operators such as  Hamburger Hafen und Logistik AG  and Eurogate
handled about 40 percent of Germany’s 808 billion-euro  export
trade  of goods in 2009, including machinery from Munich-based
Siemens AG and chemicals from BASF SE of Ludwigshafen.  
 Port Traffic  
 Hamburg handled about 642,000 containers in March, the
latest complete statistics available, or more than 20,000 per
day. In 2009, Hamburg handled 7 million containers, known as TEU
or twenty-foot equivalent units, the  port’s website  shows. That
compares with just over 5 million TEUs in the  Port of Long
Beach , California.  
 Port traffic is picking up, said  Axel Gedaschko , Hamburg’s
state minister for economy and labor, in a July 5 interview.
There has been a turnaround since March from a 28 percent slump
last year, with container volume up 16 percent in May from a
year earlier, he said.  
 China, which overtook Germany as the world’s biggest
exporter last year, sends more goods through Hamburg than
anywhere else in Europe.  
 An estimated 2.5 million containers will pass through the
port traveling to and from China this year, up from 2.27 million
TEU in 2009, according to the Hamburg Port Authority. That
compares with 566,000 TEU with second-placed Singapore, followed
by Russia and Sweden, which with 264,000 TEU was Hamburg’s
highest-ranked trading partner in the European Union.  
 Chinese Consulate  
 China Cosco Holdings Co. , China’s largest container line,
has its European headquarters in Hamburg, one of more than 400
Chinese companies with offices in the city. China has a  consul
general  in Hamburg, reflecting the city’s growing links with the
world’s most populous nation.  
 “Some question our successful export model,” Economy
Minister  Rainer Bruederle  said July 1 in a speech to parliament
in Berlin. “They say: raise wages drastically, do more to
stimulate the economy. That way risks turning Germany’s economic
policy into that of Greece, and we refuse to do it.”  
 Germany came under pressure to do just that last month with
calls by Obama and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to
boost domestic spending. The G-20 Toronto’s summit  communique 
required countries to “reduce reliance on external demand and
focus more on domestic sources of growth.”  
 Exports Surge  
 The euro’s 12 percent drop against the dollar this year is
helping German exporters cement their advantage.  Exports jumped 
more than twice as much as economists forecast in May, rising
9.2 percent from April, when they fell 6.3 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Imports meanwhile
surged 14.8 percent. Plant and machinery orders soared 61
percent in May from a year earlier, the VDMA machine makers’
association said July 1.  
 In Hamburg, the influence of centuries of seaborne trade is
evident in street names such as San-Francisco-Strasse and
Shanghai Allee. The downtown  Ernst Brendler  store has offered
“Marine and Tropical Supplies since 1879.”  
 Jens Meier, who runs the  Hamburg Port Authority  from a 19th
century redbrick warehouse once used to store coffee and tea,
said he’s overseeing as much as 1 billion euros of investment
over the next four years to create the “port of the future.”
He plans to curb noise and light pollution, make the site more
accessible to tourists, and boost efficiency via technology.  
 ‘Port of Future’  
 “The simple things like carrying bags may not be the
future, and the dirty, dusty, noisy business maybe also isn’t
the business for this port,” Meier said. “There’s still a huge
nucleus of engineers and people producing innovation here.”  
 Horch at the trade chambers, who is also managing director
of Hamburg-based shipyard  Blohm & Voss AG , which built Russian
billionaire  Roman Abramovich ’s superyacht Eclipse, sees
Hamburg’s advantage in turning its “Hanseatic view and
Hanseatic behavior” to today’s globalized world.  
 “Hamburg is not a residents’ town like Berlin or Munich,
Hamburg is a trading town,” Horch said, surrounded by oil
portraits of his predecessors and a tapestry presented to mark
the trade chambers’ 300th anniversary in 1965. “We build up
industry, we build up know how, we bring ideas.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Crawford  in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jens Meier, head of the Hamburg Port Authority. Source: Hamburg Port Authority via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hamburg has the most to lose from trade-surplus reductions  
                       
                         
                           Jochen Eckel/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Hapag-Lloyd container ship Berlin Express sits docked at the harbor in Hamburg. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Hapag-Lloyd container ship Berlin Express sits docked at the harbor in Hamburg. Photographer: Jochen Eckel/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Shipping container cranes are seen during sunset at the harbor in Hamburg.  Photographer: Jochen Eckel/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Hamburg calls on Chancellor Angela Merkel to reduce the trade surplus. Photographer: Rodger Bosch/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
