-- Americans Don't Know How Many Calories to Eat to Lose Weight, Survey Says
-- Alan Bjerga
-- 2010-07-07T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/americans-don-t-know-how-many-calories-to-eat-to-lose-weight-survey-says.html

          
          
             Only one of every eight adult
Americans knows how many calories he should consume in a day
while almost two-thirds recently changed eating habits, mainly
to lose weight, according to an industry-backed survey.  
 “There is confusion on all sides of the calorie
equation,” said Wendy Reinhardt Kapsak, a director with the
Washington-based  International Food Information Council
Foundation , which released the survey today. “They need
references for those numbers,” she said in an interview. The
group’s  educational arm  includes representatives from General
Mills Inc., Kraft Foods Inc. and Mars Inc.  
 Diets and calorie counts are part of  Michelle Obama ’s push
for companies to make healthier products. The first lady in May
won pledges from companies including General Mills, Kraft and
 PepsiCo  Inc. to reduce calories by changing recipes or cutting
portion sizes. Companies involved account for 20 to 25 percent
of the U.S. food supply.  
 Losing weight is the number-one reason why Americans change
their diets, with 65 percent of dieters citing it as a factor,
the council’s survey showed. Consumers are also becoming more
suspicious about sugar, more likely to drink caffeinated
beverages and are trying to eat more protein, according to the
survey.  
 Sugar, Caffeine  
 The percentage of respondents agreeing that “moderate
amounts of sugar can be part of an overall healthful diet” fell
to 58 percent from 66 percent last year and 71 percent in 2008,
the foundation said. About 72 percent said they consume caffeine
in moderation, up from 64 percent in 2008, the first year
consumers were asked about the sweetener and the stimulant.  
 The percentage saying they are trying to consume more
protein was 49 percent, while 6 percent said they’d eat less.
Twice as many consumers identified the nutrition source as
coming from animal sources rather than from plants, 56 percent
to 28 percent. This was the first year questions about protein
were included.  
 Respondents were also asked about their weights and
perceptions of obesity as well as their fitness activity.  
 Fifty-seven percent said they considered themselves
overweight, with 8 percent saying they were obese. In reality 33
percent were overweight and 34 percent obese, according to the
data. Meanwhile, 77 percent were not meeting the Health and
Human Services Department’s physical-activity guidelines, based
on how much and what type of exercise they do.  
 Public-Policy Solutions  
 Public-policy solutions to obesity ranging from taxes on
sodas to printed calorie counts in restaurant menus have been
proposed by officials including Philadelphia Mayor  Michael Nutter  and New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  
 Such solutions may not be effective without consumer
education on the nutritional value and proper consumption levels
of food, said Marianne Smith Edge, the foundation’s senior vice
president for nutrition and food safety.  
 “Despite the amount of information out there, people still
don’t understand,” she said in an interview.  
 The survey of 1,024 consumers over the age of 18, conducted
from April 30 to May 17 by  Cogent Research  of Cambridge,
Massachusetts, has a margin of error of 3 percentage points, the
council said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        