-- Manolos, Manbags Set to Outdo `It' Bags as Luxury Growth Driver
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-07T23:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/manolos-manbags-poised-to-overtake-arm-candy-as-driver-of-luxury-growth.html

          
          
             The next ‘It’ bag may be a shoe.  
 As some customers struggle to justify spending thousands of
dollars on Hermes  Kelly  or Chanel  2.55  bags, shoes like  Jimmy
Choo  gladiator sandals are set to become a faster-growing
luxury, according to estimates by Euromonitor International Plc.  
 Having trailed bags in the five years before and during the
recession, sales of luxury shoes will rise 20 percent in the
four years through 2013, compared with 16 percent growth in
handbag revenue, according to a study by the research company.  
 Demand for $1,000-plus bags may not match pre-recession
levels as consumers now hang on to their clutches and totes for
more than one season, said Fflur Roberts, Euromonitor’s luxury
goods research manager. While also curbing spending on shoes,
shoppers may purchase more designer footwear than bags because
it’s “more forgivable” to pay $500 for a pair of  Manolo Blahnik  blue satin heels, Roberts said in a phone interview.  
 “There are still ‘It’ bags out there, but it’s not the
same as it was,” Roberts said, citing the mania of three or
four years ago for “arm candy” such as Mulberry’s Paddington
and Fendi’s Spy. “The entry price for shoes is easier.”  
 In the past decade,  PPR SA ’s Gucci Group NV and  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  boosted sales and earnings by
expanding their seasonal bag ranges to tap demand for the latest
“must-have” accessory. Luxury bag sales advanced 49 percent in
the period from 2004 to 2008, while designer shoes rose 35
percent, according to Euromonitor.  
 Luxury chains in the U.S. are driving retail sales to the
fastest pace of growth in the past four years, a sign consumers
may be overcoming concern about unemployment and depressed home
values, the International Council of Shopping Centers said in
advance of its June report.  
 Burberry, Valentino  
 Excluding currency swings, sales of designer shoes fell
about 8.7 percent to $9.77 billion in 2009, the lowest level
since 2006, according to Euromonitor. Sales of designer bags
declined about 8 percent to $6.7 billion in 2009.  
 Growth is set to resume this year, the researcher predicts.
Footwear revenue is forecast by Euromonitor to rise 3.2 percent
this year, faster than the 2.1 percent predicted for bags.  
 As demand returns, so are the rewards.  Burberry Group Plc ,
the U.K.’s largest luxury company, said in May annual profit
increased 23 percent as it sold more shoes and accessories.
 Salvatore Ferragamo SpA , the Florence, Italy-based shoemaker,
has seen “very significant” growth in sales of men’s footwear
in Asia as businessmen upgrade to luxury shoes, according to
Chief Executive Officer  Michele Norsa .  
 Rubber Soles  
 “We have a very functional offer in Asia, including shoes
with rubber soles,” Norsa said in a May interview. In Japan,
sales of Ferragamo shoes grew by more than 10 percent in the
first quarter, he said.  
 Valentino Fashion Group SpA’s  shoes are “performing in an
outstanding way,” CEO  Stefano Sassi  said in an interview.
“It’s the product category that is doing more right now.”  
 High-end shoe sales may accelerate fastest through 2013 in
Malaysia, Russia, Canada, the U.S. and South Korea, with growth
being split equally between men’s and women’s footwear,
according to Euromonitor forecasts.  
 Handbag sales will get a lift from a non-traditional
customer -- men, particularly in Russia, Malaysia and China,
according to the researcher. Excluding suitcases, sales of men’s
designer bags may grow 18 percent between 2009 and 2013,
compared with 16 percent for women’s luxury handbags.  
 ‘Manbag’  
 “It’s all to do with the ‘manbag’,” Roberts said. “It’s
more acceptable now for men to walk down the street with a
 Mulberry  bag. It’s the norm.”  
 Mulberry Group Plc ’s fall 2010 bag range includes the 495-
pound ($750) East West oak natural leather messenger bag and the
895-pound Picadilly chocolate natural leather tote, according to
the London-based fashion company’s website.  
 “The Mulberry boys are functional before being fashionable
and are looking for value for money,” said Nicholas Roberts,
the company’s retail director. “Our functional, understated
bags sell well in season, while our high-fashion products sell
more in sale.”  
 With sales of men’s luxury bags in the U.S., the world’s
biggest market for the category, projected to grow 23 percent
through 2013, according to Euromonitor, retailers including Saks
Inc. and Barneys will add competitively priced own-label men’s
satchels, purses and messenger bags from spring 2011, executives
at both department-store chains said in interviews last month.  
 “Whatever product we offer needs to offer value,
especially in men’s wear,” said  Thomas Ott , Saks senior vice
president of men’s wear.  
 And for the fashionable female still seeking her luxury
fix, albeit at a lower price point,  Roberto Cavalli  SpA and
Ferragamo are making less expensive products. Cavalli is cutting
production costs by putting one brooch on a handbag instead of
two, CEO  Gianluca Brozzetti  said in an interview last month.
Ferragamo is making more bags priced around $500, Norsa said.  
 “Brands have possibly got a bit carried away with all the
markups that they’ve been allowed to get away with,” said
Euromonitor’s Roberts. “People are more careful about buying.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Actress Leven Rambin wears a pair of Jimmy Choo shoes  
                       
                         
                           Valerie Macon/Getty Images 
                         
                         Actress Leven Rambin wears a pair of Jimmy Choo shoes at the 12th Annual Young Hollywood Awards on May 13, 2010 in Los Angeles. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Actress Leven Rambin wears a pair of Jimmy Choo shoes at the 12th Annual Young Hollywood Awards on May 13, 2010 in Los Angeles. Photographer: Valerie Macon/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Michele Norsa, chief executive officer of Salvatore Ferragamo Italia SpA, talks about the outlook for sales and the luxury-goods market.
     Norsa speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness with Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
