-- Aquarius Platinum Idles a Shaft in South Africa After Worst-Ever Accident
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-07T16:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/aquarius-platinum-says-five-workers-died-at-marakina-mine-in-south-africa.html

          
          
             Aquarius Platinum Ltd. , a miner of
the metal in South Africa, said five workers were killed and two
injured in the company’s worst accident after a “major fall of
ground” at its Marikana mine yesterday.  
 The number four shaft at the mine, a 50:50 venture with
 Anglo Platinum Ltd. , has been temporarily shut, Aquarius said in
a statement today. The workers were contract employees of Murray
& Roberts Cementation, it said.  
 Marikana, in the North West province, could be closed for
one or two weeks “in line with similar accidents elsewhere,”
Liberum Capital Ltd. wrote in a note. The mine accounts for 14
percent of Liberum’s forecast for  production  at Aquarius in its
2011 fiscal year, it said.  
 South Africa, the world’s largest platinum producer, shuts
mines after fatalities to allow it to investigate the cause of
accidents and to make safety improvements. The nation’s mines
are among the deepest and most dangerous in the world.  
 Aquarius  fell  20.6 pence, or 6.5 percent, to 294.2 pence in
London, giving it a market value of 1.36 billion pounds ($2.1
billion).  
 The latest accident at Aquarius’s operations follows an
announcement by the company on July 1 that production at its
Blue Ridge mine would be reduced due to a safety review in the
wake of two fatalities in June.  Blue Ridge , in South Africa’s
Limpopo province, was closed for two weeks.  
 ‘Tragic Incident’  
 “There is no link between this and the accidents at Blue
Ridge,” Aquarius said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The
National Union of Mineworkers , South Africa’s biggest labor
union, said it’s a “disaster” and called for an investigation.  
 “Until the Marikana incident, Aquarius’ overall safety
performance has been amongst the best in the platinum sector,”
said Aquarius spokesman  Gavin Mackay  in an e-mail. “This tragic
incident requires us to urgently review and, if necessary, amend
our safety policies and procedures.”  
 The accident increased fatalities at the company to seven
so far this year, Mackay said. A “high-level” investigation by
the government, labor unions and management will start today, he
said. A fall of ground is the “fall of any fragment or portion
of rock,” according to the Department of Mineral Resources.  
 Marikana has two shafts that give access to the underground
mine, which produced 157,937 ounces of platinum group metals in
the year ended June 2009. Of that, 78,969 ounces was
attributable to Aquarius, according to the company’s  website .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        