-- Marcus Says No Need for `Policy Guidance' on South African Interest Rates
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-07-07T11:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/marcus-says-no-need-for-policy-guidance-on-south-african-interest-rates.html

          
          
             South African Reserve Bank Governor
 Gill Marcus  said there is no need to give “policy guidance” on
interest rates as she did before the previous Monetary Policy
Committee meeting, leaving analysts guessing whether she will
cut rates this month.  
 While the  inflation  outlook is “favorable” and the
economic recovery is “fragile,” rising wage demands are adding
to price pressures, Marcus said today in a speech in
Johannesburg.  
 Marcus told economists on April 22, three weeks before the
last MPC meeting, that the benchmark interest  rate  would
probably remain unchanged in an attempt to damp expectations at
the time for a rate cut. The Reserve Bank has reduced the key
rate seven times to 6.5 percent since December 2008, and markets
are now pricing in a 50 percent chance of a rate cut again on
July 22.  
 “She didn’t give much away,”  Ian Marsberg , a strategist
at Absa Group Ltd., said in a phone interview from Johannesburg.
“What the market is pricing in, she views as appropriate. At
this stage, we think rates are going to stay unchanged.”  
 The yield on R157 government bond, due 2015, fell 2 basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.84 percent today. The
rand was little changed at 7.68 against the rand as of 12:49
p.m. in Johannesburg.  
 ‘Hesitant, Fragile and Uneven’  
 “The question of policy guidance is when you see it
necessary to say something because there is a view out there
that needs to be engaged with,” Marcus said. “At the moment, I
don’t think that’s the case and I don’t think there’s need for
policy guidance.”  
 Recent economic data show a mixed picture for South
Africa’s recovery from last year’s recession.  Retail sales  rose
for a fourth month in April, gaining an annual 3.2 percent,
while the  purchasing managers index  fell below 50 in June,
indicating a contraction in manufacturing output.  
 “The recovery is taking place, but it is hesitant, fragile
and uneven,” Marcus said. “Its sustainability will be
dependent on the global recovery in general and in Europe in
particular.” Growth in Europe, which buys about a third of
South African exports, is going to be “very low for some time,
perhaps not even in positive territory,” she said.  
 Economic Growth  
 Africa’s biggest  economy  expanded an annualized 4.6 percent
in the first quarter, buoyed by a jump in manufacturing and
mining exports. The bank expects the economy to grow about 3
percent this year, Marcus said.  
 “The approach that we take is that the data will tell us
what we need to know,” Marcus said. “We examine it very
carefully.” The bank has extended its MPC meetings by a half-
day to two-and-a-half days to discuss financial stability and
banking, she said.  
 Recent wage increases in excess of the 3 percent to 6
percent inflation target may boost prices, while undermining job
growth, Marcus said. The inflation rate fell for a fifth month
to 4.6 percent in May, the statistics office said on June 23.  
 “South Africa cannot, on the one hand, put employment
creation as its priority, and then at the same time demand and
agree to wage and salary increases that are, in some instances,
double the level of inflation,” the governor said.  
 Transnet Ltd., the state-owned transport company, agreed to
raise workers’ pay by 11 percent after an 18-day strike that
crippled the country’s exports. Teachers, nurses and other civil
servants may go on strike after the government offered to raise
wages by 6.5 percent, short of the 8.6 percent demanded by
unions.  
 The economy shed 870,000 jobs last year, pushing the
 unemployment rate  to 25.2 percent, the highest of 62 countries
tracked by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        