-- German Stocks Gain; Banks, Infineon Rise, Offseting Decline in BMW Shares
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-08T15:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/arques-deutsche-bank-commerzbank-interhyp-german-stock-market-preview.html

          
          
             German stocks rose for a third day as
financial shares rallied on speculation Europe’s biggest lenders
will pass regulatory stress tests.  
 Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, increased 3.3
percent.  ThyssenKrupp AG  gained 2.1. Henkel AG dropped 2.5
percent as Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the maker of
Loctite glue and Persil detergent.  
 The benchmark  DAX Index  rose 42.8, or 0.7 percent, to
6,035.66. The gauge is still down 4.7 percent from its April 26
high on concern that the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe and
slowing growth in China and the U.S. will hurt German companies.
The broader HDAX Index also gained 0.7 percent today.  
 “Prospects for a moderate stress test for European banks
supported the sentiment, which, however, is more like a
conundrum to us,”  Philip Gisdakis , the head of credit strategy
at UniCredit SpA in Munich, wrote in a note.  
 The IMF yesterday increased its global growth outlook,
reflecting a stronger-than-expected first half. The world
economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010, the biggest gain since
2007. That compares with the Washington-based fund’s April
projection of 4.2 percent. Growth next year is projected to be
4.3 percent, unchanged from the April forecast.  
 Industrial Production  
 A report today showed German industrial output rose more
than economists forecast in May as the global recovery fueled
demand for goods from Europe’s largest economy. Production
increased 2.6 percent from April, when it gained a revised 1.2
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said. Economists had
forecast a 0.9 percent gain for May, the median of 30 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  
 The European Central Bank left interest rates at a record
low as rising market borrowing costs and the sovereign debt
crisis threaten to derail the region’s economic recovery.  
 Policy makers meeting in Frankfurt today kept the benchmark
rate at 1 percent, as predicted by all 55 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Separately, the Bank of England left its key
rate at 0.5 percent.  
 Deutsche Bank surged 3.3 percent to 49.02 euros. Credit
Suisse upgraded European banks to “market weight” from
“underweight,” citing improving credit markets and saying that
“sovereign credit risk is overstated.”  
 Allianz SE , Europe’s biggest insurer, rose 1.3 percent to
83.17 euros.  
 Deutsche Boerse  
 Deutsche Boerse AG  increased 0.8 percent to 51.92 euros.
Macquarie Group Ltd. upgraded the operator of the Frankfurt
exchange to “outperform” from “neutral.” The brokerage said
it considers “exchanges and interdealer brokers as likely
beneficiaries of heightened volatility over the medium term.”  
 ThyssenKrupp, the nation’s largest steelmaker, increased
2.1 percent to 21.39 euros. German crude steel production rose
53 percent to 3.9 million metric tons in June from a year
earlier, the German Steel Federation said.  
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s second-biggest airline,
gained 2.6 percent to 11.96 euros.  
 Siemens AG  increased 1.4 percent to 73.69 euros.
Commerzbank AG upgraded Europe’s biggest engineering company to
“buy” from “add.”  
 Henkel fell 2.5 percent to 38.4 euros. Credit Suisse cut
its recommendation to “underperform” from “neutral,” saying
that “market expectations are high.” The brokerage noted that
“despite its cyclical earnings the shares have continued to
outperform as the economic backdrop has deteriorated.”  
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  dropped for the first time this
week, falling 2.1 percent to 38.91 euros. Nomura Holding Inc.
downgraded the world’s biggest luxury-auto manufacturer to
“neutral” from “buy,” saying ‘most of the good news is
priced in.”  
 Daimler AG  retreated 0.9 percent to 41.58 euros. Nomura cut
its recommendation on the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury
cars to “reduce” from “neutral.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        