-- Martifer Scraps Plans for California Solar-Biomass Project
-- Ehren Goossens
-- 2010-07-07T02:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/martifer-withdraws-application-to-build-california-solar-biomass-project.html

          
          
                  July 6 (Bloomberg New Energy Finance) -- Martifer
Renewables has withdrawn an application to build a 106.8-
megawatt hybrid solar thermal electrical generation and biomass
power project in Fresno County, California.  
 In a letter to the California Energy Commission, Martifer
said it wasn’t able to resolve issues about “project economics
and biomass supply amongst other things.” The U.S. executive
director for Martifer, a unit of Portugal’s Martifer SPGS SA,
wasn’t immediately available to comment on the project.  
 Martifer had signed a 20-year power purchase agreement in
June 2008 with utility Pacific Gas & Electric Co., a unit of
PG&E Corp., for power from the project, which was approved in
December 2008.  
 Located in the southern San Joaquin Valley, 6 miles (10
kilometers) east of the city of Coalinga, San Joaquin Solar 1
and San Joaquin Solar 2 would have consisted of two 53.4-
megawatt hybrid parabolic trough array solar thermal and biomass
plants. They would have produced power for roughly $4.53 million
per megawatt, Martifer said in the project’s application for
certification with the energy commission.  
 During nighttime hours, the project was designed to use
biomass combustion to provide as much as 40 megawatts from each
plant without any solar input, maintaining the solar field in a
“hot-standby condition” so that quick transfer to solar
production could be accomplished when sunlight was again
available. The combined energy sources were expected to cost
$485 million and yield a capacity factor of 74.8 percent,
according to the California Public Utilities Commission.  
 In August 2009, solar thermal project developer
BrightSource Ltd. said Chevron Corp. had contracted with the
company to begin construction on a solar thermal process heat
project at an oil field in Coalinga.  
 The plant’s 29 megawatts of thermal energy is intended to
be used for enhanced heavy oil extraction, replacing natural
gas-fired steam plants. The plant is scheduled to come online in
late 2010 or early 2011, a spokesman for BrightSource told
Bloomberg New Energy Finance at that time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        