-- Maryland's Largest County Borrows $325 Million as Moody's Raises Outlook
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-07-07T21:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/maryland-s-largest-county-seeks-325-million-in-bonds-as-downgrade-looms.html

          
          
             Montgomery County,  Maryland ’s most-
populous and one of about 60 top-rated counties in the U.S.,
will borrow $325 million after being removed from a watchlist
for potential credit downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service.  
 The suburb of Washington, D.C., home to the National
Institutes of Health and other federal offices, was put on
review for a possible rating cut after the recession reduced tax
revenue, forcing it to tap reserves, Moody’s said April 5. The
county’s main account, the general fund, shrank by more than
half to $108 million in June 2009 from a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s took the county off
review and affirmed its rating of Aaa last night, according to
 John Cline , Moody’s spokesman.  
 The potential downgrade hadn’t stopped Montgomery County’s
general-obligation debt from trading at a lower yield than
Maryland’s AAA rated obligations, Bloomberg data show. The
county’s tax-exempt bonds due in 2020 were priced to yield 3.15
percent, 17 basis points below a comparable state bond. The
spread fell to 4 basis points today, according to Bloomberg
data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Montgomery County is “going to do very well” in pricing
tomorrow, said  Anthony Shields , a principal in the public-
finance department at Williams Capital Group in New York. “It’s
a great credit, it’s a high-grade, and there’s a big appetite
for tax-exempts.”  
 Fitch Ratings also assigned the county’s bonds its highest
ranking, citing a “formidable economic base” in a July 2
report. Montgomery County, with a 2009 population of about
972,000, is one of 63 counties with a top rating, according to
Fitch. The U.S. Census recognizes 3,141 counties in the nation.  
 ‘Best News’  
 “We got the best news imaginable today,”  Jennifer Barrett , the county’s director of finance, said of Moody’s
decision. The county used “increases in energy and cell-phone
taxes, along with extensive expenditure reductions and employee
furloughs” to address Moody’s earlier credit concerns, Barrett
said.  
 In addition to $195 million in tax-exempts maturing
serially from 2011 through 2022, the county will offer about
$106 million in traditional municipals, taxable Build America
Bonds or a combination of the two, based on underwriter bids,
Barrett said.  
 Another $24 million will be sold as taxable Recovery Zone
Economic Development bonds, which offer issuers a 45 percent
federal subsidy, preliminary offering documents show.  
 “The $106 million looks BAB-ish,” Shields said of the
tranche, which matures serially from 2023 to 2030. “Short-term
is going to be retail-oriented, tax-exempt, and the longer stuff
will be BABs.”  
 Prior Maryland Sale  
 Maryland last sold Build America Bonds in February before
the U.S. Treasury trimmed a federal subsidy payment by about
$7,000 for money the state owed on other programs. So-called
offset risk and the uncertain future of the Build America
program, which is awaiting extension by Congress, weren’t
factors in Montgomery County’s willingness to issue subsidized
debt, Barrett said.  
 Build America Bonds, created last year as part of the
economic stimulus program, are the fastest-growing part of the
$2.8 trillion municipal market. Issuers are eligible for a 35
percent subsidy on interest costs from the U.S. Treasury. About
$118 billion of the securities have been sold, Bloomberg data
show.  
 BABs Extension  
 The program is set to expire in December. A two-year
extension is included in a Senate bill awaiting action. Passed
by the House of Representatives May 28, the provision would cut
federal subsidies to 32 percent in 2011 and 30 percent in 2012.  
 “We were mindful of the issues, but the savings are very
attractive,” Barrett said.  
 Montgomery County sold taxable Build Americas in November,
with securities maturing in 20 years priced to yield 5.45
percent, 117 basis points above a Treasury due in 2030,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 The same obligations traded on April 7 for an average yield
of 5.42 percent, 73 basis points above the benchmark.  
 Yields on 10-year, top-rated debt fell 4 basis points today
to 2.95 percent, the lowest since Oct. 5, according to Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors. The  11
consecutive days  of decline is the longest such streak since
July 2008, MMA data show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        