-- U.S. Stocks Rally, Dow Surges Back Above 10,000
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-07-07T20:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/asian-stocks-fall-yen-strengthens-on-slowing-u-s-service-industry-growth.html

          
          
             Stocks surged, sending U.S. benchmark
indexes up the most since May, while the  dollar  and Treasuries
slid as growth in American retail sales bolstered optimism in
the earnings season and investors speculated European banks will
pass stress tests.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  extended a two-day rebound
from a 10-month low, rallying 3.1 percent to 1,060.27 at 4 p.m.
in New York for its best gain since May 27. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index climbed 1.4 percent as Spanish and Italian lenders surged.
 The Dollar Index  lost 0.2 percent to a two-month low of 83.888
and 10-year Treasury yields rose six basis points to 2.99
percent. Oil climbed from a four-week low and copper jumped.  
 Retailers advanced as the International Council of Shopping
Centers said sales were growing at the fastest pace since 2006,
easing concern that a slump in consumer confidence will
undermine the economic recovery. Banks led the rally as  State
Street Corp.  reported a profit and people with knowledge of the
talks said European stress tests may assume a 17 percent loss on
Greek bonds, half of the worst-case scenario estimated by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 “The market is very oversold,” said  Paul Zemsky , the New
York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment
Management, which oversees $550 billion. “The improvement in
retail sales numbers was enough to get some people back in. Over
the next few weeks, we’ll probably get both economic and
earnings data that will show that we’re not going to go back
into recession.”  
 Rebound After Slump  
 The  S&P 500  has tumbled 13 percent from its 2010 high in
April amid a deceleration in the manufacturing and service
industry expansion, a slow-to-recover job market and concern
over Europe’s debt crisis and China’s steps to cool its economy.
The gauge’s 14-day relative strength index, a measure of market
momentum, fell to 30 on July 2, the day the S&P 500 closed at
its lowest since September. An RSI of 30 often signals that
stocks fell too far, too fast to analysts who  study  charts.  
 The Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose yesterday for the
first time in eight days, snapping its longest losing streak
since the financial crisis of 2008. Cisco Systems Inc.,
JPMorgan, American Express Co. and General Electric Co. surged
more than 4.6 percent today to lead the 30-stock gauge to its
first back-to-back advance in almost three weeks. The Dow surged
274.66 points, or 2.8 percent, to 10,018.28 for its first close
above 10,000 this month.  
 Profit  for S&P 500 companies is projected to increase 34
percent in 2010, compared with the 27 percent estimated on March
29, according to more than 8,000 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The Dow’s second-quarter earnings season starts next
week when  Alcoa Inc.  reports on July 12.  
 ‘Salivating a Bit’  
 A 5 percent slide last week pushed the S&P 500 to 12.5
times estimated earnings, the cheapest since March 2009 when the
measure began an 80 percent rally.  
 “Folks are perhaps salivating a bit about some of the
prospects of earnings,” said  Barry James , who manages $2
billion as chief executive officer at James Investment Research
Inc. in Xenia, Ohio. “That combined with the fact that the
market was down so much last week is offering an opportunity for
the market to rebound this week.”  
 All but one of 31 stock in an S&P 500 gauge of retailers
advanced. Sales probably expanded at an average monthly rate of
4 percent in the first five months of the fiscal year that began
Jan. 31, the biggest gain since 2006, the International Council
of Shopping Centers trade group said before its June report
tomorrow.  Nordstrom Inc.  and Kohl’s Corp. are among chains that
will report June sales increases at stores open at least a year,
according to analysts’ estimates.  
 Two-Day Advance  
 The MSCI World Index  of 24 developed nations rallied 3.7
percent over the past two days, the most since May.  
 Longer-term Treasuries fell as investors sold government
securities before the U.S. announces the size of its note and
bond sales scheduled for next week. Thirty-year bond yields rose
eight basis points to 3.97 percent. Two-year yields were little
changed near 0.63 percent after touching a record low of 0.5856
percent on June 30.  
 Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S.
economy is growing and healing from the damage caused by the
2008 financial crisis.  
 “We still have a long way to go,” Geithner told Treasury
Department employees at an appearance today in Washington with
first lady  Michelle Obama . “We still have a lot of challenges
to meet. But we are coming back. We are healing the damage
caused by the crisis. We are growing again.”  
 Stress Tests  
 The  Stoxx 600  extended its two-day gain to 4 percent, its
biggest since the end of May, as Spain’s Banco Santander SA,
France’s BNP Paribas and London-based Barclays Plc led a 3.9
percent rally in the index’s bank shares. Benchmark indexes for
Spain and Italy jumped more than 3.3 percent.  
 The two people briefed on the European stress-test talks
also said banks may assume a loss of 3 percent on Spanish bonds.
There are unlikely to be so-called haircuts on German government
securities under the evaluations being overseen by the Committee
of European Banking Supervisors, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the talks are private.  
 JPMorgan had estimated losses of 10 percent to 20 percent
on Spanish bonds, and haircuts of 0 percent to 10 percent on
German bunds, according to a note to clients today.  
 “The markets were ready for a rebound, all they needed was
a trigger,” said London-based  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist at
Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd., whose parent company oversees
$33 billion. “In this case, they are getting a trigger from the
bank stress tests,” he said. “It may not be as strict but the
fact of the matter is that it is being applied. It could help
the inter-lending market and therefore the equity market too if
it has any credibility attached to it.”  
 Recovery Swaps  
 Credit markets are pricing in losses of about 60 percent on
Greek bonds should the government default. Derivatives known as
recovery swaps are trading at rates that imply investors would
get back about 40 percent in a Greek default or debt
restructuring.  
 The stress tests will be conducted on 91 companies that
account for 65 percent of the region’s banking industry. They’ll
examine whether the lenders can withstand a shrinking economy
over two years and a drop in government bond values. Results of
the tests will be disclosed July 23.  
 Earlier declines in global stocks came after a report
showed German factory orders unexpectedly fell in May, the first
time in five months, as demand for goods from Europe’s largest
economy waned across the 16-nation euro region.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  retreated 0.5 percent, its
first drop in three days, after yesterday’s Institute for Supply
Management report showed slower-than-estimated growth in U.S.
service industries.  
 Dollar, Euro  
 The U.S. dollar weakened against 12 of 16 major
counterparts, led by declines of at least 0.8 percent against
the Brazilian real, Australian dollar and New Zealand dollar.
The euro increased 0.2 percent $1.2650, near the highest level
since May reached yesterday.  
 Crude oil for August delivery gained for the first time in
seven days, rising 2.9 percent to $74.07 a barrel in New York.
Copper jumped 1.5 percent to $3.015 a pound in New York,
extending its three-day gain to more than 5 percent.  
 Wheat rose to the highest price since January after
analysts lowered production estimates for Russia and France
because of hot, dry weather. Wheat futures for September
delivery rose 4.5 percent to $5.305 a bushel on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Corn and soybeans rallied on speculation heavy
rain will reduce yields in the U.S., the biggest exporter of
both crops.  
 A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
fell for the fourth time in five business days, indicating
improving investor confidence. Credit-default swaps on the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, dropped 2.9 basis points to a mid-price of
118.8 basis points as of 1:54 p.m. in New York, the lowest since
June 28, according to Markit Group Ltd.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelly Bit  in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks rallied, with major indexes gaining the most in more than a month, as banks advanced and retail-sales growth bolstered optimism that consumer spending is weathering a drop in confidence. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Larry Kantor, head of research at Barclays Capital Inc., talks about the outlook for U.S. equities, corporate earnings and economic growth.
     Kantor speaks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Sarah O'Connor of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about Germany's economy and export market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Bianco, speaking from Chicago, also discusses his investment strategy, stress tests for European banks, and the U.S. housing market. European Union regulators are carrying out stress tests on 91 banks, accounting for 65 percent of the area’s banking industry, to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government bond values. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
