-- Most Asian Stocks Drop as U.S. Services Report Fuels Concern
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-07-07T10:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/asian-stocks-drop-on-slower-u-s-service-industry-expansion-honda-falls.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  fell, dragging the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index lower for the first time in three days, as
slower-than-estimated expansion by U.S. service industries
underscored concern global growth is faltering.  
 Nissan Motor Co. , which counts North America as it biggest
market, slid 2.5 percent in Tokyo.  Samsung Electronics Co. ,
which gets about 83 percent of revenue overseas, declined 0.8
percent in Seoul. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., operator of the
world’s biggest merchant fleet, lost 2.1 percent as a measure of
shipping rates declined for a 28th consecutive day.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  retreated 1.4 percent in Hong Kong
on fund raising speculation.  
 “The global consensus is that the economic recovery is
slowing and we need a catalyst to boost market sentiment,” said
 Koichi Ogawa , chief portfolio manager at Daiwa SB Investments
Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees $52 billion. “Investors can’t
plan clearly whether to position defensively or to buy
relatively cheap equities.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.7 percent to 113.06 as
of 7:29 p.m. in Tokyo, following a two-day, 1.9 percent increase.
The gauge has slumped 12 percent from its high this year on
April 15 on concern Europe’s debt crisis and Chinese steps to
curb property prices will hurt global growth. Companies in the
gauge trade at 13.8 times estimated earnings, near the lowest
level since December 2008.  
 Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index sank 1.1 percent. Japan’s
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average  lost 0.6 percent, while South Korea’s
Kospi Index dropped 0.6 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite
Index advanced 0.5 percent amid predictions of increased profit
from consumer companies.  
 Automakers Slump  
 The  S&P/ASX 200 Index  fell 0.5 percent in Sydney, where a
survey from the Australian Industry Group and Housing Industry
Association released today showed the country’s  building
industry  shrank in June at the fastest pace in 10 months.  
 Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  declined
0.6 percent. The gauge pared a 2 percent gain to close 0.5
percent higher yesterday after the Institute for Supply
Management’s index of non-manufacturing businesses in June fell
more than expected to a four-month low from May.  
 A gauge of consumer discretionary stocks including
automakers in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.8 percent, the
third- biggest decline  among 10 industry groups.  
 Nissan slid 2.5 percent to 624 yen.  Honda Motor Co. , which
got about 44 percent of sales from North America in the last
fiscal year, sank 1.6 percent to 2,524 yen. Sony Corp., the
maker of PlayStation game consoles and Bravia televisions, fell
1.7 percent to 2,321 yen.  
 ‘Kitchen Sink’  
 Two stocks declined for each that rose in the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index  today. The gauge retreated 3.4 percent last week,
the most since the period ended May 21, as reports on U.S.
manufacturing, employment and home sales pointed to slower
growth in the second half of the year.  
 Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  told Bloomberg
Television yesterday that the U.S. should have a “kitchen-sink
strategy” that uses all fiscal and monetary policies possible
to prevent the economy from sliding back into a recession.  
 “We are looking at what could be a very long siege here,”
Krugman said. “We should be throwing everything we can get at
this.”  
 Samsung Electronics, Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors,
flat screens and mobile phones, lost 0.8 percent to 769,000 won.
The stock declined on speculation the company won’t be able to
sustain the 87 percent surge in second-quarter  operating profit 
that it reported yesterday.  
 Earnings Concern  
 “We already had expected such outstanding performance”
for the second quarter, said  Kang Shin Woo , chief investment
officer at Seoul-based Korea Investment Trust Management Co.,
which manages $15.6 billion. “Some investors are concerned that
earnings may slow down from the fourth quarter.”  
 Mitsui O.S.K. Lines slipped 2.1 percent to 570 yen.
 Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. , Japan’s third-biggest shipping line
by sales, declined 3 percent to 351 yen. China Shipping
Container Lines Co. slumped 2.9 percent to HK$2.72 in Hong Kong.  
 The  Baltic Dry Index , which measures the cost of
transporting commodities, dropped 4 percent in London yesterday,
taking its 28-day loss to 49 percent. That’s the gauge’s longest
losing streak since June 2004.  
 Finance companies were the  biggest drag  on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. In Hong Kong, Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China fell 1.4 percent to HK$5.59 after Ming Pao Daily News
reported the company plans to raise as much as 45 billion yuan
($6.6 billion) in a rights offer. The company’s Shanghai-traded
shares declined 0.5 percent to 4.12 yuan.  
 Agricultural Bank IPO  
 Chinese bank stocks also declined as  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd.  sought funds in what may be the world’s largest
initial public offering. The sale is raising $19.2 billion,
according to people with knowledge of the pricing in Hong Kong
and Shanghai.  
 Huaxia Bank Co. slid 0.5 percent to 10.90 yuan.  Shanghai
Pudong Development Bank Co. , the Chinese partner of Citigroup
Inc., lost 0.5 percent to 13.76 yuan.  
 “Banks have been ignoring the weak market sentiment and
keep announcing big fundraising plans,” said Wei Wei, an
analyst at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai.  
 Gains among consumer-related companies overshadowed bank
losses in China. Appliance maker  GD Midea Holding Co.  rallied
5.6 percent to 12.04 yuan, after saying first-half net income
may as much as double from a year earlier. Wuxi Little Swan Co.,
a manufacturer of household appliances, climbed 7.4 percent to
13.80 yuan. The company said net income in the six-month period
may increase as much as 150 percent.  
 Android Phones  
 HTC Corp. , the world’s largest maker of handsets using
Microsoft Corp. and Google Inc. operating systems, climbed 1.2
percent to NT$501 in Taipei. The company reported second-quarter
profit that beat estimates as demand for Google’s Android phones
drove sales to a record.  
 In Tokyo,  JX Holdings Inc. , Japan’s biggest oil refiner,
jumped 3.4 percent to 460 yen after the Yomiuri newspaper
reported the company is in talks with China Petroleum and
Chemical Corp. to jointly build a lubricant plant in China. The
company posted the largest increase in the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
    Paulsen, speaking from Minneapolis, also discusses his investment strategy for U.S. stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
