-- Asian Currencies Retreat, Led by Ringgit, Rupee, on U.S. Slowdown Signs
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-07T08:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/asian-currencies-retreat-led-by-ringgit-rupee-on-u-s-slowdown-signs.html

          
          
             Asian  currencies fell, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit and the Philippine peso, after a slowdown in
U.S. services output added to evidence the recovery from a
global recession is losing momentum.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index and the MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index of shares both dropped the most in a week as
investors favored safer bets than emerging-market assets. The
ringgit slipped for the first time in four days as economists
were divided over whether the central bank will tomorrow add to
this year’s two interest-rate increases. India’s rupee fell to a
one-month low as overseas investors sold stocks.  
 “Economic data from around the world continues to
disappoint and are casting doubts over global growth,” said
 Jaiprakash Israni , a currency trader in Mumbai at state-owned
Andhra Bank.  
 The ringgit weakened 0.5 percent to 3.2215 per dollar as of
4:47 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, after touching a two-week high of
3.1992, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee
declined 0.4 percent to 47.10, a four-week low. The peso slid
0.4 percent to 46.55.  
 The Asia Dollar  Index , which tracks the region’s 10 most-
used currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.3 percent to 110.66.
Yesterday’s close of 110.95 was the highest since June 28. The
MSCI Asia-Pacific Index dropped as much as 1.1 percent, snapping
a two-day gain.  
 A report by the Institute for Supply Management showed U.S.
non-manufacturing businesses grew at the slowest pace in four
months in June. China’s economy faces increasing uncertainties
and the situation is becoming more complex, Ma Jiantang, head of
the National Bureau of Statistics, was cited as saying in the
agency’s newspaper today.  
 Growth Prospects  
 South Korea’s won, Asia’s worst-performing currency of the
year, fluctuated after the International Monetary Fund and HSBC
Holdings Plc boosted their 2010 economic growth forecasts for
the nation and called for the Bank of Korea to raise rates. The
IMF late yesterday revised its estimate to 5.75 percent from 4.5
percent, while HSBC today published a report revising its
projection to 5.8 percent from 5.2 percent.  
 “We’re seeing demand to buy the won on the cheap,” said
 Cho Yun Suk , a currency dealer at Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul.
“But investors are worried that the U.S. and China’s economic
growth is weakening. It will be hard for the won to move in one
direction. We’ll see volatility.”  
 The currency traded at 1,222.98 per dollar at the close in
Seoul, versus 1,222.50 yesterday, after earlier appreciating as
much as 0.7 percent and declining by 0.3 percent.  
 Rate Outlook  
 The ringgit retreated from a two-week high before the
central bank meets to decide on interest rates tomorrow. Half of
the 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a quarter of a
percentage point increase to  2.75 percent , while the rest
predicted no change.  
 “There’s still room for rate increases in Asia, the only
question is the urgency,” said  Faizal Yussof , a currency trader
at KAF Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “However, talk of
a slowdown means the ringgit doesn’t warrant a bullish view.”  
 Benchmark interest rates are near-zero in the U.S. and 1
percent in the euro region.  
 Recent data and trends from the U.S., Europe and China
indicated “the risk of the dreaded double-dip has increased
over the last few weeks,” said Nazir Razak, chief executive
officer of CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., Malaysia’s second-largest
banking group.  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah slid 0.2 percent to 9,083 per
dollar and Singapore’s dollar declined 0.1 percent to S$1.3912.
The Thai baht lost 0.2 percent to 32.48 and China’s yuan gained
0.03 percent to 6.7781.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        