-- Asian Bank Bonds May Climb as Stress of Tests Fades, Brokerages Predict
-- Katrina Nicholas
-- 2010-07-07T05:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/asian-bank-bonds-may-climb-as-stress-of-tests-fades-brokerages-predict.html

          
          
             Bonds sold by Asian banks are a buy
because wider spreads don’t reflect the underlying strength of
the borrowers, and robust finances mean they’re more likely to
gain as risk sentiment improves, according to Amias Berman & Co.
and Morgan Stanley.  
 “We see a window of opportunity in bank capital notes
where spreads have widened amid European banking contagion
risk,”  Vince Chan , a credit strategist at brokerage Amias
Berman, said in a phone interview from Hong Kong. “The
underlying fundamentals of these Asian banks remains strong and
intact.”  
 The extra spread investors demand to own  bank dollar debt 
in Asia has climbed 80 basis points since the start of May,
compared with 77 basis points for dollar debt of  utilities , and
60 basis points for bonds of  oil and gas  companies, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes show. Asian financial institutions had $42
billion in writedowns and losses during the credit crunch
compared with $1.2 trillion for their peers in the Americas,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The European Union’s plan to publish stress tests this
month to gauge the health of the regions’ banks following a wave
of sovereign downgrades is worrying investors, who’ve sold Asian
bank debt as confidence worsens, Chan said. Once results are
public, spreads should narrow, pushing bond prices higher.  
 “People are worrying about overall risk with respect to
the banking sector and the stress test results in one to two
weeks could be a turning point,” she said. “If the tests are
properly communicated and executed, this would be a positive
catalyst.”  
 ‘Pricing Dislocations’  
 Morgan Stanley also recommends investors add bank capital
to their portfolios, noting that Asian bank bonds “suffered
during the sharp technical sell-off” in May.  
 “Asian bank fundamentals remain largely intact, and the
pricing dislocations post the sell-off present investors with an
opportunity to selectively buy good quality bonds at cheap
valuations,” banking analyst  Desmond Lee  said today.  
 Recently sold notes may be better than older debt because
trade is “usually quite liquid in the first few weeks post-
launch while, being summertime, volumes in the secondary market
are traditionally light,” Chan said.  
 Sales of bonds in dollars, euro or yen in Asia-Pacific
outside Japan were 80 percent higher on average during September
and October compared with July and August for the three-year
period from 2004 before the global crisis froze credit markets,
Bloomberg data show. Bond spreads can widen in periods of low
trading as buyers quit the market and activity cools.  
 The spread over Treasuries for  Citic Bank International
Ltd.’s  $500 million of notes due 2020 has widened 18.5 basis
points to 381 basis points from their 362.5 basis-point spread
at issue on June 21, ING Groep NV prices show. The spread of
Citic’s $250 million of perpetual bonds callable in 2012 and
sold in 2002 has fallen 7 basis points in the same period.  
 Amias Berman , a fixed-income brokerage and advisory firm
with offices in London and Hong Kong, plans to open a Sydney
office later this month, according to its website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        