-- AT&T Blames Alcatel-Lucent Software for Slow IPhones
-- Greg Bensinger
-- 2010-07-07T20:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/at-t-says-alcatel-lucent-software-slowing-iphone-4-other-wireless-devices.html

          
          
             AT&T Inc. , the second-largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier, said software supplied by  Alcatel-Lucent
SA  was responsible for slower loading speeds in certain areas of
the U.S. on some mobile devices, including the iPhone 4.  
 The Dallas-based carrier said in a statement that Alcatel-
Lucent is working on a software update that will fix the defect,
which it estimates affects less than 2 percent of its wireless
customers.  
 AT&T is eager to show that its equipment alone isn’t
responsible when mobile devices that depend on it suffer. Last
week,  Apple Inc.  said software on its iPhone has been
overstating signal strength after users complained of reception
problems, and AT&T has said that its network has underperformed
in areas including New York and San Francisco.  
 The affected customers are experiencing slowness when they
try to send data, such as photos or e-mail, from their device,
said  Mary Ward , an Alcatel-Lucent spokeswoman. She said the
company wasn’t releasing a timeline for the software update and
declined to say which areas of the U.S. were affected.  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sold 1.7 million
iPhone 4s in the first three days after its June 24 release.
Customers have complained about poor reception from the network
of AT&T, the iPhone’s exclusive U.S. carrier, since the first
version of the device debuted three years ago.  
 Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for Apple, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  
 AT&T added 34 cents to $24.33 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading and has declined 13 percent this
year. Apple  gained  $10.04 to $258.67 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        