-- Auckland Airport Buys 25% of Queenstown Field, Form Strategic Alliance
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-07T21:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/auckland-airport-buys-25-of-queenstown-field-form-strategic-alliance.html

          
          
             Auckland International Airport Ltd .,
New Zealand’s largest, will invest NZ$27.7 million ($19 million)
buying a 25 percent stake in Queenstown Airport, which services
the alpine resort town on the nation’s South Island.  
 Auckland will subscribe to new shares and has an option to
raise its stake to as high as 35 percent as part of a strategic
alliance, it said in a statement sent to the stock exchange.
Queenstown Airport has the nation’s fourth-largest number of
international visitors.  
 Auckland, the arrival point for more than 70 percent of New
Zealand’s visitors, is investing in new terminals and alliances
to help increase traffic. In January, it bought a 25 percent
stake in two airports in Australia’s Queensland state.  
 “We can accelerate growth in international passenger
volumes by forming deeper partnerships with selected and like-
minded airports that share our growth focus on particular
airlines and travel markets,” said Chief Executive Officer
 Simon Moutter .  
 The two companies have been cooperating informally for the
past year, during which time there has been a 36 percent
increase in passengers between the two airports, he said. A
formal alliance is expected to boost traffic further, with an
extra 176,000 passenger movements within five years.  
 Queenstown had 811,460 passenger movements in the year
ended June 30, according to today’s statement.  
 Funds from the share sale will allow funding of capital
works and strengthen the balance sheet, allowing dividend
payments. The airport’s majority shareholder is the Queenstown
Lakes District Council. The two companies will also work
together on retail activities, property development and
aeronautical operations, they said.  
 For Related News and Information:
On Auckland Airport earnings: AIA NZ <Equity> FA <GO>
New Zealand visitor arrivals: NZOVTSAM <Index> GP <GO>
Asia Pacific air travel: IATAATAP <Index> GP <GO>
Top New Zealand stories: TOP AU <GO>  
          
          


  


        