-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Reach One-Week Highs Before U.S. Retailing Report
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-07T19:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/australian-dollar-retreats-from-one-week-high-on-slowing-global-recovery.html

          
          
             The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rose to one-week highs against the greenback on
speculation buying by U.S. consumers will support growth in
higher-yielding producers of raw materials.  
 The currencies, nicknamed the Aussie and the kiwi, gained
against 15 of their most-traded counterparts before a private
report on U.S. retailer sales tomorrow that may show the fastest
increase in four years, according to a preliminary statement
from the International Council of Shopping Centers. The two
currencies weakened earlier as Asian stocks slid after U.S. data
yesterday showed growth in service industries slowed last month.  
 “The Aussie and the kiwi are heading the charge again,”
said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-
exchange group in Boston at BNY Mellon, the world’s largest
custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in assets under
administration. “The dollar is on the back foot. With the price
action in equities you’re getting some risk back on the table.”  
 Australia’s dollar rose 1.4 percent to 86.48 U.S. cents at
3:15 p.m. in New York, from 85.27 cents yesterday. It touched
86.64 cents, the most since June 29. The currency gained 1.3
percent to 75.60 yen, from 74.62.  
 The New Zealand dollar climbed 1.4 percent to 70.35 U.S.
cents, from 69.39 cents, and reached 70.53, also the most since
June 29. The kiwi bought 61.50 yen, 1.3 percent more than 60.74
yen a day ago.  
 U.S. Retail Sales  
 U.S. retail sales probably expanded at an average monthly
rate of 4 percent in the first five months of the retail fiscal
year that began Jan. 31, the biggest gain since 2006, the
shopping center trade group said in advance of its June report
tomorrow. Nordstrom Inc. and Kohl’s Corp. are among chains that
will report June sales increases at stores open at least a year,
according to analysts’ estimates.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia left its overnight cash rate
target at 4.5 percent for a second month yesterday and said
consumer spending and business investment are expanding.  
 “The RBA held the line on its global and domestic growth
outlooks, seeing both at around trend,”  John Kyriakopoulos ,
head of currency strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
Sydney, wrote in a research note. “We continue to see the next
move by the RBA as being a hike in November, which will support
a rebound in the Australian dollar in the fourth quarter.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        