-- Bajaj Seeks 70% of Sales Outside India, Challenging Honda in Latin America
-- Arijit Ghosh
-- 2010-07-07T11:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/bajaj-seeks-70-of-sales-from-outside-india-challenging-honda-motorcycle.html

          
          
             Bajaj Auto Ltd. , India’s second-
largest motorcycle maker, plans to win 70 percent of sales from
overseas markets, challenging Honda Motor Co. in Latin America,
Asia and Africa.  
 “It will take us several years, but it only shows how much
headroom there is for Bajaj even if we only focus on
motorcycles,” Managing Director  Rajiv Bajaj , who has asked all
employees to carry a note with the company’s vision statement in
their pockets, said in an interview. Bajaj earned about 30
percent of sales overseas last year.  
 The motorcycle-maker also eventually aims to roughly triple
global market share to 30 percent, either using partnerships
with  KTM Power Sports AG  and  Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. , or
building new networks to win market share from Honda and Chinese
rivals. Indian companies including Bajaj Auto and  Bharti Airtel
Ltd.  are expanding in countries such as Indonesia, Brazil and
Nigeria as economic growth boosts demand for products from
motorcycles to mobile-phone services.  
 “It will be easy for Bajaj to compete with Chinese
products in overseas markets,” said  Umesh Karne , a Mumbai-based
analyst at Brics Securities Ltd., who has an ‘outperform’ rating
on the stock. “The challenge will be to compete with Honda,
which has a bigger brand and wider distribution networks around
the world.”  
 Bajaj Auto, the best performing stock in the  MSCI India
Index  this year, declined 1.2 percent to 2,409.65 rupees in
Mumbai today. The benchmark Sensitive Index fell 0.8 percent.  
 5 Million Sales  
 Bajaj Auto, which sold a record 2.8 million vehicles in the
year ended March 31, is targeting sales of 5 million by 2012,
according to the company’s vision statement. The company makes
Pulsar and Discover motorcycles as well as three-wheelers.  
 “The whole of the southern hemisphere is relevant for
Bajaj Auto,” Bajaj, 43, who practices yoga every morning to
keep fit, said on July 5. “There’s always a chance in the
market for a strong number 2.”  
 Honda sold 9.63 million motorcycles last year, including
sales at  Hero Honda Motors Ltd. , India’s largest motorcycle-
maker. Honda owns 26 percent of Hero Honda.  
 Bharti Airtel, India’s biggest mobile-phone company, last
month acquired the African assets of Kuwait’s Mobile
Telecommunications Co. to enter the continent’s market.
Nigeria’s economy, the second-largest in sub-Saharan Africa
after South Africa, grew 7.2 percent in the first quarter and
7.4 percent in the previous three months.  
 Brazil, Latin America’s biggest economy, expanded 9 percent
in the first quarter, its fastest pace in more than two decades,
while Indonesia’s central bank forecasts gross domestic product
to expand as much as 6.5 percent in 2011.  
 Using Partnerships  
 Bajaj Auto, which owns about 36 percent of Austria’s KTM
Power and has had a technical partnership with Kawasaki since
1984, may use these tie-ups to enter new markets. Bajaj Auto
partnered with Kobe, Japan-based Kawasaki to sell motorcycles in
the Philippines and it assembles Kawasaki Ninja motorcycles in
India.  
 The world’s biggest maker of three-wheelers also plans to
spend about 5 billion rupees ($107 million) on developing a
small car in India to supply to Renault SA, Bajaj said.  
 The automaker may use the low-cost car’s platform to
develop more products in future, Bajaj said. The company is
aiming to develop a car that will cost owners about 5,000 rupees
a month in financing, fuel and other expenses, compared with
about 3,000 rupees for a motorcycle.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vipin V. Nair  in Mumbai at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net ;
 Arijit Ghosh  in Mumbai at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        