-- Bank of Korea to Debate Joining India, Taiwan in Increasing Interest Rates
-- Michael Munoz
-- 2010-07-08T03:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/bank-of-korea-to-debate-joining-india-taiwan-in-increasing-interest-rates.html

          
          
             Bank of Korea policy makers will
probably tomorrow debate the timing of the first interest-rate
increase since the global crisis as strengthening economic
growth threatens to spur inflation.  
 Four of 14 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  predict
the central bank will execute a quarter-point increase in the 2
percent benchmark rate this week, while the remainder anticipate
Governor  Kim Choong Soo  will hold off until August or later in
the year. Investors have boosted bets that the board will move.  
 Governor Kim is under pressure to join regional rivals in
Taiwan, Malaysia and India in raising rates as growth may
accelerate past what he describes as its “potential” pace,
stoking inflation. Government officials have said the bank
should wait until it sees second-quarter data later this month.  
 “It will be a close call for a possible rate hike at the
policy meeting,” said  David Cohen , an economist at Action
Economics in Singapore. “But we think they will wait one more
month, in the face of the global uncertainties.”  
 Government bond yields have risen with expectations for
higher rates. Yields on one-year securities rose to 3.15 percent
as of 11:30 a.m. after closing at 3.13 percent yesterday, the
highest level in more than four months, according to data
compiled by the Korea Financial Investment Association. Yields
have jumped 36 basis points since the BOK on June 10 signaled a
greater emphasis on consumer prices as the economy accelerates.  
 Rogoff’s View  
 Inflation may become a problem for Asian nations should
they continue to refrain from raising rates,  Kenneth Rogoff , the
Harvard University professor and ex-International Monetary Fund
chief economist, said at a conference in Hong Kong this week.  
 The IMF echoed that view, saying two days ago that South
Korea needs to gradually boost borrowing costs as monetary
policy is currently “somewhat beyond what is necessary to
support the recovery.”  
 Low rates in South Korea combined with a strengthening
economy to spur credit growth in recent months. A government
report today showed that lending to households increased by 2.5
trillion won ($2.1 billion) last month to 417.9 trillion won,
the Bank of Korea said today in an e-mailed statement. The gain
followed a 4.4 trillion won increase in May that was the biggest
jump in more than three years.  
 Strengthening growth prompted Malaysia’s central bank to
raise rates in March and May, Taiwan to boost borrowing costs
last month and the Reserve Bank of India to increase its
benchmark three times since mid-March.  
 Government Shift  
 Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  last month signaled a
change in the government’s previous outspoken opposition to a
rate move, saying that “balance is most important for the
second half” and policy makers “have to sustain economic
growth while curbing potential inflation pressures.”  
 The government on June 24 boosted its 2010 gross domestic
product growth forecast to 5.8 percent from a December
projection of 5 percent, saying the global recovery is spurring
exports and local demand.  
 Inflation will probably exceed 3 percent later this year
because of an increase in public fees for gas and electricity
and a weaker won, said  Kwon Young Sun , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. Consumer prices rose 2.6
percent in June from a year earlier, after climbing 2.7 percent
in May. The central bank is targeting inflation of between 2
percent and 4 percent on average through 2012.  
 President  Lee Myung Bak ’s administration had pressed the
central bank to hold rates down before local elections on June 2.
The government suffered a surprise defeat at the polls and Lee
may accept Prime Minister  Chung Un Chan ’s offer to resign,
Yonhap News reported this week.  
 Record Earnings  
 South Korea’s exports jumped 32.4 percent in June from a
year earlier, an eighth straight monthly increase, as global
demand rebounded.  Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker
of semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones, yesterday
reported record earnings last quarter, as a recovery in demand
for computer-memory chips drove up prices.  
 A majority of the central bank’s board members wanted to
send a signal to the market that rates may start to rise in the
near future unless Europe’s debt woes escalate, according to
minutes of its May 12 meeting, released on June 29.  
 Bank of Korea researchers said in a report this week that
it is “inevitable” that Greece will default because a
shrinking economy will push its debt to an unsustainable level.
While such an outcome isn’t imminent, it may trigger “major
chaos” in global financial markets if it occurs, they said.  
 Concerns over Europe’s debt crisis are keeping some policy
makers from raising interest rates. Australia this week joined
the U.S., Europe and Indonesia in keeping borrowing costs
unchanged to gauge whether the European crisis threatens the
global economic recovery.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Munoz  in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kim Choong Soo, governor of the Bank of Korea, addresses during a session at the Bank of Korea International Conference 2010 in Seoul. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
