-- Barclays' Pond Says Yields to Rise at Record $12 Billion 10-Year TIPS Sale
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-07-07T16:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/barclays-pond-says-yields-to-rise-at-record-12-billion-10-year-tips-sale.html

          
          
             Barclays Plc’s  Michael Pond,  the
top-rated analyst of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities,
said the U.S. may struggle to sell a record-tying $12 billon of
the securities tomorrow with the government likely to bolster
the size of future auctions and inflation expectations low.  
 “We are concerned that the market will have difficulty
absorbing this much supply given other headwinds and believe a
significant concession is needed for the auction to go well,”
Pond said in a note to clients dated July 2. “The level of real
yields combined with the size presents a high hurdle for a good
auction.”  
 The Treasury in May added more frequent auctions of TIPS to
improve the liquidity of the securities, whose principal is
adjusted to reflect changes in the consumer price index. The
increased issuance comes as the U.S. begins to reduce the size
of other Treasury auctions after increasing sales to all-time
highs to finance record $1 trillion plus budget deficits.  
 “While TIPS offer long term structural value, we are
seeing many headwinds from in the  near-term, from risk
aversion, to low real yields, supply and low core inflation
readings and concern about a double dip in the economy” Pond
said in an interview today. He was the top analyst the past two
years in Institutional Investor magazine polls of more than 890
firms that manage about $10.2 trillion in assets.  
 The gap between yields on Treasuries and TIPS due in 10
years, a measure of the outlook for consumer prices called the
breakeven rate, has fallen to 1.72 percentage points, from an
almost two-year high on 2.49 percentage points on Jan. 11.  
 Barclays Capital is one of 18 primary dealers that are
obligated to bid in Treasury auctions.  
 Real Yields  
 The $12 billion of 10-year TIPS will match the record
amount sold in January 2004. The U.S. will sell $30 billion of
the security during the second half of 2010, based on the size
of tomorrow’s auction and the Treasury’s plans to reopen the
issue twice, Pond wrote. That amount is up from $15 billion
worth of sales during the second half of last year and the
historical high of $21 billion during the first half of 2004, he
wrote.  
 Real yields, which take into account inflation or deflation,
have fallen to 1.218 percent on 10-year Treasuries, from 1.685
percent April 2, according to Bloomberg Data. Current real yield
levels, only 30 basis points away from the 91 basis point yield
experienced in March of 2008 during the deflation scare, leaves
the security with “limited upside,” Pond wrote. “At current
levels, this would be the lowest yield at a 10-year TIPS
auction.”  
 Market Underperformance  
 TIPS have underperformed the nominal Treasury market this
year, returning 3.8 percent, compared with a 6 percent gain for
the nominal U.S. government debt securities, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  
 This comes after investors piled into TIPS last year,
sending the securities up 10 percent, versus a 3.7 percent loss
for conventional Treasuries as investors sought inflation
protection amid speculation the economy was recovering.  
 Historically low bond yields persist as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has cited tame inflation expectations
for keeping the target interest rate for overnight loans between
banks at a  record low  range of zero to 0.25 percent.  
 “At current levels we believe the headwinds outweigh the
positives going into this auction,” Pond wrote. “We would
expect the typical post-auction richening to happen though.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        