-- Stocks Advance, Poised for Biggest Weekly Gain in a Year; Rio, BHP Rally
-- David Merritt
-- 2010-07-09T07:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/begbies-traynor-firstgroup-man-group-tesco-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html

          
          
             U.K. stocks rose for a fourth day,
with the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  headed for its biggest weekly
gain in a year, as basic-resources stocks rallied.  
 Rio Tinto, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
climbed 2.1 percent as metals prices advanced. BP Plc rose for a
fifth straight day, its longest winning streak since March.
Michael Page International Plc gained 3.4 percent after saying
profit rose.  
 The FTSE 100 rose 10.53, or 0.2 percent, to 5,115.98 at
8:41 a.m. in London. The gauge has rallied 5.7 percent this week
as investors speculated that the world economy won’t slip back
into recession and Europe’s banks will pass stress tests imposed
by regulators. The  FTSE All-Share Index  also gained 0.2 percent
today, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  increased 0.7 percent.  
 “The macro risks may not have disappeared, but we believe
they are amply discounted,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
London-based analysts  Graham Bishop  and  Ian Richards  wrote in a
note. “Sentiment is seemingly all one-way and there are
tentative signs that the pessimism has reached saturation point.
We expect the upcoming earnings season to be a positive catalyst
for the next move up in equities.”  
 The FTSE 100 remains 12 percent below this year’s high on
April 15 amid concern that growth will be curbed by austerity
measures from European governments cutting their budget deficits
and as economic reports in the U.S. and China disappointed
investors.  
 Metals Rally  
 Rio Tinto  rallied 2.1 percent to 3,138.5 pence. BHP
Billiton, the world’s biggest mining company, gained 1.4 percent
to 1,844 pence. Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. surged 3.2
percent to 893 pence.  
 Copper climbed in London for the fifth time in six days
after a decline in stockpiles to a seven-month low stoked
optimism demand is rising for the metal. Lead, nickel, and zinc
also advanced on the London Metal Exchange.  
 Antofagasta Plc, owner of copper mines in Chile, jumped 2.6
percent to 873.5 pence. Citigroup Inc. raised its recommendation
for the company to “buy” from “hold.”
      BP  advanced 1.3 percent t0 371.75 pence, bringing its rise
this week to 15 percent. The company is staging a comeback in
credit markets as investors, who three weeks ago priced in more
than 40 percent odds the energy company would be forced into
bankruptcy, speculate that mounting costs from the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history will be contained. Credit-default swaps
protecting against a BP default for one year have declined for
seven straight days, falling by almost half from their peak four
weeks ago.  
 Michael Page  gained 3.4 percent to 399 pence. The U.K.’s
second-biggest recruitment company said second-quarter profit
rose 33 percent as business confidence levels improved, leading
to higher “job churn”.  
 William Hill Plc , the U.K.’s largest bookmaker by number of
outlets, rallied 2.9 percent to 180.8 pence. The stock was
raised to “buy” from “neutral” at BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research, which cited “continuing strong trends in online and an
improvement in machines as key catalysts for the stock.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        