-- Billionaire Bosses Become Beggars in Sports: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-07-07T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/billionaire-bosses-become-beggars-in-sports-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             Show me another business so upside
down that it’s the bosses who beg. Show me another industry
where the boss isn’t really the boss, where he and the company
are subject to the whims of one.  
 Dan Gilbert  owns the National Basketball Association’s
Cleveland Cavaliers. And yet the self-made man who at the age of
22 started a company that would grow into one of the largest
independent mortgage banks in the country isn’t the one in
charge. Hasn’t been for some time. Here he is, just like us,
waiting on a decision from  LeBron James .  
 If James leaves, hearts will sink in Cleveland. So, too,
will the value of Gilbert’s investment.  
 One question keeps popping into my mind while watching the
free-agent frenzy unfold: Why, other than ego, would anyone want
to own a professional sports franchise? Only in pro sports do
owners become subordinates. Only in sports does the top dog beg
and roll over.  
 Take Gilbert, who once told me that James doesn’t have a
boss. He wasn’t kidding, either. Here’s a guy who did everything
right and still might be the offseason’s biggest loser. Gilbert
spends to win. He’s involved. He cares. He constructed a
contender in Cleveland, which reached the NBA Finals in 2007.  
 James, it seems, wants more. It’s as if he and the rest of
the marquee free agents want some sort of championship
guarantee, which, of course, is ludicrous. Not in sports, where
funny things happen all the time. A bounce here or there. A
sprained ankle at the worst moment.  
 James’s Problem  
 James, a two-time Most Valuable Player, has spent the past
seven seasons with the Cavaliers, who couldn’t find a way to
beat the Boston Celtics in the second round of this year’s
playoffs. James, we’re told, might fancy Chicago, where he can
team with a nucleus of  Derrick Rose  and  Joakim Noah .  
 Perhaps James should re-watch the pivotal Game 5 against
Boston. The box score shows that James was more problem than
solution.  
 There are similar jitters surrounding the Miami Heat, who
might lose Dwyane Wade, even though owner  Micky Arison , the
chairman of  Carnival Corp. , and team President  Pat Riley  have
already demonstrated they have the wherewithal to build a
champion. And still it might not be enough to keep Wade.  
 New York had to wine and woo Amar’e Stoudemire, a second-
tier star who got paid like an MVP because the Knicks simply
couldn’t risk coming up empty.  
 No Part  
 Watching the likes of Arison, whom Forbes magazine says has
a net worth of $4.4 billion, and Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov ,
whose net worth is pegged by the magazine at $13.4 billion,
having to practically beg James to take their money made me
think of  Warren Buffett .  
 The world’s third-richest man ($47 billion) is a sports
fan. He’s befriended Yankees third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  and
the wannabe billionaire James, who has on more than one occasion
told me how much he admires the  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 
chairman.  
 And yet Buffett wants no part of owning a big-time sports
team. Buffett told the  New York Times  that, as an adolescent,
his wish list included franchise ownership. Then he got rich.
Got smart, too.  
 Microsoft Corp.  Chairman  Bill Gates , who has a few bucks,
too, once sought Buffett’s counsel on whether to buy a share of
baseball’s Seattle Mariners.  
 If you buy the team, Buffett told Gates, the world’s
second-richest man, and don’t win every year, you’ll be a bum.
Wonder how Gilbert feels right about now.  
 Speaking of  rich  and bad raps,  Paul Allen , who has a net
worth of $13.5 billion, owns football’s Seattle Seahawks and
basketball’s Portland Trail Blazers. All that money and no
trophies.  
 Having Fun  
 Years ago at a Blazers playoff game Allen was sitting next
to Gates, who seemed to be having so much more fun.  
 Maybe, if the opportunity arises, I’ll share that tale with
 Oracle Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison , the world’s
sixth-richest man who is among those interested in buying
basketball’s Golden State Warriors.  
 Ellison, whose company owns the naming-rights to the arena
where the Warriors play, ought to buy season tickets and smile,
never having to worry about bad bounces and the day his
superstar begins the process of staging exit interviews.  
 Buffett said something else in regard to buying a pro
sports team: That the most important thing in investing is what
 Ted Williams  said about hitting -- waiting for the right pitch.  
 Gilbert’s franchise player has digested sales pitches from
the Bulls, Clippers, Heat, Knicks, Nets and Cavs, whose so-
called boss is powerless to prevent James from walking.  
 ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        