-- Bonus Caps Stop Traders Gambling Public Money: Sharon Bowles
-- Sharon Bowles
-- 2010-07-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/bonus-caps-stop-traders-gambling-public-money-commentary-by-sharon-bowles.html

          
          
             One of the most disturbing aspects of
the financial crisis was the extent to which risk was fuelled by
hugely disproportionate bonuses. For the ordinary taxpayer who
ended up footing the bill for bailing out the banks, the zeros
on the end of a banker’s bonus check were unfathomable.  
 The case of former Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Fred Goodwin  exemplified the justifiable public anger aimed at
executives and directors who had run amok with their savings and
encouraged them to take on extortionate debt, yet then walked
away with public money flowing out of their back pocket.  
 The Capital Requirements Directive (known as CRD III) that
was voted through yesterday in the European Parliament means we
can wave goodbye to the likes of Goodwin. Failure will no longer
be rewarded through the back door -- in this legislation lump-
sum bonuses such as bonus-like pension benefits will take a hit
if the financial or credit institution goes down. Pension
benefits and half of all annual bonuses will now be paid in
“ contingent capital ” and shares, thereby strengthening the
capital base of banks and forcing senior employees to take on
the shortfall if a bank collapses or faces losses.  
 Another direct victory for the taxpayers are the rules for
bonuses in government-supported institutions -- in these cases,
bonuses will be limited to a percentage of the net revenue of
the firm and none will be paid to directors without running past
the regulator. The amount of upfront cash bonuses will also be
 capped at 30 percent  and aggregate amounts of bonuses of more
than 1 million euros ($1.26 million) must be disclosed.  
 Reduced Incentive  
 There will, no doubt, be critics who say the banks will get
around this by putting it all into salaries or severance
payments. This might happen, but even if it does, the fixed
nature of this form of pay means the incentives for short-term
risk-taking, which bonuses have encouraged, have been reduced.  
 While there may have been a few protestations in the past
week about the scope and implications of the directive, bankers
know that changes to their bonuses have been a long time in the
offing. The days of money growing on trees are numbered and I’m
pleased that Europe has taken the lead on this. Again, some may
sing the old tune of “they’ll just move to Geneva or Asia.” I
say good riddance, go play poker with the Swiss franc, but not
anymore with the livelihoods of 500 million European citizens.  
 Next Goal  
 Where to next for regulation? The European Parliament’s
legislative wheel still keeps on turning. In September, it will
complete legislation that regulates  alternative investment fund
managers  and move on to a number of new directives that affect
Europe’s financial markets. These promise to really get to the
heart of dealing with the instruments that concealed the depth
of murky transactions leading to the enormous collapse of the
banking industry. If bonuses were the 10 percent of the iceberg
that lay above water during the crisis, then derivatives,
liquidity and leverage were the 90 percent lying beneath it.  
 Among the legislation and tools to tackle this underwater
mountain will be the establishment of a bank resolution fund --
Basel III and  CRD IV  -- which will address the leverage ratio,
liquidity and defining capital, and also the revision of the
 Market Abuse Directive  (rather amusingly shortened to the
acronym MAD), touching upon derivatives and insider trading.  
 The crisis has, therefore, precipitated a lot of work for
European institutions. As I said recently, the revision of MAD
should be “mad, bad and dangerous to know.” I’m afraid this
will be the case for much of the other regulation that will come
from the EU over the next few years, as member states face their
own challenge of turning around their deficits.  
 Sensitive Mission  
 As the emergency budget in the U.K. two weeks ago showed,
many of those on low and middle incomes will now have to tighten
their purse strings as member states embark on a difficult and
sensitive mission to reduce their deficits and public debt.
These people are the roots of our economy and I hope Liberal
Democrat measures such as raising the income-tax threshold will
help to nourish them.  
 It is the job of European lawmakers, however, to ensure we
can prune back those at the top of the tree, those who lured
people into a debt addiction to fuel their excessive risk-
taking. In doing so, maybe we will allow the green shoots
underneath to access some sunlight to stimulate growth, so that
the highly qualified university graduates can sow the seeds for
a sustainable and fruitful future for our European economy.  
 ( Sharon Bowles  is the chairwoman of the economic and
monetary Affairs Committee in the European Parliament. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Sharon Bowles at  sharon.bowles@europarl.europa.eu   
          
          


  


        