-- Borders Opens E-Book Store to Catch Barnes & Noble
-- Matt Townsend
-- 2010-07-07T20:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/borders-opens-e-book-store-to-catch-barnes-noble.html

          
          
             Borders Group Inc., the second-
largest U.S. bookstore chain, started selling digital books
through its website in a bid to boost revenue in a category that
is growing faster than the overall book market.  
 The e-book store has more than 1.5 million titles, the  Ann
Arbor , Michigan-based company said today in a statement. The
goal is to capture 17 percent of digital book sales in the U.S.
within a year, Borders said.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the largest
U.S. bookstore chain, said it has 20 percent of e-book sales.
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  sells the most digital books.  
 “The race to emerge as a retail leader within the digital
category is just starting,” Borders Chief Executive Officer
Michael Edwards said in the statement.  
 Borders is trying to reverse four consecutive annual losses
by investing in digital books. The company increased the number
of brands of e-reader devices it sells through its website this
year and plans to sell them in stores next month in areas with
employees dedicated to marketing digital reading.  
 Sales of digital books more than doubled to $313 million
last year, according to the  Association of American Publishers .
That growth has continued this year as revenue doubled in April
to $27.4 million from a year earlier, while sales from all forms
of books rose 25 percent to $629.8 million.  
 The company also introduced versions of its e-reader
software for  Research in Motion Ltd. ’s Blackberry phones and
mobile devices run by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. The free
software, previously available for  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPad and iPhone,
allows users to buy and download e-books.  
 Borders rose 13 cents, or 11 percent, to $1.30 at 4:02 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
gained 10 percent this year.  
 Borders’ digital book store and applications offer content
from Kobo Inc., a unit spun off from Toronto-based  Indigo Books
and Music Inc. (IDG)  last year. Borders owns 20 percent of Kobo and
also sells the Kobo e-reader.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        