-- Hayward Sees Abu Dhabi Prince as BP Seeks Support
-- Henry Meyer
-- 2010-07-07T17:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/bp-chief-hayward-in-abu-dhabi-may-court-investors-in-region-ubs-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said he had a “very good” meeting with Abu Dhabi’s
crown prince as analysts said the oil producer may be looking
for support from Middle East investors.  
 Hayward, who spoke to reporters as he left the United Arab
Emirates after a 24-hour visit, could be seeking money from
sovereign wealth funds after BP incurred billions of dollars in
liabilities from the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, UBS AG
said. The crown prince,  Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed   Al Nahyan , is
chairman of Mubadala Development Co., an investment arm of the
Abu Dhabi Government.  
 “The option for chasing strategic investors in the Middle
East is a sound one,”  Saud Masud , the Dubai-based head of
Middle East research at UBS AG, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday. “They have significant capital; then they
also invest for the long-term.”  
 Sovereign wealth funds may be interested in buying BP stock
after its price dropped by about half since the start of the
worst U.S. oil spill. Hayward last month pledged to set aside
$20 billion to compensate the spill’s victims and finance the
cleanup. To pay for it, the company halted dividend payments and
planned to sell $10 billion in assets across the globe.  
 BP shares rose 16.55 pence, or 4.8 percent, to 362.05 pence
in London, the highest close since June 11.  
 BP Plc would be willing to sell a 10 percent stake in the
company to Abu Dhabi, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
an unidentified person with knowledge of the matter.  
 The Meeting with the crown prince was “very good,” said
Hayward as he arrived to board a private jet preparing to depart
from Abu Dhabi. “It was a great delight to meet with our long-
term partners and friends.”  
 BP has said it is not looking to issue new equity.  
 ‘Less Pressure’  
 The London-based oil giant would benefit from attracting
new capital by easing the pressure for rapid sales, said  Rachel Ziemba , a senior analyst who tracks sovereign wealth funds at
Nouriel Roubini’s New-York based Roubini Global Economics.  
 “Raising capital gives more room for maneuver by putting
less pressure for asset sales,” she said by phone from London.
“Buyers may demand a discount.”  
 Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund and Mubadala and the
International Petroleum Investment Co. in Abu Dhabi are the most
likely to be interested in acquiring a BP stake, Ziemba said.  
 Abu Dhabi’s sovereign funds hold a combined $500 billion,
according to Roubini Global Economics.  
 ‘Makes Sense’  
 Sovereign funds traditionally “have invested in the
European and western markets in large cap names, and when you
can pick up BP at 50 percent cheaper than its recent highs, then
it makes a lot of sense for both parties,” Masud at UBS said.  
 Spokesmen for the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and the
International Petroleum Investment Co. declined to comment on
whether Hayward was scheduled to meet officials there. A
spokesman for the Qatar Investment Authority also declined to
comment.  
 Hayward has been touring countries where BP has exploration
and production operations. He was in Russia last week and in
Azerbaijan yesterday before arriving in Abu Dhabi.  
 BP produces oil in the sheikhdom, where it is a partner
with state-run Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., known as Adnoc, in a
venture that dates back to the first oil concession granted in
the 1930s in what is now the U.A.E.  
 A Saudi business team, including energy industry investors,
is seeking to acquire between 10 percent and 15 percent of BP’s
shares and will hold talks with the company, Al Eqtisadiah
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  
 ‘Good Buy’  
 BP is a “good buy” after the drop in the share price,
Shokri Ghanem, Libya’s top oil official, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday. He’s advising Libya’s sovereign
wealth fund to take a stake in BP.  
 The Kuwait Investment Office is in talks with BP about
increasing its holding in the company, the Guardian newspaper
said on its website on July 4. Kuwait does not plan to increase
its stake in BP Plc “for now,” the newspaper Al-Rai said
today.  
 “They are knocking on doors to see who they can get on
their side, and countries are looking to see what opportunities
there may be,” said PFC Energy Dubai-based analyst Thaddeus
Malesa. A quick deal was unlikely as potential buyers would
carry out substantial due diligence, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- BP Plc Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward said he had a “very good” meeting with Abu Dhabi’s crown prince as analysts said the oil producer may be looking for support from Middle East investors. Hayward spoke to reporters as he left the United Arab Emirates after a 24-hour visit. Bloomberg's Heidi Couch reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Judith Bogner reports on BP Plc Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward's visit to Abu Dhabi and the prospect of the company attracting investors in the Middle East. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Saud Masud, head of Middle East research at UBS AG, speaks about possible interest from the region's sovereign wealth funds in BP Plc.
     He talks with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Shokri Ghanem, chairman of the Libya National Oil Corp., talks about the valuation of BP Plc and his recommendation that the nation's sovereign wealth fund take a stake in the European oil company.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
