-- BP May Begin Linking Ship to Leaking Well in 48 Hours, Double Oil Capacity
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-07T19:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/bp-may-begin-linking-ship-to-leaking-well-in-48-hours-double-oil-capacity.html

          
          
             BP Plc  may begin connecting the Helix
Producer I, a ship that would double its capacity to collect oil
from the leaking Gulf of Mexico well, in 48 hours, National
Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said.  
 The Helix Producer I would be the third ship attached to
the leaking well, Allen said during a conference call with
reporters today. Making the final link between the vessel and
the well will take three days and requires seas of less than 5
feet (1.5 meters), he said.  
 Diverting oil into the third vessel is crucial before
London-based BP and the Obama administration can decide whether
to replace a leaky, funnel-shaped cap with a bolt-on seal that
would route all oil and gas from the well to the surface, Allen
said. The Helix Producer would reduce the leak while the cap is
replaced, he said.  
 Waves are four feet to six feet following the passage of
Hurricane Alex to the southwest, Allen said. Rough seas have
stopped skimming of oil from the surface and delayed connection
of the Helix vessel last week.  
 “That will require good weather over a number of days,”
Allen said of the connection from aboard the drillship
Discoverer Enterprise. The drillship has accounted for most of
the oil brought to the surface and would be disconnected while
crews install the replacement cap.  
 Helix Rigs  
 The Helix Producer, owned by Houston-based Helix Energy
Solutions Group Inc., would be capable of capturing 25,000
barrels of oil a day from the well. The Discoverer Enterprise
and the other collection vessel, Helix’s Q4000 drilling rig,
collected about 24,760 barrels of oil yesterday, according to a
statement on BP’s  website  today.  
 The well is gushing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day,
a panel of government and academic scientists estimated June 16.  
 The disaster was triggered by an April 20 explosion aboard
the BP-leased Deepwater Horizon rig, which killed 11 workers,
injured 17 and caused the biggest U.S. oil spill.  
 BP is continuing to drill relief wells that would
permanently plug the leak. The first is within 15 feet of the
leaking well and interception may occur sooner than a target of
mid-August, Allen said. Once the well is reached, crews may need
seven to 10 days to stop the flow by injecting heavy mud,
followed by a cement seal, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        