-- BP to Put Sea Turtle Rescuers on Oil-Burn Boats
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-07T20:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/bp-to-put-trained-sea-turtle-rescuers-on-oil-burn-boats-as-weather-clears.html

          
          
             BP Plc  will add trained sea turtle
rescuers to all oil-spill clean up teams when controlled burning
of the Gulf oil spill resumes as the weather clears, a lawyer
for several wildlife advocacy groups said today.  
 Four environmental groups sued BP and the U.S. Coast Guard
last week seeking to block the practice of corralling and
burning floating patches of oil or force BP to rescue any
turtles inadvertently trapped inside the burn boxes. The parties
reached a tentative settlement just before a July 2 hearing in
New Orleans and worked through the holiday weekend to complete
details, the lawyer said.  
 “To keep us from rushing back to court, at a minimum BP
and the Coast Guard have agreed to have an observer as part of
every single burn team,’’  William Eubanks , the
environmentalists’ lawyer, said in a phone interview today.
“The things we asked the court for, we’ve gotten.’’  
 After weekend meetings with the environmental groups, the
Coast Guard drafted written protocols for rescuing the federally
protected species, which include  Kemp’s Ridley , Loggerhead and
Leatherback turtles, Eubanks said. These protocols spell out
“what the observers will do and how they’ll carry out their
searches,’’ he said.  
 The wildlife groups plan to release more details of the
turtle rescue scheme after meeting by conference call this
afternoon, he said. Controlled burns were suspended last week as
a result of rough seas caused by Hurricane Alex and won’t resume
until seas calm in three to five more days, he said.  
 BP Incentive  
 Eubanks said it is “very rare’’ for environmental
activists to reach such rapid agreement with a company it has
accused of breaking environmental laws, in this case the illegal
“taking’’ an endangered species.  
 “BP had an incentive to not be seen as burning sea
turtles,’’ Eubanks said. He said the groups won’t formally drop
their lawsuit until they make certain BP is fully complying.  
 The wildlife groups contend BP has killed or injured
hundreds of sea turtles through its use of controlled burns or
as a result of contamination from the oil spill itself. The
animals become trapped in the floating sludge when shrimp boats
encircle patches with fire-resistant booms to create “burn
boxes’’ 60 to 100 feet in diameter, they said.  
 BP didn’t immediately respond to calls or e-mails seeking
comment on the turtle rescue deal.  
 Last week, Don Haycraft, BP’s lead lawyer in New Orleans,
told the judge overseeing the lawsuit that the deal “is an
example of BP, the government and outside parties reaching
agreement on an issue - protecting sea turtles -- that is
important to everyone.’’  
 BP has yet to contain a damaged underwater well that has
been gushing up to 60,000 barrels of crude oil daily off the
Louisiana coast since the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig in April.
The case is Animal Welfare Institute et al v. BP America
Inc. et al, 2:10-cv-01866, U.S. District Courts, Southern
District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        