-- Cameron Says He'll Give U.K. Public Control of Services to Help Save Money
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-07-08T09:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/cameron-says-he-ll-give-u-k-public-control-of-services-to-help-save-money.html

          
          
             U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said that giving the public control over services including
police, education and health will let his government maintain
standards while cutting spending to narrow the record  budget
deficit .  
 Government departments have been asked to set out how they
will reduce their spending by as much as 40 percent ahead of
October’s spending review. Even the U.K.’s free National Health
Service, which has its funding protected from cuts, will have to
find ways to save money as baby boomers reach retirement and the
cost of treatment rises.  
 In a speech to 450 government staff in London today,
Cameron said his plan to “replace the old system of
bureaucratic accountability with a new system of democratic
accountability” will enable him to “square the circle” of
maintaining services while cutting spending, according to the
text released by his office.  
 “We want to give people the power to improve our country
and public services, through transparency, local democratic
control, competition and choice,” Cameron said. “To give you
just one example: instead of teachers thinking they have to
impress the Department of Education, they have to impress local
parents as they have a real choice over where to send their
child.”  
 Police Commissioners  
 Alongside the ability of parents to set up their own state-
funded schools, Cameron cited plans for people to elect police
commissioners for the first time as a way of increasing
democratic accountability.  
 Cameron said he and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  would make public tomorrow some of the best of 50,000
ideas to make savings received from public-sector workers over
the past two weeks.  
 Meanwhile, Cabinet Office Minister  Francis Maude , in charge
of cutting administration costs, is meeting the government’s top
20 private-sector suppliers today to tell them to charge less
for their services.  
 “We will be renegotiating with them across everything they
do for government to get the costs down,” Maude told an
audience of lobbyists and civil servants in London yesterday.
“We will say we want to have something off your margins, we
will expect you to tell us how we can pay you less, sometimes
for doing less.”  
 The Office for Government Commerce refused to say who its
20 largest suppliers are. Companies selling services to the
government include  Capita Group Plc  and  Serco Group Plc . Cameron
said last year, when in opposition, that he wanted government
business to go to smaller companies, naming Capita as a
contractor that was getting too much work.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron speaks during a press conference at EU Council headquarters in Brussels. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
