-- Canadian National May Hire 10,000 Over Five Years as Rail Workers Retire
-- Frederic Tomesco
-- 2010-07-07T21:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/canadian-national-may-hire-10-000-people-over-5-years-chief-mongeau-says.html

          
          
             Canadian National Railway Co.  plans
to hire as many as 2,000 people annually over the next five
years to replace retiring employees and reduce operating costs.  
 About 47 percent of the workforce is planning to retire in
that period, Chief Executive Officer  Claude Mongeau  said
yesterday in an interview in his Montreal office. Canadian
National, the country’s largest railroad, had 21,501 employees
as of Dec. 31.  
 The Canadian and U.S. economies will expand gradually in
2010, Mongeau said, and the railroad must ensure that hiring
coincides with a revenue increase to preserve profitability.
About 43 percent of revenue last year came from Canadian and
U.S. companies shipping goods within their home markets, while
exporters from both countries accounted for the rest, Canadian
National data show.  
 “It’s important for us to be there when the business
comes,” he said. “We don’t want to hire too early, but we
certainly don’t want to hire too late.”  
 Canadian National is looking for mechanics, engineers and
train conductors, said Mongeau, 48, who took over from  Hunter Harrison  Jan. 1. On average, the company must replace 8 percent
to 10 percent of its workforce each year, he said.  
 “We are not hiring one-for-one everywhere, because we do
want to get productivity,” Mongeau said. “Many of these jobs
take a lot of time to be trained and we want to do it well. Our
challenge is to make sure the people who have been running CN
all these years can coach the young generation.”  
 No Warning Signs  
 The hiring drive comes amid growing investor concern that
the U.S. economy will slip back into a recession. After Canadian
National reported a 21 percent jump in first-quarter net income
in April, Mongeau said, he’s not seen any evidence that the
recovery might be fading.  
 This year, the railroad has transported record amounts of
coal and potash in western Canada, fueled by “strong” demand
in China and other Asian countries, he said. Grain, steel and
iron ore shipments also continue to increase, he said.  
 “If I look at the commodities we move, there is no clear
sign at the moment of a double dip,” he said. “The path going
forward in the good case is a gradual economic recovery, and I
am hopeful that is going to be the scenario that unfolds.”  
 Canadian National plans to improve fuel productivity 3
percent annually in the next few years as it buys new
locomotives and runs longer trains, Mongeau said. The company
reported an operating ratio -- total expenses as a percentage of
total revenue -- of 69.3 percent in the first quarter, down from
74.1 percent in the period a year earlier.  
 Small Acquisitions  
 “You won’t find many companies in the North American
transport industry that are better run,” said  Denis Durand , a
senior partner at Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., a Montreal-based
money manager. “They always find ways of becoming more
efficient.”  
 Jarislowsky Fraser is the company’s fourth-largest
investor, with 12.9 million shares as of March, according to  
data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The company gained 78 cents to C$60.69 at 4:10 p.m. in
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest one-day gain
in three weeks. Until today, it had risen 4.5 percent this year.  
 Canadian National will consider small acquisitions to
expand a rail network that stretches across Canada and into the
U.S. as far south as the Gulf of Mexico, Mongeau said. No deal
is imminent, he added. Last year, the company bought the Elgin,
Joliet & Eastern Railway Co. line in the Chicago area for $300
million from  U.S. Steel Corp.   
 “There are small regional, tuck-in opportunities that
might create themselves, and we would seize on them and do them
if they come about,” Mongeau said. “But the opportunity right
now is more in organic growth, helping our customers gain market
share.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        