-- Loonie Climbs a Second Day on Stock, Oil Gains, Total's Purchase of UTS
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-07T20:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/canada-s-dollar-declines-amid-global-economic-recovery-slowdown-concern.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar strengthened to the
highest level in more than a week against its U.S. counterpart
as stocks rallied and crude oil climbed, improving the outlook
for currencies tied to growth.  
 The loonie has gained 5.9 percent this year according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices, the second-best
performance among its 10 developed-world counterparts behind the
yen as investors seek currencies backed by relatively strong
balance sheets. Optimism that the acquisition of UTS Energy
Corp. of Calgary by Total SA may signal additional purchases of
Canadian companies also benefitted the currency.  
 “The whole market turned from overnight risk aversion to
risk appetite,”  Bob Block , director of foreign-exchange sales
at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from Toronto. “Optimism with
the earnings season seems to have helped equities, oil and
commodities in general have firmed up a lot, the U.S. dollar has
been hit across the board, and the Canadian dollar has been one
of the beneficiaries.”  
 The Canadian currency rose 0.7 percent to C$1.0473 per U.S.
dollar at 4:33 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0545 yesterday. The
currency reached C$1.0468, the highest level since June 29. One
Canadian dollar buys 95.48 U.S. cents.  
 Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 2.5
percent to $74.49 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The Dow Jones Industrial  Average  advanced 2.8 percent, while the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index, Canada’s primary gauge,
gained 1.7 percent.  
 Total Purchase  
 The Canadian dollar is 74 percent correlated to the price
of crude oil, and 89 percent correlated to the Dow, according to
Bloomberg data. A correlation of 100 percent would mean the
instruments move in lockstep.  
 “Stocks have turned around nicely,”  Steve Butler ,
director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Scotia
Capital Inc., a unit of Canada’s third-largest bank, said in an
e-mail. “The Total deal hit the wires this morning as well,
helping to give the Canadian dollar a lift.”  
 Total, Europe’s second-biggest oil producer, agreed to buy
UTS for C$1.5 billion ($1.4 billion) in cash and shares to boost
its output from Canadian oil sands. UTS said in a statement
today that the deal is valued at C$3.08 a share, a 46 percent
premium compared with the closing share price yesterday.  
 “Sentiment is probably helped by” the Total-UTS deal,
Bank of Montreal’s Block said. “There was never any doubt that
there would be foreign interest to buy Canadian companies, but
it’s a reminder.”  
 ‘Important Catalyst’  
 Canada’s dollar earlier weakened as investors questioned
the durability of the global recovery, spurring demand for the
safety of the greenback and the yen.  
 “The concerns are still there,”  Matthew Strauss , senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s
largest lender, said by phone from Toronto, “with the global
recovery not being as robust as expected and fiscal difficulties
in Europe. We’ll have to wait for the employment data on Friday.
That’s going to be an important catalyst for Canada.”  
 Canada’s economy added 20,000  jobs  in June and the
unemployment rate remained at 8.1 percent, Statistics Canada
will say on July 9, according to the median estimates of 23
economists in separate surveys by Bloomberg News.  
 Canada auctioned C$3 billion of two-year notes, drawing an
average yield of 1.565 percent, according to a statement today
on the Bank of Canada’s website. The government received bids of
C$7.76 billion for the 2 percent securities maturing in
September 2012.  
 The  yield  on Canada’s benchmark two-year note climbed nine
basis points to 1.51 percent as the price of the 1.5 percent
security due in June 2012 dropped 17 cents to C$99.98.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        