-- Canadian High-Yield Bond Sales May Break Record This Year: Canada Credit
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-07-07T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/canadian-high-yield-bond-sales-may-break-record-this-year-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Borrowers are on track to sell a
record amount of high-yield bonds in Canadian dollars this year
as investors seek to reduce currency risk and replace income
trusts.  
 Videotron Ltd. and Corus Entertainment Inc. were among
sellers of more than C$1.5 billion ($1.4 billion) of non-
investment grade debt in the first half of the year, up from
about C$1.2 billion for all of 2009, said  Joanna Zapior , head of
corporate debt research at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  
 “That quest for yield has really supported demand for
Canadian-dollar high-yield issues,” Zapior said in a phone
interview from Toronto. “The pace of issuance has been intense
over the past 12 months.”  
 Investors are buying non-investment grade, or junk, bonds
with interest rates close to record lows, and as the tax
advantage for income trusts is set to expire Dec. 31. Income
trusts are securities that distribute most of their cash flow to
investors in monthly payouts, with average yields of 8 percent
for companies on the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Income Trust Index .  
 Increased investor demand has helped fuel expectations for
the emergence of a Canadian-dollar junk bond market, said  Ed Sustar , a senior credit analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in
Toronto. Most of the $10 billion of high-yield debt Canadian
companies sold last year was in U.S. dollars and swapped back
into the Canadian currency, he said.  
 “There’s pressure from all sides -- the buyers, the
issuers and the arrangers -- to make this market work,” Sustar
said in an interview. “The issuers love it and investors really
want to invest in Canadian dollars without the currency risk.”  
 Record Sales  
 Canadian companies sold a record C$1.8 billion of Canadian-
dollar high-yield bonds in 2007, according to  Robert Follis ,
head of corporate debt research at the Bank of Nova Scotia.  
 Canadian high-yield debt returned 11.4 percent in the first
six months of the year including interest payments, according to
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the Bank of Canada will sell
C$3 billion of 2 percent bonds maturing in September 2012 today.
The central bank’s June 2 auction of C$2 billion of 2-year
securities drew an average yield of 1.928 percent, and a bid-to-
cover ratio of 2.395, according to data on the bank’s website.  
 Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , the world’s biggest
fertilizer producer, filed a registration statement with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for $2 billion of debt
securities, according to the prospectus.  
 High-Yield Potential  
 Research by CIBC’s Zapior suggests that publicly traded
Canadian companies and income trusts that have not yet sold debt
have the financial strength to sell as much as C$65 billion of
high-yield securities.  
 The study of companies traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange
found 185 with potential to sell debt rated between BBB and BB,
said Zapior, who declined to put a time limit on the possible
issuance.  
 “This gives us a good feel that companies that haven’t
issued debt are a viable pool of potential supply,” Zapior
said. “Supply of this higher-yield debt is probably not going
to be an issue.”  
 Zapior said record issuance of Canadian-dollar junk bonds
this year is possible in the absence of another sovereign debt
or bank crisis.  
 “So long as the broader sovereign market remains
reasonable, issuance will return,” said Toronto-based Follis of
Bank of Nova Scotia. “Sovereign-credit scares tend to
temporarily freeze high-yield issuance.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        