-- Carlyle Group Sued by Fund Liquidator Over Losses
-- Miles Weiss
-- 2010-07-07T22:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/carlyle-capital-corp-ltd-sues-carlyle-group-in-delaware-over-fund-losses.html

          
          
             Carlyle Group, the world’s second-
largest private-equity firm, was sued by liquidators of the
buyout company’s defunct mortgage bond fund, saying executives
lost $945 million in overly risky investments.  
 Liquidators for Carlyle Capital Corp. Ltd, a Guernsey,
Channel Islands-based hedge fund that collapsed in March 2008,
contend Carlyle directors turned a blind eye to questionable
investments in residential mortgage-backed securities and failed
to stop the loss of all the company’s capital, according to a
lawsuit filed in Delaware.  
 “In the short space of eight months, the entirety of CCC’s
capital was spectacularly lost under the reckless and grossly
negligent direction, supervision, management and advice of the
defendants,” the liquidators said in the suit, filed today in
Delaware Chancery Court.  
 Lenders seized Carlyle Capital’s assets after it failed to
meet more than $400 million of margin calls on mortgage-backed
collateral that had plunged in value. Carlyle Group, co-founded
by  David Rubenstein , wound up the fund seven months after its
initial public offering.  
 Carlyle Group officials said they’d defend themselves
against the fund liquidators’ claims. The liquidators also filed
suit over the investment losses in state court in Manhattan
today.  
 “We will vigorously contest all claims and are confident
we will prevail,”  Chris Ullman , a company spokesman, said.  
 ‘Bet the Farm’  
 Carlyle Capital raised $945 million in equity funding and
sought to generate annual returns of at least 12 percent by
investing in residential mortgage backed securities and
“leveraged finance assets,” the liquidators’ lawyers said in
the Delaware suit.  
 The company’s business model called for leverage equaling
19 times capital, the suit said, noting that the actual leverage
employed exceeded 30 times capital.  
 “CCC’s losses were the direct result of a determinedly
reckless ‘bet the farm’ approach, brazenly pursued in the self-
interests of the Carlyle Group,” the Delaware suit said.  
 Ullman countered in an interview that Carlyle, its
executives and employees lost more than $230 million in the
fund’s collapse.  
 The losses were a result of “unprecedented” tumult in the
mortgage-backed securities market, Ullman added. Washington-
based Carlyle has more than $90 billion under management he
noted.  
 $1.8 Trillion Loss  
 Mortgage securities were among the biggest contributors to
writedowns and credit losses of almost $1.8 trillion since the
start of 2007 at the world’s largest banks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 S&P has issued at least one downgrade to $2.3 trillion of
$3.3 trillion of U.S. residential securities created in 2005,
2006 and 2007, and last year it lowered approximately $3.5
trillion of about $10 trillion of securitized debt it rates
worldwide, based on original balances, according to a March
report from the rating company.  
 The market for agency mortgage bonds, which reached a peak
of $5.4 trillion in February, declined by about $133 billion in
the first half of this year, as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
bought delinquent loans out of their securities to reduce their
expenses, according to Bank of America.  
 The Delaware case is Carlyle Capital Corp. Ltd. v. William
Elias Conway Jr., CA5625, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        