-- Cattle Rise as Greater Export Sales Tighten U.S. Beef Supply; Hogs Gain
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-07-07T18:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/cattle-rise-as-greater-export-sales-tighten-u-s-beef-supply-hogs-gain.html

          
          
             Cattle futures rose for a second
straight day on speculation that U.S. grocers are paying more
for beef, as a jump in exports reduces supplies available for
domestic use. Hogs also gained.  
 Wholesale  choice beef  climbed to a four-week high of $1.561
a pound at midday, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.
Export sales of beef were 21 percent higher over the four weeks
through June 24, compared with a year earlier, according to the
most-recent government data.  
 “Beef exports have been running 20 to 30 percent over last
year, combined with a sharp drop in imports,” said  Rich Nelson ,
the director of research at Allendale Inc. in McHenry, Illinois.
“We’ve got tight supplies, more than the trade had expected.”  
 Cattle futures for August delivery rose 0.7 cent, or 0.8
percent, to 90.5 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. The most-active contract is up 5 percent this year.
Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement advanced 0.025 cent
to $1.1355 a pound.  
 Cattle also gained on speculation that steers for immediate
delivery to slaughterhouses will trade for about 91 cents a
pound this week, little changed for a fourth straight week,
Nelson said.  
 Seasonal Demand Drop  
 Steady spot-market prices are “a little supportive because
typically in this market you have cash prices falling now,”
Nelson said. “High temperatures in the latter half of July and
August usually inhibit outdoor grilling,” leading to a seasonal
drop in beef demand, he said.  
 Hog futures for August settlement rose 0.55 cent, or 0.7
percent, to 80.825 cents a pound on the CME. The most-active
contract has jumped 23 percent this year.  
 Grocers in the U.S. may need to refill freezers with pork
after the Independence Day weekend, when many consumers grilled
outdoors, said  Bob Short , a livestock analyst at PFGBest in
Chicago. Cheaper supplies of  wholesale pork  may boost demand
from retailers, he said.  
 “This is a week when we are expecting pork product to
rally,” Short said. Retailers “have got to increase their
inventories, and the price is down.”  
 Wholesale-pork prices dropped 0.5 percent yesterday to
82.04 cents a pound, following a 1.7 percent decline last week,
according to the USDA.  
 Livestock futures also were supported today by gains in the
stock market, Short said. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  of
equities rose as much as 2.2 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        