-- Chevron Gets U.S. Permit to Drill Well in Gulf of Mexico, Hercules Says
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-07T20:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/chevron-gets-u-s-permit-to-drill-well-in-gulf-of-mexico-hercules-says.html

          
          
             Hercules Offshore Inc. , owner of the
largest fleet of shallow-water drilling rigs in the Gulf of
Mexico, said its Hercules 120 rig began a well for Chevron Corp.
after receiving a federal permit.  
 Chevron yesterday revoked a June 23 notice that new
drilling rules following a Gulf of Mexico oil spill might cause
it to cancel its contract for the rig under a legal provision
known as force majeure, Houston-based Hercules said today in a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Drilling began July 2, Hercules said.  
 President  Barack Obama  suspended permits to drill in more
than 500 feet (152 meters) of water after the April 20 blowout
of the BP Plc well in the Gulf of Mexico. The administration on
June 8 tightened safety standards for drilling in waters less
than 500 feet deep. The Chevron permit is the 15th under the
revised shallow-water rules and the fourth for a new well,
Hercules General Counsel  Jim Noe  said.  
 “It’s an encouraging first step,” Noe said in an
interview. “It’s flow of permits that’s needed, not a trickle.
There are 50 available  rigs  in the Gulf of Mexico that are
working well-to-well and they continually need permits at a rate
of about 10 to 15 per week, not a handful every couple of
months.”  
 The permit issued to Chevron by the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, successor to the regulatory arm of the U.S. Minerals
Management Service, is for a well in water 61 feet deep off
Louisiana, Noe said.  
 Jack-Up Rigs  
 Hercules has 30 jack-up rigs, according to its  website .
Jack-ups are mobile drilling rigs that extend legs to the ocean
floor in shallow waters. Two others are under contract to
Chevron, one of which is finishing a well in Louisiana state
waters and the other is ready to start a well, Noe said.  
 Margaret J. Cooper , a spokeswoman for San Ramon,
California-based Chevron, had no immediate comment on the
Hercules filing.  
 About one in three shallow-water rigs in the Gulf are idle,
double the normal rate, Noe said in an interview last week.  
 Hercules rose 26 cents, or 11 percent, to $2.54 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq trading. It has fallen 42 percent since the BP well
blowout, which caused the largest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 Chevron rose $1.89, or 2.8 percent, to $69.45 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares are down 9.8
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        