-- Chile Trade Returns to Highest Since 2008 Crisis as Consumer Demand Surges
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-07-07T15:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/chile-trade-returns-to-highest-since-2008-crisis-as-consumer-demand-surges.html

          
          
             Chile’s quarterly trade volume rose
to the highest level since the 2008 global financial crisis as
consumer demand surged, underlining expectations that the
central bank will next week raise its benchmark rate.  
 Chilean imports were $13.1 billion in the three months
ended June 30, up 44 percent from a year earlier, while exports
climbed 26 percent to $16.3 billion, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on monthly data published today on the
central bank’s website. Imports and exports were the highest
since the third quarter of 2008.  
 Chile’s central bank on July 15 may raise its benchmark
interest-rate by half a percentage point for the second straight
month, according to the forecast of seven of eight economists in
a  Bloomberg survey . The bank, led by President  Jose De Gregorio ,
cited dynamic demand indicators last month when it surprised all
but four of 24 economists by raising  the rate  to 1 percent from
0.5 percent.  
 “The numbers show that internal demand is extremely
strong,”  Rodrigo Aravena , chief economist at Banchile
Inversiones, said today by telephone from Santiago. “Most
likely we’ll have a rate of 1.5 percent in a couple weeks given
increasing demand, inflationary pressures and most importantly
because the interest rate is very low.”  
 Imports of consumer goods in the first three weeks of June
reached the highest since the first three weeks of October 2008,
according to central bank data. Imports of durable items such as
washing machines and televisions more than doubled from a year
earlier to the highest in more than two years. Today’s statement
included detailed information on trade in the first three weeks
of June.  
 June Trade Surplus  
 The  trade surplus  for June was $1.16 billion, compared with
the $1.31 billion median estimate of eight economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Chile exported $5.29 billion last month and
imported $4.13 billion. Imports rose 37 percent in June from a
year earlier after surging 68 percent in May.  
 Consumption will continue to drive Chile’s economy, which
in May grew at its fastest annual pace in nearly five years,
 Juan Pablo Castro , an economist at Banco Santander SA, said in a
July 5 note.  
 The central bank estimates imports of goods and services
will grow 25.8 percent in 2010 from last year and that exports
will expand 1 percent, policy makers said in their quarterly
monetary  report  published in June.  
 Exports have been growing at a “reasonable” rate in
Chile, even during times of crisis, bank President  Jose De Gregorio  said July 2. Imports are growing in large part because
of investments in machinery and equipment and an expansion in
consumption, he said in a speech to Chile’s Mining Society
Sonami in Santiago.  
 Chile’s peso was unchanged at 536.75 per U.S. dollar at
10:28 a.m. New York time.  
 Chile’s main export is copper. While the metal’s price fell
16 percent last quarter, it’s still more than double late-2008
levels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randall Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        