-- Chimei Innolux Files Patent Infringement Suits Against Sony in U.S., China
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-07-07T10:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/chimei-innolux-files-patent-infringement-suits-against-sony-in-u-s-china.html

          
          
             Chimei Innolux Corp ., Taiwan’s
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, sued  Sony Corp.  in the
U.S. and China for patent infringements.  
 Chimei Innolux seeks to halt the sale of Sony products,
including Bravia televisions, Cybershot digital cameras and
digital photo frames, in the U.S. and is also asking for
compensatory damages, the Miaoli, Taiwan-based company said in
an e-mail today, without specifying an amount. A suit was also
filed against Sony in China, it said. Spokesman  Eddie Chen 
confirmed the suits by phone today.  
 Chimei Innolux, formed in March by the  merger  of Chi Mei
Optoelectronics Corp., Innolux Display Corp. and TPO Displays
Corp., supplies panels and partially assembled screens for use
in TVs, computer monitors and electronics products. Sony earlier
this year alleged Innolux and Hong Kong-based TPV Technology Ltd.
violated its intellectual property rights and asked a U.S. trade
agency to block imports of its products.  
 “We’re confirming the facts and can’t comment any further
at this point,” said Tokyo-based Sony spokesman  Atsuo Omagari .  
 The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington said
in April it would consider Sony’s claims that digital TVs and
monitors made in China by Innolux and TPV are infringing 10 of
the Japanese company’s patents.  
 The case announced by Chimei Innolux today is “not
specifically related” to Sony’s earlier complaint against it,
Chen said.  
 “CMI has invested significant resources to technical
innovation, and focused on researching and developing advanced
flat-panel display technologies and products,” Peterson Tien,
Chimei Innolux’s General Counsel and Vice President said in the
statement. “After our recent three-way merger, our intellectual
properties portfolio has strengthened substantially and has
become more diversified.”  
 Chimei Innolux filed its lawsuit in the United States
District Court in the Western District of Arkansas and to the
Beijing Intermediate People’s Court, according to today’s
statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        