-- China Plans New Resource Tax on Coal, Oil, Gas in Western Areas
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-07T10:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/china-to-implement-price-based-resource-tax-on-coal-oil-in-western-region.html

          
          
             China plans to impose a new tax on
coal, oil and gas extraction in western provinces, raising funds
to develop its most restive region in a move that will reduce
profits for  PetroChina Co.  and rival resource producers.  
 The tax, introduced last month in Xinjiang, China’s largest
gas-producing province, will be broadened to include all western
areas, the government said in a  statement , citing comments by
Premier  Wen Jiabao  at a meeting with officials yesterday. The
levy will be based on prices instead of volume as first
announced, the government said on its website.  
 “This is part of a wider trend to move some of the profits
of companies with a near monopoly like PetroChina to poorer
parts of the country so they can benefit,”  Wang Aochao , head of
China research at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd., said by telephone from
Shanghai. “The government is worried about the divide between
poorer regions in the west and the much richer east.”  
 President  Hu Jintao  has pledged to double investment in
Xinjiang after China’s deadliest riots in decades left at least
197 people dead in the provincial capital in July last year. The
tax follows Australia’s decision to impose a new levy on the
profits of resources companies as Chinese consumption spurs
demand for commodities such as iron ore produced by the country.  
 China will embark on  23 projects  in the west this year at a
cost of 682.2 billion yuan ($100 billion), the National
Development and Reform Commission said yesterday. The projects
include the construction of roads and railways, wind farms and a
nuclear power plant in Guangxi province.  
 The world’s second-biggest energy consuming nation is
planning to develop 13 solar power projects in six western
provinces to help spur energy investment in the region, the NDRC
said in a separate statement yesterday.  
 Xinjiang Tax  
 PetroChina, operator of the Tarim gas field in Xinjiang,
fell 2.5 percent in Hong Kong trading, compared with the 1.1
percent decline in the benchmark Hang Seng Index. China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. dropped 1.9 percent. The company
known as Sinopec produces oil in Tahe field in the province.  
 China Shenhua Energy Co. and China Coal Energy Co. have
mines in Shaanxi, Ningxia and Inner Mongolia, the country’s
biggest coal-producing province.  Shenhua , China’s largest coal
producer, fell 1.8 percent in Hong Kong trading, while China
Coal declined 1.8 percent.  
 “The adjustment of the resources tax will undoubtedly lead
to higher tax costs for energy producers led by PetroChina and
Sinopec,”  Grace Liu , an energy analyst with Guotai Junan
Securities Co., said by phone from the southern city of Shenzhen.  
 China imposed a 5 percent price-based resources tax on oil
and gas produced in Xinjiang with effect from June 1, the
Ministry of Finance said last month.  
 The province was China’s fourth-largest crude oil producer
in 2009, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  
 Australian Tax  
 In Australia, former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s plan to
impose a 40 percent tax on mining companies led to his ouster as
his approval ratings slumped amid opposition from mining
companies and threatened the ruling Labor Party’s election
prospects.  
 His successor,  Julia Gillard , scaled back the proposed tax
to 30 percent to win the industry’s support and ease concern
that the levy would curb investments and slow economic growth.  
 -- Wang Ying  in Beijing. With assistance from  John Duce  in Hong
Kong and  Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai. Editors:  Ryan Woo , Amit Prakash.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ying Wang  in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chinese President Hu Jintao speaks during a ceremony in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       China Plans New Resource Tax in Restive Western Areas  
                       
                         
                           Lucas Schifres/Bloomberg 
                         
                         PetroChina fell 2.3 percent to HK$8.54 in Hong Kong trading as of 2:37 p.m. local time, while China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, dropped 2.7 percent. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     PetroChina fell 2.3 percent to HK$8.54 in Hong Kong trading as of 2:37 p.m. local time, while China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, dropped 2.7 percent. 
Photographer: Lucas Schifres/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
