-- China Says Changes in Treasury Holdings Normal, `Shouldn't Be Politicized'
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-07T07:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/china-says-changes-in-treasury-holdings-normal-shouldn-t-be-politicized-.html

          
          
             The manager of China’s foreign-
exchange reserves said the U.S. bond market is important and
changes in holdings of Treasuries “shouldn’t be politicized.”  
 The benefits of investing in U.S. government debt include
“relatively good” safety, liquidity and low trading costs, the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange said today in a
 statement  on its website. China increasing or cutting the amount
of U.S. debt it owns “is normal” and decisions are made based
on market conditions, it said.  
 “We are closely watching and tracking all kinds of
changes” affecting prices of the U.S. government debt and
“make dynamic adjustments to our investments, which shouldn’t
be politicized,” the SAFE said. Concern China might consider
the “nuclear” option of dumping its Treasury holdings is
“completely unnecessary,” the regulator added.  
 China’s foreign-exchange  reserves , the world’s largest,
totaled $2.45 trillion at the end of March and the country has
the biggest overseas holdings of U.S. Treasuries, having in
April boosted its investment in the securities by $5 billion to
$900.2 billion. The total is still down from the record $939.9
billion recorded in July 2009.  
 Premier Wen Jiabao in March urged the U.S. to take
“concrete steps” to reassure investors about the safety of
dollar assets after President Barack Obama stepped up spending
to help end a recession. The White House predicts the U.S.
budget deficit will hit a record of almost $1.6 trillion this
year, about 10.6 percent of gross domestic product.  
 Deficit Concerns  
 “China has been calling for the U.S. to genuinely take
measures to protect investors’ interests and confidence as a
responsible big nation,” SAFE said in today’s statement.  
 The agency said its choice of investments won’t be solely
based on credit ratings, adding that market capacity would also
be taken into consideration. The U.S. government’s Aaa debt
rating will come under pressure in the future unless additional
measures are taken to reduce projected record budget deficits,
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said May 25.  
 Gold is unlikely to become a major holding in China’s
foreign reserves owing to the metal’s big price swings and lack
of interest payments, SAFE said. China will “carefully
consider” whether to raise or reduce the amount of gold it has,
the regulator said.  
 -- Belinda Cao ,  Huang Zhe . Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:  Belinda Cao  in
Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or  lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        