-- Citadel's Equiduct Plans Pricing Promotion to Attract Brokers to Market
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-07T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/citadel-s-equiduct-plans-pricing-promotion-to-attract-brokers-to-market.html

          
          
             Equiduct Systems Ltd. plans a price
promotion as the alternative trading system majority owned by
Citadel Investment Group LLC woos brokers to its market.  
 London-based Equiduct, which is focused on retail brokers,
will offer a rebate of 0.2 basis points to those who take
liquidity from its order book, moving from a charge of 0.3
points previously, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Randall  said in
an interview. Passive orders, or brokers who add liquidity, will
no longer receive the 0.15 point rebate they were formerly
awarded. The new prices will run until the end of the year.  
 “It means we’ll be spending money as people connect and do
business with us,” Randall said. “But we believe in terms of
promoting the market, getting traction and allowing people to
interact with retail, it’s money well spent.”  
 Citadel, the $12 billion hedge fund firm founded by  Ken Griffin , last year bought a majority stake in Equiduct, a
multilateral trading facility operated by the  Berlin bourse  that
had yet to take business from traditional exchanges such as
 Deutsche Boerse AG ,  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  and NYSE
Euronext. In December, Citadel named Randall, credited with
bringing alternative trading systems to Europe in 2007, as chief
executive of Equiduct in an effort to spur growth.  
 Under Randall, Equiduct has sold a stake to Knight Capital
Group Inc., the largest trader of U.S. stocks, and held
negotiations with  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  to hand over customers
of its Neuro unit after the European alternative trading system
said it would close.  
 Equiduct operates a maker-taker model where, typically,
market participants who add liquidity are offered a rebate and
those who remove it are charged.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        