-- Clifford Chance Partner Profits Rise 25% on Increased Cross-Border Work
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-07T11:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/clifford-chance-partner-profits-rise-25-on-increased-cross-border-work.html

          
          
             Profits per partner at  Clifford
Chance LLP , one of the U.K.’s highest-grossing law firms, rose
25 percent to 933,000 pounds ($1.4 million) after falling 37
percent the previous year.  
 Clifford Chance, which cut 15 percent of its partners last
year, benefited from cross-border work and increasing revenue
from emerging markets, the firm’s managing partner  David Childs 
said today. The firm, once the largest in the world by revenue,
said its revenue fell 5 percent to 1.197 billion pounds for the
fiscal year ended April 30.  
 “Clearly last year was tough and I was pleased our revenue
was only down five percent,” Childs said. “What we’re seeing
now is our revenue is growing again month by month.”  
 An increase in restructuring, litigation, finance and
regulatory work helped lift the firm’s profits as the mergers
and acquisitions market remained slow, Childs said. The 2,200-
lawyer firm also cut costs by 10 percent.  
 “There’s clearly a very strong wish from our clients to
see law firms be more efficient and to deliver legal services
more cost-effectively,” Childs said. “A push to reduce costs
over the last two years will be tough to repeat.”  
 In the last year, Clifford Chance advised  Kraft Foods Inc. 
in its 11.7 billion-pound takeover of Cadbury Plc,  Morgan
Stanley  on the creation of the world’s largest wealth manager,
Royal Dutch Shell Plc on its $12 billion joint venture with
Cosan, and  European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co.  in France on
an insider-trading investigation, the firm said in a statement
today.  
 Allen & Overy LLP  said last week its revenue fell 4 percent
to 1.05 billion pounds and partner profits were up 10 percent.
Linklaters, which had the highest revenue of U.K. law firms a
year ago, said revenue fell 8.8 percent to 1.18 billion pounds.
Equity partners at Linklaters LLP reported profit of 1.2 million
pounds, a 6.8 percent decline.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        