-- Clifford Chance Regains Top U.K. Law Firm Spot as Revenue, Mergers Dwindle
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-08T09:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/clifford-chance-regains-top-u-k-law-firm-spot-as-revenue-mergers-dwindle.html

          
          
             Clifford Chance LLP  regained its spot
as the highest-grossing U.K. law firm, with London’s largest
firms suffering revenue declines of as much as 11 percent on
dwindling merger and acquisitions work.  
 Revenue at Clifford Chance fell 5 percent to 1.197 billion
pounds ($1.8 billion) for the fiscal year ended April 30.  
 Linklaters LLP , which had the highest revenue among U.K.
firms last year, was second this time with 1.18 billion pounds,
after an 8.8 percent decline from the prior year.  Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP  said its revenue fell 11 percent to 1.14
billion pounds, and  Allen & Overy LLP  reported a 4 percent drop
to 1.05 billion pounds.  
 “Revenue is down a bit, but you always expect it to come
down as the recession unwinds,” said  Tony Williams , founder of
Jomati Consultants in London and a former managing partner at
Clifford Chance. “The initial panic from the financial crisis
and the Lehman collapse caused a lot of work, and there’s been a
period where everyone sort of licks their wounds.”  
 The collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  in September
2008 roiled financial markets and gave top law firms a boost in
work during 2009.  
 London’s biggest firms, known collectively as the Magic
Circle, have faced a decline in business over the past year as
the volume of buyouts and mergers fell 38 percent in 2009 and
remained at a low level this year. The firms’ clients include
most of the top U.K. and U.S. banks, and many of Europe’s
largest companies.  
 Litigation, Restructuring  
 Litigation, regulatory and restructuring work, the busiest
practice areas in the past year for the top firms, “haven’t
gone strongly enough to compensate for the slowdown in
mainstream transactions, banking and corporate activity,”
Williams said.  
 Profit per equity partner, the standard method of measuring
law-firm results, rose at two of the four top U.K. firms that
publish their financial results. Partner profits were up 25
percent at Clifford Chance to 933,000 pounds and up 10 percent
at Allen & Overy to 1.1 million pounds.  
 Profit per equity partner at Linklaters LLP fell 6.8
percent, to 1.2 million pounds, and was down 3 percent at
Freshfields to 1.4 million pounds. The fifth Magic Circle firm,
Slaughter and May, doesn’t publish financial results.  
 “Given the very difficult markets and ongoing economic
uncertainty, the results are relatively healthy,” Freshfields
Chief Executive Officer  Ted Burke  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        