-- World's Biggest Coal Producer May Use Sovereign Fund to Buy Mines Overseas
-- Archana Chaudhary
-- 2010-07-08T04:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/coal-india-may-use-proposed-sovereign-fund-to-acquire-mine-assets-overseas.html

          
          
             Coal India Ltd. , the world’s largest
producer, may use a proposed sovereign fund to buy mines abroad
that can supply the equivalent of 8 percent of domestic output
as energy demand rises, a government official said.  
 India may bring in at least 50 million metric tons of coal
from abroad in 2017 to bolster local production that’s projected
to reach 647 million tons, Alok Perti, additional secretary to
the coal ministry, said in an interview in New Delhi yesterday.  
 “We have planned this keeping in mind the nation’s energy
security as we can see clearly that the demand-supply gap will
continue to rise,” said Perti, whose ministry controls Coal
India. “It is critical also because we are competing with China
for energy assets.”  
 State-owned Coal India joins the oil ministry in seeking
funds carved out of the nation’s $277 billion foreign-exchange
 reserves  to bid for energy assets. China, with $2.4 trillion of
reserves and a $300 billion sovereign fund, has spent about four
times as much as India on overseas energy acquisitions in the
past year as Asia’s two fastest-growing major economies jostle
for global resources.  
 “India needs to keep acquiring resource-based assets
overseas and encouraging government-owned companies with more
funding is a good approach,” said  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-
based economist at Barclays Plc. “Acquiring commodity assets,
including coal, is important to make sure there is no supply
shortage, which might affect India’s growth dynamics.”  
 Stake Proposals  
 Coal India, which plans an initial share sale this year, is
studying proposals by three companies, including two owned by
Peabody Energy Corp. in the U.S. and Australia, Chairman  Partha Bhattacharyya  said in April. The company may spend $1.7 billion
to buy the stakes, he said April 26. Bhattacharyya didn’t answer
calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  
 China has spent at least $21 billion on overseas resources
in the past year compared with India’s $5.18 billion, including
$2.18 billion by Oil & Natural Gas Corp. and other state-run oil
companies for a field in Venezuela and Reliance Industries
Ltd.’s purchases of shale-gas acreages in the U.S.  
 The planned sovereign fund is meant for all energy
companies, Perti said, adding that the finance ministry hasn’t
decided on its size.  
 Coal demand in India, Asia’s third-largest energy consumer,
may rise by more than 500 million tons from 2008 to 2015 to
exceed 1 billion tons, Wood Mackenzie said on July 1.  
 India’s annual coal output of 535 million tons will  fall 
short of demand from power generators by as much as 80 million
tons by next year, Perti said. Coal is used to fire more than
half of India’s current installed generation capacity, according
to the Central Electricity Authority.  
 The oil ministry formally asked the finance ministry to set
up a fund using a part of India’s foreign-exchange reserves, a
government official said in March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Archana Chaudhary  in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Coal India Ltd. Chairman Partha Bhattacharyya attends a Summit in New Delhi. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Frederic Neumann, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about India's competition with  China for natural resources.
     Indian Oil Minister Murli Deora traveled to Nigeria, Angola, Uganda, Sudan, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela this year, leading a record number of delegations to gain oil for the world’s third-fastest-growing major economy. The flurry of visits is part of a new drive to find oil for India’s 1.2 billion people after losing out to China in at least $12.5 billion of contracts in the past year. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
