-- Colombia Should Create Stabilization Fund With Oil Sales, Panel Recommends
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-07-07T20:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/colombia-should-create-stabilization-fund-with-oil-sales-panel-recommends.html

          
          
             Colombia should capitalize on its oil
and mining riches to reduce debt and eventually create a fiscal
stabilization fund that would cushion the economy during crises,
according to a policy report.  
 The fund, which should be established once the government
cuts debt to a “desirable level” would save “excess” mining
and energy revenue, helping limit gains in the peso, according
to a document drafted by the Finance Ministry, the central bank
and the national planning department and distributed today in
Bogota. Accounts used by Chile and Norway could be a model for
Colombia, the document said.  
 Finance Minister  Oscar Ivan Zuluaga , who stands down Aug. 7
when President  Alvaro Uribe  leaves office, will send the
recommendations for the so-called fiscal rule to congress July
20. Lawmakers may make changes and incorporate suggestions by
President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos  when he assumes office.  
 The panel recommends Colombia cut its debt as a percentage
of  gross domestic product  to 28.4 percent by 2020 from a
projected 39.4 percent this year. The government should
eliminate its primary deficit by 2012, and seek an average
annual primary surplus of 1.3 percent of GDP during the next 10
years, the panel said.  
 ‘Great Development’  
 “This will be a great development,” said  Alberto Ramos ,
an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York. “It adds
another element of discipline and offers assurances of good
execution.”  
 The fund won’t be established until the government  reduces 
its debt level to 25 percent of GDP, said Gloria Alonso, the
Finance Ministry’s director of macroeconomic policy, in an
interview in Bogota.  
 Santos  and his designated finance minister,  Juan Carlos Echeverry , have already pledged to balance the budget by 2014
and create annual economic growth of 6 percent within two years.  
 The president-elect has said he plans to create a dollar-
denominated sovereign wealth fund using royalties from oil and
coal sales, dividends from state oil company Ecopetrol SA and
tax revenue.  
 ‘Significant Shock’  
 If the plan to save windfall revenue is adopted, there
should be a rule that would allow it to be suspended in the
event of a “significant shock” to the economy, a natural
disaster or a foreign war, according to the recommendations.  
 The peso fell 0.7 percent to 1,906.20 per U.S. dollar at
2:20 p.m. New York time, from 1,893.10 yesterday. The peso has
jumped 7.2 percent this year, the best performance among all
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Chile  saves some income from copper sales for years when
economic growth slumps and to ensure the nation isn’t as
vulnerable to swings in the price of copper, which makes up 51
percent of exports.  
 The funds helped the economy withstand last year’s
recession and may provide financing to rebuild after February’s
8.8 magnitude earthquake that caused almost $30 billion in
damage.  
 “In Chile during the 2009 financial crisis, $8 billion was
spent from the stabilization fund on anti-cyclical measures and
again it has come into play after the earthquake,” said  Rupert Stebbings , head of the Colombian unit of Chilean brokerage
Celfin Capital SA.  
 Commodities, Budgets  
 Colombia is preparing for higher oil revenue as production
increases and after the price of crude rallied 17 percent in 12
months.  
 Colombian petroleum output will climb to nearly 1 million
barrels a day next year from almost 900,000 barrels at year-end
and 735,000 barrels in December 2009, according to government
figures.  
 A 29 percent rally in gold in 12 months has spurred
exploration for the metal in Colombia by companies including
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd .  
 Zuluaga expects the  economy  to grow 3 percent this year and
4 percent in 2011 after emerging from recession last year. He
estimates the central government’s budget deficit at 4.4 percent
of gross domestic product this year and the consolidated budget
deficit at 3.6 percent.  
 Moody’s Investors Service said June 30 it’s “optimistic”
on Colombia because of the fiscal stabilization fund and because
Santos enjoys “strong” support in Congress. Santos won 69
percent of the vote in elections June 20.  
 Moody’s rates Colombia’s foreign debt Ba1, or one level
below investment grade. It has a stable outlook on the rating.
Standard & Poor’s rates the nation’s foreign bonds at BBB-, the
lowest level of investment grade, and the government at BB+, one
step below.  
 S&P revised its foreign-currency outlook on Colombia today
to positive from stable on optimism about Santos’ economic
policies.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        