-- Colombia Peso Falls to One-Week Low on Dollar Purchase Bets to Ease Rally
-- Andrea Jaramillo
-- 2010-07-07T18:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/colombia-peso-falls-to-one-week-low-on-dollar-purchase-bets-to-ease-rally.html

          
          
             Colombia’s peso fell to a one-week
low on speculation the central bank will buy more dollars to
ease a rally in the currency.  
 The peso fell 0.7 percent to 1,906.20 per U.S. dollar at
2:20 p.m. New York time, from 1,893.10 yesterday. That’s the
weakest level on a closing basis since June 29. The peso has
jumped 7.2 percent this year, the best performance among all
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Speculation the central bank will intervene in the foreign-
exchange market came even after central bank director  Cesar Vallejo  said in an interview today that the peso is trading
close to equilibrium. Banco de la Republica has no immediate
plans to buy dollars in the spot market because that tactic
isn’t effective at slowing the currency’s appreciation, he said.  
 “At these levels exporters are increasing pressure and
although an intervention doesn’t stop the peso from
strengthening, it does help to ease gains,” said  David Aldana ,
head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Ultrabursatiles SA.  
 Colombia’s National Federation of Coffee Growers said in a
June 28 statement gains in the peso have hurt producers, cutting
export revenue. Coffee is Colombia’s third-largest export after
oil and coal.  
 ‘Worried’  
 Separately, central bank director  Carlos Gustavo Cano  said
in an interview today that he is “worried” about the strong
peso and that the economy is showing “clear signs” of so-
called Dutch disease.  
 Dutch disease is a sudden surge of wealth that ultimately
hampers expansion. The term was first applied to a surge in
income from new natural-gas fields in the Netherlands during the
1960s that triggered a currency gain and eroded other exporters’
earnings.  
 The central bank last month ended the purchase of $20
million each day in the foreign-exchange market. Policy makers
said March 3 the bank would purchase $20 million daily through
June 30 to curb a rally they said left the peso “misaligned.”  
 Banco de la Republica may announce further daily dollar
purchases should the peso go beyond 1,880, Aldana predicts.  
 Colombia’s government should consider capitalizing on its
oil riches by creating a fiscal stabilization fund once it cuts
debt to a desirable level, according to policy recommendations
made by officials from the Finance Ministry, central bank and
national planning department. The fund would save excess revenue
from mining and energy extraction, helping limit the peso’s
appreciation, the panel said in a document distributed today in
Bogota.  
 The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due July
2020 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.79
percent, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s
price declined 0.096 centavo to 121.833 centavos per peso.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        