-- Community Banks, Google Scrutiny, BHP: Compliance
-- Carla Main
-- 2010-07-07T12:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/community-banks-google-scrutiny-bhp-compliance-update1-.html

          
          
             A lobbyist for community banks
privately urged his industry not to oppose the U.S. regulatory
overhaul, warning that smaller lenders are being used by Wall
Street to derail the legislation.  
 In an e-mail sent in late June to state bank trade
association executives, Camden Fine, head of the  Independent
Community Bankers of America , said his group wouldn’t publicly
take a position on the bill. Still, he said small bankers would
lose important exclusions they fought for and “are turning the
gun on themselves” if they work to defeat the legislation ahead
of a final Senate vote this month.  
 Fine’s e-mail highlights a fissure emerging in the banking
world over the legislation, which is the largest re-write of
financial rules since the 1930s. Other groups representing
financial institutions continue to lobby against the bill,
saying it is too burdensome.  
 For more, click here.  
 Compliance Policy  
 Greek Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said the
establishment of a bank-stability fund will provide a safety net
for the country’s lenders.  
 It is not “another mechanism to enhance liquidity,” he
told a parliamentary committee in Athens, according to an e-
mailed transcript of his comments from the ministry yesterday.
He said it is a “safety net.”  
 The 10 billion-euro ($12.7 billion) Financial Stability
Fund for Greek banks was agreed upon with the International
Monetary Fund and euro-area nations as part of a 110 billion-
euro financial-aid package for Greece.  
 The establishment of the fund is part of the EU-IMF package
that provides for stricter supervision of the financial sector
by the  Bank of Greece , including stress tests of the country’s
lenders that will be made public in July, the minister said.  
 Greek Opposition Party Plans to Vote Against Pension Overhaul  
 Greece’s main opposition party will oppose Prime Minister
George Papandreou’s plans to overhaul the state-run pension
system in a vote due later this week.  
 New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that the legislation “is not a reform.”  
 Samaras said his party would vote against the entire bill
in principle and only support certain sections it deemed headed
in the right direction. Samaras has 90 seats in the 300-seat
chamber, not enough to block the legislation.  
 The government is increasing the retirement age, curtailing
early retirement and calculating payments over a longer period
of employment to stem spending on pensions. The changes are
required by the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund in return for 110 billion euros ($135 billion) of emergency
loans to avert a default on Greece’s debt.  
 U.S. Banks Risk ‘Untold Problem’ as Muni Debt Holdings Swell  
 Citigroup Inc. ,  State Street Corp.  and  U.S. Bancorp  are
among U.S. banks whose municipal bond holdings have reached a
25-year high just as state budget deficits swell to $140
billion, the most since the start of the recession.  
 Commercial lenders added more than $84 billion to their
 holdings  since 2003, according to the Federal Reserve, pushing
total investments to $216.2 billion at the end of the first
quarter. Bank regulators and ratings companies are ramping up
scrutiny of banks most at risk of being forced to raise more
capital should  debt  prices slide.  
 Walter J. Mix III, a former commissioner of the  California
Department of Financial Institutions  who closed 30 banks during
the last banking crisis in the 1990s said there is a “huge
untold problem here.”  
 Billionaire investor Warren Buffett, speaking at a June 2
hearing of the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  in New York,
predicted a “terrible problem” for municipal bonds. Buffett
has said a U.S. state facing default may need a federal rescue.  
 Default speculation drove municipal bond yields to a  13-
month high  relative to U.S. Treasuries in the first half of the
year. Now, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. has asked
analysts to look into the issue, according to spokeswoman
Michele Heller.  
 For more, click here.  
 Ireland’s Bad Bank Sees Possible ‘Stressed’ Losses  
 Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency may lose as much
as 800 million euros ($1 billion) over its lifetime under a
“stressed” scenario outlined in the so-called bad bank’s
business plan.  
 The agency’s “central” projection is for profit of 1
billion euros, down from a 5.5 billion-euro estimate made in a
draft business plan published in October. An “optimistic”
scenario in the new plan, released in Dublin yesterday, sees
profit of 3.9 billion euros.  
 NAMA is taking over real-estate loans with an original
value of about 81 billion euros from lenders including  Bank of
Ireland Plc  and  Allied Irish Banks Plc  as part of a government
plan to help the country’s ailing financial industry. The agency
said yesterday it expects about 25 percent of the loans it buys
will be income-producing, down from a previous 40 percent
projection.  
 ECB May Not Exit Extraordinary Measures Until 2011, MNI Says  
 The European Central Bank is unlikely to exit its
unconventional policy measures until next year, Market News
International reported, citing two unidentified “Eurosystem
officials.”  
 The exit “will not happen before 2011,” one official was
quoted as saying. At the same time, there is disagreement on the
Governing Council over how long to keep buying government bonds
and whether to put a cap on the purchases, the report said.  
 “All options remain on the table about different kinds of
purchases, including commercial paper,” one official told MNI.  
 Compliance Action  
 Toyota Recalling 138,874 Lexus Vehicles, U.S. Regulators Told  
 Toyota Motor Corp.  told U.S. regulators it is recalling as
many as 138,874 Lexus vehicles for 2006-2008 after reports of an
engine defect that can lead to stalling.  
 Toyota said July 2 it would notify the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  of the recall this week. As many
as 270,000 Lexus model vehicles worldwide may have the defect
and will be recalled, according to the Toyota  notice  sent to the
regulator.  
 The company also said July 5 it will recall Lexus cars sold
in Japan and China, according to a statement on the website of
the nation’s Transportation Ministry.  
 Google, Search Engines May Face Close Scrutiny by EU Regulator  
 Google Inc. , owner of the world’s most-used search engine,
may face closer scrutiny by the European Commission.  European
Union regulators are taking a careful look at allegations of
antitrust breaches in relation to Internet searches.  
 Antitrust rules should be applied to digital media in the
same manner as they are in other industries, said Joaquin Almia,
the region’s competition commissioner. He did not specifically
mention Google when discussing the inquiry. He said he is
“looking at the allegations very carefully.”  
 The commission hasn’t yet opened a formal probe on the
matter.  
 For more, click here.  
 Australian Regulator Delays Report on BHP-Rio Venture  
 Australia’s competition regulator further delayed the date
for releasing its finding into the  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio
Tinto Group  iron ore venture, saying the companies want to make
additional antitrust submissions.  
 The Australian  Competition and Consumer Commission , which
was due to announce its conclusion on July 22, has yet to set a
new date, it said on its  website . It’s the fourth time the date
has been delayed since the review began on Dec. 7.  
 Rio  and BHP, the world’s second- and third-largest iron ore
exporters, plan to combine mines, railroads, ports and
workforces in Western Australia’s Pilbara region in a 50-50
venture to save at least $10 billion. The deal is opposed by
steelmakers in Europe and Asia.  
 Australia’s regulator said in March it will study whether
the venture and Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA  will have a greater
ability to coordinate supply decisions.  
 Ex-Sibir Chief Fined 350,000 Pounds Over Payments  
 The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority fined  Sibir Energy
Plc’s  former Chief Executive Officer Henry Cameron 350,000
pounds ($528,535) for failing to disclose that the company made
cash payments to a shareholder.  
 Cameron was fined after the agency found he made misleading
statements about the payments, the FSA said in an e-mailed
 statement  yesterday.  
 Sibir, a London-based oil company, halted trading in
February 2009 after opening an investigation into shareholders,
including Russian billionaire Chalva Tchigirinski, over as much
as $400 million that it said was missing from the company. Sibir
suspended Cameron as CEO that month and began court proceedings
against him and Tchigirinski. Sibir fired Cameron in April.  
 Cameron didn’t admit guilt in the settlement and agreed to
it because it cost too much to defend himself, he said in an e-
mailed statement. By cooperating with the probe, he qualified
for a 30 percent discount on his fine, the FSA said. All of
Sibir’s claims against Tchigirinski have been resolved, and the
settlement was a matter of “pragmatism,” he said.  
 EU Stress-Test Coordinators Have No Decision Yet  
 European Union banking supervisors said they had not made a
decision about releasing the names of banks undergoing stress
tests, after a newspaper said regulators were expected to
disclose the names today.  
 The committee “hasn’t made an official decision yet” to
publish any information before the disclosure of stress-test
results later this month, Efstathia Bouli, a spokeswoman for the
 Committee of European Banking Supervisors , said yesterday by
telephone. The London-based committee, often referred to by its
acronym CEBS, is coordinating the tests.  
 The London-based Times newspaper reported earlier that
“regulators are expected” to release the names of the banks
today.  
 Separately, Spain will publish results of stress tests on
all of its savings banks as the country’s central bank prepares
to sell seized lender CajaSur in an auction next week.  
 Spain’s stress tests on lenders will be “particularly
broad,” as they will cover all savings banks and commercial
lenders, Bank of Spain Deputy Governor Javier said yesterday,
backing comments earlier by Finance Minister Elena Salgado.  
 Florida State Insurer Warns Clients of Mail-Forwarding Scam  
 Florida’s  government-owned provider of residential
insurance warned clients that their premium checks may have been
stolen after an unidentified person had the company’s mail
forwarded to an apartment from one of the insurer’s addresses.  
 Mail was directed to the wrong address from June 24 to June
29, said Christine Turner Ashburn, a spokeswoman for Citizens
Property Insurance Corp. As many as 213,000 customers who may
have sent checks from June 14 to June 28 will be asked to
contact the insurer to see if payments were received.  
 Citizens will credit customers for payment if their checks
were cashed in the scam, Ashburn said. It is unclear how many
were lost, she said.  
 The insurer is working with criminal investigators, Ashburn
said. A call to the U.S. Postal Service for comment wasn’t
immediately returned. The mail-forwarding scheme was previously
reported by Florida newspapers including the St. Petersburg
Times and Miami Herald.  
 Courts  
 Monsanto Loses EU Bid to Halt Argentinean Soy Imports  
 Monsanto Co. , the world’s biggest seed company, can’t use a
European patent on its Roundup Ready soybeans to block
Argentinean soy meal imports, the European Union’s highest court
said.  
 The EU court yesterday agreed with an earlier, non-binding
decision of its Advocate General Paolo Mengozzi, that the
European  patent  for the trait that makes soybeans resistant to
the company’s Roundup herbicide doesn’t extend to soy meal made
from the patented seeds.  
 Yesterday’s decision is binding across the 27 EU nations
and can’t be appealed.  
 “The case itself has already been settled between the two
parties and this move in no way affects the outcome,”. The
ruling has “only a limited meaning” and the “overall” patent
protection is not at issue, the St. Louis-based Monsanto said in
an e-mailed statement  
 For more, click here.  
 Novartis Salespeople Covered by Wage Laws, Court Says  
 Novartis AG’s  sales representatives are covered by federal
wage-and-hour laws requiring payment of overtime, a three-judge
panel of the U.S.  appeals court  in New York ruled yesterday.  
 The panel overturned a lower-court finding that the sales
representatives fell under exceptions to the federal Fair Labor
Standards Act for outside sales people and administrative
workers.  
 The decision affects about 2,500 current and former sales
representatives employed by Novartis between March 23, 2000 and
April 7, 2007, who are suing for unpaid overtime, according to
the court’s decision.  
 Eric Althoff, a Novartis spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  
 The case is Re Novartis Wage and Hour Litigation, 09-437,
2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, (Manhattan).  
 Ex-IKB CEO Should Be Convicted of Manipulation, Prosecutor Says  
 German prosecutors said the former  IKB Deutsche
Industriebank AG  chief executive officer, Stefan Ortseifen,
should be convicted of market manipulation and receive a 10-
month suspended sentence.  
 Ortseifen deliberately tried, in a press release, to hide
the effect and mislead investors regarding the effect of the
U.S. subprime crisis on the lender in a press release issued in
July 2007, prosecutor Nils Bussee said in closing arguments
today. IKB was bailed out in 2007 by KfW Group and banking
associations.  
 Ortseifen’s lawyer Reinhard von Dalwigk declined to comment
today, saying the defense will rebut in closing arguments next
week. Ortseifen has denied the charges during trial.  
 Trafigura Ruling Must Be Reviewed, Dutch Supreme Court Says  
 A Dutch court must re-examine whether Trafigura Beheer BV
Chief Executive Officer Claude Dauphin should be prosecuted over
the export of waste to Ivory Coast in 2006.  
 The Dutch Supreme Court said the Amsterdam Appeals Court
has to review its 2008 ruling, which barred the prosecution of
Dauphin, citing insufficient  evidence . The lower tribunal used a
“limited interpretation” of European Union rules against
exporting waste to countries including Ivory Coast, the court in
The Hague said in a ruling on its  website  yesterday.  
 Residents of Abidjan claimed the dumped waste caused deaths
and illness. Trafigura, which denied responsibility for the
dumping, paid the Ivory Coast government $198.4 million in 2007
for the removal of the waste and last year settled a lawsuit
filed by residents who claimed to have fallen ill.  
 Trafigura is on trial before an Amsterdam court for
allegedly concealing the waste’s composition. The court is
scheduled to rule on July 23.  
 Irving Stitsky Gets 85-Year Sentence in $23 Million Fraud  
 Irving Stitsky, who defrauded more than 250 people in a $23
million fraudulent real estate investment, was sentenced to 85
years in prison in Manhattan federal court. U.S. District Judge
Kimba Wood sentenced Stitsky, whom she called “an inveterate
con man,” to the maximum for his third securities fraud
conviction.  
 For more, click here.  
 Iceland Lenders May Lose $4.3 Billion on Supreme Court Ruling  
 Iceland’s lenders stand to lose as much as $4.3 billion,
after a court ruling last month found that some foreign loans
were illegal, according to Finance Minister Steingrimur J.
Sigfusson.  
 Such loans are the “largest single loan category of the
banks,” Sigfusson told a radio station in  Bylgjan  yesterday. If
capital on all the loans in the category is written down by 40
percent to 60 percent, “we’re talking about enormous amounts.”  
 The Supreme Court ruled June 16 that loans indexed to
foreign-currency rates were illegal in three cases involving
private car loans and a corporate property loan. The decisions
may mean that borrowers with such loans are only obliged to
repay the principal in kronur, making the lenders liable for
currency losses on about $28 billion in debt.  
 Magnus Thoroddsen, a former president of Iceland’s Supreme
Court, said contractual rates apply unless the banks sue and
win. The FSA will provide parliament’s Trade Committee with a
breakdown of the cost of the ruling to lenders on July 9.  
 For more, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 Cmain2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        