-- Congo's Government Says First Quantum `Smear Campaign' Hurting Investment
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-07-07T07:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/congo-s-government-says-first-quantum-smear-campaign-hurting-investment.html

          
          
             Congo’s government accused  First
Quantum Minerals Ltd.  of conducting a “smear campaign” that is
discouraging foreign investment in the Central African nation.  
 The Vancouver-based miner is fighting efforts by the
Congolese state and courts to close one of its copper and cobalt
projects in the country and take away the rights to two others.
First Quantum in a statement on May 24 described the actions as
an “orchestrated attack” on its more than $1 billion worth of
investments in Congo and said the government’s objectives were
“questionable.”  
 “I have never seen a company going against a host
government in a smear campaign like this,” Bene M’Poko, Congo’s
ambassador to South Africa, said by phone from Johannesburg on
July 5. The company is “giving a bad name to the country in
which it wants to operate,” he said.  
 Congolese President  Joseph Kabila  has charged M’Poko with
coordinating the government’s response to the First Quantum
case, the ambassador said.  
 First Quantum President  Clive Newall  said in an e-mail late
yesterday he wasn’t immediately able to respond to M’Poko’s
comments because he is traveling.  
 The uncertainty caused by the First Quantum dispute has
resulted in a 40 percent increase in political risk insurance in
Congo, according to the African Trade Insurance Agency. It’s
also earned the country criticism by the Group of Eight nations
about Congo’s business climate and a moratorium on new
investment by the World Bank’s International Finance Corp. The
IFC is a minority investor in First Quantum’s $750 million
Kingamyambo Musonoi Tailings Sarl copper and cobalt project.  
 Debt Relief  
 The dispute with First Quantum also threatened a decision
on Congo’s request for debt relief at the World Bank and
International Monetary Fund last week, after Canada asked for a
delay in the vote and tried to link Congo’s debt relief to
improvements in governance and the management of its resource
sector. The $8 billion debt relief package eventually passed on
July 1, with Canada abstaining.  
 The conflict between First Quantum and the government began
during Congo’s two-and-a-half year revision of all of its mining
contracts, M’Poko said. The review was meant to “level the
playing field” so that all projects adhered to a new mining
code and benefited the country, he said. Many of Congo’s mining
contracts were signed while the country was at war or under a
transitional government.  
 “The KMT people are the only ones who refused to
renegotiate,” M’Poko said. “They refused with a lot of
arrogance.”  
 Negotiated Settlement  
 The government canceled the KMT contract in August. On Feb.
1, First Quantum, IFC and a third partner, South Africa’s
Industrial Development Corp., took the case to international
arbitration in Paris. The group continues to call for a
negotiated settlement.  
 First Quantum and its partners will be paid for the
investments they’ve already made in developing the site, M’Poko
said.  
 “My government is not in the business of expropriating
private assets,” he said. “They’ll be properly compensated,
but we haven’t reached that stage yet.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        