-- Marubeni Forecasts 10-Fold Jump in China's Corn Imports to Feed Livestock
-- Yasumasa Song
-- 2010-07-07T06:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/corn-imports-by-china-may-surge-10-fold-by-2015-on-growth-marubeni-says.html

          
          
             China , the world’s second-largest
corn consumer, may give up efforts to be self-sufficient in the
commodity and boost imports 10-fold by 2015 to feed livestock,
said a researcher at Japan’s biggest grain trader.  
 Imports may expand to 10 million metric tons from about 1
million tons forecast for this marketing year as the Asian
nation will turn to cheap corn supplies from overseas for feed
production, said Akio Shibata, chief representative for trading
company  Marubeni Corp ’s research institute.  
 Imports of that volume would make China the second-largest
importer after Japan, which buys more than 16 million tons a
year, based on data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
Foreign Agricultural Service. Increased buying may further
bolster corn futures in Chicago, which have gained 11 percent in
the past year, potentially raising costs for feed mills and meat
producers.  
 “If China becomes a constant buyer, the global corn market
will become tight as the U.S. will increase the use of its grain
for ethanol production, limiting its export capacity,” said
Kazuhiko Saito, an analyst at Tokyo-based commodity broker
Fujitomi Co.  
 Chinese corn demand is expanding as economic  growth  lifts
living standards and wages, boosting consumption of meat, eggs
and dairy products. Increased livestock production raises demand
for feed, which can be made from corn and soybeans. Corn demand
is forecast to grow 1.9 percent to 159 million tons in 2010-2011
from a year earlier, according to the USDA.  
 As of June 24, the outstanding sales of U.S. corn to China
were 890,100 tons for delivery by Aug. 31, according to a USDA
report on July 1.  
 Net Importer  
 “China’s corn buying this year is signaling that the
country is emerging as a net importer,” Shibata said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday. “The nation is not considering
maintaining its self-sufficiency rate for corn at a certain
level” as the grain is no longer an important food crop for
Chinese people, whose staples are rice and wheat, he added.
 China  hasn’t been a net importer of corn in 14 years.  
 Chinese corn imports are unlikely to reach the level of its
soybean purchases, as the grain exports are dominated by the
U.S., the world’s largest grower and consumer, Shibata said.
China is the biggest importer of the oilseed.  
 “China can rely heavily on soybean imports as Brazil and
Argentina act as major suppliers,” he said. “For corn, the
stance is too risky for China to take.”  
 Soybean imports are forecast to increase 4.3 percent to 49
million tons in the year beginning in October 2010 from a year
earlier, according to the June  report  by the USDA.  
 Output Growth  
 The U.S. is expected to account for 42 percent of global
soybean exports in 2010-2011, and 57 percent of global corn
trade, according to the USDA.  
 China’s corn production this year may grow 2.5 percent from
2009 to 168 million tons as farmers boost plantings, the state-
backed China National Grain & Oils Information Center said last
month.  
 Still, China may miss that target if dry weather persists
in the central and northeastern growing areas, Telvent DTN Inc.
said June 25. It may buy more than 1 million tons in the next 18
months, on top of what has already been bought,  Thomas Dorr ,
president of the U.S. Grains Council said June 16.  
 Northeastern China, including the provinces of Liaoning,
Jilin and Heilongjiang, accounted for almost 40 percent of the
nation’s corn output, according to a  study  by the Economic
Research Service of the USDA.  
 Corn futures for December delivery gained 0.3 percent to
$3.805 a bushel at 12:57 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. The
price has gained 4.5 percent since April 28, when the first of
this year’s U.S. sales to China were announced.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Yasumasa Song  in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        