-- Petrobras, Cosan, Ecopetrol, Maple Energy: Latin America Equity Preview
-- Andres R. Martinez
-- 2010-07-07T04:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/cosan-petrobras-ecopetrol-maple-energy-latin-america-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  
 The  MSCI Latin America Index  gained 2.3 percent to 3,761.4.
In Brazil, preferred shares usually are the most-traded class of
stock.  
 Brazil  
 Cosan SA Industria & Comercio (CSAN3 BZ): Brazil’s largest
sugar-cane processor was ordered by the federal government to
give 2.5 million reais ($1.4 million) of goods to charity for
workplace violations at its Univalem mill. The stock fell 1.4
percent to 23.12 reais.  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  (PETR4 BZ): The state-run oil
company’s Franco well may hold more than 4.5 billion barrels of
oil equivalent, according to the country’s national oil, gas and
biocombustivels agency. The cost of protecting against a
default by the largest oil producer in waters below 1,000 feet
is surging relative to Petroleos Mexicanos on concern that deep-
water drilling costs will jump. The shares rose 1.9 percent to
27.05 reais.  
 Colombia  
 Bancolombia SA (BCOLO CB): Colombia’s biggest lender said
its board of directors approved the issuance of up to $636.8
million in aggregate principal amount of subordinated notes,
according to an e-mailed statement.  
 Mexico  
 Alfa SAB  (ALFAA MM): Volkswagen AG plans to invest as much
as $1 billion in Mexico over the next three years, including
building an engine plant. The world’s largest maker of aluminum
engine heads fell 0.7 percent to 96.32 pesos.  
 Peru  
 Maple Energy Plc . (MPLE PE): The government said it will
seek bids for the construction of a liquid petroleum gas
pipeline. The oil and natural gas producer was unchanged at 65
cents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        