-- Credit Suisse Said to Spin Off Two Candlewood Corporate-Debt Hedge Funds
-- Saijel Kishan
-- 2010-07-07T19:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/credit-suisse-said-to-spin-off-two-candlewood-corporate-debt-hedge-funds.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s
biggest bank by market value, plans to spin off two credit hedge
funds by the end of September, said two people briefed on the
matter.  
 Candlewood Special Situations, a fund overseen by  Michael Lau , and  Candlewood Credit Value , managed by  Don Pollard ,
specialize in distressed corporate debt. The funds will get
investments from Zurich-based Credit Suisse, according to the
people, who asked not to be named because the information is
private.  
 Banks’ ability to provide capital to hedge funds would be
limited under the financial-overhaul bill passed by the U.S.
House and pending in the Senate. Credit Suisse started planning
the spinoff of the Candlewood funds earlier this year, said one
of the people. Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s biggest
brokerage, today spun off Copia Capital LLC, a Chicago-based
hedge fund with $520 million in investments, according to a
company statement.  
 “While a bank parent can provide stability in stormy
weather, hedge funds tend to thrive when they are outside of the
bank structure,” said  Jess Varughese , managing partner at
Milestone, a financial-services consulting firm in New York.
“They don’t want or feel the need to deal with the regulatory
burdens and other institutional requirements of a bank.”  
 Victoria Harmon, a New York-based spokeswoman for Credit
Suisse, declined to comment. Lau and Pollard didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  
 Fund Returns  
 Distressed-debt hedge  funds  have returned 4.9 percent this
year through May, according to the HFRI Distressed/Restructuring
Index compiled by Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  
 Lau started Candlewood Investment Group in 2005. He
 previously  worked at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc., which he
joined in 1997 as a banking analyst. After the firm merged with
Credit Suisse in 2000, he moved to the high-yield desk to focus
on distressed loan and bond trading, according to the bank’s
website.  
 Pollard, head of credit investments within Credit Suisse’s
alternative-investment unit,  joined  Donaldson Lufkin in 1996 and
was co-head of the firm’s leveraged-loan group. He previously
worked at Citicorp Securities as head of European loan and
distressed-debt trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        