-- Credit Suisse Adds Six New Foreign-Exchange Indexes to Lure More Investors
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-07T10:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/credit-suisse-adds-six-new-foreign-exchange-indexes-to-lure-more-investors.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s
second-biggest bank, started six new investible currency indexes
to win a greater share of the foreign-exchange market.  
 The Zurich-based lender will take in money from clients
looking to track the indexes,  Anders Vik , global head of
foreign-exchange structuring, and  Umberto Alvisi , a foreign-
exchange strategist at Credit Suisse, said in a telephone
interview. The new indexes are components of the bank’s FX
Factor Index, which was launched in April last year and includes
bets on as many as 18 currencies.  
 “Each component captures different market dimensions and
the indexes are available individually or in combination,”
Alvisi said. “We are offering investors a wider choice.”  
 Credit Suisse is bidding to become a top-five institution
for currency trading, Vik said, without providing a timescale.
It was ranked eighth in Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc’s
2010 survey. Last year the bank earned about $6 billion less in
revenue from fixed-income, currencies and commodities than the
average of its top three rivals, a team of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts led by  Kian Abouhossein  said in April.  
 The strategies for the new indexes, branded FX Metrics by
Credit Suisse, include bets on so-called carry trades and
emerging markets, the bank said. Fees equal to an annual 60
basis points and transaction costs are taken into account in the
indexes. Investors will normally access the indexes through swap
agreements with the bank, Vik said.  
 The FX Factor Index returned 7 percent from its
introduction through the end of 2009 and is little changed for
this year, according to Credit Suisse.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        