-- CRH Declines After Building-Materials Maker Trims Sales, Earnings Outlook
-- Howard Mustoe
-- 2010-07-07T12:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/crh-declines-after-building-materials-maker-trims-sales-earnings-outlook.html

          
          
             CRH Plc , the world’s second-largest
maker and distributor of building materials, led a drop in
shares of construction-suppliers after saying first-half
earnings missed its forecast amid a decline in the U.S.  
 CRH  fell  as much as 1.73 euros, or 10 percent, to 15.40
euros in the biggest decline since March 2009, and was down
8.2 percent as of 1:34 p.m. in Dublin trading. Shares of  Lafarge
SA , Holcim Ltd. and  HeidelbergCement AG , the world’s three
largest cement producers, and Wienerberger AG, the biggest
brickmaker, also dropped.  
 “The stocks are just reflecting what has happened in the
U.S., and as far as the data that’s coming out, it wasn’t all
that good,”  Tobias Woerner , a London-based analyst at MF
Global, said in a phone interview. “Cement pricing is pretty
dire in the U.S.” Woerner has a “ buy ” recommendation on CRH
and a “ sell ” on HeidelbergCement.  
 CRH said today that earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization  probably dropped  about 20 percent,
with sales slipping 10 percent. That compares with a prediction
in May that earnings would fall by a “high-teen” percentage.
Sales this year will fall more than forecast, weighed down by
faltering demand in Portugal, Spain and Ireland, the Dublin-
based company said in a statement.  
 “We view the update as disappointing, and the momentum
toward the end of the period is not as strong as we envisaged,
especially in U.S. materials,”  Robert Eason , an analyst at
Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in a research report.  
 Debt From Acquisitions  
 Building-material suppliers such as Lafarge and  Cemex SAB 
have had to contend with debt from acquisitions made before the
recession halted construction projects and cut demand for
aggregates, bricks and cement. The industry has seen more than
$200 billion worth of mergers and acquisitions over the past
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 CRH’s sales volumes in the U.S. materials business were
affected by poor weather in southern states in the early part of
the year, and again in May and June, the company said. CRH,
which produces aggregates, is scheduled to release detailed
first-half figures on Aug. 24.  
 A savings program targeted at reducing costs by 365 million
euros ($460 million) this year and next will help offset weaker
markets, according to the company. CRH also pared spending on
acquisitions to 133 million euros in the first half, with 13
transactions, mostly in the U.S.  
 Second-Half Forecast  
 Second-half Ebitda will probably be “well ahead” of the
year-ago figure of 1.15 billion euros, CRH said.  
 Lafarge  fell  as much as 5.1 percent to 39.45 euros in Paris
trading, its lowest intraday price since April 2009. Holcim
 declined  as much as 4.5 percent to 68 Swiss francs in Zurich,
the biggest drop since May 25. HeidelbergCement slid
6.8 percent in Frankfurt to 36.31 euros, and Wienerberger fell
as much as 4.7 percent in Vienna to 9.70 euros, the lowest price
in a year.  
 Holcim, which is based in Jona, Switzerland, probably makes
a better investment, given its larger presence in emerging
markets,  Charlie Campbell , an analyst at Liberum Capital, said
in a research report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        