-- Crude Oil Rises From Four-Week Low on Speculation U.S. Supplies Declined
-- Margot Habiby
-- 2010-07-07T20:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/crude-oil-rises-from-four-week-low-on-u-s-retail-sales-supply-forecasts.html

          
          
             Crude oil rose for the first time in
seven days following a forecast that U.S. retail sales are
growing at the fastest pace in four years, a signal that the
economy is rebounding from the worst recession since the 1930s.  
 Oil jumped from a four-week low as sales expanded at an
average monthly rate of 4 percent for the five months ended in
June, according to the International Council of Shopping
Centers’ estimate before its June report tomorrow. U.S. oil
supplies likely fell last week, a survey showed.  
 “The market is probably trying to grab onto any positive
numbers that it’s seeing,” said  Matt Smith , a commodities
analyst for Summit Energy Inc. in Louisville, Kentucky. “Things
have been particularly glum recently.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery gained $2.09, or 2.9 percent,
to settle at $74.07 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The contract fell to its lowest level since June 7
yesterday. Prices have dropped 6.7 percent this year.  
 Prices rose from the settlement after the American
Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles decreased 7.26 million barrels to 351.8 million.
August oil increased $2.77, or 3.9 percent, to $74.75 a barrel
in electronic trading at 4:34 p.m.  
 U.S. oil stockpiles decreased by 2 million barrels in the
seven days ended July 2 from 363.1 million the week before,
according to the median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report tomorrow.
Twelve of the respondents in the survey forecast a decrease and
three estimated a gain.  
 Last week, Hurricane Alex crossed the Gulf of Mexico,
curbing domestic production and imports.  
 Gasoline Demand  
 “The five-year average withdrawal is 4 million barrels but
it reflects a time of greater gasoline demand,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition Energy, a
Stamford, Connecticut-based procurement adviser. “If we don’t
see a pickup in gasoline demand after the Fourth of July
holiday, then this market is set up for another run down.”  
 U.S. gasoline consumption increased 0.2 percent from the
year earlier in the week ended July 2, the first gain in five
weeks,  MasterCard Inc.  said today in its SpendingPulse report.
The July Fourth holiday is traditionally a peak demand period
for U.S. motorists.  
 Demand  through July 2 jumped to the highest level in five
weeks, the second-biggest payments network company reported.  
 Gasoline for August delivery climbed 5.4 cents, or 2.7
percent, to settle at $2.0253 a gallon on the Nymex.  
 Price Forecast  
 The Energy Department cut its oil price forecast for 2010
to an average $78.69 a barrel in its monthly Short-Term Energy
Outlook today from $78.75 a barrel a month ago. The department
also raised its outlook for global oil consumption this year to
85.82 million barrels a day from 85.51 million in June.  
 Brent crude for August delivery gained $2.06, or 2.9
percent, to settle at $73.51 a barrel on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  
 U.S. equities increased for a second day. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  gained 3.1 percent to 1,060.27. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  jumped 274.66 points, or 2.8 percent, to
10,018.28. The Dow average dropped more than 600 points in seven
sessions through July 2.  
 “After the long drop in both the stock market and crude,
we’re seeing a little bit of a rebound effect,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester, Massachusetts. “The economic news isn’t that bad
and we haven’t seen that much out in the last couple of days.”  
 Mortgage Applications  
 An  index  of mortgage applications in the U.S. rose last
week to the highest level since October as more Americans took
advantage of lower interest rates and refinanced their homes,
according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. The index gained
6.7 percent in the week ended July 2.  
 U.S. service industries expanded in June at a slower pace
than forecast, the Institute for Supply Management’s index of
non-manufacturing businesses showed yesterday. Last week,
government reports showed that employment slipped in June for
the first time this year and factory orders declined more than
forecast.  
 Oil has traded within about a $10 price range for the past
month, between $69.51 and $79.38 a barrel.  
 “Buyers and sellers are fairly comfortable right now,”
said  Michael Fitzpatrick , vice president of energy at MF Global
in New York. “It looks like the market is trying to get some
momentum here on the upside. The longer you go without breaking
$69.50, the stronger the market’s going to look, and you’re
going to add to the momentum.”  
 Tropical Cyclone  
 There’s 50 percent chance that a group of thunderstorms
moving west-northwest over the western Gulf of Mexico will turn
into a tropical cyclone before reaching the coast of
northeastern Mexico or southern Texas tomorrow, the  U.S.
National Hurricane Center  said in an advisory at 2 p.m. Miami
time.  
 Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 445,987
contracts as of 4:26 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 536,320
contracts yesterday, 31 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.27 million contracts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        