-- Experimental Solar Plane Attempts First Night Flight
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2010-07-08T16:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/deutsche-bank-sponsored-solar-powered-airplane-attempts-first-night-flight.html

          
          
             An experimental airplane landed
safely after flying through the night propelled entirely by
12,000 solar cells and sunlight-powered lithium batteries.  
 The HB-SIA carbon-fiber aircraft, flown by Andre Borschberg
and weighing about as much as a mid-size car, touched down today
at Payerne near Lake Neuchatel, Switzerland, at 9 a.m. local
time, the Solar Impulse group  said .  
 The flight was part of the project’s 100 million Swiss
franc ($95 million) effort sponsored by  Deutsche Bank AG ,
Germany’s biggest bank, to eventually pilot the first flight
around the globe in an airplane using only solar energy. The
seven-year project is led by the Swiss adventurer  Bertrand Piccard  and Borschberg, a 40-year flying veteran.  
 The flight was “the most incredible one of my flying
career, just sitting there and watching the battery charge level
rise and rise thanks to the sun and then that suspense, not
knowing whether we were going to manage to stay up in the air
the whole night,” Borschberg, 57, said. “I have just flown
more than 26 hours without using a drop of fuel and without
causing any pollution!”  
 The single-seat plane averaged 23 knots (26 miles per hour)
making loops over lakes and Switzerland’s Jura Mountains. The
next challenge will be for Solar Impulse to cross the Atlantic,
then a five-stop, around-the-world flight set for 2013 using a
second prototype about to begin construction this summer.  
 New Credibility  
 “Before yesterday morning, we didn’t have credibility,”
Piccard, known for his record-setting 1999 balloon flight around
the world, said on the group’s website. “It’s time to use this
success to demonstrate in the political and economic world how
we can use this clean technology.”  
 The plane took to the air yesterday at 6:51 a.m., lifted by
64-meter (210-foot) wings that about match the wingspan of an
Airbus A340 airliner. It rose to almost 9,000 meters before
sunset, powered by lithium batteries that made up 400 kilograms
(880 pounds) of the plane’s 1,600-kilogram weight.  
 Just before the aircraft landed this morning in clear skies
at the Payerne field, Solar Impulse team staffer Lucas Chambers
 wrote  on the company website: “The sun has risen here in
Switzerland and Solar Impulse is now officially the first solar-
powered aircraft to make it through an entire night.”  
 It’s also “the end of an amazing night, the end of the
longest and highest flight a solar-powered airplane has ever
done.”  
 Solar Impulse’s aviation feat was front-page news on the
Zurich newspaper Blick am Abend with the headline “Victory of
the Sun.” The project’s other main sponsors include Swatch
Group AG’s Omega brand and Brussels-based  Solvay SA .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Randall Hackley  in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net 
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Solar Impulse HB-SIA solar-powered airplane flies during its maiden flight at Payerne Airport. Photographer: Charles Ellena/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The solar panels and propeller of Solar Impulse HB-SIA are seen at Duebendorf Airport near Zurich. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Flying veteran Andre Borschberg. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
