-- Disney Loses `Who Wants to Be a Millionaire' Trial
-- Tori Richards
-- 2010-07-08T01:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/disney-loses-who-wants-to-be-a-millionaire-suit-must-pay-269-4-million.html

          
          
             Walt Disney Co.  was found liable for
not paying the U.K. creators of “Who Wants to Be a
Millionaire” their share of profits from the quiz show
broadcast on Disney’s ABC network.  
 A jury in Riverside, California, today awarded $269.4
million in damages to Celador International Ltd. The jurors
agreed that Disney’s Buena Vista Television and ABC breached an
agreement that entitled Celador to 50 percent of the profits
from the show, which first aired in the U.S. in 1999 and helped
lift the network to first place from third in audience ratings.  
 “We believe this verdict is fundamentally wrong and will
aggressively seek to have it reversed,” Disney said in an
e-mailed statement.  
 Closely held Celador sued  Disney  in 2004, claiming Buena
Vista and ABC “through a complex web of self-dealing
transactions” allowed ABC to keep the advertising revenue and
pay Buena Vista only a licensing fee equal to the cost of
producing the show. That kept Buena Vista from earning a profit
from “Millionaire” that it would have had to share, Celador
said.  
 “The moral of the story is people should honor their
contracts and treat others fairly,”  Roman Silberfeld , a lawyer
for Celador, said outside the courtroom. “That is what this
jury said today. Even Disney is not immune.”  
 Third-Biggest Verdict  
 The verdict is the third-largest jury award in the U.S.
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Major studios have taken a hard line defending lawsuits
over profits and Disney in particular is notorious for its
aggressive legal strategy, said Michael Kump, a partner with
Kinsella Weitzman Iser Kump & Aldisert in Santa Monica,
California, who has litigated cases against Disney.  
 “Studios have been very reluctant to settle these kind of
cases,” Kump said in a phone interview. “They’re afraid of
setting a precedent and have every profit participant come after
them.”  
 To succeed on appeal, Disney will have to show that the
trial judge erred, possibly in instructing the jurors, Kump
said. Appellate courts generally are reluctant to overturn jury
verdicts, the lawyer said.  
 Disney , based in Burbank, California, argued that the
creators, who received a flat producers’ fee for each episode,
knew that the network run of “Millionaire” wouldn’t generate a
profit. There wasn’t anything unusual or secret about the way
Buena Vista and ABC, which took all the financial risks, divided
the rights, said Disney lawyer  Martin Katz  during the trial.  
 Iger’s Criticism  
 Disney Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  said the judge
and the jury got it wrong and should have had more opportunity
to review the contract.  
 “It’s all there in the contract,” Iger said today in an
interview at the Allen & Co. media conference in Sun Valley,
Idaho.  
 The quiz show came on the air in the U.S. in 1999 and its
success prompted ABC to run the program four times a week.
“Millionaire” was first broadcast in the U.K. in 1998 and has
been carried in 106 countries, including Australia, India,
Japan, Germany and Russia, according to the creators. The show
also was featured in the movie “Slumdog Millionaire,” which
was co-produced by Celador and which won eight Oscars in 2009.  
 Eisner E-Mail  
 Former Disney Chief Executive Officer  Michael Eisner  said
in a 1999 e-mail introduced by Celador as evidence in the trial
that “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire” was as important to
Disney’s ABC network as its deal with the National Football
League.  
 Eisner estimated the value of the rights to the game show
at $1 billion and said it would turn ABC around, according to a
separate 1999 e-mail message forwarded to Disney’s  board of
directors .  
 Celador Chairman  Paul Smith  said in a phone interview that
the verdict was a great relief and that the company had been
willing to settle the case before it went to trial.  
 “Disney did a fine, fine job producing and exploiting the
show,” Smith said. “The problem was they exploited it for
their own benefit only.”  
 The case is Celador International Ltd. v. Walt Disney Co.
04-03541, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Riverside.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     TV host Regis Philbin, who used to host 'Who Wants to be a Millionaire.' Photographer:  Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images for Tribeca Film Festival  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Walt Disney Co. was found liable for not paying the U.K. creators of “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire” their share of profits from the quiz show broadcast on Disney’s ABC television network. A jury in Riverside, California, today awarded $269.4 million in damages to Celador International Ltd. Bloomberg's Lori Rothman and Edvard Pettersson report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
