-- Yen Gains From Near Two-Week Low Versus Euro Amid Global Recovery Concern
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-07-07T10:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/dollar-near-seven-month-low-versus-yen-on-view-fed-to-keep-rates-near-zero.html

          
          
             The yen strengthened from the lowest
level in almost two weeks against the euro as speculation the
global recovery will falter and declining stock markets boosted
demand for the relative safety of Japan’s currency.  
 The yen gained versus all of its 16 major counterparts
after a German report showed factory orders fell and Australian
data showed the nation’s building industry shrank. The MSCI
World Index fell the most in a week and the cost of insuring
against losses on European corporate bonds rose. The euro
slipped versus the dollar.  
 “There’s lingering concern out there about the strength of
the economic recovery,” said  Roberto Mialich , a currency
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “If risk aversion
intensifies, safe-haven currencies are going to benefit. The
question will then be how far Japan can tolerate the yen’s
appreciation. But that’s tomorrow’s question.”  
 The yen strengthened to 109.67 per euro as of 6:30 a.m. in
New York from 110.51 yesterday, when it touched 110.85, the
weakest level since June 25. The currency was at 87.27 per
dollar from 87.52, after reaching 86.97 on July 1, the strongest
since Dec. 2.  
 The euro fell to $1.2573 from $1.2626 yesterday, when it
traded at $1.2662, the strongest since May. Australia’s dollar
slid to 84.66 U.S. cents after it reached 85.60 cents yesterday,
the highest since June 30. The currency slipped 0.7 percent to
73.89 yen.  
 Japan Versus Asia  
 The MSCI  Asia Pacific  Index of regional shares fell 0.7
percent and the Stoxx 600 Europe Index fell 1.2 percent, sapping
demand for riskier investments.  
 “Risk aversion is still at work, with a series of economic
data pointing to a stalemate in the global recovery and
prospects for equity markets remaining shaky,” said  Shinichi Hayashi , a dealer in Tokyo at Shinkin Central Bank, the central
institution for Japan’s financial cooperatives. “Risk aversion
will support the yen.”  
 German factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, declined 0.5 percent from April, when they rose a
revised 3.2 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a 0.3 percent gain for May, according to
the median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Australia’s building industry index fell 6.8 points to 46.4
from May, according to a survey by the Australian Industry Group
and Housing Industry Association released in Sydney today. A
reading below 50 shows the industry is contracting.  
 Krugman’s Kitchen Sink  
 Demand for riskier assets was also muted after Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Paul Krugman  said the U.S. economy is facing a
“very long siege” to ward off another recession.  
 “We really are at a stage where we should have a kitchen-
sink strategy” of new stimulus, Krugman said in an interview in
Princeton, New Jersey, with Carol Massar of Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart.”  
 Europe’s single currency weakened versus 12 of its 16 major
peers. The currency has dropped versus the dollar this year amid
growing concern that some nations in the euro region may not be
able to finance their debts. Portugal is set to sell bills
today, which may gauge demand for so-called peripheral
securities.  
 “It will take considerable time before the euro can regain
full confidence from investors,” said  Yuichi Onsen , chief
strategist at T&D Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, which helps
oversee about $18 billion. “Sovereign problems in some euro-
zone countries haven’t shown clear sign of a full resolution.”  
 The cost of insuring against losses on European corporate
bonds rose, with the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default
swaps on 50 mostly high-yield companies climbing 10.3 basis
points to 572.2 as of 10:23 a.m. in London, according to Markit
Group Ltd. Contracts on Spanish debt pared yesterday’s decline
and rose 1.5 basis points to 253.5, CMA DataVision prices show.  
 Swiss Franc  
 The Swiss franc gained against the euro. It declined
yesterday as a report showed slower-than-expected consumer price
gains, spurring speculation the nation’s central bank may
intervene in the currency market to prevent deflation.  
 The franc rose 0.4 percent at 1.3318 per euro from 1.3373
yesterday. The currency has gained 3.2 percent against its
global peers this year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indices.  
 Swiss National Bank policy makers led by President  Philipp Hildebrand  on June 17 said deflation risks have “largely
disappeared,” ending the 15-month policy of countering what
they called “excessive” gains by the franc. They also raised
their 2010 growth forecast to 2 percent from 1.5 percent.  
 “As the economic recovery in Switzerland continues and the
situation in the euro zone has stabilised, we still consider the
risk of deflation to be low,” Commerzbank AG analysts,
including  Ulrich Leuchtmann , wrote in a research note today.
“Nonetheless, central bank interventions cannot be excluded.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at =3403 or
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        