-- Double-Dip Recession Unlikely, Favor H Shares, Credit Suisse Private Says
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-07-07T08:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/double-dip-recession-unlikely-favor-h-shares-credit-suisse-private-says.html

          
          
             Expectations for a “double-dip”
recession are “over pessimistic” and profit growth is likely
to help  Asian stocks  rebound in the second half of this year,
Credit Suisse Group AG’s private banking unit said.  
 Investors should favor Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong,
especially banks, to benefit from an appreciation in China’s
currency, as well as consumer-related shares, said  Fan Cheuk Wan ,
head of Asia Pacific research at Credit Suisse Private Banking,
which holds 945.7 billion Swiss francs ($891 billion) of assets
globally.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index , a gauge of the region’s
equities, slumped 13 percent from its high this year on April 15
as Europe’s debt crisis and Chinese steps to curb property
prices raised concern that global growth will falter.
Disappointing U.S. manufacturing, home sales and payrolls
figures in the past two weeks have heightened those worries.  
 “The first-half pullback was due to external shock from
the Euro zone,” Fan told reporters in Hong Kong today. “We
don’t expect a double-dip recession in the global economy. The
market is over pessimistic.”  
 The analyst’s view echoed that of  Kenneth Rogoff , the
Harvard University professor and former chief economist of the
International Monetary Fund, who said yesterday that while
recoveries across the global economy are “very slow,” the
danger of a return to recession isn’t “elevated.”  
 Earnings Forecasts  
 Fan predicted in January a first-half rally for Asian
equities and recommended investors look for “profit-taking
opportunities” in the second half of 2010. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index climbed as much as 7.2 percent in the first half
before ending it 6.2 percent lower. Shares on the gauge trade at
13.5 times estimated earnings, the lowest level since December
2008.  
 Earnings  for companies in Asia outside Japan are expected
to rise 27 percent in the second half of this year, and 15
percent in 2011, according to Fan. This will bolster stock
prices in the region, she said.  
 “Asia will see pretty robust expansion in the second half
of this year and into 2011,” Fan said. “We expect a moderation
in earnings upgrades as we’re entering a more mature phase of
recovery.”  
 Credit Suisse, which is “overweight” China and Hong Kong,
named H shares of  China Construction Bank Corp.  and  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  as top picks to benefit from yuan
appreciation, according to Fan.  
 The Chinese currency will appreciate 5 percent against the
dollar over the next 12 months,  Joseph Tan , Asian chief
economist of the private bank, said on a video-link from
Singapore at the same briefing.  
 China loosened its currency peg to the dollar on June 19
when the People’s Bank of China said it will increase the
“flexibility” of the currency. The yuan has strengthened 0.7
percent since the central bank ended the two-year peg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        