-- Durst, Onetime Critic, Wins Bid for Stake in World Trade Tower
-- David M. Levitt
-- 2010-07-08T18:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/durst-wins-bid-for-equity-holding-leasing-role-in-one-world-trade-center.html

          
          
             The Durst Organization won the right
to be an equity partner with the Port Authority of New York and
New Jersey in  1 World Trade Center , the 1,776-foot tower under
construction at the Ground Zero site in lower Manhattan.  
 Durst will begin exclusive negotiations with the Port
Authority to oversee leasing of the 2.6 million square-foot
(241,548 square-meter) tower and invest at least $100 million of
equity in the project,  Stephen Sigmund , a spokesman for the
agency, said in an e-mail yesterday. Durst, led by developer
 Douglas Durst , was chosen over  Stephen Ross ’s Related Cos.  
 For Douglas Durst, 65, the selection represents a
turnaround from 2007, when he said the project, then known as
the Freedom Tower, “isn’t economically feasible under the
present circumstances.” Since then, the credit crisis caused
competing skyscraper projects in the city to be postponed, which
Durst has said will help 1 World Trade be successful.  
 “Looking at all the angst we’ve gone through with
commercial real estate over the last couple of years, one thing
that hasn’t been a problem is overbuilding,”  Lawrence Longua ,
director of the REIT Center at New York University’s Schack
Institute of Real Estate, said today in a telephone interview.
“The discipline in the industry that’s been imposed by the
credit crunch is such that I don’t think that buildings are
going to be built unless they’re not only mostly leased but
almost entirely leased.”  
 Anticipating Improvement  
 “If I were Durst, I wouldn’t worry about any massive
amount of competitive space that’s going to come on-stream,” he
said.  
 Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the three-generation
family real estate firm, said in January that the company’s
philosophy is that “it’s always best to build during a downturn
so you can come to market when the economy improves.”  
 The Port Authority will negotiate with Durst to complete an
agreement during the next 30 days, the agency said in a
statement.  
 “We are very proud to have been selected,” Jonathan
“ Jody” Durst , Durst Organization president and Douglas Durst’s
cousin, said in an e-mailed statement. “The World Trade Center
site is, perhaps, the most complex building project ever
undertaken.”  
 The selection came after a six-month competition that
initially included bids from Boston Properties Inc., Vornado
Realty Trust, Brookfield Properties Corp. and Hines Interests.  
 ‘Disappointed’ Ross  
 “While we are disappointed and thought we offered a great
vision for this iconic destination development and lower
Manhattan, we wish the Port Authority and their new partner
well,” Related’s Ross said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The authority expects Durst to assist it with the tower’s
construction, and to “take primary responsibility” for
leasing, property  management  and tenant installations. In
exchange, Durst will receive an unspecified return “tied to its
equity interest and performance of the building,” the agency
said in its release.  
 One World Trade is now a steel frame rising about 270 feet
above the ground -- the equivalent of the 28th floor of a
planned 104 stories, according to the authority. It is scheduled
to be completed in 2013, about 12 years after terrorists
destroyed the twin towers at the site.  
 The authority “bit the bullet” and went forward with the
$3.2 billion project in the face of the 2008 credit collapse,
Longua said.  
 Adding Space  
 Together with 4 World Trade Center, a 975-foot tower on the
southeast corner of the site, the two buildings would add about
4.4 million square feet to the 86 million square-foot  downtown
office  market.  Larry Silverstein  is developing 4 World Trade,
and has rights under a lease with the authority to develop two
more towers at the site.  
 Lower Manhattan  office rents fell 2.9 percent in the second
quarter to $37.81 a square foot, the seventh consecutive
quarterly decline, according to Cushman & Wakefield data.
Downtown is facing additional empty office space as companies
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit and American International Group Inc. shift
workers to new locations.  
 Federal and New York state agencies have committed to
taking about 1.1 million square feet in the tower, the agency
said.  Beijing Vantone Real Estate Co. , a Chinese property
developer, last year signed 1 World Trade’s first lease, for
190,810 square feet.  
 Early 20th Century  
 Durst is the builder of Bank of America’s 1 Bryant Park in
midtown Manhattan and the adjacent 4 Times Square, where Conde
Nast Publications Inc. has its headquarters. The company’s roots
go back to the early 20th century, when immigrant Joseph Durst,
Douglas Durst’s grandfather, bought an office building on 34th
Street, according to the company website.  
 Conde Nast, publisher of Vogue, Glamour and GQ magazines,
has held talks with the Port Authority about renting as much as
1 million square feet at 1 World Trade, a person familiar with
the talks said in May.  
 Being the publisher’s current landlord gives Durst “a leg
up” against other suitors if the company decides to move,
Longua said.  
 Maurie Perl , a Conde Nast spokeswoman, declined to comment.  
 In 2007, with Empire State Building operator  Anthony Malkin , Douglas Durst sponsored a full-page newspaper ad saying
the Freedom Tower should have been the last building started
instead of the first, and that hastily designed security
measures would make it cumbersome for tenants.  
 The ad also recommended changing the Freedom Tower name
back to the World Trade Center designation, which the agency
subsequently did.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        