-- James to Reveal His Pick as Cavs, Knicks, Heat Wait
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-08T09:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/dwyane-wade-chris-bosh-announce-they-ll-play-for-miami-heat-next-season.html

          
          
             The  LeBron James  sweepstakes will
come to an end as the National Basketball Association’s reigning
Most Valuable Player reveals in a live television special where
he’ll be playing next season.  
 The program, called “The Decision,” is scheduled to air
tonight at 9 p.m. New York time on  Walt Disney Co. ’s  ESPN 
network and will raise money through sponsorships for the Boys
and Girls Clubs of America.  
 James, who became a free agent July 1, will end months of
speculation by announcing whether he’ll return to Cleveland or
spurn his hometown Cavaliers. He might take his growing brand to
the nation’s biggest media market to help restore a New York
Knicks team that’s had nine straight losing seasons, follow
 Michael Jordan ’s legacy in Chicago with the Bulls or join fellow
All-Stars  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  with the Miami Heat.  
 “We’d love for LeBron to join Miami,” Wade said yesterday
as he and Bosh made their announcement to play together with the
Heat. “But at the same time, LeBron is going to make his own
decision. That’s a decision that we’ll all be in front of a TV
to wait for.”  
 James, 25, and his advisers met with the Cavaliers, Knicks,
Heat, Bulls, New Jersey Nets and Los Angeles Clippers in the
past week. While the announcement from Wade and Bosh that
they’ll play together in Miami might shift the balance of power
in the NBA’s Eastern Conference, James is the top player
available in a deep free-agent market.  
 Newsday reported today that James would move to Miami,
citing “multiple NBA sources.”  
 Even U.S. President  Barack Obama  weighed in on the issue,
saying he’d like to see James with his hometown Bulls.  
 ‘Unprecedented Attention’  
 Maverick Carter, James’s manager, said yesterday on the
player’s  website  that the decision to make the announcement on
national television was prompted by “the unprecedented
attention and interest surrounding LeBron’s decision.”  
 The  University of Phoenix Inc.  and  Microsoft Corp. ’s Bing
website will co-present the program, while James’s marketing
company, LRMR Marketing, also secured sponsorships from  Coca-
Cola Co. ’s Glaceau Vitaminwater and  McDonald’s Corp.   
 The 6-foot-8 James has spent his first seven NBA seasons in
Cleveland and the Cavaliers can offer him about $30 million more
than other teams on a maximum-length contract.  
 The Knicks, Nets, Heat, Bulls and Clippers all cleared
salary cap space heading into the free-agency period to mount
their own pursuit of James, who’s averaged 27.8 points, seven
rebounds and seven assists per game in his career.  
 Although James, a native of Akron, Ohio, helped the
Cavaliers to the NBA’s best record the past two seasons, he’s
yet to win a championship.  
 LeBron’s Suitors  
 Teams such as the Bulls, Knicks and Heat sought to sell
James on the talent they can put around him.  
 Chicago has players including 2009 Rookie of the Year
 Derrick Rose  at point guard and yesterday agreed with free-agent
forward  Carlos Boozer  on a contract ESPN says is worth $80
million over five years.  
 The Knicks this week agreed to a contract with free-agent
forward  Amar’e Stoudemire , a five-time All-Star who’s averaged
21.4 points and 8.9 rebounds per game for his career.  
 The Heat, after bringing back Wade and adding Bosh, are
looking to challenge the Boston Celtics and Orlando Magic for
supremacy in the Eastern Conference. The Celtics have agreed to
re-sign  Ray Allen  to a two-year, $20 million deal, Allen’s
agent,  Lon Babby , said last night in an e-mail message.  
 James would have to take less than a maximum contract to
join Miami, as would Wade and Bosh. The NBA’s salary cap for the
2010-11 season was set at $58.04 million, higher than the $57.7
million cap last season. Wade, Bosh and Stoudemire can
officially sign their contracts today.  
 “It’s no secret that myself, Chris and LeBron are all good
friends,” said Wade, who won a championship with the Heat in
2006 and teamed with James and Bosh on the U.S. team that won a
gold medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. “We all came into this
league together and have played together. But we all make our
own decisions at the end of the day.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     LeBron James had meetings with six teams, including the Cleveland Cavaliers, where he spent his first seven years in the NBA. Photographer: Jesse D. Garrabrant/NBAE via Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Rick Horrow, founder of Horrow Sports Ventures Inc. and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, discusses the outlook for National Basketball Association free agent LeBron James and the finances of the New York Mets.
     Horrow talks with Michele Steele on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- David Joyce, a media analyst at Miller Tabak & Co LLC, discusses trading of Madison Square Garden Inc. options ahead of today's announcement by LeBron James at to whether he will leave the Cleveland Cavaliers for the New York Knicks or another basketball team.
     Joyce spoke with Michele Steele on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) – Bloomberg Columnist Scott Soshnick discusses the outlook for LeBron James of the National Basketball Association and the reigning Most Valuable Player’s live television special tonight to announce where he’ll be playing next season.
      James, who became a free agent July 1, will end months of speculation by announcing whether he’ll return to Cleveland or spurn his hometown Cavaliers. Soshnick talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     LeBron James who became a free agent July 1, will end months of speculation by announcing whether he’ll return to Cleveland or spurn his hometown Cavaliers. Photographer: David Liam Kyle/NBAE via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
