-- LeBron James Will Announce Signing Decision Live on One-Hour ESPN Program
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-07-07T17:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/lebron-james-will-announce-signing-decision-live-on-espn.html

          
          
             LeBron James  will disclose which team
he plans to play for tomorrow night during a live telecast on
ESPN.  
 James, the National Basketball Association’s reigning two-
time Most Valuable Player, will make the announcement at 9 p.m.
New York time on the  Walt Disney Co . network, his manager,
Maverick Carter, said on James’s website.  
 “Due to the unprecedented attention and interest
surrounding LeBron’s decision, we have decided to make this
announcement on national television,” the website said. “By
doing so we have generated funds that will be given to the Boys
and Girls Clubs of America.”  
 James will make the announcement during an interview with
freelance reporter  Jim Gray , while the network’s  Michael Wilbon 
also will have an extensive interview with James, ESPN said.  
 The program, called “The Decision,” will be co-presented
by the University of Phoenix Inc. and  Microsoft Inc .’s Bing
website, while  Coca-Cola Co .’s Glaceau Vitaminwater and
 McDonald’s Corp . also will sponsor the event, ESPN said in a
news release. James’s marketing company, LRMR Marketing, secured
the sponsorships for the program.  
 “We were thrilled to hear from LeBron’s organization over
this past weekend with this most generous gesture,”  Roxanne Spillett , chief executive officer of the Boys & Girls Clubs of
America, said in a statement. “Taking time out of what I am
sure is a most difficult decision, and creating an opportunity
for our clubs and members to benefit, is just tremendous.”  
 James had meetings with six teams, including the Cleveland
Cavaliers, where he spent his first seven years in the NBA. He
also held discussions with the New York Knicks, the New Jersey
Nets, the Miami Heat, the Los Angeles Clippers and the Chicago
Bulls.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        