-- Tech Bubble Returns in Austenish Tale of Rich CEOs, Bad Lovers
-- Craig Seligman
-- 2010-07-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/tech-bubble-returns-in-austenish-tale-of-rich-ceos-bad-lovers.html

          
          
             Allegra Goodman  sets “ The Cookbook
Collector”  during and after the tech bubble of the 1990s; her
main characters are mostly gazillionaires or soon-to-be
gazillionaires or, after the downturn, gazillionaires reduced to
millionaires.  
 The book revolves around two sisters: Jess, a philosophy
student at the  University of California, Berkeley  (not rich),
and Emily, the chief executive officer of a Silicon Valley
startup (shortly to be loaded). Like sisters in a  Jane Austen 
novel, one is a dreamer and the other a doer, and their
personalities play out in the ups and downs of their love lives.
A subplot involves their deepening relationship to Judaism, the
religion of their long-dead mother.  
 Emily, the CEO, is in love with Jonathan, a hard-charging
East Coast tech whiz with a firm whose IPO will shortly follow
hers. Jonathan’s brutal competitiveness (his idea of success
“was annihilating his rivals”) and lack of refinement (“His
idea of a corporate Christmas party was paintball”) set off
alarm bells early; when Emily trusts him (insanely) with a trade
secret, it becomes clear she’s more like the idealistic Jess
than she appears.  
 Jess, the student, isn’t smart about men, either. She falls
into a halfhearted affair with the smarmy leader of an
environmental group she leaflets for while failing to pick up on
the true passion in George, the owner of the used bookshop where
she works part-time.  
 George is almost twice her age and he’s tech rich, too,
having been on the Excel team in the early days of  Microsoft
Corp .; he has retired now into collecting and connoisseurship.
The cookbooks of the title (itself oddly off-point) belong to a
rare lot he’s eager to buy.  
 Twinkly Prose  
 “The Cookbook Collector” would be more fun to read if
Goodman were less intent on delighting. Her prose twinkles at
you with such steely determination that you can practically
pinch the dimples in its fat little cheeks. It would also help
if her concerns were as large as her characters’.  
 She’s done just enough research into the tech bubble to
achieve plausibility for her setting; her curiosity ends there.
Her only real interest, outside of getting the sisters back to
their Jewish roots, is their romances.  
 You wait for Emily to divine the truth about Jonathan. You
wait for Jess to see the love in George’s eyes, and once she
does you wait for them to overcome the manufactured obstacles
Goodman has put in their way just to make you wait some more.  
 You wait, with some apprehension, as the dates under the
section headings move inexorably toward September 2001. Jane
Austen famously kept politics out of her novels, but a writer
who uses 9/11 as a plot device doesn’t have that luxury. Would
that she did.  
 Political Opinions  
 Though the book is full of political opinions, Goodman more
or less rolls her eyes every time somebody utters one,
especially Jess, a vegan, a tree-hugger, “a paper feminist,
just as Emily was a paper millionaire.” All in all, a fount of
callow platitudes. But when she finds herself drawn to Nachum
Helfgott, the Bialystok rabbi of Berkeley, a kind of Hasidic
Kris Kringle -- “burly, bearded, and gregarious” -- you wait
for the platitude that doesn’t come.  
 The adorable fundamentalist in the black frock coat wants
to bring Jess back into the Jewish fold. Fine. But can it truly
never occur to this cartoon of a p.c. student leftist to
challenge him, or at least to question him, on the controversy
that’s probably caused more shouting matches on the Berkeley
campus than any other issue: the Israeli-Palestinian conflict?  
 That would be too real-world -- not sufficiently
delightful. The absence of even a mention is a measure of the
phoniness of this feel-good book.  
 “The Cookbook Collector” is published by  Dial  ($26, 394
pages). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  
 ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Allegra Goodman  
                       
                         
                           Random House via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Author Allegra Goodman. "The Cookbook Collector" is the latest work by Goodman. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Author Allegra Goodman. "The Cookbook Collector" is the latest work by Goodman. Source: Random House via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "The Cookbook Collector"  
                       
                         
                           Random House via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of "The Cookbook Collector." The book is the latest by Allegra Goodman. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of "The Cookbook Collector." The book is the latest by Allegra Goodman. Source: Random House via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
