-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline on Fundraising, Economic Growth Concerns
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-07T05:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/emerging-market-stocks-decline-on-fundraising-economic-growth-concerns.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell, sending
the benchmark index to the biggest loss in a week, as Chinese
banks sold equities and U.S. service industries expanded at a
slower pace than economists estimated.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 0.8 percent to 922.62
as of 12:27 p.m. local time. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index 
slid 0.2 percent, extending this year’s decline to 27 percent,
the most globally after Greece and Cyprus. Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. is raising at least $19.2 billion in what may become
the world’s biggest initial public offering, according to people
with knowledge of the pricing for Hong Kong and Shanghai.  
 “The fundraisings by the big banks introduce a lot of
supply at a time when market sentiment is weak,” said  Zheng Tuo ,
president of Shanghai Good Hope Equity Investment Management Co.
“The external environment doesn’t seem to have stabilized and
that’s adding to uncertainties.”  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s  index  of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers 90 percent of the U.S.
economy, fell to a four-month low of 53.8 in June, less than the
median forecast of 55 in a Bloomberg News survey. The world’s
largest economy may be facing a “long siege” and policy makers
should adopt a “kitchen-sink strategy” that uses all fiscal
and monetary policies possible to stave off another recession,
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  said.  
 Bank of China  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
largest lender, fell 1.8 percent to a six-week low in Hong Kong
after Ming Pao Daily News said the lender plans a rights offer.
Bank of China Ltd., which plans to raise as much as 60 billion
yuan ($8.9 billion) in a rights offer, slid 0.6 percent in
Shanghai.  
 Companies may raise about 500 billion yuan in IPOs in
Shanghai and Shenzhen this year, making China the world’s
biggest market for first-time sales, PricewaterhouseCoopers said
on July 5.  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  fell 0.5
percent after a former Indian central bank governor said a plan
is needed to contain price increases, fanning speculation that
interest rates may be raised for a second time this month.  
 ICICI Bank Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest lender, fell
1.3 percent. India needs a “contingency plan” by September to
control inflation as prices are showing few signs of easing,
former central bank Governor  Bimal Jalan  said yesterday.  
 ‘Contingency Plan’  
 “Investors should hold cash,” said D.K. Aggarwal, who
manages about $100 million as chairman of SMC Wealth Management
Services Ltd. in New Delhi. “We expect the Reserve Bank to
increase interest rates by another 25 basis points this month.”  
 South Korea’s  Kospi index  fell 0.5 percent for the first
decline in three days. Tong Yang Securities Co. slid to a four-
week low in Seoul after the brokerage said it will set aside
provisions against a 63.2 billion ($51.7 million) loan that
turned bad.  
 Formosa International Hotels Corp.  led Taiwan’s tourism-
related shares higher after the Commercial Times cited the
island’s Premier  Wu Den-yih  as saying individual tourists from
China may be allowed to visit by the end of the year, in
addition to tour groups currently admitted to Taiwan.  
 Formosa, a hotel and restaurant operator, gained 5 percent.
Leofoo Development Corp., Taiwan’s largest theme-park operator,
advanced 2.3 percent.  Eva Airways Corp. , a Taiwanese carrier,
climbed 2.3 percent.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho . With assistance by  Zhang Shidong  in
Shanghai and Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai. Editors:  Reinie Booysen ,  Linus Chua   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
Or  kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        