-- Emerging-Market Stocks Pare Drop as Retail Sales Offset Earnings Concern
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-07-07T21:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/emerging-market-equities-drop-most-in-four-days-global-currencies-weaken.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks pared their
losses after a rise in U.S. retail sales overshadowed renewed
concern a global economic slowdown may curb corporate earnings.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped less than 0.1
percent to 930.20 by 5 p.m. New York time after falling as much
as 1 percent earlier. A report showed U.S. retailers’ sales are
growing at the fastest pace in four years, a sign consumers may
be overcoming concern about unemployment and depressed home
values. Stock markets in Brazil, Mexico and Chile rose at least
1.5 percent.  
 China’s Hong Kong-traded shares led declines among
developing markets in Asia after a report yesterday showed U.S.
service industries expanded at a slower pace than economists
forecast and the People’s Bank of China signaled it remains
focused on reining in liquidity and stemming inflation. Lower-
than-estimated earnings from Dublin-based CRH Plc, the world’s
second-largest maker of building materials, added to concern the
global expansion is faltering.  
 “The external environment doesn’t seem to have stabilized
and that’s adding to uncertainties,” said  Zheng Tuo , president
of Shanghai Good Hope Equity Investment Management Co.  
 The MSCI emerging gauge has retreated 6 percent this year
on speculation China’s efforts to curb inflation and spending
cuts by governments worldwide will prompt analysts to cut
earnings projections. The index is valued at 11 times 2010
 profit estimates , down from 13 times at the start of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 China, Brazil  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  gained for a second day,
completing the biggest two-day rise since May, as traders pared
bets for higher interest rates after Brazil’s consumer prices
were unchanged in June from the previous month.  Cyrela Brazil
Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes , Brazil’s biggest
homebuilder by revenue, gained 1.3 percent.  
 The MSCI China Index  dropped 1 percent, while India’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index retreated 0.8 percent and
Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  slid 0.3 percent.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
U.S. economy, fell to a four-month low of 53.8 in June. The
figure was less than the median forecast of 55 in a Bloomberg
News survey. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  
 A surfeit of cash is still the main problem facing China’s
monetary policy, China’s central bank should at an appropriate
time use interest rates to address it, Yang Guozhong, director
of the bank’s business management department, wrote in China
Finance magazine.  Zhang Jianhua , director of the research
bureau, wrote in the China Daily that the PBOC must “deal
with” excess liquidity. China is the world’s fastest-growing
major economy.  
 Extra Yield  
 The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
bonds over U.S. Treasuries declined the most since June 10,
falling 14 basis points to 3.23 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 Russia’s  Micex Index  was little changed, adding less than
0.1 percent. International Industrial Bank, the Russian lender
controlled by lawmaker  Sergei Pugachyov , became the country’s
first bank to renege on its foreign debt since 1999 after
defaulting on $453 million of bonds yesterday.  
 Malaysia’s ringgit weakened 0.5 percent against the dollar.
The ringgit retreated from a two-week high before the central
bank meets to decide on interest rates tomorrow. Half of the 20
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast a quarter of a
percentage point increase to 2.75 percent, while the rest
predicted no change.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        