-- Leon Black Loses to Carl Icahn as Apollo Sets New Credit Terms
-- Cristina Alesci
-- 2010-07-07T19:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/leon-black-loses-swaps-fight-to-carl-icahn-as-apollo-sets-new-credit-terms.html

          
          
             In a private dining room at the
Beverly Hills restaurant Spago, four dozen financiers gathered
in April for a dinner put on by one of their own:  Leon Black ,
head of private equity giant  Apollo Global Management LLC .  
 As the group dined on Hong Kong-style loup de mer and filet
mignon prepared with an Armagnac-peppercorn emulsion,  Michael Milken , who worked with Black at junk-bond firm Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc. in the 1980s, praised him for using his deep
knowledge of finance to survive the credit crisis, according to
people who were there.  
 Black spent most of the last decade buying companies with
billions of dollars in debt and selling them at a profit,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its August issue. The
credit crisis hit as Black made several marquee deals. He bought
 Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the world’s biggest casino
operator, in a $30.7 billion takeover in January 2008, just as
strapped, middle-class gamblers were shying away from the
tables.  
 Black also bought Realogy Corp., the biggest broker of
residential real estate, in April 2007, in the midst of the
worst  downturn  in home sales since the Great Depression. By
November 2008, both companies were on the verge of defaulting on
the billions of dollars Apollo had borrowed to buy them.  
 That’s when Black went to work, tapping decades of
experience in managing the finances of struggling companies and
making use of loan covenants that gave him maximum flexibility.
He did swaps, offering bondholders new notes in exchange for
twice the amount of old ones.  
 ‘Tough Stuff’  
 With the old debt trading for little more than a dime on
the dollar, many investors were eager to make the trade, and
Black cut his debt by half in some cases.  
 “They do the tough stuff, but sometimes the tough stuff is
what you do to keep the company alive,” says  Paul Schaye ,
founder of Chestnut Hill Partners, a New York-based company that
helps private-equity investors find companies to buy. “That’s
their skill set. It’s not always a friendly handshake.”  
 The tough line with bondholders helped Apollo return a
profit for equity investors and keep Black’s reputation intact.
In the 20 years since it was founded, the firm’s private-equity
funds have invested $29.3 billion and increased that amount to
$46.8 billion, including distributions.  
 Two funds started since 2005, the beginning of a buyout
boom that went bust in 2007, have invested $15.3 billion and
were up $2.2 billion, or 14 percent, as of Dec. 31.  
 Black, 58, a bear-sized New York native with a mop of gray
hair, has been involved in contentious transactions ever since
he started Apollo 20 years ago. Since the market crash, he’s had
to fend off a series of lawsuits.  
 Icahn Sues  
 Huntsman Corp. , a Salt Lake City-based chemical maker, sued
Black and others for $3 billion in June 2008 after Apollo backed
out of a deal to buy the company. Financier  Carl Icahn , a Drexel
client in the 1980s, sued Apollo in November 2008 over Black’s
attempt to swap old Realogy  bonds  for new.  
 Investors are making new demands, too. In April,  Joseph Dear , chief investment officer of the California Public
Employees’ Retirement System, won a cut in the fees that Apollo
charges to manage state pension fund money.  
 Calpers is a part owner of Apollo. It invested $600 million
in the privately held firm in July 2007. The investment is a
loser so far. Calpers marked the value of the stake down to
$124.6 million after the credit crunch.  
 Investors who have grown leery of private-equity managers
say that in the boom years, Black and others like him cared more
about the size of deals than they did about the quality.  
 Good Marketing  
 “They are fabulous marketing people who, at one time, were
excellent investors,” says  Harold Bradley , CIO of the $1.7
billion Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City,
Missouri. Bradley, an investor in Apollo funds, says, “Private-
equity firms became money raisers and asset gatherers, and the
state pensions walked right into their arms.”  
 Black founded Apollo in 1990, along with Drexel alums  Marc Rowan  and  Joshua Harris , as an investor in distressed debt and
beaten-up companies. He created his image as a master of
leveraged buyouts when his $3.4 billion Apollo Investment Fund V
achieved an average annual rate of return of 78 percent for the
three years ended in 2004, attracting more money from Calpers,
an Apollo investor since 1995, and from the pension plans of the
states of New York and South Carolina. He now oversees $54
billion.  
 Black’s most troubled investments were made with money from
his $10.8 billion Fund VI -- augmented with billions of dollars
in loans and bonds sold to investors.  
 Buying Low  
 Fund VI, which included Harrah’s and Realogy, ultimately
recovered not because of its equity investments but because
Black bought debt in companies Apollo owned when credit markets
slumped. He profited when they rebounded last year.  
 The fund’s $919 million investment in Realogy was marked at
$74 million at the end of last year, according to a letter sent
to investors in March. Even so, Fund VI was up 7.6 percent on
money the fund invested from the time it made its first
investment in July 2006 to Dec. 31. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  fell 12 percent in that period.  
 “The world is off the edge of a precipice,” Black said at
the annual  Milken Institute  Global Conference in Los Angeles in
April, the occasion for the dinner. “What a difference a year
makes.”  
 Black, a Shakespeare lover who endows a professorship on
the playwright at his alma mater, Dartmouth College in Hanover,
New Hampshire, may find that his winter of discontent isn’t
quite over. Business remains tough for Apollo and the rest of
the private-equity industry.  
 Deals Scarce  
 Buyout firms announced just 484 deals worldwide in 2009,
less than a third of the 1,610 they announced in 2007, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The total value of those deals
tumbled 94 percent to $29.3 billion from $493.8 billion in 2007.  
 The biggest private-equity deal announced in 2010 as of
mid-June was Silver Lake and Warburg Pincus LLC’s takeover of
 Interactive Data Corp. , a provider of financial market data, for
$3.4 billion. That was a trifle compared with the 2007 record-
setting deal in which New York-based KKR & Co. and TPG Capital
of Fort Worth, Texas, bought TXU Corp., Texas’s largest electric
supplier, for $43.2 billion.  
 Some of the debt that funded such deals fell to pennies on
the dollar in 2008 and 2009 as a wave of bankruptcies and near
defaults hit many indebted companies.  
 Apollo and others offered deals to desperate investors in
which they would swap their old bonds that were maturing soon
for new ones with extended due dates, according to regulatory
filings describing the swaps. They demanded a discount, too. An
investor with $10 million of old bonds, for example, might be
offered just $5 million of new ones.  
 Desperate Swaps  
 If the old bonds were trading at 20 cents on the dollar and
the company faced default, swapping $1 of old bonds for 50 cents
of new ones seemed to some investors like the better of two bad
choices, unless they thought the bonds would rebound one day, an
outcome that was difficult to see from the  depths of the credit
crisis .  
 Private-equity managers took advantage of covenants --
protections for investors written into bond agreements -- that
allowed them to substitute new debt for old. In exchange for the
liberal covenants, the buyers of the original debt got a higher
yield. The new debt, though, often leapfrogged the old in the
line for collecting proceeds from the sale of collateral --
whether factories, hotels or inventory -- should the companies
fail.  
 ‘Bad Covenants’  
 Apollo was the most aggressive swapper of all, says  Adam Cohen , founder of New York-based  Covenant Review  LLC, a firm
that reviews such protection and charges for its reports.  
 “Apollo takes first place for bad covenants and
willingness to use them,” Cohen says. “We look at it in
amazement, with grudging admiration.” Cohen says he wrote
plenty of bond covenants as a lawyer at Los Angeles-based Latham
& Watkins LLP.  
 Apollo had no comment on Cohen’s statement.  
 One Apollo-controlled company threatened by the 2008 crisis
was Realogy, owner of real estate brands Century 21 and Coldwell
Banker. Apollo bought the company in April 2007 for $8.75
billion, using $6.3 billion of debt. The company reported a  loss 
of $1.9 billion in 2008 as sales of previously owned homes in
the U.S. dropped 13 percent to 4.9 million units, according to
the  National Association of Realtors .  
 In November 2008, Realogy said in a  regulatory filing  that
it was at risk of violating terms of its bank loans and offered
to swap $1.1 billion of its bonds at a range of 36 cents to 50
cents on the dollar, looking to cut its debt by about $600
million.  
 Fraudulent Transfer  
 Icahn, a takeover artist who has made runs at Texaco Inc.
and Time Warner Inc. during his 40 years in finance, wasn’t
buying it. He owned a batch of Realogy bonds that were up for
swap and sued Apollo in Delaware Chancery Court on Nov. 26,
2008, calling the swap a fraudulent transfer of assets because
owners of the new bonds would be ahead in line for payment in
the event Realogy went bankrupt.  
 Three weeks later, Judge Stephen Lamb ruled that the swap
violated debt contracts. Realogy canceled the exchange.  
 Black then found another way to save Realogy from violating
its debt agreements. He used a provision in the debt agreement
that allowed the company to “add back” savings from cost cuts
it made, most of which weren’t fully realized. The move added at
least $100 million to the company’s earnings from the third
quarter of 2008 to the fourth quarter of 2009, barely keeping
the ratio of debt to earnings from breaching the levels that
lenders require, according to a person familiar with the
company.  
 Fee Cut  
 Just when Black was busy trying to save his companies,
Calpers in January 2009 hired Dear, executive director of the
Washington State Investment Board, as CIO. Dear has been a
critic of the fees in private equity -- usually 1.5 percent of
assets under management plus 20 percent of any gains.  
 The $210 billion pension fund has committed $4.2 billion to
Apollo since 1995. In April, Black agreed to cut fees paid by
Calpers by $125 million over five years.  
 The cuts apply only to accounts created specifically for
Calpers, according to a letter Apollo sent to investors. About
half of the pension fund’s money is invested in Apollo funds
open to all investors, in which fees will remain the same.
Calpers paid Apollo a total of $38.6 million in fees in 2009.  
 Apollo’s rich returns to Calpers took a dip during the
credit crisis. Apollo VII, the firm’s newest fund, bought
portfolios of bank loans and other debt securities from banks
including  Citigroup Inc.  in early 2008 for 87 cents on the
dollar, according to a letter that Apollo sent to investors.  
 Comeback  
 Prices of such securities tanked to as little as 55 cents
by March 2009, forcing Apollo to post $707 million to its
brokers in a margin call, according to an Apollo letter to
investors, before prices rebounded.  
 Some investors bailed, selling stakes in the fund for as
little as 20 cents on the dollar in early 2009, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. Since then, the fund has
made a comeback and was up 29 percent as of Dec. 31.  
 Apollo’s dealings with Calpers have also been roiled by the
buyout firm’s payments to  Alfred Villalobos , a member of the
pension fund’s board from 1992 to 1995. After leaving,
Villalobos started working as a placement agent, representing
investment firms eager to manage Calpers money.  
 Apollo paid Villalobos at least $38 million for work on
eight deals from 2005 through 2008, according to a  complaint 
filed against Villalobos by California Attorney General  Jerry Brown  on May 5.  
 Agent Fatigue  
 Placement agents such as Villalobos have seen their
credibility challenged. New York-based Quadrangle Group LLC, the
private equity firm co-founded by  Steven Rattner , agreed in
April to pay $12 million to settle investigations by the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York state
 attorney  general’s office.  
 The agencies were investigating $1.1 million in payments
that Quadrangle made to  Hank Morris , a former political
consultant, in return for help getting investments from the New
York pension system.  
 Quadrangle neither admitted nor denied guilt.  
 Rattner in February 2009 joined the administration of
President  Barack Obama  to manage its investment in U.S. auto
companies and wasn’t a party to the settlement. He has denied
wrongdoing.  
 (Until this year, Quadrangle handled the finances of New
York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who is the majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.)  
 $13.2 Million in 2007  
 Villalobos was paid $13.2 million by Apollo in 2007 for
securing the $600 million, 10 percent investment by Calpers in
Apollo’s private management company, according to disclosure
documents from Apollo that Calpers released.  
 Brown alleges that Villalobos defrauded Calpers by not
disclosing the fees he was paid by Apollo and other investment
firms and broke California law by failing to disclose gifts he
gave to Calpers executives. Villalobos, through his lawyers, has
denied the allegations.  
 Brown’s complaint says, among other things, that in May
2007, Villalobos took  Leon Shahinian , the Calpers investment
officer in charge of private equity, to New York from California
in a rented private jet -- price: $53,000 -- to attend a
fundraiser in honor of Black at the Museum of Modern Art.
Shahinian sat at a table with guests of Black’s wife, Debra
Ressler Black, a producer of such Broadway plays as Dirty Rotten
Scoundrels and The History Boys.  
 The Lap of Luxury  
 Villalobos and Shahinian shared a two-bedroom suite at the
Mandarin Oriental hotel that cost $9,552.90 for two nights, says
Brown, who is the Democratic candidate for governor of
California. Apollo reimbursed Villalobos at least $63,000 for
their trip, according to the suit.  
 Apollo paid Shahinian’s expenses because he attended a
meeting with Apollo executives while he was in New York,
according to people familiar with the matter.  
 Two weeks later, Villalobos faxed Shahinian a term sheet
for the equity investment in Apollo, Brown says. Six weeks after
that, on July 13, Calpers agreed to buy the $600 million stake.  
 “We will continue to cooperate fully with all regulatory
agencies investigating this matter,” Apollo spokesman  Charles V. Zehren  told Bloomberg News on May 6. “We believe that we, at
all times, have handled our placement-agent relationships in an
appropriate manner.”  
 A Family Affair  
 Debra Black has family ties to Calpers. Two of her
brothers,  Richard  and  Antony Ressler , also manage the pension
fund’s money, and both hired Villalobos to help win the
investments, according to disclosure forms released by Calpers.  
 Richard’s Los Angeles real estate company, CIM Group LP,
hired Villalobos in 1998. CIM paid Villalobos $9.6 million for
his work, according to disclosure forms made public by Calpers.  
 Antony’s firm, Ares Management LLC, an Apollo spinoff in
Los Angeles, paid Villalobos $1 million in five installments,
starting in 2002, after Villalobos helped land a $100 million
investment.  
 Debra Black and her brothers declined to comment.  
 Calpers bought its 2007 stake in Apollo just as Black made
a star-crossed deal. The day before, Apollo had announced an
agreement to buy Huntsman for $6.5 billion in cash and $4
billion in assumed debt, planning to merge it with  Hexion
Specialty Chemicals Inc. , a Columbus, Ohio, company that Apollo
owned.  
 Apollo backed out of the deal 11 months later, on June 18,
2008, after the slowing economy cut Huntsman’s earnings.
Huntsman sued Apollo and Black five days later, saying Black had
worked secretly to scuttle the purchase so that Apollo could pay
a lower price. Apollo denied the charges.  
 A 3-Day Meeting  
 Huntsman Chairman  Jon Huntsman  and Black met for three days
in December 2008 and reached a settlement under which Apollo
paid Huntsman Corp. $750 million in cash and bought $250 million
of the company’s bonds.  
 The settlement with Huntsman was simple compared with the
elaborate bond swaps that Black used to salvage other deals. The
most important rescue was of Las Vegas-based Harrah’s. Apollo
bought the company with TPG in January 2008.  
 Harrah’s , which has 52 resorts worldwide, reported a $47.8
million loss in the fourth quarter of 2007. The losses  swelled 
in 2008 as payments loomed on its $24.5 billion of debt.  
 In July 2008, Covenant Review’s Cohen wrote a four-page
report saying that Black might offer bondholders a swap.
Harrah’s did so in November of that year, announcing an offer to
trade old bonds for new ones that matured as many as five years
later. Taking the deal meant that some bondholders would get
less than 50 cents on the dollar for their paper, according to
the swap offer.  
 Old Notes for New  
 Bondholders could have refused, yet many took it. Harrah’s
debt was selling at 20 cents on the dollar in secondary markets,
and the company had reported four quarters of losses. In
December 2008, Harrah’s swapped old notes with a face value of
$2.2 billion for new ones worth $1.06 billion.  
 Cohen published a report on the swap on Nov. 19, 2008, in
which he predicted another one. That came in April 2009.
Harrah’s this time swapped notes with a face value of $5.5
billion for new debt valued at $3.6 billion -- roughly a 33
percent haircut. When the two exchanges were done, Harrah’s had
cut its debt total by $3 billion, according to regulatory
filings.  
 Harrah’s CEO  Gary Loveman , a former professor at Harvard
Business School, says the exchanges were fair.  
 “You could either hold the security you had until maturity
or you could trade them for a different security -- your call,”
Loveman said in a December interview. “A lot of people traded,
but not all did. I think everyone is much happier today than
they were back in the dark days of the crisis.”  
 Drexel Shop  
 Black and a group of other former Drexel executives formed
Apollo in 1990, after the firm went out of business and Milken
went to prison for securities fraud.  
 Apollo’s first big deal left a pile of lawsuits. Apollo
bought high-yield debt owned by Los Angeles-based Executive Life
Insurance Co. When the junk-bond market crashed, Executive Life
became  insolvent . Black and Apollo raised money from Paris-based
bank Credit Lyonnais SA and bought the portfolio for 50 cents on
the dollar, according to Apollo.  
 The deal ended up in the courtroom in 1998, when a whistle-
blower claimed that what was left of Executive Life’s insurance
unit -- not the junk bonds -- was secretly controlled by Credit
Lyonnais. The bank was owned by the French government at the
time, and it was a violation of California law for an insurance
company doing business there to be foreign owned. Lyonnais was
later purchased by  Credit Agricole SA .  
 $770 Million Fine  
 France paid $770 million in fines when the case was settled
in 2004. By that time, Apollo was no longer part of the
litigation.  
 Apollo prospered in the boom years of 2003 through 2007, as
low interest rates and a big appetite for risk among bond
investors helped buyout firms do huge deals. Apollo announced 21
takeovers in 2007 worth a total of $23 billion. They ranged from
Noranda Aluminum Inc. of Toronto to Oceania Cruises Inc. of
Miami.  
 Then the credit crisis hit, and Black had to fall back on
his abilities as an investor in distressed debt. He bought bonds
of companies in Apollo’s portfolio as they tumbled. As of Dec.
31, Black’s $10 billion Fund VI, the one that originally
purchased Harrah’s and Realogy, had paid $1.6 billion for debt
issued by Apollo companies, according to a March letter to
investors.  
 Those bonds doubled in value to $2.8 billion, driving Fund
VI’s rebound and helping Black eke out a small gain.  
 Black’s next move: He has  registered  for a $50 million
initial public offering in Apollo Global Management. For all the
drama of the past three years, Black will likely find investors
who, like Milken, admire the Apollo founder’s survival skills.  
 -- With assistance from  Beth Jinks  and  Jason Kelly  in New York.
Editors:  Michael Serrill ,  Vince Bielski .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony Effinger  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Leon Black, chairman and chief executive officer of Apollo Management speaking in Los Angeles. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg’s Cristina Alesci discusses Leon Black, the chairman and chief executive officer of Apollo Global Management LLC who bought distressed companies with billions of dollars in debt and sold them at a profit to survive the credit crisis.
    Alesci, who reports on Black and his company in the August issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine, speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
