-- Cabinet Approves German Budget Cuts as Euro Governments Struggle With Debt
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-07-07T12:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/merkel-cabinet-approves-budget-cuts-as-euro-governments-struggle-with-debt.html

          
          
             German Chancellor  Angela Merkel’s 
Cabinet approved a four-year package of budget cuts, stepping up
pressure on fellow European governments to reduce debt that
risks tearing apart the euro area.  
 Ministers meeting in Berlin today backed spending cuts and
revenue-raising measures worth 81.6 billion euros ($103 billion)
from 2011 through 2014. Snubbing President  Barack Obama ’s calls
to focus on economic growth, Merkel says the cuts, equivalent to
about 2.7 percent of gross domestic product in Europe’s biggest
economy last year, aren’t deep enough to threaten the recovery.  
 “Germany feels the responsibility to signal that it will
continue to push strongly for fiscal discipline within the euro
area,”  Marco Annunziata , chief European economist at UniCredit
Group in London, said in a telephone interview. “The only way
to do it is to exercise leadership.”  
 European countries including Italy, Spain and Portugal are
slashing budget deficits to thwart a sovereign-debt crisis
spreading from Greece that weakened the euro, raised borrowing
costs for the most indebted nations and prompted European Union
governments to craft a 750 billion-euro aid package in May. The
U.K., which is outside the euro area, last month announced tax
raises and the biggest public spending cuts since World War II.  
 Germany’s plan includes a financial-transaction tax on
banks of about 2 billion euros per year and a 2.3 billion-euro
annual levy on nuclear-power plants as part of what Merkel calls
an “unprecedented” round of budget cuts. The package also
calls for welfare reductions, cuts in defense spending and a
delay in the rebuilding of Berlin’s royal palace.  
 Scaling Back  
 “This budget and the mid-term spending plan are heavily
influenced by the banking and economic crisis of the last couple
of years,” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters
in Berlin. “We’re setting out to scale back the excessive
deficits and ensure our economic development is sustainable.”  
 German bonds advanced, with the 10-year bund yield dropping
to within five basis points of the lowest in a month. Spanish
10-year bonds fell, sending the yield five basis points higher
to 4.77 percent, while the Portuguese 10-year yield rose five
basis points to 5.49 percent.  
 The cuts will reduce the federal deficit by about 40
percent during the next five years, Schaeuble said. Underpinning
the plan is a constitutional change from 2009 that compels
Germany to  reduce the deficit  to 3 percent of GDP by 2013 to
bring it back within EU limits.  
 Merkel’s Task  
 “A policy of saving, scaling back deficits that have risen
very sharply -- that’s the task we have to accomplish now,”
Merkel told RTL television on July 2. The aim is “that the euro
is stable and sustainably secured” when rescue programs expire.  
 The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.2576 at 2:34 p.m. in
Frankfurt.  
 Merkel is rebuffing criticism from some Group of 20
nations, including U.S. officials and economists, that she’s
promoting austerity while the global recovery remains fragile.
G-20 leaders meeting in Canada sought to bridge the divide with
a June 27 statement calling on industrial nations to halve their
deficits by 2013. She called that a “clear exit strategy.”  
 Deciding between deficit reduction and economic stimulus is
a “false dilemma,” Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development Secretary General  Angel Gurria  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today.  
 ‘Out of the Hole’  
 “In the medium to long term, there’s absolutely no way you
can sustain these deficits and then there’s no amount of
stimulus that will get you out of the hole,” he said.  
 Germany’s budget deficit is forecast to rise to 5.5 percent
of GDP this year. While that’s less than half the 13.6 percent
of GDP in Greece last year, it’s still almost double EU limits.  
 The German economy is meanwhile showing signs of recovery:
 Unemployment  fell for a 12th month in June, exports are booming
and the DAX index is one of two euro-area  equity benchmarks  to
avoid a decline this year.  
 Schaeuble indicated in  video message  posted on the Finance
Ministry’s website that net new borrowing this year may be lower
than expected, saying the government will take on “more than 60
billion” euros of new debt. That compares with an official
borrowing target of 65 billion euros.  
 Still, combined backing for the coalition parties dropped
one percentage point to 35 percent in a Forsa poll today, more
than 13 points below their tally in the September election.  
 “Merkel realizes that German voters are worried about
fiscal discipline in the euro zone,” Annunziata said. That’s
why she “wants to push euro-zone partners to change the rules
of the game.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'This budget and the mid-term spending plan are heavily influenced by the banking and economic crisis of the last couple of years,' Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told reporters in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Matuschek, head of political research at Forsa Polling Institute, talks about the standing of German Chancellor Angela Merkel in the opinion polls after her government approved a four-year package of budget cuts.
     Matuschek speaks in Berlin with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Germany's chancellor Angela Merkel speaks during a press conference. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
