-- Estonia June Inflation Accelerates at Fastest Pace in 17 Months on Taxes
-- Ott Ummelas
-- 2010-07-07T10:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/estonia-june-inflation-accelerates-at-fastest-pace-in-17-months-on-taxes.html

          
          
             Estonian  inflation  accelerated in
June at the fastest pace in 17 months because of an increase in
prices of electricity and mobile phone services.  
 The inflation rate rose to 3.5 percent following a 3
percent increase in May, the Tallinn-based statistics office
said on its website today. The median estimate of four analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was 3.2 percent. In the month, prices rose
0.4 percent.  
 The central bank warned last month that higher prices may
hamper the Baltic nation’s recovery from  the second-deepest
recession  in the European Union in 2008 and 2009. Estonia is set
to become the 17th country using the euro in January, pending a
formal decision by finance ministers next week.  
 “The acceleration in inflation remains a concern,
especially as the recovering domestic economy and slowing wage
declines are likely to support prices toward the end of the
year,” said  Annika Lindblad , an economist with Nordea AB in
Helsinki, in an e-mailed comment.  
 Mobile communication prices jumped 16 percent, which was
partly due to the end of discounts, the Finance Ministry said.
It reiterated inflation will slow this month as the effect of
tax increases a year earlier will stop affecting the annual
comparison. A 1 percent tax on essential goods by the
municipality of Tallinn may boost prices in the coming months
after having a weaker-than-expected effect in June, it said.  
 ‘Market Inefficiencies’  
 Electricity and heating prices rose a combined 12.2 percent
from a year earlier after an increase in electricity tariffs
from June, and motor fuel was 18.8 percent more expensive, with
both contributing a third of the overall price increase, the
statistics office said.  
 “Where previously we had thought that the main risk had
come from external markets, it is now clear that domestic market
inefficiencies may bring some surprises as well,” said  Violeta Klyviene , senior Baltic economist at Danske Bank A/S, in a note
to investors. “It seems that the latter shock in communication
service prices was determined mainly by market inefficiency and
poor competition in this area, although the official explanation
was “ending of the special offers”.”  
 Klyviene raised her forecast for average annual inflation
this year to 2.6 percent from last month’s forecast of 2.3
percent. This compares with the Finance Ministry’s April
forecast of 1.1 percent, while the central bank expects average
prices harmonized to EU standards to rise 1.3 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        