-- EU Toughens Bonus Rules With Limits on Cash Payouts
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-07-07T14:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/eu-parliament-approves-law-to-limit-bankers-cash-payout-to-30-of-bonus.html

          
          
             Bankers in Europe face tougher pay
rules limiting cash payments to no more than 30 percent of their
bonus under revised laws to regulate banks’ capital approved by
the European Union parliament.  
 Directors of banks that received public money will be
forced to justify their bonuses and lenders will have to report
the number of people earning more than 1 million euros ($1.3
million) to regulators, under the measures approved by members
of the  European Parliament  in a vote in Strasbourg today.  
 “The banks have had two years since the 2008 financial
crisis to do this and have failed to act, so now we will do the
job for them,”  Arlene McCarthy , a member of the European
Parliament and the sponsor of the bill, said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Lawmakers around the world have blamed bonuses for the
excessive risk-taking that contributed to the worst financial
crisis since World War II. The bonus measures are part of
legislation to force banks to hold more capital against trading
books, proposed last year by the  European Commission .  
 The law is scheduled to take effect next year in the 27 EU
member states.  
 “The taxpayer will no longer have to pick up the tab for
bankers who bring down the financial institutions they work for
through short-term risk taking and greed,”  Sharon Bowles , a
U.K. Liberal Democrat member of the EU Parliament and chairwoman
of the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee said in a
statement.  
 Senior Managers, Traders  
 Senior managers and traders will be forced to defer at
least 50 percent of their bonus for a minimum of three years,
under the measures. The rules are similar to those adopted by
some national regulators, including the Financial Services
Authority in the U.K.  
 “It’s slightly tougher than the FSA,”  Chris Roebuck , a
visiting professor at Cass Business School in London, said in a
telephone interview. “But it’s generally in line with
principles set up by everybody.”  
 Members of the Parliament’s Economic and Monetary Affairs
Committee had voted last month for even stricter controls on
bonuses which would have limited awards to no more than half of
total pay.  
 “There needs to be responsible risk-taking by banks and
bankers,”  Vicky Ford , a U.K. Conservative member of the
European Parliament, said in an e-mailed statement. “New bonus
arrangements are necessary to prevent the kind of recklessness
that contributed to the financial crisis.”  
 Postponed Vote  
 The parliament postponed separate votes today on the
creation of European authorities for the banking, securities and
insurance industries, because the parliament and member states
are yet to agree on the powers these bodies should have.  
 “We regret that an agreement couldn’t be reached for
adoption at first reading but we’re satisfied all parties are
committed to adoption by September,”  Olli Rehn , the EU’s
economic commissioner, said in a speech to the parliament in
Strasbourg yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. Liberal Democrat member of the EU Parliament and chairwoman of the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee Sharon Bowles. Photographer: Georges Gobet/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Niall Ferguson, a professor at Harvard University, talks about fiscal policy options to maintain an economic recovery.
     Ferguson, speaking in London, also discusses the U.K. budget and public trust in bankers. He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
