-- EU Stress Test May Assume Losses of 17% on Greek Bonds, 3% on Spanish Debt
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2010-07-07T15:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/eu-stress-test-may-assume-losses-of-17-on-greek-bonds-3-on-spanish-debt.html

          
          
             European banking regulators have told
lenders that their planned stress tests may assume a loss of
about 17 percent on Greek government debt and 3 percent on
Spanish bonds, according to two people briefed on the talks.  
 There are unlikely to be so-called haircuts on German
government securities under the stress tests being overseen by
the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors , said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.
CEBS is still weighing how much data to disclose and when, a
European Union official familiar with the talks said.  
 EU regulators are counting on the tests to reassure
investors that banks have enough capital to withstand a debt
default by a European country. U.S. bank stocks rebounded last
year after government analysis of their balance sheets found
that 10 lenders needed to raise $74.6 billion of capital.  
 “If they set the criteria so stringently that the majority
of the participants fail, then the financial industry in Europe
fails with it,” said  Ralph Silva , an analyst at London-based
Silva Research Network, which specializes in financial-services
firms. “That would just be stupid. All the regulators have been
stress testing their respective banks for the past couple of
years anyway, so they know what these guys are holding.”  
 Spanish bonds rose, sending the yield on the 10-year
security three basis points lower to 4.68 percent as of 4:19
p.m. The yield earlier rose as high as 4.79 percent. The yield
on the 10-year Greek bond was three basis points higher at 10.26
percent.  
 “These kind of numbers do not seem particularly robust,”
said  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “The stress on Greek and
Spanish bonds seems too modest.”  
 European Central Bank  
 A CEBS spokeswoman in London declined to comment on the
discussions. EU leaders have pledged to disclose the results of
the tests, showing how individual banks would hold up to
economic and market shocks, by the end of July.  
 CEBS is working with the European Central Bank on several
cross-border lenders, which represent more than “60 percent of
the EU banking sector in terms of total assets,” the agency
said last month.  
 CEBS’s role is to coordinate national banking authorities
and make policy recommendations to the EU on regulation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net ;
 Meera Louis  in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        