-- EU Stress Tests Will Cover 91 Banks, Assume Bond Drop
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-07-07T20:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/eu-stress-tests-will-cover-91-banks-assume-drop-in-government-bond-values.html

          
          
             European Union regulators are
carrying out stress tests on 91 banks, accounting for 65 percent
of the area’s banking industry, to examine whether they can
withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government bond
values.  
 The lenders being tested include 14 from  Germany , six from
Greece and four from the U.K., the  Committee of European Banking
Supervisors  said in an e-mailed statement. EU banking regulators
have told lenders that their planned stress tests may assume a
loss of about 17 percent on Greek government debt and 3 percent
on Spanish bonds, according to two people briefed on the talks.  
 “This sounds like the softest option possible,” said  Stephen Pope , London-based chief global equity strategist at
Cantor Fitzgerald. “If that is the indicator how stringent the
stress tests will be, then they aren’t worth too much.”  
 Regulators are counting on the tests to reassure investors
that banks have enough capital to withstand a debt default by a
European country. U.S. bank stocks rebounded last year after
government analysis of their balance sheets found that 10
lenders needed to raise $74.6 billion of capital.  
 EU leaders have pledged to disclose the results of the
tests, showing how individual banks would hold up to economic
and market shocks, by the end of July. CEBS is working with the  European Central Bank  on the tests.  
 CEBS’s role is to coordinate national banking authorities
and make policy recommendations to the EU on regulation. The
London-based regulator is working with the European Central Bank
on the tests. An ECB spokeswoman declined to comment.  
 Sovereign ‘Deterioration’  
 The adverse scenario being tested “assumes a 3 percentage
point deviation of GDP for the EU compared to the  European
Commission’s  forecasts over the two-year time horizon and a
“deterioration of sovereign risk” from early-May government
bond values, according to the CEBS statement.  
 The commission has  said  it expects the EU’s economy to grow
by 1 percent this year and 1.7 percent next year.  
 The results will be disclosed “both on an aggregated and
on a bank-by-bank basis, on July 23,” CEBS said. The agency
didn’t specify scenarios for so-called haircuts on European
sovereign bonds.  
 Greek Bonds  
 Credit markets are pricing in losses of about 60 percent on
Greek bonds should the government default, more than three times
the level said to be assumed by CEBS. Derivatives known as
recovery swaps are trading at rates that imply investors would
get back about 40 percent in a Greek default or restructuring.  
 The tests originally covered only big cross-border lenders,
later broadening out to include smaller EU banks such as Spain’s
savings banks, known as cajas.  
 German Landesbanken such as Bayerische Landesbank,
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and WestLB AG, and Spanish cajas
are undergoing the tests. Landesbanken are owned by regional
governments and groups of savings banks.  
 Billionaire investor George Soros said it would be
impossible to judge the state of the European banking industry
without including “the smaller banks, notably the cajas in
Spain and the Landesbanken in Germany,” in the stress-testing
exercise, during a speech in Berlin on June 23.  
 Banks including Spain’s  Banco Santander SA  and  Bankinter
SA , as well as  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Commerzbank AG  and HSH Nordbank
AG, are also involved in the stress testing.  
 The U.K. banks being tested are  HSBC Holdings Plc ,  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc ,  Barclays Plc  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc.  BNP Paribas  SA and  Societe Generale  SA are among the French
banks under examination.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Billionaire investor George Soros. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Bianco, speaking from Chicago, also discusses his investment strategy, stress tests for European banks, and the U.S. housing market. European Union regulators are carrying out stress tests on 91 banks, accounting for 65 percent of the area’s banking industry, to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government bond values. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
