-- Euro Rises Third Day Versus Yen, Dollar as Trichet Signals Stronger Growth
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-07-08T13:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/euro-trades-near-seven-week-high-versus-dollar-on-bank-stress-test-outlook.html

          
          
             The euro climbed for a third day
against the yen as stocks rallied and European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled the economic recovery is
gathering momentum.  
 The 16-nation currency also rose to an eight-week high
versus the dollar as Trichet said the second quarter in the euro
region probably was better than the first quarter and that the
need to intervene in government bond markets is “diminishing.”
The yen fell against all 16 of its most-traded peers after the
International Monetary Fund raised its global growth forecast.  
 “Trichet’s statement is unlikely to diminish the more
bullish outlook we’ve seen on the euro in the past couple of
sessions,” said  Audrey Childe-Freeman , a senior currency
strategist at Brown Brother Harriman Ltd. in London. “Near-
term, the euro can rally further.”  
 The euro rose to 112.34 yen as of 9:27 a.m. in New York,
from 110.84 yesterday, after reaching 112.43, the most since
June 22. It climbed to $1.2685, from $1.2638, after advancing to
$1.2694, the highest level since May 12. The yen weakened 1
percent to 88.57 per dollar.  
 The  MSCI World Index  of shares gained 1.3 percent and the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1.3 percent.  
 Pound Declines  
 The pound fell against the euro and the dollar. The Bank of
England kept its bond-buying stimulus plan unchanged and left
its benchmark interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent to
prevent the economic recovery from stalling. Halifax, a unit of
Lloyds Banking Group Plc, said earlier U.K.  house prices  fell
0.6 percent in June from a month earlier. Manufacturing output
climbed 0.3 percent in May after a revised drop of 0.8 percent
in April, twice the rate of decline previously estimated,
according to data today from the Office for National Statistics.  
 The pound dropped 0.3 percent to $1.5147 and depreciated
0.6 percent to 83.75 pence per euro.  
 The Australian dollar climbed against all 16 most-traded
counterparts after a report showed employers in the nation added
three times more jobs in June than economists predicted.  
 Job growth increased by 45,900, after rising a revised
22,800 in May, the statistics bureau said in Sydney. Economists
forecast a gain of 15,000, according to a Bloomberg survey of 22
economists.  
 The Aussie jumped 1.5 percent to 87.68 U.S. cents and
climbed 2.5 percent to 77.66 yen.  
 Forecast Raised  
 The IMF said in its World Economic Outlook that the global
economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010, the most since 2007,
compared with an April projection of 4.2 percent.  
 The euro climbed to a two-week high against the yen on
speculation stress tests for European banks were assuming
smaller losses on Greek bonds than some investors anticipated.  
 European regulators have told lenders their planned tests
may assume a loss of about 17 percent on Greek debt and 3
percent on Spanish bonds, according to two people briefed on the
talks. Credit markets are pricing in losses of about 60 percent
on Greek bonds should the government default.  
 “What the stress-test results might do is help to calm
investor nerves,” said  Khoon Goh , senior market economist at
ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “Investors are starting
to reduce exposure in dollars and diversify into euros.”  
 The ECB also kept its main rate at an all-time low of 1
percent, as forecast by all 55 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Trichet said at a press conference in Frankfurt today that
“indicators suggest that a strengthening in economic activity
took place during the spring.” The main interest rate is
“appropriate” and inflation expectations “remain firmly
anchored,” he said.  
 ‘More Confident Trichet’  
 “We expect a somewhat more confident Trichet, which should
be positive for the euro,”  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, wrote in a note today.  
 The ECB last held an interest-rate meeting on June 10, when
it kept rates unchanged and said it would keep buying government
bonds. The euro gained 1.2 percent that day after Germany’s
highest constitutional court rejected an attempt to block the
nation from granting guarantees as part of the euro-area rescue.  
 Australia’s dollar may rise versus its Canadian counterpart
as Chinese growth benefits the South Pacific nation while the
North American country is more at risk to a U.S. slowdown,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  
 Investors should buy Australia’s dollar, targeting gains to
95 Canadian cents, and exit the trade if it closes below 88.5
Canadian cents, Goldman analysts including Fiona Lake wrote in a
note to clients.  
 The Aussie rose 1.1 percent to 91.45 Canadian cents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at   rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        