-- EU's Energy Markets Need Transparency to Raise Confidence, Regulator Says
-- Ewa Krukowska
-- 2010-07-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/europe-s-energy-markets-need-more-transparency-oversight-regulator-says.html

          
          
             Energy markets in the European Union
need more transparency and oversight to increase investor
confidence and prevent the risk of manipulation, the head of the
region’s regulatory group said.  
 While some investors express concern about more controls,
the global financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers in 2008 “makes the arguments against too much
regulation more difficult to support,”  John Mogg , president of
the European Regulators Group for Electricity and Gas, said in
an interview in Brussels.  
 “People are quite sympathetic to the notion that we need
greater awareness of what the impact of the financial market is
on energy supply and on commodities,” Mogg said yesterday.  
 The European Commission, regulator for the EU, plans to
strengthen market oversight to address the risks of insider
trading and is seeking to increase the transparency for
electricity, gas and carbon trading.  
 Plans by  Michel Barnier , the EU Financial Services
Commissioner, to toughen regulation have triggered concerns by
utilities including Germany’s  RWE AG  that applying the bloc’s
law for financial instruments to energy trades would needlessly
drive up costs.  
 The commission is reviewing its financial market
 legislation , including The Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive and the Market Abuse Directive. It is due to present
proposals on its overhaul and the regulation of over-the-counter
markets later this year.  
 ‘National Competence’  
 “There needs to be greater transparency and probably some
form of EU oversight, but national issues should remain a
national competence,” Mogg said.  
 The EU agreed last year to set up the Agency for the
Cooperation of Energy Regulators to oversee national authorities
and transmission-system operators, advise on market regulation
and decide on cross-border issues. The organization, also known
as ACER, will begin operating in  Ljubljana  on March 3, 2011.  
 “If ACER were to be given some task, we need to be sure
that we have both the resources and the expertise and the powers
to do that,” Mogg said. “The agency wasn’t created to oversee
financial markets. There would have to be a lot more scrutiny of
trades and management of information flows.”  
 Mogg, a former director general for internal market and
financial services at the commission, said the European
regulators group, or ERGEG, was working closely with the
region’s securities regulators on improving market transparency.
ERGEG was founded by the commission in 2003 as its official
advisory group on energy issues.  
 In a recommendation for the commission in 2008, the
European security regulator CESR and ERGEG advised that a
sector-specific market-abuse regime be put in place for
fundamental trading data.  
 The commission launched a consultation on a tailor-made
regime for electricity and gas wholesale market integrity on May
31. The deadline for comments is July 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at   
          
          


  


        