-- EU Stress Tests May Include 17% Loss on Greek Debt
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2010-07-07T17:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/european-stress-tests-may-include-17-haircut-on-greek-bonds.html

          
          
             European Union banking regulators
have told lenders that their planned stress tests may assume a
loss of about 17 percent on Greek government debt and 3 percent
on Spanish bonds, according to two people briefed on the talks.  
 There are unlikely to be so-called haircuts on German  government securities  under the stress tests being overseen by
the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors , said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.
CEBS will likely delay publication of the stress-test criteria
until tomorrow, an EU official familiar with the talks said.  
 Regulators are counting on the tests to reassure investors
that banks have enough capital to withstand a debt default by a
European country. U.S. bank stocks rebounded last year after
government analysis of their balance sheets found that 10
lenders needed to raise $74.6 billion of capital.  
 “This sounds like the softest option possible,” said  Stephen Pope , London-based chief global equity strategist at  Cantor Fitzgerald . “If that is the indicator how stringent the
stress tests will be, then they aren’t worth too much.”
Regulators should be applying a haircut of 20 percent on Greek
debt and 7 percent for Spanish debt, he said.  
 Spanish bonds rose, sending the yield on the 10-year
security four basis points lower to 4.67 percent as of 5:54
p.m. in London The yield earlier rose as high as 4.79 percent.
The yield on the 10-year Greek bond was four basis points higher
at 10.27 percent.  
 ‘Too Modest’  
 “These kind of numbers do not seem particularly robust,”
said  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York . “The stress on Greek and
Spanish bonds seems too modest.”  
 The 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index increased 3.9 percent.  Dexia SA  and  Societe Generale  SA
rose more than 7 percent in Paris trading today.  Spain ’s Banco
Santander SA advanced 6.5 percent while  Germany ’s  Deutsche Bank
AG  added 3.8 percent.  
 For Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, regulators are
telling banks to assume a worst-case scenario of 0.2 percent
growth in gross domestic product this year and a contraction of
as much as 0.6 percent in 2011, people briefed on the talks
said. The European Commission has said it expects German GDP to
grow by 1.2 percent in 2010 and 1.6 percent the following year.  
 German banks will need to submit stress test results to
regulators early next week, two people said.  
 A CEBS spokeswoman in  London  declined to comment on the
discussions. The EU will disclose the results of the tests,
showing how individual banks would hold up to economic and
market shocks, on July 23, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said
today. Policymakers haven’t decided how much detail to disclose.  
 Greece, Spain  
 Concern about banks’ potential losses on bonds sold by the
governments of Greece,  Italy , Portugal and Spain helped to
increase borrowing costs for European banks this year. Shares of
Europe’s largest banks are also trading at a discount to their
book value while their U.S. counterparts trade at a premium.  
 Unlike the U.S. government, EU governments haven’t said if
they’ll provide cash to banks that fail the tests. Economists
say countries including Spain and Portugal may struggle to fund
any bailout. European lenders had $2.29 trillion at risk in
Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain at the end of 2009, including
loans to governments, according to the Bank for International
Settlements.  
 “If they set the criteria so stringently that the majority
of the participants fail, then the financial industry in  Europe 
fails with it,” said Ralph Silva, an analyst at London-based
Silva Research Network, which specializes in financial-services
firms. “That would just be stupid. All the regulators have been
stress testing their respective banks for the past couple of
years anyway, so they know what these guys are holding.”  
 ‘Not Sufficiently Cooperating’  
 Regulators are struggling to agree on what information to
release and when, Karel Lannoo, chief executive officer at the
Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels, said in a
telephone interview today. “Supervisory authorities are not
sufficiently cooperating.”  
 CEBS’s role is to coordinate national banking authorities
and make policy recommendations to the EU on regulation. The
regulator is working with the  European Central Bank  on several
cross-border lenders, which represent more than “60 percent of
the EU banking sector in terms of total assets,” the agency
said last month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jann Bettinga in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;  Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        