-- European Exports, State Spending Lead Growth; Household Consumption Drops
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-07-07T10:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/european-exports-state-spending-lead-growth-household-consumption-drops.html

          
          
             Exports and government spending
helped sustain Europe’s recovery in the first quarter,
offsetting declines in investment and household consumption.  
 Shipments abroad from the 16 nations using the euro
increased 2.1 percent from the fourth quarter, when they rose
1.8 percent, while state spending advanced 0.2 percent, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
Stockpiling also helped the economy, with changes in business
inventories adding 1 percentage point to growth in the first
quarter, when  gross domestic product  rose 0.2 percent, matching
a June 4 estimate.  
 European exports have bolstered the economic expansion as
 unemployment  at a 12-year high prompts consumers to cut back
spending. While the Greek debt crisis has pushed down the euro
and made the region’s goods more competitive abroad, it also
forced governments from Spain to Italy to step up deficit-
cutting efforts, clouding the growth outlook. Expansion in
Europe’s manufacturing industry slowed in June.  
 “The second quarter will definitely be significantly
stronger,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “The big question is what will happen in the year’s
second half. The growth momentum could weaken but still no
double dip overall.”  
 The euro extended declines against the dollar after a
separate report showed German factory orders unexpectedly fell
in May for the first time in five months. The European currency
traded at $1.2563 at 11:07 a.m. in London, down 0.5 percent on
the day.  
 Consumer Spending  
 Euro-area  business investment  dropped 1.2 percent in the
first quarter from the prior three months and consumer spending
slipped 0.1 percent, today’s report showed. From a year earlier,
first-quarter  GDP  expanded 0.6 percent, the first annual gain
since the third quarter of 2008.  
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, is among
companies that have relied on faster-growing Asian markets to
boost sales this year. The company’s Audi unit said on July 2
that it exceeded 100,000 deliveries in China over a six-month
period for the first time.  
 The euro’s 12 percent drop against the dollar this year has
helped bolster export growth by making European goods more
competitive just as the global economy gathered strength. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said on
May 26 that it expects the worldwide growth of 4.6 percent this
year, with China seen expanding more than 11 percent.  
 Faltering Recovery  
 In the euro region, Ireland had the strongest expansion in
the first quarter, with the economy growing 2.7 percent from the
previous three months. The German economy grew 0.2 percent and
French GDP increased 0.1 percent over that period.  
 Still, a euro-area recovery is already showing some signs
of losing momentum. Growth in Europe’s  services and
manufacturing industries  slowed for a second month in June and
unemployment held at the highest in 12 years in May. In Germany,
Europe’s largest economy,  investor confidence  plunged in June.  
 CRH Plc , the world’s second-largest maker and distributor
of building materials, said today that first-half earnings and
sales declined more than the Dublin-based company had previously
predicted. CRH shares fell the  most  in  20 months .  
 “Concerns relating to fiscal deficits across euro-zone
countries have  intensified , adding to uncertainty regarding the
pace of economic progress in Europe,” CRH said. The company
said a drop in 2010 sales will be greater than previously
forecast,  weighed down  by faltering demand in Spain, Portugal
and Ireland.  
 Corporate Investment  
 The statistics office had previously reported a gain in
exports of 2.5 percent in the first quarter from the previous
three months. It also revised down corporate investment from a
previously reported drop of 1.1 percent, while government-
spending growth was slower than the 0.6 percent gain estimated
earlier.  
 Construction shaved 2.3 percentage points off growth in the
first quarter from the previous three months following unusually
cold temperatures, today’s report showed. Manufacturing added
1.9 percentage points in the year’s first three months.  
 With governments cutting spending and raising taxes to push
down budget deficits, the euro region may face a renewed
slowdown in the second half after an expansion of around 0.5
percent in the three months through June, said  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in London.  
 “The upside for  consumer spending  will remain limited for
some time to come,” Archer said. “The euro region will
therefore be fervently hoping that global growth and trade at
least holds up over the coming months and preferably improves.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        