-- European Stocks Retreat; U.S. Index Futures Drop
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-07T16:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-drop-marks-spencer-shares-might-rise.html

          
          
             European stocks  rose, posting the
first back-to-back gains in more than two weeks, as financial
shares rallied amid speculation that stress tests of the
region’s lenders will be less severe than forecast.  
 Societe Generale SA and Banco Santander SA surged more than
6 percent, pushing a gauge of bank stocks to the biggest gain in
two months. BP Plc rallied for a third day for the first time
since the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April.  J Sainsbury
Plc  advanced 4.9 percent amid speculation the Qatar Investment
Authority may renew its interest in acquiring the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket owner.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 1.4 percent to 246.06,
erasing an earlier drop of as much 1.5 percent. The measure has
retreated 9.6 percent from this year’s high in April amid
speculation the global economy recovery is slowing. The decline
has left the gauge trading at 11.4 times estimated earnings,
near the lowest  valuation  in more than a year.  
 Stocks “are getting a trigger from the bank stress
tests,” said  Mike Lenhoff , London-based chief strategist at
Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd., whose parent company oversees
$33 billion. “As long as there is a semblance of credibility to
it, markets should react well. The markets may feel happier with
them than without them.”  
 National benchmark indexes rose in 16 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rallied 1 percent,
Germany’s DAX climbed 0.9 percent and France’s CAC 40 advanced
1.8 percent. Ireland’s  ISEQ  slid 2.2 percent as CRH Plc tumbled.  
 Stress Tests  
 European banking regulators have told lenders that their
planned stress tests may assume a loss of about 17 percent on
Greek government debt and 3 percent on Spanish bonds, according
to two people briefed on the talks.  
 There are unlikely to be so-called haircuts on German
government securities under the stress tests being overseen by
the Committee of European Banking Supervisors, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.
CEBS is still weighing how much data to disclose and when, a
European Union official familiar with the talks said.  
 “Reports that the Committee of European Bank Supervisors
may outline the methodology behind the stress tests” are being
met with relief, said  Joshua Raymond , a London-based market
strategist at City Index. “It means greater transparency and
there is also a degree of guess work going on that they will not
be overly rigorous, which had been feared.”  
 SocGen, Santander  
 Societe Generale , France’s second-biggest bank by market
value, climbed 7.1 percent to 37.58 euros as a gauge of bank
shares jumped 3.9 percent. Spain’s Santander gained 6.5 percent
to 9.81 euros and Italy’s UniCredit SpA rallied 6.1 percent to
1.96 euros.  
 European lenders received a further boost as State Street
Corp., the third-largest U.S. custody bank, reported second-
quarter operating profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 “U.S. banks have led their European counterparts higher
after State Street said its earnings will top forecasts,” said
London-based David Morrison, a market strategist at GFT. “I
think investors are hoping that the start of the second-quarter
earnings season next week will bring good news.”  
 BP climbed 4.8 percent to 362.05 pence amid speculation
funds in the Middle East may invest in the energy company. Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said he had a “very good”
meeting with Abu Dhabi’s crown prince today as UBS AG said he
could be seeking money from sovereign wealth funds after
incurring billions of dollars in liabilities from the oil spill
in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 ‘Sound One’  
 “The option for chasing strategic investors in the Middle
East is a sound one,”  Saud Masud , the Dubai-based head of
Middle East research at UBS AG, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “They are generally passive investors, so the noise
factor from a shareholder perspective is pretty low. They also
invest for the long term.”  
 Sainsbury advanced 4.9 percent to 344.3 pence, the highest
close since April. Qatar may soon increase its stake in
Sainsbury to 29.9 percent prior to making a cash offer of 500
pence a share, the Daily Mail said in its market report column,
without saying where it got the information.  
 The Daily Telegraph said there is speculation of a bid at
550 pence a share. Sainsbury doesn’t comment on speculation,
said a spokesman for the London-based company, who declined to
be named.  
 Hexagon, CRH  
      Hexagon AB  rallied 7.2 percent to 108.7 kronor. The maker
of measuring instruments agreed to buy U.S.-based Intergraph for
$2.13 billion to add software that helps companies visualize
complex data and design factories, ships and oilrigs.  
 CRH tumbled 6.1 percent to 16.08 euros, leading a gauge of
construction shares to the only decline among 19 industry groups
in the  Stoxx 600 . The world’s second-largest maker and
distributor of building materials said first-half earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization probably
fell about 20 percent, with sales slipping 10 percent. CRH in
May predicted earnings would fall by a “high-teen” percentage.  
 Holcim Ltd. , the world’s second-biggest cement maker, slid
2.5 percent to 69.4 Swiss francs. HeidelbergCement AG, the
third-largest, dropped 3.1 percent to 37.73 euros.  
 Sacyr Vallehermoso SA tumbled 9.5 percent to 4 euros after
La Mutua Madrilena sold a 4 percent stake in the Spanish builder
at a discount to yesterday’s closing share price. La Mutua, a
mutual insurer, sold 12.2 million shares for 50 million euros
($62.9 million), or 4.10 euros each.  
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc lost 2.6 percent to 343.4 pence
as the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer said it was “cautious”
about the outlook for consumer spending. A proposed increase in
U.K. value-added tax and other measures to curb the country’s
budget deficit are likely to dampen consumer confidence, the
company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        