-- Europe Stress Tests May Underestimate Probable Losses
-- Jon Menon
-- 2010-07-08T07:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/european-stress-tests-underestimate-probable-losses-on-bonds-analysts-say.html

          
          
             European stress tests on 91 of the
region’s biggest banks drew criticism from analysts who said
regulators are underestimating probable losses on Greek and
Spanish government bonds.  
 The tests are designed to assess how banks will be able to
absorb losses on loans and government bonds, the  Committee of
European Banking Supervisors  said yesterday. Regulators have
told lenders the tests may assume a loss of about 17 percent on
Greek government debt, 3 percent on Spanish bonds and none on
German debt, said two people briefed on the talks who declined
to be identified because the details are private.  
 “This isn’t a stress test,” said  Jaap Meijer , a London-
based analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. It’s “merely the
current valuation of government bonds.”  
 Credit markets are pricing in losses of about 60 percent on
Greek bonds should the government default, more than three times
the level said to be assumed by CEBS. Derivatives known as
recovery swaps are trading at rates that imply investors would
get back about 40 percent in a Greek default or restructuring.  
 “I wonder how much these stress tests are reverse-
engineered to inspire confidence in the market” and banks, said
 Bruce Packard , an analyst at Seymour Pierce Ltd. in London. “If
they are too aggressive, everyone fails.”  
 Stocks Rally  
 The 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index increased 1.5 percent today, bringing this week’s gain to
8.4 percent. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc rose 3.7 percent
to 44.42 pence as of 8:44 a.m. in London trading. Paris-based
BNP Paribas SA climbed 3 percent to 49.43 euros and Dexia SA,
the largest lender to local government in France and Belgium,
rose 3.5 percent to 3.17 euros.  
 Lenders that account for 65 percent of the EU banking
industry will be tested, including 14 German banks, 27 Spanish
savings banks, six Greek banks, five Italian banks, four French
banks and four British banks, CEBS said in a statement.  
 EU regulators are relying on the stress tests to restore
public confidence in banks amid concern that some lenders don’t
have enough capital to withstand a default by a European
country. A stress test of U.S. banks last May spurred a rally
that lifted the  Standard & Poor’s Financials Index  36 percent in
the following seven months.  
 “I think they are letting the banks off lightly,” said
 Stephen Pope , London-based chief global equity strategist at
Cantor Fitzgerald. “This sounds like the softest option
possible.” Regulators should be applying a 20 percent haircut
on Greek bonds and 7 percent on Spanish debt, he said.  
 Angela Merkel  
 A CEBS spokeswoman in London declined to comment on the
discussions. The EU will disclose the results of the tests,
showing how individual banks would hold up to economic and
market shocks, on July 23, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said
yesterday. Policy makers haven’t decided how much detail to
disclose.  
 The tests assume a 3 percentage point deviation from the
European Commission’s economic forecasts over two years and a
deterioration of sovereign debt risk as compared to market
prices in early May, CEBS said. The Commission estimates the
EU’s economy will grow by 1 percent this year and 1.7 percent
next year.  
 The U.S. stress tests carried out last year found 10
lenders needed to raise $74.6 billion of capital. The “more
adverse” scenario assumed the economy would shrink 3.3 percent
in 2009, while unemployment would rise to 8.9 percent. They also
assumed the U.S. economy would grow 0.5 percent the following
year, while the jobless rate would surpass 10 percent. The tests
didn’t include a measure of the impact of a drop in sovereign
debt.  
 CEBS is working with the European Central Bank on several
cross-border lenders, which represent more than “60 percent of
the EU banking sector in terms of total assets,” the agency
said last month. CEBS’s role is to coordinate national banking
authorities and make policy recommendations to the EU on
regulation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The EU will disclose the results of the tests, showing how individual banks would hold up to economic and market shocks, on July 23, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said
yesterday. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Donovan, deputy head of global economics at UBS AG, talks about European stress tests on 91 of the region's biggest banks.
     Donovan, speaking in London, also discusses the outlook for today's Bank of England and European Central bank monetary policy decisions. He speaks with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Adrian Foster, head of financial-markets research for Asia at Rabobank Groep NV in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about stress tests on European banks.
     European Union regulators are carrying out tests on 91 of the region’s biggest banks, accounting for 65 percent of the area’s banking industry, to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government bond values. Foster also talks about rising European interbank lending rates and today's meeting of Bank of England policy makers. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Bianco, speaking from Chicago, also discusses his investment strategy, stress tests for European banks, and the U.S. housing market. European Union regulators are carrying out stress tests on 91 banks, accounting for 65 percent of the area’s banking industry, to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government bond values. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
