-- European Union Tightens Industrial-Pollution Controls for Air, Water, Soil
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-07-07T10:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/european-union-tightens-industrial-pollution-controls-for-air-water-soil.html

          
          
             The European Union tightened rules on
air, water and soil pollution by 52,000 industrial installations
after a compromise on how much extra time electricity, oil and
steel companies should get to comply.  
 The European Parliament voted to strengthen the 1996
 Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control law  covering such
discharges as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, dust particles,
dioxins and heavy metals. The measure excludes carbon dioxide, a
greenhouse gas regulated by Europe’s cap-and-trade program.  
 “This offers more clarity and a better chance of a level
playing field across Europe on environmental requirements for
industrial installations,” said Holger Krahmer, a German member
who steered the new rules through the 27-nation EU assembly
today in Strasbourg, France. The bloc’s national governments
have already signaled support for the draft law, making their
final approval after two-and-a-half years of deliberations a
formality in the coming weeks or months.  
 The new legislation enhances the role of the most effective
emissions-reduction technology, known as best available
techniques, in the granting of permits for electricity plants,
oil refineries and metals, minerals, chemicals and waste-
incineration sites subject to the rules. Large pig and poultry
farms are also affected by the law, which is due to be phased in
starting around the end of 2012.  
 Extensions  
 Existing “large combustion plants,” used in the
electricity, oil-refining and metals industries, must meet the
new standards in 2016 unless a longer deadline is awarded. EU
nations can give these plants until between 2016 and mid-2020 to
comply provided the authorities draw up a transitional plan, or
until the end of 2023 should the businesses opt for a 17,500-
hour operating cap in the preceding eight-year period. New
plants of this kind face the rules by end-2012.  
 The Parliament voted in March 2009 to impose the tougher
standards on existing and new large combustion plants in 2016,
endorsing the position taken by the  European Commission , the
EU’s regulatory arm, when it first proposed the overhaul. In
June 2009, national governments called for possible extensions
until 2020 as long as this was accompanied by a transitional
plan, or until 2023 with a 20,000-hour operating cap.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Strasbourg, France, at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        