-- European Union Tightens Timber Rules to Help Save Forests, Fight Emissions
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-07-07T10:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/european-union-tightens-timber-rules-to-help-save-forests-fight-emissions.html

          
          
             The European Union decided to make
suppliers of timber to Europe guard against illegal logging,
bolstering a push to fight climate change through worldwide
forest protection.  
 The  European Parliament  voted to force companies to use a
system of due diligence to ascertain that the timber they sell
in the 27-nation EU was harvested legally. A fifth of EU timber
imports may come from illegal sources, according to the  European
Commission , the bloc’s regulatory arm, which proposed the
legislation in October 2008.  
 “It is a breakthrough,” said  Satu Hassi , a Finnish member
who steered the law through the EU assembly today in Strasbourg,
France. “Tackling illegal logging is very important for climate
protection.” Final EU approval of the legislation, which also
prohibits the sale of timber logged illegally under the rules of
the country of origin, is a formality in coming months because
the bloc’s national governments have pledged their backing.  
 Europe is stepping up efforts to protect forests as part of
its fight against global warming. Forests store carbon dioxide,
the main greenhouse gas blamed for higher world temperatures,
and deforestation is responsible for about 20 percent of global
CO2 emissions.  
 The legislation on timber trade complements goals by the EU
to reduce its own greenhouse gases by a fifth in 2020 compared
with 1990 and lessen reliance on fossil fuels -- a root cause of
climate change -- by more than doubling the current share of
renewable energy such as wind power.  
 The law, due to take effect in about two years, imposes the
due-diligence obligation on the companies that are the first to
place timber on the EU market. The legislation also requires
European businesses elsewhere in the supply chain to keep
records that, as a whole, would allow timber to be traced back
to the importing company or to the forest owner.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Strasbourg, France, at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        