-- Ex-EBay Chief Whitman, Brown Tied in California Governor's Race
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-07-07T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/ex-ebay-chief-whitman-brown-tied-in-california-governor-s-race-poll-says.html

          
          
             Meg Whitman , the former  EBay Inc. 
chief executive officer, and her Democratic rival,  Jerry Brown ,
are statistically tied in the California governor’s race to
succeed  Arnold Schwarzenegger , according to an opinion poll.  
 Brown, 72, who was governor from 1975 to 1983 and is now
serving as attorney general, holds a “statistically
insignificant” 44 percent to 43 percent lead over Whitman,
according to a  Field Poll  released today. It’s the first
statewide public opinion survey of the race since Whitman, 53,
won the Republican nomination in June.  
 “We’ve said all along we expect this to be a close race
and we certainly expect it to be close throughout the summer,”
said Sterling Clifford, spokesman for Brown.  
 The two are vying to replace Schwarzenegger, a 62-year-old
Republican who must leave office in January because of term
limits. The winner of the November election will inherit a state
trying to climb out of its worst fiscal crisis since the Great
Depression and hobbled by the legal requirement to garner
support from two-thirds of lawmakers to pass budgets. The
governor and the Legislature are in stalemate on how to erase a
resurgent $19.1 billion deficit.  
 Whitman has poured more than $90 million of her own money
into her gubernatorial bid, spending most of that on defeating
 Steve Poizner , the state insurance commissioner, in the
Republican primary.  
 Business Experience  
 Whitman has said her business experience and status as a
political outsider will empower her to turn around the state.
She has said she’d spur job creation by easing regulation and
reducing business taxes. To bridge the state’s budget deficit,
she’d curb government waste and fraud, put new state workers
into corporate-style 401(k) retirement plans, cut 40,000
government positions and lower lawmakers’ pay by making
legislating a part-time job.  
 “We know there will be many polls during this race,”
Whitman spokeswoman Sarah Pompei said in a statement. “We’re
confident that on Election Day in November, Californians will
choose Meg’s leadership to create jobs, cut spending and improve
education.”  
 Brown and Democrats already are attacking Whitman for her
former role as a director of New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.,  the Wall Street bank sued for fraud by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission in connection with the sale of mortgage-
linked securities. She left the bank’s board in 2002.  
 Brown has said he won’t raise taxes without voter support
and has emphasized his government experience. A lawyer and
former California secretary of state, he also served two terms
as mayor of Oakland before becoming attorney general in 2006.
He’s the son of former Governor Edmund G. “Pat” Brown, who
served from 1959 to 1967.  
 The survey by San Francisco-based Field Research Corp. of
1,005 likely voters was conducted June 22 through July 5 and has
a sampling error of plus or minus 3.2 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento, California, at   mmarois@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     California Republican gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman. Photographer: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
