-- Prosecutors Seeks 10-Month Suspended Term for Former IKB Chief Ortseifen
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-07-07T13:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/ex-ikb-ceo-should-be-convicted-of-market-abuse-german-prosecutor-says.html

          
          
             German prosecutors said former  IKB
Deutsche Industriebank AG  chief executive officer  Stefan Ortseifen  should be convicted of market manipulation and receive
a suspended sentence.  
 Ortseifen should receive a 10-month suspended prison term
and pay an “adequate” penalty, prosecutor Nils Bussee said in
closing arguments today. Ortseifen deliberately tried to boost
the dwindling share price of his company by hiding the effect of
the U.S. subprime crisis on the lender, Bussee said.  
 “Ortseifen wanted to manipulate IKB’s share price, that
was his goal,” Bussee said. “He wanted to make the impression
that, when it comes to subprime risks, everything was fine.”  
 IKB was bailed out in 2007 by KfW Group and banking
associations and subsequently received guarantees of as much as
12 billion euros ($15 billion) from the Soffin bank-rescue fund.
Ortseifen is charged with misleading investors by downplaying
the effect of the looming crisis in a press release on July 20,
2007. IKB received a bailout package 10 days later.  
 Ortseifen’s lawyer  Reinhard von Dalwigk  declined to comment
today, saying the defense would offer a rebuttal in closing
arguments next week. Ortseifen has denied the charges at trial.  
 After credit-rating companies in early July 2007 said they
need to correct their ratings for asset-backed securities tied
to the U.S. mortgage market, IKB’s share price fell. At that
time, investors and analysts began inquiring about IKB’s risks
in that market, Bussee said.  
 Rhineland Funding  
 The trial proved that Ortseifen knew at the time that IKB’s
Rhineland Funding investment vehicle was facing severe
refinancing problems and the executive deliberately made false
statements to ease those concerns, according to the prosecutor.  
 “Moody’s analysis of this segment released does not have
any impact on IKB’s investments in international loan
portfolios, nor on the advisory activities of IKB Credit Asset
Management GmbH,” the press release said.  
 Moody’s decision to put some securities on a watch list
only had a “single digit million” effect on IKB’s portfolio,
and its securities weren’t affected at all by “the most recent
analysis carried out by Standard & Poor’s,” the release said.  
 “IKB’s shares had dropped 12.7 percent in the two weeks
before the release was issued,” Bussee said. “The day the
release got out, the stock gained 1.9 percent.”  
 By not including the risks faced by Rhineland Funding,
which had invested several billion euros in the subprime
mortgage market, Ortseifen misled investors, Bussee said. The
former CEO wrongfully claimed that he wasn’t allowed to comment
on Rhineland because it wasn’t fully owned by IKB, the
prosecutor said.  
 The case is LG Dusseldorf, 14 KLs 6/09.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Dusseldorf via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        