-- Marsh Executives' Convictions Tossed in Bid-Rig Case
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-07-07T20:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/ex-marsh-executives-convictions-in-bid-rigging-trial-tossed-by-n-y-judge.html

          
          
             A New York judge threw out the
criminal convictions against two former  Marsh & McLennan Cos. 
executives whom he found guilty of restraint of trade in 2008.  
 State Supreme Court Justice  James Yates  in Manhattan tossed
the convictions against  William Gilman  and  Edward McNenney ,
former managing directors at Marsh, in a July 2 written
decision. The pair were accused of fixing prices to steer
business to insurers that paid Marsh hidden fees between
November 1998 and September 2004.  
 The decision was the latest loss for the New York Attorney
General’s office in its six-year probe of anti-competitive sales
practices in the insurance industry. The case, begun under
former state Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer , was tried under his
successor,  Andrew Cuomo .  
 Failures by prosecutors, including “newly discovered
contradictory evidence, undermines the court’s confidence in the
verdict,” Yates wrote in his decision.  
 Yates found the two men guilty in February 2008 of a single
count of restraint of trade under New York’s antitrust statutes
after a 10-month trial.  
 Original Counts  
 Of 37 original counts in the indictment, 36 resulted in
either dismissal or acquittal, said Richard Spinogatti, an
attorney at Proskauer Rose LLP, the firm that represents Gilman.  
 “This really is a full and complete vindication,”
Proskauer partner  Robert Cleary , who represented Gilman, said of
the decision in a telephone interview.  “There was a lot of
evidence that was suppressed.”  
 Scott Devereaux , an attorney for McNenney, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  
 “We are reviewing the decision and contemplating an
appeal,”  Richard Bamberger , a spokesman for Cuomo, said in an
e-mailed statement.  
 The attorney general’s office, following a 2004 probe,
alleged that McNenney, Gilman and six other Marsh Global Broking
Inc. brokers took part in a conspiracy to fraudulently obtain
millions of dollars for Marsh and its accomplice companies by
rigging the market for excess casualty insurance, according to a
redacted copy of the 25-page decision.  
 Gilman, formerly Marsh’s executive marketing director and
managing director, and McNenney, the former global placement
director and managing director, worked in the Excess Casualty
Unit of Marsh Global Broking, a Marsh Inc. unit.  
 Lawsuit Settled  
 New York-based Marsh, the world’s second biggest insurance
broker, lost almost half its market value, ousted former Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Greenberg  and settled a related civil
lawsuit filed by Spitzer in 2005, paying $850 million to resolve
accusations that it rigged bids and took kickbacks from
insurers.  
 Christine Walton , a Marsh spokeswoman, declined to comment.  
 In April 2008, Yates sentenced Gilman and McNenney to 16
weekends in jail, 250 hours of community service and probation.
They didn’t have to serve the sentences while they appealed to
the Appellate Division, Spinogatti said. That appeal is still
pending, according to Yates’ decision.  
 Gilman and McNenney, who also asked Yates to toss their
convictions, claim that in May 2009, during a trial of three
other defendants, they discovered the New York Attorney
General’s office failed to produce exculpatory and impeaching
evidence.  
 The undisclosed material includes 700,000 pages of
documents from Liberty International Insurance Co. that
allegedly belies the prosecution’s theory that Liberty and other
insurance companies joined a conspiracy to fix prices, rig bids
and allocate customers, Yates said in the decision.  
 Hidden Promises  
 The defense said cooperators also got hidden promises of
leniency beyond those in their written agreements, according to
the ruling.  
 Todd Murphy , a Marsh Global Broking coordinator, said at
the trial in September 2007 that his only expectation from
Cuomo’s office for his testimony was related to his sentence,
according to the judge. In June 2008, Murphy twice testified
that Cuomo’s office made an “off the record” offer to reduce
the charges for people who cooperated from misdemeanors to
violations.  
 Yates said that while such an inducement was a serious
claim, Cuomo’s office denied any side deal with Murphy and said
the claim was too vague to be credited.  
 The two men’s convictions rested on testimony from six
witnesses who all had “very favorable cooperation agreements,”
the judge said. Before, during and after the trial, those
witness also gave sworn testimony “discrediting, even
contradicting, their trial testimony,” Yates said.  
 Executives Acquitted  
 In October, Yates acquitted the three other former Marsh
executives on charges of bid-rigging and price-fixing after an
11-month trial. Former managing directors  Joseph Peiser  and
 Kathleen Drake  and former Senior Vice President  Greg Doherty 
were found not guilty by Yates of scheming to defraud and
antitrust under the general business law.  
 In November, Yates dismissed charges against former Marsh
executives  William McBurnie  and  Thomas Green  and former Zurich
executive Geri Mandel at the request of Cuomo, who after the
earlier acquittal said the prosecution was costing too much.  
 In January, Yates allowed former Marsh employees  Robert Stearns  and  Kathryn Winter  and former Zurich Financial Services
AG employee  James Spiegel  to withdraw their guilty pleas to
felony charges of participating in a scheme to defraud. The
judge agreed to reduce the charges to misdemeanors and said he
would dismiss the charges if the three abided by plea
agreements.  
 Yates also dismissed charges against six people who
previously pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges related to
alleged bid-rigging.  
 The case is People of the State of New York v. Doherty,
04800-2005, New York State Supreme Court, County of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Former managing director at Marsh, Edward McNenney  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Former managing director at Marsh  & McLennan Cos. Edward McNenney. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Former managing director at Marsh  & McLennan Cos. Edward McNenney. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Former Marsh & McLennan Cos. managing director William Gilman. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
