-- Extended Stay Bankruptcy Plan Draws U.S. Objection Over Lawsuit Releases
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-07-07T23:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/extended-stay-bankruptcy-plan-draws-u-s-objection-over-lawsuit-releases.html

          
          
             Extended Stay Inc.’s bankruptcy
restructuring plan drew an objection from the U.S. government
over provisions that protect the hotel chain’s owner from
creditor lawsuits.  
 The plan contains “improper” releases that “are not
justified,” the U.S. Trustee’s office, an arm of the Justice
Department that oversees bankruptcies, said in a filing today in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  
 Extended Stay, based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, has
proposed selling its hotels to Centerbridge Partners LP, Paulson
& Co. and Blackstone Group LP for $3.9 billion. The proceeds
will be used to pay down the company’s $4.1 billion mortgage
debt.  
 The releases in the bankruptcy plan prevent creditors from
suing Extended Stay owner Lightstone Group and its founder  David Lichtenstein , among others, the U.S. Trustee said in its court
filing. Lichtenstein led an investment group that acquired
Extended Stay in 2007.  
 Lawyers for Extended Stay, the committee representing
unsecured creditors and Lightstone couldn’t be reached for
comment.  
 The creditors committee has sought court permission to sue
Lightstone and others involved in the buyout. Citing a court-
ordered investigation, the creditors say the buyout saddled the
hotel chain with more debt than it could handle. Distributions
to unsecured creditors, including a group of mezzanine lenders
owed $3.3 billion, are limited to the proceeds from lawsuits,
according to court papers.  
 Unsecured creditors will receive less under the bankruptcy
plan than if the case was converted to a liquidation because of
the restrictions placed on lawsuits, the U.S. Trustee said in
its court filing.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        