-- Uniqlo Parent's Sales Growth May Slow as Hit Products Fade Out
-- Naoko Fujimura
-- 2010-07-08T08:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/fast-retailing-sales-growth-may-slow-as-popularity-of-uniqlo-clothes-wanes.html

          
          
             Fast Retailing Co. , Asia’s biggest
clothing retailer, cut its profit  forecast  as sales growth
slowed the most in four years on the waning popularity of
designs at its Uniqlo chain.  
 The company cut its  net income  estimate 4.9 percent to 67.5
billion yen ($763 million) for the year ending August, it said
in a statement today. “There was a problem with our marketing,
so we will improve our marketing right away,” Chief Financial
Officer  Hidetsugu Onishi  said at a briefing in Tokyo today.  
 The  operator  of the Uniqlo chain has lost 27 percent of its
market value this year, making it the  biggest loser  among
retailers in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  this year. President
 Tadashi Yanai , Japan’s richest man, has cut prices to offset a
lack of hit products such as the 50 million items of HeatTech
thermal wear sold last winter, and the 9 million Bra Top
camisoles sold last year.  
 “Uniqlo hasn’t got a mega hit product this year unlike the
past few seasons,” said  Koichi Ogawa , chief portfolio manager
at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo. “No one can keep wearing
just Uniqlo, which is often basic, even as they are feeling the
pinch on their pocketbooks.”  
 Confusing Customers  
 Fast Retailing  also lowered its full-year sales estimate
2.3 percent to 815 billion yen. Cold weather, confusing
customers with too many designs and insufficient stock of
popular products also hurt Uniqlo’s same-store sales, Onishi
said.  
 Yamaguchi, Japan-based  Fast Retailing  fell 0.1 percent to
close at 12,720 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The benchmark
Topix index jumped 2.3 percent.  The stock  surged 35 percent last
year and 63 percent in 2008.  
 Sales  increased  4.7 percent to 188.1 billion yen in the 
three months ended May. That would be the weakest growth since 
at least the quarter ended November 2006.  Net income  fell
16 percent to 11.8 billion yen last quarter. The figures were
derived by subtracting first-half results from nine-month
earnings the company announced today.  
 Sales at Uniqlo stores  open at least a year fell 16 percent
in March, the most in seven years, and 12 percent in April. They
rose 3.1 percent in May when the company cut the prices of jeans
and polo shirts to 990 yen from 1,990 yen for three days. The
slump returned in June and sales fell 5.8 percent amid weak
demand for Uniqlo’s summer lines.  
 Japan Unemployment  
 Comparable or same-store sales strip out the effect of
newly opened outlets. Uniqlo had 809 stores in Japan, accounting
for 86 percent of the total 944 outlets, as of May 31.  
 Government reports last week showed the  unemployment rate 
in the world’s second-biggest economy reached a five-month high
of 5.2 percent in May, while household spending fell for a
second month.  
 Still, some of Fast Retailing’s competitors performed
better.  
 Casual-clothing chain  United Arrows Ltd. ’s comparable sales
at its 182 Japan stores gained every month from April, rising
0.8 percent last month.  Honeys Co. , with 887 clothing stores in
Japan, increased sales by 1.1 percent in June.  
 Yanai, who is 61 and holds a 27 percent  stake  in the
company, is trying to boost Uniqlo sales by introducing new
products including Sarafine and Silky Dry underwear.  
 Fast Retailing  derived 92 percent of  operating profit  in
Japan in the three months ended February, compared with 98
percent in the quarter ended November 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In the nine months through May, the
company earned 95 percent of operating profit in Japan.  
 Overseas Expansion  
 The company started expanding abroad in 2001, opening
stores in the U.K. to reduce its reliance on Japan, where
consumer spending has stagnated as the population ages and
declines. It opened a store in New York’s Soho district in 2006
and across the road from Paris’ Galeries Lafayette department
store last year.  
 Fast Retailing  expects overseas sales to overtake domestic
revenue as soon as 2014, driven by the opening of Uniqlo stores
in China and South Korea, Yanai said in March.  
 “It will take at least three years for Fast Retailing’s
overseas sales to contribute to the company’s  profit ,” said
 Mikihiko Yamato , an analyst at Japaninvest KK, who has a
“neutral” rating on the stock.  
 Yanai said in May he will increase Uniqlo stores in China
to 1,000 within 10 years, from 47 outlets in February. The
company plans to open a store on New York’s Fifth Avenue and to
enter Malaysia.  
 “Real growth will come from overseas sales, but it won’t
be easy,” said  Edwin Merner , president of Atlantis Investment
Research Corp. in Tokyo, which manages about $3 billion. While
“it has a strong  balance sheet , good management and can do well
over the long term,” Fast Retailing is still in the early
stages of overseas expansion, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tadashi Yanai, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Fast Retailing Co., speaks while visiting Shanghai, China. Photographer: Kevin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
