-- Hoenig, Fisher Say Stimulus Isn't Needed to Assure a Recovery
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-07-08T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/fed-s-hoenig-fisher-say-additional-stimulus-not-needed-to-assure-recovery.html

          
          
             The presidents of the Federal Reserve
Banks of Kansas City and Dallas indicated the U.S. is unlikely
to slide back into a recession and said additional stimulus
isn’t needed even as the pace of growth slows.  
 The Kansas City Fed’s  Thomas Hoenig  repeated his view that
the central bank should raise its benchmark interest rate to 1
percent to stave off the risks of asset-price bubbles and
inflation. The Dallas Fed’s  Richard Fisher  said there’s no need
for additional asset purchases by the central bank.  
 “I am not saying raise rates to very high levels, I am
saying get it off zero,” Hoenig said yesterday in an interview
in Kansas City on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with
Kathleen Hays. “I think we’ve done enough” to boost the
economy, Fisher said in an interview with CNBC.  
 Their comments followed a report last week showing private
payrolls increased less than forecast in June, capping a month
of data signaling the world’s largest economy is slowing.
Analysts including  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist with CIBC
World Markets in Toronto, and former Richmond Fed President J.
 Alfred Broaddus  have said weakness in the economy increases the
chances the Fed would resume expanding its balance sheet.  
 “We will continue to have modest, consistent growth”
unless confidence falters or there is another shock to the
economy, Hoenig said, lowering his forecast to “about” 3
percent this year from “above” 3 percent. “The economy will
continue to move forward, just not as quickly as you would
like.”  
 Sole Dissenter  
 Hoenig, 63, has been the sole policy maker to dissent this
year from decisions of the Federal Open Market Committee,
objecting four times to its pledge to keep interest rates at a
record low for an “extended period.”  
 He also said the central bank should dispose of assets
accumulated while fighting the crisis “as reasonably as we can,
as quickly as we can.” While he has proposed raising the target
for overnight loans among banks to 1 percent by September,
Hoenig said in the interview that the timing “can be debated.”  
 Fisher indicated there’s little more the Fed can do after
cutting interest rates to a record low in December 2008 and
pumping more than $1 trillion into the financial system through
asset purchases.  
 “We ought to be very careful about not going too far,” he
said. “ Interest rates  are zero. It’s not the cost of money
that’s the issue.”  
 Health Care  
 Fisher, who doesn’t vote on interest rates this year, said
companies are holding back on investment because of uncertainty
over government regulations in areas such as health care.  
 He said he expects the world’s largest economy to slow in
the second half of the year as the contribution from business
inventories wanes, although “I don’t think we’re going to go
backwards” into another recession.  
 Asked about the prospect of additional asset purchases,
Fisher said: “I’m not ruling it out, I’m just saying we have
provided a lot of accommodation, there’s a lot of buildup of
liquidity, there’s a lot of cash.”  
 Fisher, along with  James Bullard  of St. Louis and
Philadelphia Fed’s  Charles Plosser , has also expressed
reservations about the “extended period” language. Richmond
Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he was “just sort of
marginally comfortable” with the phrase.  
 Employment at companies rose 83,000 last month, compared
with the 110,000 gain forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Including government, payrolls fell for the first time
this year because of a drop in federal census workers.  
 Policy ‘Appropriate’  
 “Recent developments make me even more convinced that
current policy is appropriate,” Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said June 30.  
 Paul Krugman , a Princeton University economist and Nobel
laureate, has called for an expansion of the Fed’s balance sheet
and increased government spending to spur the economy.  
 “We are looking at what could be a very long siege here,”
Krugman said in an interview this week in Princeton, New Jersey.
“We really are at a stage where we should have a kitchen-sink
strategy. We should be throwing everything we can get at this.”  
 The Federal Open Market Committee last month signaled
Europe’s debt crisis may harm American growth. The crisis has
battered stocks, propelling a 12 percent decline in the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index  from April through June, the biggest since
the last three months of 2008.  
 Stock Rally  
 U.S. Stocks rallied yesterday, sending benchmark indexes up
the most since May, as the International Council of Shopping
Centers said sales were growing at the fastest pace since 2006,
easing concern that a slump in consumer confidence will
undermine the economic recovery. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 3.1 percent to 1,060.27.  
 The Fed has left the overnight interbank lending rate
target at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The central
bank started using the “extended period” language in March
2009.  
 The Fed in March of this year ended its emergency purchases
of $1.425 trillion of housing debt intended to hold down
borrowing costs and prop up the real estate market at the center
of the financial crisis.  
 The economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, less than the 3 percent estimate a month earlier,
according to Commerce Department data released June 25.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Kansas City at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Thomas Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, waits to speak at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce's Capital Markets Summit in Washington. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Ramscar, director wealth management at Financial Partners, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for global economy.
     Ramscar also discusses the outlook for gold, and U.S. and China stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
