-- Fed's Hoenig Says Central Bank Should Increase Target Interest Rate to 1%
-- Kathleen Hays
-- 2010-07-07T18:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/fed-s-hoenig-says-central-bank-should-increase-target-interest-rate-to-1-.html

          
          
             Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank
President  Thomas Hoenig  repeated his view the Fed should raise
its target rate to 1 percent, even as some economic reports
indicate the recovery is slowing.  
 “I am not saying raise rates to very high levels, I am
saying get it off zero,” Hoenig said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage,” with  Kathleen Hays .
“What I am advocating is a policy of shooting toward
normality.” He said he didn’t think a “1 percent interest rate
would be harmful to the economy.”  
 Hoenig, 63, has been the sole policy maker to dissent this
year from decisions of the Federal Open Market Committee,
objecting four times to its pledge to keep interest rates at a
record low for an “extended period.” Hoenig today said
borrowing costs near zero risk fueling asset-price bubbles and
may set the stage for an outbreak of inflation when the economy
recovers.  
 Hoenig said he expects the economy to expand “about 3
percent this year,” less than his earlier forecast for growth
of “above 3 percent.” He also said the central bank should
dispose of assets accumulated while fighting the financial
crisis “as reasonably as we can, as quickly as we can.”  
 “We are not on a strong growth” path, said Hoenig, who
took office in 1991 and is the Fed’s longest-serving policy
maker. “I think we will continue to have modest, consistent
growth” unless confidence falters or there is another shock to
the economy. “The economy will continue to move forward, just
not as quickly as you would like.”  
 ‘Accommodative Policy’  
 “Sizable” fiscal stimulus and “accommodative monetary
policy” will propel growth, he said.  
 The recovery may be slowing after smaller-than-forecast
growth in private payrolls for June capped a month of data
indicating weakness in industries from housing to manufacturing.  
 Employment at companies rose 83,000 last month, compared
with the 110,000 gain forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Including government, payrolls fell for the first time
this year because of a drop in federal census workers.  
 “Recent developments make me even more convinced that
current policy is appropriate,” Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said June 30.  
 Hoenig, by contrast, said keeping rates at zero for too
long can lead to bubbles such as the housing boom of the past
decade that contributed to the deepest recession since the
1930s. While he backed higher rates, he said the timing “can be
debated.”  
 Deflation Unlikely  
 “We are creating the environment for imbalances in the
longer term,” he said, although “Inflation is not a problem in
the near term.” He added that “sustained deflation,” or a
persistent decline in prices, is possible though unlikely.  
 Hoenig said he’s monitoring gains in the prices of Midwest
farmland, noting a quarterly survey by the Kansas City Fed has
shown increases this year. “I have seen land values move
again” he said, while adding he is “not smart enough” to
identify a bubble as it is emerging.  
 Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher ,  James Bullard  of St.
Louis and Philadelphia Fed’s  Charles Plosser  have also expressed
reservations about the “extended period” language. Richmond
Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said he was “just sort of
marginally comfortable” with the phrase.  
 ‘Done Enough’  
 Fisher, in an interview today with CNBC, said that while
the economy is slowing, there’s little risk it will sink back
into a recession and policy makers have “done enough” to spur
growth.  
 “I don’t think we’re going to go backwards,” Fisher said.
“We ought to be very careful about not going too far. Interest
rates are zero. It’s not the cost of money that’s the issue.”  
 Fisher said companies are holding back on investment
because of uncertainty over government regulations in areas such
as health care.  
 The Federal Open Market Committee last month signaled
Europe’s debt crisis may harm American growth. The crisis has
battered stocks, propelling a 12 percent decline in the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index  from April through June, the biggest since
the last three months of 2008.  
 The Fed has left the overnight interbank lending rate
target at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008. The central bank started using the “extended period”
language in March 2009.  
 The Fed in March of this year ended its emergency purchases
of $1.425 trillion of housing debt intended to hold down
borrowing costs and prop up the real estate market at the center
of the financial crisis.  
 Balance Sheet  
 Analysts including  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist with
CIBC World Markets in Toronto, and former Richmond Fed President
 J. Alfred Broaddus  have said weakness in the economy increases
the chances the Fed would resume expanding its balance sheet.  
 The economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, less than the 3 percent estimate a month earlier,
according to Commerce Department data released June 25.  
 Hoenig also endorsed the financial regulatory overhaul bill
that Congress is considering, though he said it could have been
improved.  
 “I would go ahead and pass it,” he said. “This is a step
that can enhance the stability of the system if it is
implemented well.”  
 The House of Representatives approved a bill on June 30
that creates a new consumer financial protection bureau at the
Fed, gives regulators new powers to liquidate failing financial
firms whose collapse would threaten the economy and sets up a
council of regulators to monitor systemic risks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Kansas City at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        