-- Firearms Retailer Group, Futures Trader Sue Chicago Over New Gun Law
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-07T18:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/firearms-retailer-group-futures-trader-sue-chicago-over-new-gun-law.html

          
          
             A Chicago Mercantile Exchange trader
and three other people have joined with the Illinois Association
of Firearms Retailers to sue the city of Chicago over a
restrictive gun law passed by its legislators last week.  
 The gun-owning plaintiffs, who include a teacher’s aide and
a married couple, claim the new ordinance restricting handgun
possession to inside the home and mandating firearms training
and permitting is unconstitutional.  
 The measure imposes “new restrictions that have the
purpose and effect of preventing plaintiffs and other law-
abiding residents of Chicago from exercising their fundamental
right to keep and carry firearms for self defense and other
lawful purposes,” the plaintiffs said in a complaint filed
yesterday in the city’s federal courthouse.  
 Ruling in a case challenging Chicago’s earlier ban on
handgun possession, by a 5-4 vote, the U.S. Supreme Court on
June 28 said the constitutional right to bear arms binds states
and municipalities.  
 Chicago’s new law was passed by the city council 45-0 four
days later.  
 “We believe that Chicago’s ordinance is a reasonable
attempt to balance the right of individuals to possess handguns
in the home for self-defense with the substantial risks to
public safety that are associated with the proliferation of
firearms,”  Jennifer Hoyle , a spokeswoman for the city’s law
department, said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 ‘Gun Violence’  
 The high court decision “effectively overturned” the
city’s handgun ban, Mayor  Richard M. Daley  said in a July 2
press statement announcing the new ordinance. He is a named
defendant in the lawsuit.  
 Chicago’s new ordinance is intended to keep guns away from
gang members and drug dealers, while ensuring that those who
lawfully possess them know how to use them, Daley said then.  
 “I understand that people need to feel safe in their
homes,” the mayor said.  
 The new law limits possession of handguns to the home and
possession of long guns to places of business. It also bars the
establishment of shooting ranges within the city’s limits and
says people younger than 21 can’t obtain a gun permit without
the written consent of a parent or guardian.  
 Were it not for the new law, CME trader Brett Benson, 37,
of Chicago “would on occasion carry a hand gun for self-defense
when outside the home,” according to the complaint.  
 High-Crime Neighborhood  
 The teacher’s aide, Raymond Sledge, 53, of Chicago, said he
and his mother live in a high-crime neighborhood and that the
new law bars him from carrying a gun from his house to his
garage.  
 Veterinarian Kathryn Tyler, who joined in the suit with her
husband, Kenneth Pacholski of Chicago, said she would prefer to
keep a handgun in her office rather than a shotgun because the
smaller weapon would be easier to use.  
 The retailer’s association, based in Carbondale, Illinois,
claims it has members who want to sell guns and operate firing
ranges within the city, yet can’t due to the law.  
 The plaintiffs seek a court order declaring the
restrictions unconstitutional.  
 In its June 28 ruling and in a 2008 decision, the high
court rejected the notion of “a right to keep and carry any
weapon whatsoever in any manner whatsoever and for whatever
purpose,” Hoyle said.  
 The plaintiff owners and dealers, she said, were seeking to
“greatly expand” upon the justices’ recognition of a right to
possess a firearm for self defense, she said.  
 The case is Benson v. City of Chicago, 10cv4184, in the
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        