-- Ford's Indian Parts Supplier May Post First Annual Profit in Three Years
-- Hemal Savai
-- 2010-07-07T12:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/ford-s-indian-parts-supplier-may-post-first-annual-profit-in-three-years.html

          
          
             Rico Auto Industries Ltd. , an Indian
supplier of parts to General Motors Co. and Ford Motor Co.,
expects to post its first annual profit in three years as demand
for cars and motorcycles surges in the South Asian nation.  
 “We will be showing better results, which you will see
from quarter-to-quarter now,” Managing Director  Arvind Kapur 
said in an interview today. “The good situation for the auto
industry will remain for the next 10 to 15 years.”  
 Rico, based in the New Delhi suburb of Gurgaon, saw its  net
loss  shrink to 49 million rupees ($1 million) in the year ended
March 2010 from a loss of 53.6 million rupees the previous year.
The company, which gets 80 percent of its revenue from the
domestic market, expects sales to rise 58 percent to 15 billion
rupees this year, Kapur said.  
 Rising salaries and accelerating growth in Asia’s third-
largest economy is boosting demand for cars made by General
Motors and  Toyota Motor Corp.  helping auto part makers win more
orders. The $1.2 trillion economy may expand 8.5 percent in the
current financial year and 9 percent next year, according to
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee.  
 Rico Auto shares, which have declined 12.6 percent this
year, were  unchanged  at 25.75 rupees in Mumbai today after
surging as much as 3.9 percent.  
 The company manufactures fuel systems, cylinder head covers,
clutch assembly and brake discs, according to its  website . It is
setting up a new plant in Haryana state, which will start
production by the end of the year. Rico Auto plans to expand
capacity at its plant in the state of Rajasthan by the middle of
next year, Kapur said.  
 Automakers including Toyota and  Volkswagen AG  are expanding
in India, where sales may reach 3 million units a year by 2015,
according to a forecast by the government. Toyota said yesterday
that it will spend 5 billion rupees ($107 million) on an engine
and transmission facility for its Etios model that will debut
later this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hemal Savai  in Mumbai at  at
 hsavai@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        