-- French Prosecutor Says Investigation Opened Into Sarkozy Funding Claims
-- Heather Smith
-- 2010-07-07T13:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/french-prosecutor-says-investigation-opened-into-sarkozy-funding-claims.html

          
          
             French prosecutors opened an
investigation into claims that  Nicolas Sarkozy  and his party
received cash donations during his 2007 presidential campaign.  
 The preliminary probe was undertaken after a report
yesterday by the online news service Mediapart that Sarkozy’s
Union for a Popular Movement party got 150,000 euros ($188,600)
in cash from  L’Oreal SA  heiress  Liliane Bettencourt  to fund the
campaign, Astrid Granoux, a spokeswoman for the prosecutor in
Nanterre, said in a telephone interview.  
 The disclosures and investigation come as Sarkozy’s poll
ratings decline under mounting criticism. Labor Minister  Eric Woerth , the UMP’s then treasurer, is leading Sarkozy’s effort to
curb pension spending by raising the retirement age.  
 “We will not concede to this turmoil,” Prime Minister
 Francois Fillon  said today in Paris in a speech to his party’s
local officials. He dismissed the reports of cash gifts as
“rumor and suspicion.” Sarkozy and Woerth yesterday also
rejected the reports as untrue.  
 A BVA institute poll for  L’Express magazine  released
yesterday showed Sarkozy’s popularity dropped 3 percentage
points to 33 percent, matching the April 2008 low.  
 The assertion of the cash donation was made by
Bettencourt’s former accountant to Mediapart and during her
questioning by the police on July 5, her lawyer, Antoine Gillot,
said yesterday in an interview.  
 French regulations allow a maximum 7,500-euro donation from
non-party members to a party annually. Cash gifts are capped at
150 euros. Individual contributions aren’t publicly declared.  
 ‘Total Transparency’  
 “There is total transparency on political parties and
candidates,” government spokesman  Luc Chatel  said today after
the weekly Cabinet meeting. “There is both transparency and
respect for private life.”  
 In the 2007 campaign, UMP funding totalled 58.6 million
euros, including 9.1 million euros in gifts,  government reports
show . The Socialists’ funds totalled 63.5 million euros,
including 743,432 euros in gifts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        