-- Full New Jersey Assembly to Pass Property-Tax Cap, Democratic Speaker Says
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-07T19:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/full-new-jersey-assembly-to-pass-property-tax-cap-budget-chairman-says.html

          
          
             Lawmakers in the Democratic-led  New
Jersey  Assembly will back the annual limit on property-tax
increases announced last week by Senate Democrats and Governor
 Chris Christie , Speaker  Sheila Oliver  said.  
 Oliver met for more than two hours with her party in the
state capitol building in Trenton today to discuss the proposal
and Christie’s 33-point  package  of legislation aimed at
controlling property taxes. The full Senate is expected to
approve the measure tomorrow, according to President  Stephen Sweeney . Oliver, whose party controls the Assembly 47-33, didn’t
set a date for the vote.  
 “We know that the residents of this state want to see some
restraints put on taxes,” said Oliver, a Democrat from East
Orange, who declined to tell reporters in Trenton when her house
will vote on the plan. “They certainly don’t want us to wait
six months.”  
 Christie, a Republican who took office Jan. 19, and the
Democratic-led Legislature announced an agreement July 3 on the
plan to rein in the state’s property taxes, which are the
highest in the U.S. at an  average  of $7,281 in 2009, up 72
percent since 1999.  
 The governor, 47, had called for a constitutional amendment
capping increases in the levies at 2.5 percent and allowing
communities to exceed it only for bond payments or through a
referendum. Christie dropped that demand and agreed to more
exemptions after facing resistance from legislators.  
 Tax Pact  
 Under the pact, the tax increases would be capped at 2
percent with exemptions for rising health-insurance costs, bond
payments, natural disasters and pension costs, Christie told
reporters July 3 in Trenton. Communities also would be able to
exceed the cap with the approval of a simple majority of voters
in a public referendum.  
 Assembly Budget Committee Chairman  Louis Greenwald , a
Democrat from Cherry Hill, said his panel will debate Christie’s
package of nearly three-dozen measures throughout the summer.
The initiatives include allowing towns to opt out of civil
service guidelines and changing the union arbitration process to
bring down employee costs.  
 Oliver said the Assembly lawmakers will examine whether a
tax-cap would limit the ability of towns and schools to have
enough revenue to compensate for any rise in uncollected levies,
increased special education costs or the loss of state aid. The
issues will be addressed during deliberations on Christie’s
package of tax measures, she said.  
 ‘New Dynamic’  
 “I don’t know if it will be this week,” Assembly Budget
Officer  Joseph Malone , a Republican from Bordentown, said of the
vote. He said the compromise shows there is a “new dynamic” in
Trenton and “the world is no longer round; it is flat, and we
have to understand that.”  
 Had the plan been in place from 1999 to last year, the
average homeowner in Ridgewood would have saved $3,522 in tax
payments over that decade, according to data released by
Christie’s office. In Millburn Township, a community of about
20,000 people that sits 30 minutes west of Manhattan by car, the
cap would have saved homeowners $6,753 on average during that
period.  
 Christie said the plan will drive down taxes by reducing
the current 4 percent threshold by half. A provision requiring
voter approval to exceed the cap will give the public a voice in
taxation, he added.  
 ‘Time to Act’  
 “Now is the time to act, not hesitate,” said Christie
yesterday. “The stakes are too high for New Jersey families who
are struggling to make ends meet and fighting to stay in their
own homes to delay any longer in providing real, meaningful
property tax relief.”  
 Joseph Marbach , a political scientist and dean of the
College of Arts and Sciences at Seton Hall University in South
Orange, said both sides gave up central tenets during
negotiations over the compromise. Legislators and Christie each
got “a fair amount” of what they sought, he said.  
 “I would give this one to the Legislature,” he said in an
interview. “It’s not going to be a constitutional amendment and
that’s what he was really pressing for. They got him to back
down from of one of the central components of his plan.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        