-- German Factory Orders Unexpectedly Fell 0.5% in May; April Growth Revised
-- Simon Berberich
-- 2010-07-07T10:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/german-factory-orders-unexpectedly-fell-0-5-in-may-april-growth-revised.html

          
          
             German  factory orders  unexpectedly
fell for the first time in five months in May as demand for
goods made in Europe’s largest economy waned across the 16-
nation euro region.  
 Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
declined 0.5 percent from April, when they rose a revised 3.2
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
had forecast a 0.3 percent gain for May, according to the median
of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . From a year earlier,
orders increased 24.8 percent.  
 Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has pushed the euro down 17
percent against the dollar since late November, making exports
to countries outside the currency bloc more competitive just as
the global recovery gathered pace. With governments cutting
spending to convince investors that budget deficits are under
control, growth in the euro area, Germany’s biggest export
market, may slow.  
 “You have to see today’s decline in orders in the context
of strong increases in the previous months,” said  Klaus Schruefer , an economist at SEB Bank AG in Frankfurt. “It
doesn’t throw the German economy off its recovery track.”  
 The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.2566 at 12:16 p.m. in Frankfurt.  
 Business Confidence  
 Domestic factory orders fell 0.6 percent in May from April,
today’s report showed. A 0.3 percent decline in export orders
was solely due to a 3.3 percent drop in demand from euro-area
countries. Orders from outside the region rose 1.8 percent. The
ministry said the number of big-ticket orders in May was below
average. It revised its estimate for the increase in April
orders from 2.8 percent.  
 Basic goods orders fell 2.3 percent, investment goods
orders rose 0.4 percent and consumer goods orders jumped 3.6
percent, the report showed.  
 Investor confidence plunged last month on concern the debt
crisis will curb economic growth. Germany’s benchmark  DAX stock
index  has dropped 6 percent in the past two weeks.  
 Still,  business confidence  unexpectedly rose to a two-year
high in June. Germany’s  Bayerische Motorenwerke AG , the world’s
largest luxury automaker, on July 2 forecast it will sell
120,000 cars and sport-utility vehicles in China this year after
first-half deliveries doubled.  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s biggest
carmaker, said on June 16 it expects profits and deliveries to
rise “significantly” in 2010.  
 ‘Strong Demand’  
 “We’re still benefitting from the strong demand for German
goods in Asia and emerging markets,” said  Alexander Koch , an
economist at UniCredit in Munich. “We expect this to continue
until around the middle of the year, when growth will start to
slow.”  
 The Bundesbank raised its growth forecasts for Germany on
June 11, predicting expansion of 1.9 percent this year and 1.4
percent in 2011. The economy contracted 4.9 percent last year,
the most since World War II.  
 The European Central Bank has been lending banks as much
money as they need in an effort to get credit flowing through
the euro-region economy and stimulate growth. The ECB will leave
its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent when
policy makers convene in Frankfurt tomorrow, according to all 55
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Berberich  in Frankfurt at 
 sberberich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Bayerische Motoren Werke AG employee polishes the hood ornament logo on a 5-series automobile at the company's factory in Dingolfing, Germany. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
