-- Bunds Fall on Speculation Bank Stress-Test Assumptions Less Than Predicted
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-07T16:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/german-bonds-advance-as-concerns-about-growth-weaker-stocks-boost-demand.html

          
          
             German 10-year bonds dropped on
speculation planned stress tests on banks will assume smaller
losses on some government debt than analysts predicted.  
 Spanish securities rose as European stocks advanced.
European Union regulators told the region’s banks the tests may
assume a loss of about 17 percent on Greek government debt and 3
percent on Spanish bonds while there are unlikely to be so-
called haircuts on German government securities, according to
two people who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. Bunds rose earlier after a report that showed the
nation’s factory orders unexpectedly fell for the first time in
five months in May.  
 The gain in Spain’s bonds “is probably a stress-test-
related performance -- Spanish banks have posted gains and
Spanish stocks outperformed,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a
strategist at UniCredit SpA in London. “The stress test
haircuts are not as bad as expected.”  
 The benchmark bund yield rose one basis point to 2.60
percent as of 5 p.m. in London. The 3 percent security maturing
in July 2020 slid 0.07, or 70 euro cents per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 103.46. The two-year note yield rose three basis
points to 0.68 percent.  
 Spanish 10-year bonds rose, sending the yield four basis
points lower to 4.67 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed
1.4 percent.  
 Portugal Bonds  
 Portugal’s borrowing costs fell at an auction of 762
million euros ($960 million) of bills due in January 2011.  
 The securities were issued at an average yield of 1.947
percent, the country’s debt management agency said. That
compares with an average yield of 2.955 percent at a May 5
auction of six-month bills due in November.  
 German bonds earlier gained amid evidence the economic
recovery is flagging, boosting the allure of fixed-income
assets.  
 German factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, declined 0.5 percent from April, when they rose a
revised 3.2 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a 0.3 percent gain, according to the
median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “The data was a bit weaker than expected,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse AG in
Zurich.  
 Bund Returns  
 Bunds have held their gains from the first half of the
year, which pushed the  yield  to its lowest since at least 1990.
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has boosted demand for the safest
assets and triggered concern the economic recovery may falter
amid national austerity measures.  
 German debt has returned 6.9 percent so far this year,
compared with 6.1 percent for U.S. Treasuries and 6.4 percent
for U.K. gilts, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts’ Societies.  
 German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet today approved a
four-year package of budget cuts worth 91.6 billion euros,
stepping up pressure on fellow European governments to manage
their deficits.  
 “The debt crisis and the increasing saving efforts of the
euro-area member states are creating a difficult economic
environment,”  Viola Stork , an economist at Helaba Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt, wrote today in a report. “The
environment remains favorable for the bond market. Bunds are
especially popular thanks to their safe-haven status.”  
 Germany sold 4.02 billion euros of bunds at an average
yield of 2.56 percent today, down from 2.67 percent the last
time the bonds were sold on June 16. They attracted bids for 1.4
times the amount sold, down from a bid-to-cover ratio of 1.6 in
June.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Chatwell, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, talks about the outlook for German government bonds.
     Chatwell, speaking with Deidre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses German Chancellor Angela Merkel's proposed budget cuts. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
