-- Gillard Says Australia to Review Carbon-Trading Legislation Plans in 2012
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-07-07T23:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/gillard-says-australia-to-review-carbon-trading-legislation-plans-in-2012.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said her government intends to review plans for a
carbon-trading system in 2012 and that setting a price for
carbon is best done through the market.  
 “We will review in 2012 the nature of community consensus
in Australia about the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme, the
progress internationally on pricing carbon and combating climate
change,” Gillard, who became the nation’s first female prime
minister after ousting  Kevin Rudd  last month, told Australian
Broadcasting Corp.’s Lateline program yesterday.  
 Rudd in April shelved the so-called CPRS until 2012 amid
opposition from lawmakers, almost four months after some 190
nations failed to agree on a binding greenhouse gas treaty at
talks in Copenhagen. The proposal had aimed to cut emissions by
5 percent through an emissions-trading scheme. It would tax
companies with high emissions such as energy, steel and cement
producers and offset the charges with free emissions permits and
financial compensation.  
 “The pricing of carbon I think is best done through a
market-based mechanism, that is the Carbon Pollution Reduction
Scheme, and the 2012 timeframe stands,” Gillard told the ABC
late yesterday. “I believe the nation wants to reduce its
carbon footprint, so we’ll be talking about that and speaking
about what we can do in the lead up to a decision in 2012.”  
 Gillard’s Australian Labor Party doesn’t control the upper
house Senate, which rejected the climate bill twice last year
and again in February. The government needs support from either
the Greens Party and two independent senators or from the
opposition coalition to pass legislation.  
 Gillard has said national elections will be held this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        