-- GM Is Nearing Sale of Its Nexteer Steering Business
-- Jeff Green
-- 2010-07-07T18:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/gm-is-nearing-agreement-to-sell-its-nexteer-steering-components-business.html

          
          
             General Motors Co., the largest U.S.
automaker, has almost completed a deal to sell its Nexteer
Automotive steering-parts unit, said  Kim Carpenter , a GM
spokeswoman. She declined to name the remaining bidders.  
 GM acquired Nexteer from Delphi Corp. last year and is
selling the steering business because it is deemed to be a non-
core asset. A deal may be announced as soon as today, said two
people familiar with the matter. The price may be about $450
million, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private.  
 Selling Saginaw, Michigan-based Nexteer will allow GM to
focus on engineering core parts of the car, like engines and
transmissions, while outsourcing smaller systems to parts
suppliers, said  Mike Wall , an analyst with IHS Automotive, a
research firm based in Lexington, Massachusetts.  
 “GM doesn’t need to be the expert in steering,” Wall
said. “They can buy that from someone else. For some of these
Asian parts companies, it makes sense to get into other parts
businesses.”  
 Nexteer had $2.1 billion in revenue in 2008, almost half of
it from GM. The unit has 6,200 employees, 22 manufacturing sites
and 60 global customers. GM said in January it would sell the
steering unit.  
 The automaker bought the business from Troy, Michigan-based
Delphi as GM’s former parts unit emerged from bankruptcy in
October. Detroit-based GM exited its own bankruptcy in July
2009, with the U.S. government holding a 61 percent stake.  
 GM is preparing for an initial public offering that may
sell 20 percent of the Treasury’s stake, reducing the U.S. to a
minority owner, two people familiar with the plan said last
month.  
 GM, which spun off Delphi in 1999, bought back the global
steering business and factories in Wyoming, Michigan; Kokomo,
Indiana; and Rochester and Lockport, New York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        