-- GM Agrees to Sell Nexteer to Pacific Century Motors
-- Mark Clothier
-- 2010-07-07T19:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/gm-reaches-accord-to-sell-nexteer-steering-unit-to-pacific-century-motors.html

          
          
             General Motors Co., the largest U.S.
automaker, agreed to sell its Nexteer Automotive steering-parts
unit to Pacific Century Motors, an entity formed by Tempo Group
and an affiliate of the Beijing government.  
 Sale terms weren’t disclosed. The price may be about
$450 million, said a person familiar with the matter, who asked
not to be identified because the talks were private. The deal is
expected to close this year, GM said in a statement.  
 GM acquired Nexteer from Delphi Corp. last year and deemed
it a non-core asset. Selling the Saginaw, Michigan-based
supplier lets GM focus on engineering major systems, like
engines and transmissions, while outsourcing smaller components
to suppliers, said  Mike Wall , an analyst with IHS Automotive, a
research firm based in Lexington, Massachusetts.  
 “GM doesn’t need to be the expert in steering,” Wall
said. “They can buy that from someone else. For some of these
Asian parts companies, it makes sense to get into other parts
businesses.”  
 Nexteer had $2.1 billion in revenue in 2008, almost half of
it from GM. The unit has 6,200 employees, 22 manufacturing sites
and 60 global customers. GM said in January it would sell the
steering unit. The sale includes the 22 factories, six
engineering sites and 14 customer support centers in North
America, South America, Europe and Asia.  
 The automaker bought the business from Troy, Michigan-based
Delphi as GM’s former parts unit emerged from bankruptcy in
October. Detroit-based GM exited its own bankruptcy in July
2009, with the U.S. government holding a 61 percent stake.  
 IPO Planning  
 GM is preparing for an initial public offering that may
sell 20 percent of the Treasury’s stake, reducing the U.S. to a
minority owner, two people familiar with the plan said last
month.  
 GM, which spun off Delphi in 1999, bought back the global
steering business and factories in Wyoming, Michigan; Kokomo,
Indiana; and Rochester and Lockport, New York.  
 “The sale of Nexteer to PCM supports our objective to focus
on our core auto business and is the final step in our efforts to
position Nexteer as an independent supplier,” GM Vice Chairman
 Stephen Girsky  said in the statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:  David Welch  in
Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        