-- Gold Demand in China Jumps on Stock Slump, Cooling Measures, Exchange Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-07T09:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/gold-demand-in-china-jumps-on-stock-slump-cooling-measures-exchange-says.html

          
          
             Gold demand in China, the world’s
second-largest consumer, gained in the first half as government
measures to cool the property market and falling equities
spurred investment demand, the  Shanghai Gold Exchange  said.  
 The total volume of gold traded on the exchange jumped 59
percent in the first six months from a year earlier to the
equivalent of 3,174.5 metric tons, said Song Yuqin, vice general
manager at the exchange. Silver turnover soared more than
fivefold, Song told a conference in Beijing today.  
 Gold surged to a record last month as investors sought to
protect their wealth against the market turmoil caused by the
European sovereign debt crisis, including declining currencies.
Song’s remarks add to signs that investors worldwide are
boosting holdings of the commodity.  
 “Gold- and silver-trading volume expanded sharply in the
first half of this year because a declining stock market, the
government’s efforts to cool the property market and the  general
volatility  in the global financial market have all fueled the
investors’ enthusiasm,” Song said.  
 Gold for immediate delivery has risen for nine years and
touched an all-time high of $1,265.30 an ounce on June 21. The
metal, which traded at $1,190.35 today, may surge to more than
$1,300 an ounce in the second half, GFMS Ltd. Executive Chairman
 Philip Klapwijk  said in Beijing at the same conference.  
 China’s Demand  
 “I expect China’s gold demand to rise by 11 to 12 percent
this year to 440 to 450 tons because Chinese investors have
shown their willingness to buy more when prices are on the
rise,” Hou Huimin, deputy secretary-general at the China Gold
Association, said today by phone. “I expect prices will rise
over the remainder of this year and next year,” said Hou.  
 Chinese authorities intensified a crackdown on property
speculation after announcing the  economy expanded  at an 11.9
percent annual pace in the first quarter, the most since 2007.
Measures have included raising minimum mortgage rates and down
payment ratios for some home purchases. Officials may also start
a trial property tax, according to state media.  
 The efforts have contributed to a slump in Chinese real-
estate sales and sent an index tracking 34 Shanghai-listed
developers down almost 30 percent in 2010, even as prices kept
rising. The  Shanghai Composite Index  is Asia’s worst performer
this year, tumbling 26 percent.  
 Sales of gold products such as bars and coins by  China
National Gold Group Corp. , owner of the country’s largest gold
deposit, jumped as much as 40 percent in the past six months,
 Song Quanli , deputy party secretary at the company, said today
in an interview. “We have witnessed some really good sales in
our retail outlets,” said Song at China National.  
 China’s gold output may rise about 5 percent this year,
solidifying the nation’s position as the world’s largest
producer, China National’s Song said. China produced 313 tons of
gold last year, the executive said.  
 -- Feiwen Rong . Editors:  Jake Lloyd-Smith ,  Richard Dobson   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Ramscar, director wealth management at Financial Partners, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for global economy.
     Ramscar also discusses the outlook for gold, and U.S. and China stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
