-- Goldman's Silent Board
-- Richard Teitelbaum
-- 2010-07-07T13:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/goldman-s-silent-board.html

          
          
             Amid a storm of
criticism, government investigations and an SEC suit, the
investment bank’s outside directors have failed to speak out.  
 Greg Palm , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. general counsel, took a
call in his 37th-floor office at One New York Plaza on Dec. 16,
2008. It was his old boss,  Stephen Friedman , a former Goldman
chairman who was then head of the audit committee of its  board 
of directors. Goldman’s  stock  was down 65 percent from its 52-
week high during an accelerating global financial breakdown.  
 Friedman, who had become chairman of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York that year, told Palm he wanted to buy,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its August issue.  
 Palm says he couldn’t think of a reason why Friedman
shouldn’t: Goldman had made the necessary disclosures in that
day’s  filings , Palm says.  
 “We’d just reported earnings,” says Palm, whose job
includes approving trades by directors. “There was no material
information that wasn’t public from Goldman’s standpoint.”  
 Friedman, 72, who is still a Goldman director, bought
37,300 shares at an average of $80.78 each on Dec. 17. Five
weeks later, he picked up 15,300 more at an average of $66.61.
By yesterday, the stock had doubled to $133.76, giving Friedman
a paper profit of $3 million.  
 Now, the U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee is investigating Friedman’s stock purchases. It wants
to know why he was permitted to buy stock in a bank he was
regulating as chairman of the New York Fed.  
 Friedman held both that post and his Goldman board seat
when the firm became a bank holding company in September 2008.
The Federal Reserve Act forbids an official at the New York Fed
in his position from also being a director of a bank or buying
its stock.  
 ‘Perfectly Legal’  
 The New York Fed sought a waiver from the Federal Reserve
Board in September 2008 so that Friedman could keep his position
there.  Michele Davis , a spokeswoman for Friedman, says New York
Fed general counsel  Tom Baxter  told Friedman that the rules were
in abeyance while the waiver was pending.  
 “Therefore, Mr. Friedman’s purchases of Goldman Sachs
stock were perfectly legal,” she says. The waiver was granted
in January 2009.  
 Jerry Jordan , a former president of the Cleveland Fed, says
the section of the Federal Reserve Act barring Friedman from
owning bank stock or buying new shares could not be waived. “It
was not allowed,” he says. “You can’t get permission to
violate the law.”  
 Keeping Mum  
 Goldman Sachs’s ties to the New York Fed pose another
potential conflict for Friedman, says  James Cox , a professor at
 Duke University School of Law . Goldman was a prime beneficiary
of the New York Fed-engineered bailout of  American International
Group Inc. ’s bank counterparties, receiving, by its own count,
$12.9 billion for the credit protection it held on mortgage-
related securities. That figure was not publicly disclosed by
AIG until March 2009 -- after Friedman had bought his shares.  
 “It raises at the least an eyebrow in terms of what he
knew about those payments,” Cox says.  
 New York Fed spokesman  Jack Gutt  responds: “Friedman had
no involvement in nor was he provided with confidential
information related to the New York Fed’s negotiation with any
AIG counterparties.”  
 Friedman resigned from the  New York Fed  on May 7, 2009,
days after the Wall Street Journal reported his stock buying. At
the time, Baxter said in a statement, “It is my view that these
purchases did not violate any Federal Reserve statute, rule or
policy.”  
 As the Friedman saga unfolds -- and Goldman’s regulatory
and  legal entanglements  escalate -- the firm’s nine outside
directors, who aren’t Goldman employees, are keeping mum.  
 ‘Completely Unfounded’  
 The board members said nothing publicly, for instance,
when on April 16 the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
filed a civil suit alleging Goldman had committed fraud in
underwriting and marketing a mortgage-related security called
Abacus 2007-AC1 without disclosing to clients that a bearish
hedge fund customer, Paulson & Co., was involved in creating it.  
 Goldman calls the SEC suit “completely unfounded.”  
 Federal prosecutors in New York are also investigating
Goldman transactions to determine whether to pursue a criminal
fraud case, according to two people familiar with the matter.  
 Nell Minow , co-founder of the Portland, Maine-based
 Corporate Library , a governance research firm, says that when
the SEC suit was filed, the outside directors should have
immediately set up a committee to investigate, hired independent
counsel and announced that they would make the results of their
probe public.  
 Wells Notice  
 The board should also have been riding herd on its members’
stock trades, says  Cornell University Law School  Professor
Robert Hockett, who specializes in financial regulation from his
office in Ithaca, New York. Goldman spokesman  Lucas van Praag 
says directors are periodically informed of such trades. The
bank received a Wells notice dated July 28, 2009, notifying the
firm that it was the target of an SEC fraud investigation.  
 At least three company executives, including Vice Chairman
 Michael Evans , unloaded more than $27 million of Goldman stock
from October 2009 through February 2010 in open market sales
unrelated to the recent exercise of options or delivery of
restricted stock, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Van Praag  says Goldman’s board was informed of the Wells
notice, which was not made public until after the SEC filed its
suit. He says the firm’s lawyers determined it wasn’t material.  
 “On the face of it, the idea that that would not be
material -- I can’t imagine anybody saying that with a straight
face,” Hockett says.  
 11-Hour Hearing  
 Jacob Zamansky  of  Zamansky & Associates LLC  filed a class-
action lawsuit on April 30 on behalf of Goldman shareholders,
saying that Goldman made false statements relating to the SEC
suit and failed to disclose adverse facts about the company to
shareholders.  
 “The Wells notice was a material fact going to the heart
of their business,” he says. Goldman had not formally responded
to the suit as of late June.  
 The number of issues Goldman executives, and their board,
need to address continues to build.  
 Director  Rajat Gupta  did not stand for re-election to the
board in May. U.S. investigators suspect him of leaking word of
a $5 billion investment in Goldman by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in
2008, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  
 Gary Naftalis , a lawyer for Gupta, former worldwide
managing director of McKinsey & Co., says, “Rajat Gupta has
never violated any law or rule.”  
 A Billion Pages  
 On April 27, the  Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations  held an 11-hour hearing on Goldman’s role in the
financial meltdown.  
 “Goldman repeatedly put its own interests and profits
ahead of the interests of its clients and our communities,”
Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said at the hearing.  
 “We respectfully disagree,” van Praag says.  
 On June 7, the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission 
subpoenaed Goldman, accusing it of attempting to hinder its
probe of the firm by electronically sending it the equivalent of
more than a billion pages of documents. Yesterday the leaders of
the commission told journalists in a conference call that the
firm has become more responsive.  
 “The outside directors haven’t been visible on any of
this,” says  Patrick McGurn , special counsel at  RiskMetrics
Group , a New York adviser to shareholders. “You have to ask if
it’s setting the correct ethical tone.”  
 Van Praag says: “Board chairman  Lloyd Blankfein  has made
the views of the board well-known.”  
 Speaking Out  
 Goldman’s board consists of two insiders, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Blankfein and President  Gary Cohn , and
nine outsiders. There are five scheduled meetings per year and
more as needed, the company says.  
 The outside directors are: Friedman;  Lois Juliber , 61,
former vice chairman of Colgate-Palmolive Co.;  William George ,
67, ex-CEO of Medtronic Inc.; Lakshmi Mittal, 60, CEO of
steelmaker ArcelorMittal;  John Bryan , 73, ex-CEO of Sara Lee
Corp.;  Lee Scott , 61, ex-CEO of Wal-Mart Stores Inc.;  Claes Dahlback , 63, ex-CEO of Sweden’s Investor AB;  James Johnson , 66,
vice chairman of merchant bank Perseus LLC and former CEO of
Fannie Mae; and  James Schiro , 64, former head of insurer Zurich
Financial Services AG.  
 Directors who completed a full year in 2009 were paid an
average of $460,852 in stock and options compared with $255,519
in cash and stock for JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s 10  outside
directors  and $337,803 for Morgan Stanley’s 11  outsiders ,
proxies show.  
 Goldman’s board may have been able to preempt criticism of
the company by speaking out, says  Sean Coffey , a former partner
at  Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP , who’s running for
New York state attorney general.  
 Shopping at Walmart  
 The board should have established a committee of outside
directors with an independent counsel to investigate ethics
matters and get the facts, says Coffey, who won more than $50
million from WorldCom Inc. directors in a 2005 settlement with
the telecom company.  
 “The right decision might be to take out advertisements
and apologize or it might be to batten down the hatches,”
Coffey says. “Don’t omit disclosing material information that
investors ought to know.”  
 Minow says the Goldman board should have nominated someone
who had securities law enforcement experience, who could have
led an internal investigation.  
 Instead, in March, Goldman nominated -- and shareholders
later approved -- the appointment of Walmart’s Scott. After an
exchange in which a person at the May 7 annual meeting asked how
Scott had been selected, CEO Blankfein deadpanned, “Actually, I
like shopping at Walmart.”  
 Nine-Person Board  
 At the meeting, Goldman announced the creation of an
internal committee that will examine possible conflicts of
interest and other issues such as transparency and disclosure.
It’s headed by Vice Chairman Evans and E.  Gerald Corrigan ,
chairman of Goldman Sachs Bank USA. No board members are
involved.  
 Former EBay CEO  Meg Whitman , who joined Goldman’s board in
2001, says then-CEO  Henry Paulson  brushed aside her questions to
move a meeting along.  
 “They wanted to keep acting like a group of partners who
did much of their discussion and decision-making in private and
then expected to get the board’s rubber stamp,” Whitman writes
in her new book, The Power of Many (Crown, 2010). She resigned
after 15 months.  
 Whitman is now the Republican candidate for governor of
California.  
 Cornell’s Hockett says that if Friedman violated any laws,
the entire Goldman board is to blame.  
 “Boards are intended to police the actions of their
members,” he says.  
 Class C  
 Friedman spokesperson Davis says the waiver exonerates him.  
 The New York Fed’s nine-person board consists of three
classes of directors serving staggered terms. Class A directors
are elected by member banks to represent commercial banks; one
class A director today is JPMorgan Chase Chairman and CEO  Jamie Dimon . Class B directors are elected by member banks to
represent the public, while class C directors such as Friedman,
who also represent the public, are appointed by the Fed Board of
Governors.  
 Former Cleveland Fed President Jordan says the law is
clear: As a Class C director, Friedman could not own, much less
buy, bank stock.  
 Section 4 , Number 15 of the Federal Reserve Act reads, “No
director of class C shall be an officer, director, employee, or
stockholder of any bank.”  
 The New York Fed argued that because Goldman was a bank
holding company and not a bank, a waiver could be granted,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The Fed
agreed.  
 Shares Surge  
 How much the Goldman board’s silence in the face of
adversity has cost the firm is difficult to gauge. Goldman
 shares  have surged 157 percent as of June 29 since hitting an
all-time low in November 2008. In May, shareholders approved
those directors standing for election by margins of more than 95
percent or greater.  
 Still, says Coffey, the board’s somnolence in the face of
so much controversy has done nothing to support Goldman’s
storied  franchise .  
 Richard Teitelbaum  is in New York at  rteitelbaum1@bloomberg.net   
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jul/07/2010 13:46 GMT
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     CEO Blankfein, left, and President Gary Cohn, both board members, at New York's Cooper Union.  Photograph by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
