-- Google May Face Scrutiny as EU Regulator Examines Search-Engine Antitrust
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-07T14:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/google-search-engines-may-face-scrutiny-from-eu-regulator-almunia-says.html

          
          
             Google Inc. , owner of the world’s
most-used search engine, may face closer scrutiny as European
Union regulators take a careful look at allegations of antitrust
breaches in relation to Internet searches.  
 The European Commission, the antitrust agency for the 27-
nation bloc, is “examining some allegations of anti-competitive
conduct,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner,
said in a speech today without specifically mentioning Google.  
 “The work is at an early stage,” said Almunia. “But
given the importance of search to a competitive online
marketplace, I am looking at the allegations very carefully.”  
 The comments come five months after U.K. price-comparison
site  Foundem , French legal search engine  Ejustice.fr  and
Microsoft Corp. service  Ciao from Bing  filed an antitrust
complaint against Google. No decision has been made yet on
whether the commission will start an antitrust investigation of
Google, Almunia said during a question and answer session after
the speech in London.  
 Following the February complaint, Google, which has 79
percent of the European search-engine market according to
ComScore Inc., said it hoped its arguments would convince the
commission not to open a full antitrust probe.  
 ‘Good Case’  
 “With success comes scrutiny,”  Julia Holtz , a senior
competition counsel at Google said during a break in the meeting
where Almunia spoke. “We have a good case.”  
 “We’re working with the commissioner and his team to
answer their questions, including how Google’s search ranking
works to produce the most relevant and useful search results for
users,” Google said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, said it’s
“very confident” that its “business operates in the interests
of both users and partners, as well as within European
competition law.”  
 “Almunia’s comments show that Google is firmly on the
commission’s radar but it doesn’t mean that enforcement action
is imminent,” said  Matthew Readings , a partner in the London
office of law firm Shearman & Sterling LLP. “Intervention in
technology markets is not straightforward. The real issue is not
so much Google’s current market share, rather how online markets
will develop and how contestable they are to competitors.”  
 ‘Manipulated’ Search Results  
 In his speech, Almunia said antitrust rules must be applied
to digital media in the same way they are in other industries.  
 “If results on a search engine, for instance, are being
manipulated, it may well make a difference on the market if
consumers know about it,” Almunia said during a speech. “But
is transparency enough?”  
 Almunia, who is in the first year of a five-year term as
the EU’s antitrust chief, also said the regulator would push to
simplify the licensing of online content, such as music and
videos, across the EU.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        