-- Swaps Show Higher Greek Debt Losses Than Stress Tests
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-07-08T07:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/greek-government-debt-losses-are-trading-at-three-times-stress-test-level.html

          
          
             Credit markets are pricing in losses
of about 60 percent on Greek bonds should the government
default, more than three times the level said to be assumed by
European banking regulators.  
 Derivatives known as recovery swaps are trading at rates
that imply investors would get back about 40 percent in a Greek
default or debt restructuring. So-called stress tests designed
to gauge banks’ strength will assume a loss, or haircut, of just
17 percent on the bonds, according to two people briefed on the
regulators’ talks before an official announcement.  
 The  Committee of European Banking Supervisors  is overseeing
the stress tests on the region’s banks, which are meant to
assess the quality of their holdings and determine whether the
lenders are viable. The committee is still weighing how much
data to disclose and when, though the European Union has pledged
to publish the results.  
 “It might give some more confidence to the market, even
though it’s probably less than what the market perceives as the
risk,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a strategist at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in  London .  
 Holders of recovery swaps agree to exchange a pre-set fixed
rate for the actual amount received by bondholders following a
default. The investor getting the fixed amount will benefit if
the payment he receives is lower than the rate agreed.  
 Chance of Default  
 Credit-default swaps to insure $10 million of Greece
government bonds for five years cost $892,000 annually, CMA
DataVision prices show. That implies a 54 percent chance the
southern European nation will default in that period, according
to a standard pricing model published last year by the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association . Default
probabilities are calculated from swap spreads and expected
recovery rates.  
 Default swaps on European corporate and bank bonds fell,
signalling an improvement in investor perceptions of  credit
quality .  
 The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of contracts on 50 mostly
high-yield companies dropped 11.7 basis points to 547.5 as of
8:45 a.m. in London, the lowest since June 23, according to
Markit Group Ltd. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of 25 banks
and insurers fell 6 basis points to an almost two-month low of
144, JPMorgan Chase & Co. prices show.  
 The stress tests assume a haircut of 3 percent on banks’
holdings of  Spain ’s sovereign debt, the people familiar with the
negotiations said. Credit-default swaps tied to that country’s
bonds fell 6.5 basis points to 245.5 yesterday, compared with
the all-time high closing price of 274.5 on May 6, according to
CMA.  
 Derivatives are contracts with values derived from assets
or events, including stocks, bonds, commodities, currencies,  interest rates  or the weather, and include credit-default swaps.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros ($12.6 million) of debt
from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Bianco, speaking from Chicago, also discusses his investment strategy, stress tests for European banks, and the U.S. housing market. European Union regulators are carrying out stress tests on 91 banks, accounting for 65 percent of the area’s banking industry, to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government bond values. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
