-- Grooming Leaders to Handle Ambiguity
-- Scott Anthony
-- 2010-07-07T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/grooming-leaders-to-handle-ambiguity.html

          
          
             How would you identify the up-and-coming leaders in a company about which you knew nothing? You'd likely start by pinpointing the executives who control the most employees or revenues. You might give bonus points to relatively young mangers. If you had consulting DNA you might create a sophisticated ratio combining the span of control and age to identify the leader in the horse race to be the next big boss. 

 You are working off a simple hypothesis that's right in almost every company — that size matters. Power flows from financial contributions and legions of employees. You groom leaders by giving them progressively larger, more challenging opportunities.  

 This approach seems logical. The bigger the business, the more it matters to a company's near-term performance. And certainly, larger businesses tend to be more complex. Tomorrow's leaders surely need to be able to deal with complexity! 

 But I wonder if companies might be approaching leadership development the wrong way.  It's pretty clear that  tomorrow's leaders are going to face the "new normal" of constant change . It is no longer enough to be an operator that can master today's complexity. You have to be prepared to deal with tomorrow's complexity, " black swan" events,  sudden shifts in the basis of competition in your industry, competitors springing up around the globe, and more. 

 I've never run a multi-billion dollar company, but I'm willing to bet the difference in complexity between managing $1 billion and $10 billion in revenues, or 1,000 versus 10,000 employees isn't that great. In other words, giving up-and-comers more responsibility helps them to refine skills they already have, when what they need to do is to develop the capability to flexibly respond to unanticipated challenges. 

 A related challenge is that size-matters-grooming companies can find it hard to convince talented managers to work on new growth initiatives. After all, those initiatives typically start small, both in terms of headcount and revenue. Managers with their eye on their next assignment naturally want to work on projects that will "look good" on their internal resume. 

 Perhaps it is time to rethink this approach. Instead of giving up-and-comers larger assignments, consider intentionally giving them smaller, more ambiguous ones. Have them crack into a new geographic market. Ask them to lead the development of a completely new business model. Force them to think creatively about how they will access or assemble the resources to solve the challenge. 

 Facing highly ambiguous challenges will help managers develop a set of tools that prepare them for the uncertainties they will increasingly encounter as they ascend up the corporate ladder.  

 Shifting from size-matters to ambiguity-matters development requires rethinking other key assumptions.  Most companies, for example, look to what a manager has achieved to assess their performance. But in ambiguous circumstances with uncertain outcomes, you need to look at how a manager has acted. Sometimes you can do everything right and forces beyond your control lead to "failure." I'll write more about this topic in a future post. 

 I'd love to hear additional thoughts about ways in which you are grooming leaders to be ready for the known — and unknown — challenges that lay ahead. How is your company responding to this challenge? 

