-- Iceland's EU Entry Talks Urged by European Parliament Amid Bank Standoff
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-07-07T13:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/iceland-s-eu-entry-talks-urged-by-european-parliament-amid-bank-standoff.html

          
          
             European Union lawmakers encouraged
the start of EU membership talks with Iceland while making
demands over banking and whaling that threaten to sharpen
opposition to entry in the North Atlantic island.  
 The European Parliament, hailing the green light that EU
heads of government gave three weeks ago to accession
negotiations with Iceland, called on the country to break an
impasse over foreign depositors’ claims and stop whaling. The
leaders on June 17 set no deadline for membership, saying the
pace of talks will depend on Iceland’s fulfillment of
requirements to be set out in a forthcoming negotiating
framework.  
 The government of Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir  is
trying to reach a settlement over 4 billion euros ($5 billion)
of claims from U.K. and Dutch depositors that stem from the
failure of Landsbanki Islands hf in October 2008. The U.K. and
Dutch governments covered the costs initially.  
 In its non-binding resolution today in Strasbourg, France,
the EU Parliament said Iceland must make “further efforts” to
comply with the bloc’s rules including those on deposit
guarantees. The 27-nation assembly also urged Iceland to reach
an accord to repay the U.K. and Dutch governments, saying this
would “restore confidence in Iceland’s ability to honor its
commitments” and strengthen public support in the country and
the EU for membership.  
 Repayment Accord  
 An initial repayment accord was blocked by Iceland’s
president,  Olafur R. Grimsson , and subsequently rejected by 93
percent of voters in a March referendum. On July 1,
representatives of Iceland, the U.K. and the Netherlands met for
the first time in almost four months to discuss a settlement.  
 Enthusiasm for the EU in Iceland has waned since it applied
to join in July 2009. Opposition to membership grew to 60
percent in June compared with 55.9 percent in February and 54
percent in November, according to a Capacent Gallup survey
published earlier this month by Iceland’s state broadcaster RUV.
Lawmakers from four of Iceland’s five political parties are
pressing for the country to abandon the bid.  
 On fisheries, another area where the EU has pinpointed the
need for Icelandic policy changes, the bloc’s 736-seat
Parliament said it “insists that Iceland cease all whaling.”
Finnish and Estonian members of the assembly’s Green group
succeeded in getting this provision added to the resolution as
an amendment in the floor vote.  
 Icelandic Fisheries Minister  Jon Bjarnason  said last month
that the country had been told by Germany that whaling would
have to stop before EU membership. He also pledged to resist
such demands.  
 “We uphold our right to continue using our natural
resources in a sustainable way,” Bjarnason told Iceland’s
parliament. “We won’t bow to threats of any kind.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Strasbourg, France, at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        