-- Iceland Lenders May Lose $4.3 Billion on High Court Ruling, Sigfusson Says
-- Omar R. Valdimarsson
-- 2010-07-07T15:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/iceland-lenders-may-lose-4-3-billion-on-high-court-ruling-sigfusson-says.html

          
          
             Iceland’s lenders may lose as much as
$4.3 billion, equivalent to a third of the economy, after a
court last month found that some foreign loans were illegal,
said Finance Minister  Steingrimur J. Sigfusson .  
 “This is the largest single loan category of the banks,
with a value of between 800 billion kronur and 900 billion
kronur ($7.2 billion),” Sigfusson said today. “If the capital
on all these loans is written down by 40 percent to 60 percent,
we’re talking about enormous amounts.”  
 The Supreme Court ruled June 16 that loans indexed to
foreign-currency rates were illegal in three cases involving
private car loans and a corporate property loan. The decisions
may mean that borrowers with such loans are only obliged to
repay the principal in kronur, making the lenders liable for
currency losses on about $28 billion in debt after a third of
the krona’s value against the Japanese yen and Swiss franc was
erased since September 2008.  
 There’s a “considerable chance” that the ruling will be
applied to many foreign-currency indexed loans issued by
Icelandic banks, Sigfusson told radio station  Bylgjan  yesterday.
“I’m referring to this not only applying to car loans, but also
mortgages, and a considerable amount of loans to companies and
other parties.”  
 Investor Relations  
 Iceland’s 2008 financial crisis was exacerbated by banks
that borrowed in Japanese yen or Swiss francs to take advantage
of lower interest rates, and then repackaged the loans in krona
before passing them on to clients. While foreign currency
lending is permitted, indexing krona loans to foreign exchange
rates has been banned since 2001 to protect borrowers with krona
incomes.  
 Iceland has spent the last year and a half struggling to
rebuild its financial industry after the October 2008 collapse
of its three biggest lenders. By winding down the failed banks
and making creditors shareholders in new lenders, the island
sought to resurrect relations with international investors.  
 Lawmakers this week discussed how to handle the threat of
lawsuits by creditors of the banks, according to web news
provider Visir. A number of creditors are considering suing the
government because the ruling is likely to reduce the value of
their claims, according to Visir.  
 No lawsuits have as yet been brought against the state
following the June 16 ruling, according to State Attorney
Skarphedinn Thorisson. Claimants have up to 10 years to file
suits demanding damages, he said in an interview today.  
 Clarity Needed  
 The court’s decision didn’t make clear whether lenders are
obliged to accept the lower contractual interest rates that the
loans were entered at, or whether they can charge higher
Icelandic rates on the krona debt. The central bank and the
 Financial Supervisory Authority  have recommended lenders be
allowed to charge Icelandic rates to cap their losses, sparking
protests by borrowers.  
 “That matter is still clouded with legal uncertainty,”
Sigfusson said. Clarity on which rates to charge may require a
separate  Supreme Court  ruling, he said. The loans, which were
originally linked to the lower rates offered on the Swiss franc
and Japanese yen loans, should be pegged to Iceland’s  benchmark
rate , which was cut to 8 percent on June 23.  
 Gunnar Andersen , the head of the FSA, said in a June 21
interview that some Icelandic lenders may fail to meet the
watchdog’s 16 percent capital adequacy requirement following the
ruling. The FSA will probably have to conduct stress tests to
assess the risks to lenders, he said. The FSA last conducted
stress tests in July 2009.  
 Kaupthing, Glitnir  
 Arion Bank hf, the successor to  Kaupthing Bank hf ,
Islandsbanki hf, formerly  Glitnir Bank hf , and NBI hf, formerly
 Landsbanki Islands hf , have said they will continue to fulfill
the FSA’s capital adequacy requirement regardless of the ruling.
The lenders based their comments on an assumption that the
court’s decision only affects retail loans.  
 Kaupthing’s resolution committee said late yesterday it
remains unclear what impact the ruling will have on Arion’s
assets. All three lenders today said they’ll charge a fixed rate
of 5,000 kronur per 1 million kronur of mortgage debt affected
by the June 16 decision until there’s more clarity on which
interest rates should apply.  
 Disadvantage  
 After the October 2008 collapse of Iceland’s financial
system, the central bank estimated that households had
outstanding debt in foreign currencies ranging from 300 billion
kronur to 350 billion kronur. About 70 percent of corporate debt
is foreign-currency denominated, amounting to about 3.2 trillion
kronur in the middle of last year, the bank said in a financial
stability report published June 2.  
 Magnus Thoroddsen, a former president of Iceland’s Supreme
Court, said contractual rates apply unless the banks sue and win.
Iceland’s membership in the European Economic Area means
consumers are protected from paying borrowing rates that put
them at a “disadvantage,” meaning banks must accept the
contractual rates, he told broadcaster  RUV .  
 The FSA will provide parliament’s Trade Committee with a
breakdown of the cost of the ruling to lenders on July 9,
 Progressive Party  lawmaker Eyglo Hardardottir said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Iceland's finance minister Steingrimur Sigfusson. Photographer:  Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian enters the Landsbanki Islands hf headquarters in Reykjavik, Iceland on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Local properties are reflected in windows at the Kaupthing Bank in Reykjavik, Iceland, on Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008. Photographer: Arnaldur Halldorsson/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
