-- Vale's Inco Unit Ordered by Judge to Pay for Ontario Environmental Damage
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-07-07T04:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/inco-ordered-by-judge-to-pay-34-million-for-ontario-environmental-damage.html

          
          
             Vale SA’s  Inco Ltd. must pay C$36
million ($34 million) to Ontario residents near a former
refinery, the biggest award in Canadian history in an
environmental damages case, according to a lawyer.  
 Ontario Superior Court Judge Joseph Henderson yesterday
found Inco liable for the discharge of nickel emissions from a
refinery in Port Colborne, Ontario.  
 It’s the first time outside Quebec that a Canadian court
has ordered a company to pay damages for long-term environmental
harm, potentially setting a precedent for residents in other
communities living near heavy industry, said  Eric Gillespie , a
lawyer for the Port Colborne residents.  
 “We’re very pleased with this outcome,” Gillespie said in
a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s a proper amount of
damages to be awarded.”  
 The group of residents in  Port Colborne , Ontario, sued in
2001, claiming their property values didn’t rise as rapidly as
those in surrounding areas after the provincial  Ministry of the
Environment  said in a report that land near the refinery was
polluted, posing a risk to people’s health.  
 The plaintiffs blamed Inco for allowing nickel oxide to be
dumped on their properties.  Inco  operated the nickel refinery in
Port Colborne, 145 kilometers (90 miles) south of Toronto on the
shore of Lake Erie, between 1918 and 1984.  
 Vale is reviewing the decision,  Cory McPhee , a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  
 “Obviously we maintain all legal options, including
appeal,” McPhee said.  
 Inco has 30 days to file an appeal.  
 Household Payments  
 Henderson divided the damages into three categories,
awarding C$9 million to residents of the Rodney Street area in
Port Colborne, nearest the refinery. That works out to about
C$23,000 per household, Gillespie said.  
 Residents in the eastern section of the town were awarded
C$15 million, or C$7,500 per household, while those in the
western part were awarded C$12 million, or C$2,500 per household.  
 The judge will determine how much law firms representing
the residents will get. Gillespie said he expected the legal
fees will be several million dollars.  
 Mostly French-speaking Quebec has laws based on the French
system, rather than the British, which is used by the rest of
Canada.  
 The case is Between Ellen Smith and Inco Ltd., 12023/01,
Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Welland).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Hong Kong at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        