-- Indonesian Stocks May Extend Best Gain in Top 10 Asian Markets, Panin Says
-- Berni Moestafa
-- 2010-07-07T02:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/indonesian-stocks-may-extend-best-gain-in-top-10-asian-markets-panin-says.html

          
          
             Indonesian stocks will extend the
best performance among Asia’s 10 biggest markets this year after
the central bank kept interest rates at a record low this week
to boost growth, according to the nation’s No. 2 fund.  
 The  Jakarta Composite index  may climb as much as 9.9
percent to a record 3,200 by yearend, PT Panin Sekuritas
Director  Winston Sual  said. Equities on the gauge are valued at
29 times reported earnings, the most expensive in Asia excluding
Japan, and are at the highest premium against the  MSCI AC Asia
Pacific excluding Japan Index  since the start of 2003, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The valuation is justified if we consider Indonesia’s
economic and corporate earnings growth,” Sual, who helps
oversee 3.5 trillion rupiah ($385 million), said in a phone
interview in Jakarta today. “Our monetary policy is a bit
different from other countries as inflation is still at a
manageable level.”  
 The  Jakarta Composite  has risen 15 percent this year as
faster economic growth boosts earnings at companies such as  PT
Astra International , the largest auto retailer. The index on
June 21 neared an  all-time high  as Moody’s Investors Service
raised the country’s sovereign debt rating outlook to positive.  
 The  Jakarta Composite  yesterday climbed 1.2 percent to
2,910.65. That compares with a record close of 2,971.25 on April
30 and intraday high of 2,996.42 on May 4. The  Panin Dana
Maksima  fund managed by Panin Sekuritas has risen 37 percent
this year, the second-best performer among 478 Indonesia-
domiciled funds tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Gajah Tunggal  
 Suel recommends  PT Gajah Tunggal  as the nation’s biggest
tire maker will benefit from rising vehicle sales. On Nov. 26,
he correctly predicted that  PT Gudang Garam , Indonesia’s second-
largest cigarette maker, will lead consumer stock gains this
year. Since then, Gudang Garam has doubled, the biggest jump
among the 31 companies on the Jakarta Consumer Goods Index.  
 Bank Indonesia kept its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged
at a record-low 6.5 percent on July 5 for an 11th month as it
seeks to strengthen economic growth before responding to faster
inflation. The central bank held out as Asian peers including
Taiwan, India and Malaysia raised borrowing costs this year.  
 “With interest rates still low, the market will probably
stay flush in liquidity while the cost of funds tends to
decline,” Panin’s Sual said. “These are the things that give
the stock valuation the potential to rise further.”  
 ‘Large Redemptions’  
 Even so, a decline in commodities prices is likely to drive
emerging-market stocks lower in the third quarter, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analysts led by  Adrian Mowat  said in a July 4 report.
The “markers” of a correction in emerging-market stocks will
be “large redemptions” in commodity funds and a slump in crude
oil prices below the May low of $65 a barrel, the report said.  
 The  Jakarta Mining Index  has underperformed the broader
market this year, gaining 2.4 percent after crude oil prices
sank 9.1 percent, reducing prospects for coal and natural gas
prices that typically reflect trends in the oil market.
Indonesia is the world’s largest exporter of power-station coal.  
 Growth in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy may accelerate
to 5.6 percent this year from 4.5 percent in 2009, according to
a central bank forecast. Low interest rates help boost consumer
spending, which accounts for about two-thirds of the economy.  
 Domestic vehicle sales in March jumped 92 percent from a
year earlier, helping first-quarter profit at PT Astra
International to soar 61 percent.  
 Bank Indonesia is keeping its inflation target at 4 percent
to 6 percent this year and doesn’t see the need to change its
monetary policy, Senior Deputy Governor  Darmin Nasution  said
July 2. Indonesia’s consumer prices rose 5.05 percent in June,
the biggest gain since May 2009, on higher food costs, a report
showed July 1.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        