-- Indonesia Leads Rising Demand for Australia Sugar, Shipper Says
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-07-07T07:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/indonesia-driving-rising-demand-for-australia-sugar-queensland-sugar-says.html

          
          
             Indonesian sugar imports are helping
drive demand for supplies from  Australia  following the global
economy’s recovery from recession, according to Queensland Sugar
Ltd., the country’s largest exporter.  
 “East  Asia  has come out of the global financial crisis
pretty well and there is increased demand in most of our
markets,” Alan Winney, chairman of Brisbane-based Queensland
Sugar Ltd., said in an interview. “The Southeast Asian part of
the market, Malaysia,  Indonesia , is particularly strong and we
are quite optimistic about that continuing,” he said yesterday.  
 Sugar demand in Asia exceeds annual supply by 30 percent in
key markets in Asia,  Wilmar International Ltd . said in Singapore
yesterday. Wilmar this week agreed to buy  CSR Ltd .’s Sucrogen
unit, Australia’s top miller, for A$1.75 billion ($1.5 billion)
and said the purchase would help its expansion in Indonesia.  
 “We just see huge upside there,” Winney said of Indonesia.
“They are importing about 2 million tons and there are enough
refineries and demand planned that we could see that double
inside the next five years.”  
 Indonesian raw sugar imports may be 2.3 million metric tons
the 2010-2011 season, according to an April U.S. Department of
Agriculture Foreign Agricultural Service  report .  
 Raw sugar for October delivery slipped 0.1 percent to 16.69
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  yesterday. Earlier,
prices advanced to 16.98 cents, the highest level for a most-
active contract since April 20.  
 Prices were likely to range from 15 cents to 20 cents this
year unless a “real deterioration” in weather disrupts global
output, Winney said. Brazil and  India  are the top producers.  
 Marketing Accord  
 Queensland Sugar handles more than 90 percent of
Australia’s raw shipments under an export system where millers
enter into agreements for the company to sell the commodity and
then pass proceeds back to suppliers. Contracts were extended
this month with eight millers until June 30, 2014. Sucrogen
contributes more than 40 percent of the volume.  
 Wilmar sees “no reason” to end the arrangement after the
current contract period, Chief Executive Officer Kuok Khoon Hong
told reporters in  Singapore  yesterday.  
 “We are pleased to be continuing our 50-plus year
relationship with Sucrogen and are looking forward to engaging
with Wilmar around their plans for the Australian sugar
marketing beyond the 2013 season,” Winney said today after the
comments. A withdrawal by Sucrogen from the pact would undermine
the benefits of the system and require the whole industry to
“sit down and look at” the future structure, he said yesterday.  
 The Wilmar bid, which trumped a rival offer by  China ’s
Bright Food Group Co., is subject to approval by Australia’s
Foreign Investment Review Board.  
 Australian raw sugar output may rise about 5 percent to 10
percent next year on increased planting from output forecast at
around 4.2 million tons this season, Winney said.  Exports in
the year ending Sept. 30 were likely to be about 3 million tons,
with similar shipments next season, he said. Crushing started
May 31 and will be mostly finished by early November, according
to farm group Canegrowers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Richard Dobson  at   rdobson4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        