-- Interest Rate Volatility Drops to Three-Month Low on Global Growth Concern
-- Liz Capo McCormick
-- 2010-07-07T19:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/interest-rate-volatility-drops-to-three-month-low-on-global-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Interest-rate volatility dropped to
an almost three-month low on concern global growth is faltering
and Europe’s sovereign debt crisis boosted bets that interest-
rates will remain close to record lows.  
 Volatility  on options for U.S. interest-rate swaps, known
as swaptions and used to speculate on and hedge interest-rate
risk, fell to 94.33 yesterday, according to a Barclays Plc
 index . The measure, which tracks options on interest-rate swaps
with maturities of 1 to 10 years, is the lowest since April 16.
The index reached a high for the year of 111.97 on May 6.  
 Evidence that the pace of the economic recovery is slowing
and a flight in to the relative safety of government debt drove
two-year Treasury yields to record lows last week. Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Paul Krugman  said yesterday the U.S. economy
faces a “long siege”. The Labor Department reported July 2
that U.S. net nonfarm payrolls fell by 125,000 in June, the
first monthly drop since December.  
 “Volatility is coming off because there is less
uncertainly about the future path of interest rates,” said
 Christian Cooper , a senior rates trader at Jefferies Group Inc.
in New York. “There is a consensus view now that rates will
stay lower for longer and that there will be a flatter yield
curve. More and more people are voting with their dollars that
we are going to be within a tighter range.”  
 Two-year  Treasury notes yielded 0.61 percent today, after
decreasing to an all-time low of 0.5856 percent on June 30. The
10-year note yield, which tumbled to 2.879 percent on July 1,
the lowest level since April 2009, rose to 5 basis points to
2.98 percent.  
 MOVE Index  
 Fed policy makers after their meeting last month reiterated
they intend to keep borrowing costs low for an “extended
period.” The benchmark rate has been a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  
 Normalized volatility signals traders’ expectations for
fluctuations in swap rates by adjusting the implied volatility
of the option by the interest rate struck on the swaption.  
 Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE Index , which measures
volatility based on prices of over-the-counter options on
Treasuries maturing in two to 30 years, fell to 82.6 yesterday.
The index reached a high for the year of as 116.7 on May 6.  
 U.S. interest-rate swap spreads have narrowed from recent
highs touched in June when speculation mounted that Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis would escalate.  
 The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
similar-maturity  Treasury  note yield, known as the swap spread,
narrowed to 32.13 basis points from 35.25 basis points
yesterday. The spread is partly based on expectations for the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and used as a gauge of
investor perceptions of credit risk. It was as wide as 64.21
this year on May 25.  
 Swap Rates  
 Swap rates are traditionally higher than Treasury yields in
part because the floating payments are based on interest rates
that contain credit risk. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for
investors in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and
auto-loan securities.  
 Three-month Libor was 0.53 today, little changed from.53133
yesterday, according to the British Bankers’ Association. The
dollar Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of demand for cash and banks’
willingness to lend, was little changed at 33.3 basis points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        