-- Iran MP Slams U.A.E. Ambassador's Remarks, Says Tours May Be Suspended
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-07-07T10:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/iran-mp-slams-u-a-e-ambassador-s-remarks-says-tours-may-be-suspended.html

          
          
             Iran may bar trips to the United Arab
Emirates after the U.A.E.’s envoy to the U.S. said his country
supports military action against Iran’s nuclear facilities.  
 “I hope the government of the U.A.E. will correct this
viewpoint,” said  Kazem Jalali , the spokesman for the
parliament’s National Security and Foreign Policy Committee,
according to the state-run  Mehr  news agency. The U.A.E. should
clarify whether the ambassador’s “foul” comments are
government policy, he said.  
 Ambassador  Yousef al-Otaiba  said an attack on Iran may be
necessary if sanctions fail to halt the country’s nuclear
program, and said the U.A.E. would be willing to weather a
domestic backlash against such military action, the  Washington
Times reported  yesterday, citing remarks the U.A.E. diplomat
made at an event in Aspen, Colorado.  
 Jalali said tours to the U.A.E. may be suspended “to guard
the reputation of the Iranian people,” as Iranians visiting the
country are not being treated well. He said spending by Iranian
tourists has helped prevent a worse economic crisis in the
U.A.E. and especially Dubai.  
 The U.A.E.’s central bank asked financial institutions in
the federation to freeze 41 bank accounts of Iranian individuals
and companies in compliance with United Nations Security Council
sanctions passed on June 9, the Emirates Business 24/7 reported
on June 28, citing a bank circular. There was no immediate
response to a telephone call and an e-mail to the central bank
seeking details of the list yesterday.  
 Masoud Daneshmand, head of the Iran-U.A.E. Chamber of
Commerce, said yesterday that managers of some companies owned
by the  Revolutionary Guard Corps had their accounts in the
U.A.E. shut down, the state-run Iranian Students News Agency
reported.  
 Iran says its nuclear work is for civilian purposes and has
rebuffed UN demands to suspend production of enriched uranium,
which can fuel a reactor or form the core of a bomb.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        