-- Israeli Army Inspired by Ebay Introduces Auction Site to Cut Waste, Costs
-- Calev Ben-David
-- 2010-07-07T11:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/israeli-army-inspired-by-ebay-introduces-auction-site-to-cut-waste-costs.html

          
          
             The  Israeli military , inspired by
the success of  EBay Inc. , has started its own website on which
units and bases can sell surplus equipment.  
 “Every unit in the Israel Defense Forces will be able to
put up for sale any equipment that it doesn’t need, so that
other units can see and bid on it,” said Brigadier-General
Maran Prozenfer, financial adviser to the chief of staff. The
Israeli army is the only military to have such an EBay-style
site, he said in a July 4 interview at IDF headquarters in Tel
Aviv.  
 The website, named “The Arena” for its martial and
financial connotations, is part of budgetary streamlining in the
wake of the 2006 war with Hezbollah in Lebanon, in which the
Israeli military’s readiness and performance was criticized by a
government commission of inquiry.  
 Equipment costs account for about 40 percent of the army’s
50 billion shekel ($12.9 billion) annual budget, Prozenfer said.
The Arena site may save the Israeli military tens of millions of
shekels in procurement costs in its early stages, and much more
later on, he says, by avoiding duplication and waste in the
discretionary budgets that units and bases use to buy certain
equipment.  
 About 6 million shekels of inventory have already been
posted on the site, which went online last month on the army’s
closed Internet system. The items on the site include office
equipment, copper wiring, generators, water filtration systems
and televisions. Anything that fails to find a buyer within the
military will later be put up for sale to the civilian market
through a Ministry of Defense  website  open to the public.  
 Civilian Buyers  
 While the Arena site doesn’t yet include battlefield-
related items such as weapons parts and ammunition, Prozenfer
said there are plans to introduce those later on. Such items
will not for available for civilian purchase, he said.  
 As part of its broader efforts to encourage budgetary
innovation, the army is also offering any soldier who comes up
with an idea to cut costs a personal reward of 3,000 shekels.
Prozenfer said this is in the IDF tradition of tactical
innovation coming from the “bottom up,” a military culture
that last year’s best-selling book “Start-Up Nation” credited
for helping to foster Israel’s technology sector.  
 Prozenfer is especially taken with one soldier’s suggestion
that every piece of military equipment carry a price-tag.  
 “The soldier wrote that if he and his comrades knew the
cost of each item, they would use it more wisely,” Prozenfer
said. “I really think that’s a genius idea.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Calev Ben-David  in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        