-- Italian Retailers Brace for Summer Sales Flop as Shoppers Spurn Discounts
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-08T09:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/italian-retailers-brace-for-summer-sales-flop-as-shoppers-spurn-discounts.html

          
          
             Michele Nicolaci, a salesman at  Fendi
SpA  in Forte dei Marmi, a trendy seaside town in Tuscany, says
his store’s clothing usually sells itself. Not this summer.  
 “I’ll have a hard time meeting my sales targets,”
Nicolaci said. “This looks like a hard summer, everything from
the weather to people generally being kind of down.”  
 The summer sales season, one of two times each year when
retailers like  Benetton SpA  and Prada SpA mark down prices,
normally accounts for about 12 percent of annual Italian revenue
for the clothing and shoe industries. This year’s sales period
coincides with  unemployment  at an 8-year high, consumer
confidence slipping to a 16-month low in June and hotter-than-
average temperatures in city centers from Milan to Rome.  
 Revenue from summer sales will fall 5 percent this year to
4.2 billion euros ($5.3 billion), or 117 euros per shopper,
according to estimates from  Confcommercio , the country’s retail
trade group. The World Cup flop by Italy’s soccer team will also
cost the economy about 140 million euros, according to a Chamber
of Commerce report on June 25.  
 Italy’s blue-shirted “Azzurri” had their worst World Cup
performance in more than three decades, failing to win all three
of their matches after taking the title in 2006.  
 Soccer ‘Fiasco’  
 “No one wants an all-blue jersey after Italy’s fiasco,”
said Andrea, 28, a sales assistant at  Adidas AG’s  store on Via
del Corso in Rome. He declined to give his full name, citing
company policy. “We had to change our displays overnight.”  
 Letizia Moscardino, a 27-year-old paralegal in Rome, said
she couldn’t pass up a 40 percent discount on dresses at the  Max
& Co.  store on the city’s Via Condotti. Even with the 300-euro
expense, she’s spending less than in past summers.  
 “In other years, I might have gone for fancier labels,”
she said. “My summer shopping budget is lower this year.”  
 The heat is playing a part too, said Alberto Visentini, 51,
owner of a Milan sporting goods store, noting that temperatures
reached 35 degrees (95 degrees Fahrenheit) on July 2, the first
day of the sales season in Rome and Milan.  
 “People don’t want to go out shopping when it’s so hot,”
he said.  
 Household purchasing power fell for a sixth quarter in the
three months through March, according to a report today by the
national statistics office, Istat.  
 ‘A Farce’  
 “That decline is a result of the economic crisis,”
 Mariano Bella , chief economist at Confcommercio, said in a July
1 interview.  
 To combat the spending slump, retailers are seeking
creative ways to skirt regulations and offer discounts outside
of the permitted sales periods.  Adiconsum , one of the country’s
biggest consumer groups, says buyers often get ripped off during
official sales seasons by retailers who overstate discounts or
flog old merchandise and claim that it’s new.  
 “It’s anachronistic to continue talking of regulated sales
when it’s obvious to everyone how, with various promotions and
discounts and liquidations, the whole thing has become a
farce,” Adiconsum national secretary Pietro Giordano said in a
June 28 statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers pass through the Alberto Sordi shopping arcade in Rome. Photographer: Alessandra Benedetti/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
