-- Hitler-Loving Killer Tests Limits of Bad Lawyering: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-07-07T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/hitler-loving-killer-tests-limits-of-bad-lawyering-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             Once their secrets are revealed, some
lawyers leave no doubt that they crossed the line and left it
far, far behind.  
 Take  Scott Rothstein , who will be spending the next 50
years in a federal prison for running a $1.2 billion Ponzi
scheme out of his law office in South Florida. An outraged judge
pitched the book his way last month, giving Rothstein a decade
longer behind bars than the prosecution recommended.  
 In the matter of disbarred attorney Steven Rondos, it isn’t
so much the sum he stole, which  prosecutors  put at $4 million,
but the sort of people he stole it from that made his crimes so
despicable. His 23 victims all suffered from some sort of
disability -- one had cerebral palsy and spastic quadriplegia,
for example -- which is why Rondos had been appointed their
guardian.  
 Instead, he spent their money on himself and his home. A
$31,000 television set here. A $10,000 set of kitchen curtains
there. At that rate, you can go through a few million quickly.
Sentenced in May, Rondos is now doing up to 15 years behind
bars.  
 But what about lawyers who hurt their clients while not
actually stealing from them, or lawyers who act unethically for
the benefit of their client? In the term just finished, the U.S.
Supreme Court took up an astounding number of cases related to
attorney conduct or compensation, amounting to almost 20 percent
of its caseload,  according  to Law.com, the National Law
Journal’s site.  
 The court considered 16 cases touching on or centered on
lawyering. A few had to do with fairly technical aspects of the
profession. Can the law bar attorneys from advising clients to
run up debt before declaring bankruptcy? The high court said
yes.  
 Bad Lawyering  
 But most of the cases focused on what can only be called
really bad lawyering.  
 The court seemed interested in further defining ethical
boundaries for lawyers. The result was, well, mixed.  
 Yes, a lawyer was obligated to tell a client that pleading
guilty to a crime could get him deported, the court  ruled .  
 And then there was a Florida case where the client was more
on top of the law than his attorney was. Albert Holland begged
and pleaded with his lawyer to please, please, please file a
crucial document with the court by deadline or else his case was
doomed.  
 The lawyer missed the deadline, anyway, so Holland missed
his chance to claim his murder conviction and death sentence had
been wrongly decided. Oops.  
 The Client Suffers  
 Too bad, the lower courts  ruled . Holland would just have to
suffer for his lawyer’s slip. The state might as well schedule
his execution.  
 The Supreme Court saw it differently.  
 By a vote of 7-2, the Supreme Court  said  the appeals court
in Atlanta had been too rigid in applying the law. Holland has
another chance to show he shouldn’t have to pay for his lawyer’s
negligence.  
 Looking at the Holland and immigrant cases, you might think
that Frank  Spisak  Jr. would stand a pretty good chance before
the court, too. His lawyer gave a closing argument so damaging
to him that if a prosecutor had said those things, he could have
been charged with misconduct, Justice  John Paul Stevens  wrote in
his opinion.  
 Here’s a taste of what Tom Shaughnessy, now deceased, told
jurors about his client:  
 “When you look at Frank Spisak, don’t look for good deeds,
because he has done none. Don’t look for good thoughts, because
he has none.”  
 Atonement and Anguish  
 Referring to his client, he said, “If each drop of blood
in this sick, demented body were full of atonement for the
anguish, the terror, the aggravating circumstances we have seen
here, it wouldn’t be enough.”  
 So much for having an advocate when you need one. And
Spisak clearly needed one. A sexually confused worshipper of
Adolf Hitler, Spisak lived as a woman for a while only to begin
imitating Hitler,  moustache  and all. Spisak shot and killed two
black men and one man he mistook for a Jew, and wounded two more
people in a series of attacks in and around Cleveland State
University in 1982.  
 When he took the witness stand, Spisak boasted of the
shootings and said he would kill again if allowed to.  
 So, what is a defense lawyer to do?  
 Although he went on quite too long and quite too vividly
about the gruesome nature of his client’s crimes, Shaughnessy
also noted evidence of Spisak’s mental illness and asked the
jury to take “pride” in their “humanity.” That was about as
close as he got to asking jurors to spare Spisak’s life.  
 At the Supreme Court, all the justices concluded that
nothing Shaughnessy could have said would have changed Spisak’s
fate. The crimes were too horrific, his testimony too chilling,
for any lawyer to argue for his life.  
 So what message are we to take away from the Supreme
Court’s rulings on lawyer conduct?  
 Just this one:  
 The Supreme Court is watching.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        