-- Mitsubishi's Brown Says Germany Doesn't Deserve Crisis Safe-Haven Status
-- Simon Kennedy
-- 2010-07-07T16:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/mitsubishi-s-brown-says-germany-doesn-t-deserve-crisis-safe-haven-status.html

          
          
             Germany doesn’t deserve the “safe-
haven” status it built up during the European sovereign debt
turmoil, said  Brendan Brown , chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities International Plc.  
 “There has been, throughout the crisis, the perception
that Germany is a safe haven,” Brown, author of “Euro Crash:
The Implications of Monetary Failure in Europe,” said at a
Bloomberg News seminar in London today moderated by  Tom Keene .
“That is not the case. It’s not at all clear Germany deserves
anything like the safe-haven status it now has.”  
 The yield on the German 10-year note yielded about 2.6
percent today compared with 3.4 percent at the start of the year
after investors pushed cash into Europe’s largest economy as a
debt crisis roiled countries from Greece to Spain. Brown said
risks to Germany included its banking system and contagion from
neighboring economies.  
 The European Central Bank’s use of its balance sheet to
support the 16-nation euro economy has left it “bankrupt” and
stress tests of the region’s banks won’t be tough enough, Brown
said. The ECB has outstanding loans of almost 880 billion euros
($1 billion) after flooding the financial system with cheap cash
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 Such forces will lead to a “fundamental re-rating” of the
euro’s standing in international markets, Brown said. Speaking
at the same event, BNP Paribas SA’s  Hans-Guenter Redeker 
predicted the euro will reach parity with the dollar and trade
beneath it for most of 2011. The euro traded at $1.26 today.  
 Growth Is Key  
 “You need to have a very weak exchange rate” to support
expansion, said Redeker, BNP Paribas’s head of currency
strategy.  
 The test for the euro region this year will be the strength
of economic expansion, said  Riccardo Barbieri , Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s former head of economics. The euro-area economy
shrank 4.1 percent last year.  
 “There’s no solution for the sovereign-debt crisis if you
don’t have growth,” he said. “The primary question for the
second half of the year is economic growth.”  
 EU regulators are counting on stress tests to reassure
investors that banks have enough capital to withstand a debt
default by a European country.  Robert Parker , a senior adviser
at Credit Suisse Group AG, told the Bloomberg conference that he
anticipated banking consolidation in “stress areas” such as
Germany and Spain.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        