-- Ex-UBS Sclater Said to Run Mizuho Securities Prime Brokerage in Singapore
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-07-07T00:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/mizuho-said-to-hire-ex-ubs-sclater-to-run-singaproe-prime-brokerage-unit.html

          
          
             Mizuho Securities Co. , Japan’s third-
largest brokerage by market value, hired  Alastair Sclater  to
head its prime brokerage business in Singapore, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  
 Sclater, the former head of  UBS AG ’s Singapore prime
brokerage business, starts at Mizuho in August, the people said,
asking not to be identified because it hasn’t been announced. He
resigned from the Swiss bank in May. Yasunori Fukuda, a
spokesman at Mizuho Securities in Tokyo, declined to comment.  
 Tokyo-based Mizuho joins Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. in
expanding their prime services teams in Asia as the region leads
the global economic recovery. Firms are targeting the growing
number of small hedge-fund managers in Singapore that could
generate trading-fee income, said Robb Baiad, a senior partner
at executive search firm Meridian Partners.  
 “This mid-market was generally ignored,” Singapore-based
Baiad said. “If you had $20 million or say $30 million and went
to a bulge bracket firm, most would have said ‘come back when
you have a billion,’ but now there’s a market that could
generate money.”  
 About 70 percent of the hedge funds launched in Asia in the
past two years had $50 million or less as of the end of March,
according to Singapore-based consulting firm GFIA Pte.  
 Mizuho started electronic trading in Asia after hiring a
team of 16 former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. employees in
November 2008, targeting hedge funds and institutional investors
with electronic products and systems for equities trading, two
executives familiar with the plan said then.  
 Prime brokers provide services such as stock-, cash-lending
and trade clearing. The consulting business and capital
introduction teams help hedge funds set up offices and introduce
them to potential investors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        