-- Japan's Machinery Orders Slump 9.1%, Most Since 2008
-- Aki Ito
-- 2010-07-08T07:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/japan-machine-orders-fall-9-1-in-may-from-month-earlier.html

          
          
             Japanese machinery orders fell the
most since August 2008, a sign that any rebound in business
investment may be too weak to drive an economic recovery that
is showing signs of losing momentum.  
 Orders , an indicator of future capital spending, slid 9.1
percent in May from April, the Cabinet Office said today in
Tokyo. It was the first decline in three months, and exceeded
the median 3 percent drop in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The report prompted Cabinet Office spokesman  Keisuke Tsumura  to say the outlook is becoming less certain, while Bank
of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said the economy will keep
expanding. The remarks echo a divergence between government
officials and the central bank earlier this year before
Shirakawa and his board expanded a credit program in March.  
 “Pressure on the BOJ to ease monetary policy further will
continue to increase,” said  Kenro Kawano , a debt strategist in
Tokyo at Credit Suisse Group AG. “The central bank’s policy is
heading toward an easing bias.”  
 The yen fell 0.8 percent against the dollar and 0.9
percent versus the euro, reducing pressure on exporters whose
competitiveness has been threatened by gains in the currency.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 2.8 percent, the most in more
than a month, after a trade group said U.S. retail sales grew
the most in four years. The gauge has lost 15 percent in the
past three months.  
 Exports Cool  
 Separate figures showed a cooling of  exports , which have
been the main driver of the nation’s rebound from its worst
postwar recession. Slower growth in shipments abroad caused the
 current-account surplus  to narrow for the first time in 10
months, falling 8.1 percent to 1.205 trillion yen ($14 billion)
in May from a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said.  
 “The recovery’s no longer adding momentum and we’re
beginning to see more downside risks,” said  Yoshiki Shinke ,
senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.
He said the degree of any political pressure on the BOJ depends
on the direction of the economy as well as stocks and the yen.  
 The International Monetary Fund today cut its forecast for
Japan’s 2011 economic growth to 1.8 percent from 1.6 percent.
The world’s second-largest economy will grow 2.4 percent this
year, faster than the 1.9 percent the IMF predicted in April.  
 “Exports and production are expected to keep
increasing,” though at a slower pace, as overseas economies
continue to improve, Shirakawa said at a quarterly meeting of
the bank’s branch managers in Tokyo. The regional chiefs raised
their view of the economy in eight of the country’s nine areas,
their Sakura Report showed today.  
 Credit Concern  
 The BOJ intends to keep a “very accommodative financial
environment,” Shirakawa said, adding that global credit
markets are showing signs of volatility because of sovereign-
debt concerns.  
 Japan’s central bank has held the  benchmark interest rate 
at 0.1 percent since December 2008. It doubled a credit
facility to 20 trillion yen in March and has since unveiled a 3
trillion yen program to encourage lending to businesses and
help defeat deflation.  
 Cabinet Office Parliamentary Secretary Tsumura said the
outlook is being clouded by Europe’s debt crisis. “It’s
possible that the pace of the recovery will be more gradual,
even weaker, than our initial expectations.”  
 Merchant sentiment  declined for a second month in June, a
separate Cabinet Office report showed today. Tsumura is a
member of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s Democratic Party of Japan
that is seeking to maintain control of the upper house of
parliament in elections on July 11.  
 Hoarding Cash  
 Businesses have yet to deploy record stockpiles of cash
accumulated as the trade revival that began last year spurred
profit.  Bank lending  slid 2.1 percent in June, matching the
biggest drop in almost five years, the central bank said today,
an indication that firms remain reluctant to borrow.  
 Companies “are just sitting on their cash,” said  Martin Schulz , senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo.
“They have limited plans of investing in Japan because most
corporations do not expect the domestic economy to come back
strongly.”  
 Today’s machinery report contrasts with a Bank of Japan
survey last week that showed large companies aim to increase
spending by 4.4 percent in the year ending March 2011, the
first gain in three years.  
 Computer-memory chip maker  Elpida Memory Inc.  is among
firms that are planning to spend more as prospects improve. The
Tokyo-based company plans to more than double its investment
budget to 115 billion yen this fiscal year.  
 Still, Japan can’t count on continued surges in overseas
demand for much longer, according to economist  Tatsushi Shikano .  
 “Overseas economies will probably begin to lose steam at
the end of the year,” said Shikano, senior economist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co. in Tokyo. “That means exports
and production may lose momentum, leading to a halt in the
increases in capital spending.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said the economy will keep expanding. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
