-- JFE's Ship Unit Targets Orders for Five Vessels as Iron Ore Trade Gains
-- Masumi Suga
-- 2010-07-07T04:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/jfe-s-ship-unit-targets-orders-for-five-vessels-as-iron-ore-trade-gains.html

          
          
             JFE Holdings Inc. ’s shipbuilding unit,
Japan’s second-largest by output, is aiming to win orders for as
many as five vessels, mostly to be used to carry iron ore, by
October amid rising seaborne trade of the steelmaking material.  
 “We’re in discussions with longstanding major customers,”
Shinjiro Mishima, chief executive officer of the Tokyo-based
company’s unit  Universal Shipbuilding , said yesterday in an
interview, without identifying the companies. “We’re chasing
contracts in the category of large dry-bulk ships and oil
tankers.”  
 Iron-ore carriers including Nippon Yusen K.K. and Mitsui
O.S.K. Lines Ltd. are expanding their dry-bulk fleets to tap
demand for the steelmaking material. Exports of the ore from
Australia, the world’s largest shipper, are forecast to rise at
an average annual rate of 7 percent to 2015, the Australian
Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics said March 2.  
 “Our target is to get orders for around five vessels in
the half-year period” to Sept. 30, Mishima said, adding he’s
not sure if the company will win contracts for all of them.
“It’s likely to lead to orders for some ships in the first
half.”  
 The company won contracts to build three cape-size bulkers
last Japanese fiscal year after the financial crisis dried up
global orders for new ships, Mishima said. Orders received by
Japanese shipyards tumbled 57 percent for the year ended March
31, according to  data  from the Japan Ship Exporters’ Association.  
 JFE Holdings  shares  fell 0.8 percent to 2,712 yen at the 11
a.m. trading break on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Universal
Shipbuilding, 85 percent owned by Tokyo-based JFE, was formed in
2002 when NKK Corp., now part of JFE, and Hitachi Zosen Corp.
merged shipbuilding operations.  
 Rising Costs  
 To be sure, rising steel prices may lead to higher vessel
prices, reducing shipping lines’ appetite to buy new ones, as
Asian shipyards are set to deliver vessels of orders they
received before the financial crisis, Mishima, 60, said. Steel
accounts for 30 percent of the costs to build a vessel, he said.  
 Japanese steelmakers and domestic shipbuilders are in the
final stage of talks to raise plate prices by 20,000 yen ($228)
a metric ton for the April-September period, the Japan Metal
Daily said June 22, without giving the price levels, and not
saying where it got the information.  
 Universal Shipbuilding is still in negotiation with
domestic mills, including JFE’s steel unit, to agree on plate
prices for the six months through Sept. 30, Mishima said.  
 While Universal is ready to pay higher prices for plates,
the size of a price increase should be less than 20,000 yen a
ton, he said.  
 Price Increase  
 “We’ll have to accept a certain level of price increase as
iron ore and coal prices go up,” Mishima said at the company’s
headquarters in Kawasaki, near Tokyo. “Our concern is we’re
unable to pass on increased steel costs to buyers.”  
 JFE Steel expects to be able to cover most of rising
material costs by raising steel prices, President  Eiji Hayashida 
said June 22 at a conference of the Japan Iron and Steel
Federation, which he chairs.  
 Universal Shipbuilding isn’t considering buying lower-
priced steel from South Korean and Chinese mills as it intends
to sustain historic ties with domestic steelmakers, Mishima said.  
 The shipbuilder wants to cut total costs by 10 percent at
all of its five yards by cutting use of steel and other
materials and improving production efficiency for the year
through March 31, 2011, Mishima said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        