-- Kaisa `Loves' Idea of Selling Yuan Bonds in Hong Kong, Vice Chairman Says
-- Shelley Smith
-- 2010-07-07T09:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/kaisa-loves-idea-of-selling-yuan-bonds-in-hong-kong-vice-chairman-says.html

          
          
             Kaisa Group Holdings Ltd. , a property
developer in China’s Pearl River Delta, is considering selling
yuan-denominated bonds to Hong Kong investors seeking to profit
from a stronger Chinese currency.  
 “We would love to do one if we can,” Vice Chairman  Lai Ling Tam  said at the FinanceAsia Asia-Pacific Debt Investor
Forum in Hong Kong today. “It’s a natural hedge for us because
our revenue is in renminbi.”  
 Kaisa predicts interest from investors in the city in bonds
in yuan, also known as the renminbi, because of the potential
for currency appreciation. China loosened its currency peg to
the dollar on June 19 when the People’s Bank of China said it
will increase “flexibility” of the currency.  
 Bonds denominated in yuan and sold outside of China have
been rare.  Hopewell Highway Infrastructure Ltd.  is marketing a
sale of yuan debt that would be the first in the city in the
Chinese currency by a non-financial company.  
 The operator of expressways in the Pearl River Delta plans
to sell the debt with a coupon of about 3 percent, a person
familiar with the matter said on July 6.  
 “In Hong Kong you will probably see more renminbi issues
coming to the market,” Tam said.  
 Kaisa raised $350 million from a sale of 13.5 percent bonds
in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year
notes have dropped to 91.75 cents on the dollar, to yield 16.01
percent today, according to ING Groep NV prices on Bloomberg.  
 Yuan Appreciation  
 China, the world’s third-largest economy, wants to promote
the yuan beyond its borders and increase its use in trade. The
use of yuan for cross-border trade settlement has been expanded
to 20 provinces and cities, the People’s Bank of China said on
June 22.  
 Chinese authorities had prevented the currency from
strengthening against the dollar since July 2008 to help the
country’s exporters cope with the credit crisis. Officials are
seeking to let the yuan strengthen gradually to deflect
criticism from its trading partners and curb inflation, while
protecting a recovery in exports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        