-- Kenneth Starr Faces Nov. 1 Trial on Charges He Defrauded Celebrity Clients
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-07-07T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/kenneth-starr-faces-nov-1-trial-on-charges-he-defrauded-celebrity-clients.html

          
          
             Money manager  Kenneth I. Starr  faces
a Nov. 1 criminal trial on charges that he defrauded his
celebrity and socialite clients of at least $59 million.  
 U.S. District Judge  Shira Scheindlin  today scheduled the
trial while also ruling that Starr must file any requests to
suppress evidence by Aug. 5.  
 Starr, 66, is charged with 20 counts of wire fraud and one
each of securities fraud, money laundering and fraud by an
investment adviser. He is being held without bail and denies the
charges. If convicted of wire fraud, Starr faces as much as 20
years in prison.  
 He was represented at a proceeding in Manhattan federal
court by attorney  Flora Edwards , who told the judge that she
would soon submit a proposal to release Starr on bail. Edwards
also said she may ask to quit the case if Starr can’t locate
assets to pay her with.  
 “If there’s no possibility of getting access to funds, he
should have” a court-appointed lawyer, Edwards said in court.  
 Starr was arrested May 27 and accused of defrauding
clients, including heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, in a scheme
to buy a $7.5 million Manhattan apartment. Prosecutors expanded
the allegations in the subsequent indictment.  
 Starr used his access to famous and powerful clients “to
burnish an image of trustworthiness, leading his clients to
entrust him with management and control of their financial
affairs,” sometimes assuming “total control” over their
financial lives, the indictment charges.  
 Edwards is the third attorney to represent Starr, after
 Abbe Lowell  and a court-appointed attorney.  
 The case is U.S. v. Starr, 1:10-cr-520, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        