-- Khazanah Said to Approach Five Banks for Loans to Increase its Parkway Bid
-- Soraya Permatasari
-- 2010-07-07T09:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/khazanah-said-to-approach-five-banks-for-loans-to-increase-its-parkway-bid.html

          
          
             Khazanah Nasional Bhd. , Malaysia’s
sovereign wealth fund, started talks with five banks for loans
that would enable it to increase an offer for  Parkway Holdings
Ltd. , according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. , DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,  Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp.  and  United Overseas Bank Ltd.  were approached by the Kuala
Lumpur-based company, the people said, asking not to be named
because the talks are private.  
 Khazanah told the banks it may need to borrow at least S$1
billion ($720 million), two of the people said. A different
person said Khazanah will increase a planned sale of Islamic
bonds to as much as S$1 billion from an initial S$500 million if
it decides to offer more for Parkway.  
 Khazanah on May 27 offered S$1.18 billion to more than
double its stake in Singapore-based Parkway and gain control of
Asia’s biggest hospital operator with a 51.5 percent holding.
Billionaire brothers  Malvinder  and  Shivinder Singh’s  Fortis
Healthcare Ltd. trumped the bid on July 1 with a S$3.2 billion
offer for the 75 percent of Parkway it didn’t already own,
pledging 2 Singapore cents a share more than Khazanah.  
 Parkway runs 16 hospitals with more than 3,400 beds in
China, India and Malaysia among other Asian countries, according
to its website. Singapore assets include the Gleneagles and
Mount Elizabeth hospitals, both located close to the central
Orchard Road shopping belt.  
 Offer Expiry  
 Khazanah’s partial offer is scheduled to expire at 5:30 p.m.
Singapore time on July 8, Parkway said in a June 21 notice to
shareholders.  
 Khazanah planned to sell as much as S$500 million of
Islamic bonds to help finance its bid with help from banks
including CIMB, two people said on June 2. It has revised its
sale target to between S$800 million and S$1 billion and will
probably seek to issue so-called Ijarah sukuk with maturities of
between five and seven years, the person familiar with that
matter said today.  
 Asuki Mohd Abas , a spokesman for Khazanah, declined to
comment on the company’s financing arrangements in a telephone
interview today.  
 Shares of Parkway  rose  0.8 percent to close at S$3.87 in
Singapore trading today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net 
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        