-- Nanjing Steel Holds Off Iron Ore Purchases as Prices Fall, Chairman Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-07T11:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/nanjing-steel-holds-off-iron-ore-purchases-as-prices-fall-chairman-says.html

          
          
             Nanjing Iron & Steel Co., the Chinese
steelmaker part-owned by billionaire  Guo Guangchang , put off
iron ore purchases and instead ran down inventories as prices of
the steelmaking material decline.  
 Chinese steel mills have tried to resist efforts by iron-
ore producers Vale SA, Rio Tinto Group and BHP Billiton Ltd. to
raise contract prices, the China Iron & Steel Association said
last month. Spot  prices  for the material delivered to China fell
to the lowest in almost five months yesterday.  
 “We have held off iron ore purchases,” Nanjing Chairman
 Yang Siming  said in a phone interview today. “We’re waiting to
see how the market moves. No one is talking about contracts
right now.”  
 The cost of 62 percent iron ore delivered to Tianjin port
had an 11th straight drop yesterday, to $128 a metric ton. That
compares with third-quarter contract prices of about $145-$150 a
ton, leaving only half of contracts exercised,  Erik Nikolai Stavseth , an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo, said in
an e-mailed note today. He cited unidentified people in the
industry.  
 It’s “difficult to say” if contracts are being defaulted
on, Stavseth said by phone today.  
 Curbing Property Market  
 China’s iron ore imports  fell for a second month in May
amid concern construction demand may slow on government moves,
including raising mortgage rates, to curb property speculation.
Chinese  prices  for 25 millimeter rebar, steel used to reinforce
concrete, have fallen 17 percent to 3,833 yuan ($565.58) a ton
from a 2010 high on April 14, data from researcher Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co. show.  
 Chinese steelmakers are likely to cut output this quarter,
 Xu Lejiang , chairman of Baosteel Group Corp., the country’s
second-biggest mill, said on June 8. Weaker demand may prompt
smaller producers to default on iron ore contracts in the
period, Xu said.  
 More iron ore is transported at sea than any other dry-bulk
commodity, accounting for 29 percent of the total, Drewry
Shipping Consultants Ltd. in London estimate. Weaker Chinese
demand has helped cut  hire-rates for capesize ships  that
typically carry the material. They’ve slumped 63 percent since
reaching a 2010 high on June 2.  
 -- Helen Yuan  in Shanghai. With assistance from  Alistair Holloway 
and  Jesse Riseborough  in London. Editors:  John Deane ,  Dan Weeks .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alistair Holloway  in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        