-- NEC Aims to Double Supercomputer Share by 2014 on Europe Sales
-- Mikako Nakajima
-- 2010-07-07T23:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/nec-plans-to-double-share-of-supercomputer-market-by-2014-on-europe-sales.html

          
          
             NEC Corp.  aims to double its share of
the world’s supercomputer market in the next four years by
increasing sales in Europe, a market where industry leaders
 International Business Machines Corp.  and Hewlett-Packard Co.
may be easier to challenge.  
 Japan’s largest personal computer maker will increase to 5
percent its share of the supercomputer market it forecasts will
reach $14.6 billion by 2014, Fumihiko Hisamitsu, general manager
of NEC’s high-performance computing division, said in an
interview at the company’s Tokyo headquarters on July 5.  
 NEC’s plan to expand in Europe mirrors a strategy announced
this year by Japanese rival  Fujitsu Ltd. , which in May said it
aims to tap rising demand in Germany, France and the U.K. to
increase its market share to 10 percent from 2.2 percent in the
next 5 years. U.S.-based IBM and HP control about 80 percent of
the market, according to supercomputer-ranking website  Top500 .  
 “The barrier to entry in Europe is lower than in the U.S.,
where there’s a ‘buy American’ mentality,” Hisamitsu said.
“There’s a potential for us to grow our business there.”  
 While supercomputers that fill entire buildings are still
mainly found in military and research labs, smaller systems are
used by companies to design cars, test drugs and do other tasks
that require massive calculating power. The world market for
high performance computers, including machines that cluster
standard servers, will expand 10 percent annually through 2014,
Hisamitsu said.  
 Break Even  
 NEC, which took the world record for computer speed with
its  Earth Simulator  in 2002, estimates its supercomputer
division will break even this fiscal year on sales of between 20
billion yen ($229 million) and 30 billion yen. Overall, the
company is forecasting  net income  of 15 billion yen in the 12
months through March 2011 on sales of  3.3 trillion yen .  
 The computer maker’s  shares  have fallen 2.9 percent this
year on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, compared with a 12 percent
slide in the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average . The stock
dropped 2.1 percent to close yesterday at 232 yen.  
 Fujitsu is building what it says will be the world’s
fastest computer when completed in 2012 at Japan’s  Institute of
Physical and Chemical Research  near Osaka. The machine, the size
of half a soccer field, will string together 80,000 processers
and be able to perform 10 quadrillion calculations in a second,
more than four times as many as the current record holder, a
computer called ‘ Jaguar ’ built by  Cray Inc.  and housed at the
Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Mikako Nakajima  in Tokyo at 
 mikako@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The NEC Corp. SX9 computer  
                       
                         
                           NEC Corp. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The NEC Corp. SX9 computer is shown in this undated handout photograph. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The NEC Corp. SX9 computer is shown in this undated handout photograph. Source: NEC Corp. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
