-- Netanyahu Reviews Mideast Security Goals With Gates, Meets With UN's Ban
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-07-07T20:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/netanyahu-reviews-mideast-security-goals-with-gates-meets-with-un-s-ban.html

          
          
             Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  followed up his fence-mending White House visit by
meeting with Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  to discuss security
arrangements that would underlie a Middle East peace treaty.  
 Netanyahu met Gates today at Blair House, the official
presidential guesthouse, and said in a television interview that
he wants to be sure Israel won’t face missile attacks if it
signs a peace agreement with the Palestinians. He later flew to
New York to meet United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon .  
 “We’ll have to have very strong security arrangements so
that the areas that we vacate do not turn into Iranian
strongholds for firing rockets and sending terrorists against
us,” Netanyahu said in an interview on ABC’s “Good Morning
America.” “That’s happened before in Lebanon and in Gaza.”  
 Netanyahu told President  Barack Obama  yesterday he will
take “concrete steps” to ease conditions in the West Bank and
Gaza Strip, while challenging Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  to engage in direct peace talks.  
 The Israeli leader conferred with Gates on ways to improve
security “in the face of regional threats toward the goal of a
comprehensive Middle East peace,” the Defense Department said
in an e-mailed statement. Gates committed in the 75-minute
meeting to help Israel “develop new defenses against emerging
threats,” the Pentagon said, without elaborating.  
 The U.S. is already helping Israel improve its defenses
against ballistic missile and rocket attacks, the Pentagon said.
Obama has requested $205 million from Congress for a defense
system known as Iron Dome that is intended to protect Israel
from rockets and mortars fired from the Gaza Strip and Lebanon.  
 Shift in Talks  
 After yesterday’s White House encounter with Netanyahu,
Obama said he hoped face-to-face negotiations will soon replace
indirect talks being mediated by his Middle East envoy, former
Senator  George Mitchell .  
 Obama and Netanyahu, speaking to reporters at the White
House yesterday, both said they wanted to dispel concerns that
the U.S. commitment to Israel has been weakened by disputes over
construction in West Bank settlements and east Jerusalem.  
 “Reports about the demise of the special United States-
Israel relationship aren’t just premature, they’re flat wrong,”
Netanyahu said.  
 Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman , speaking today
during a visit to Vilnius, Lithuania, said direct talks can
begin “in about September.”  
 Palestinians Seek ‘Signal’  
 Abbas said during a visit to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, today
that Palestinians are waiting for “a signal from the Israeli
government,” which must agree to stop building settlements and
show willingness to negotiate on a two-state solution, Zuhair
Alshun, the Palestinian ambassador in Ethiopia, said in a
telephone interview.  
 U.S. officials say that relations with the Israeli
government have grown closer since March, when Israel’s
announcement of an east Jerusalem housing plan during a visit by
Vice President  Joe Biden  drew criticism from Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton .  
 “I think we can say with some degree of encouragement that
the relationship between the United States and Israel is back on
track,” Democratic Senator  Joseph Lieberman  said at a press
conference today while visiting Jerusalem.  
 Netanyahu told ABC that Israel is prepared to “take
risks” for peace as long as it doesn’t have to face a threat
such as the 2007 seizure of the Gaza Strip by Hamas.  
 The Islamic movement rejects Israel’s right to exist and
fired about 3,200 rockets and mortars into Israel in 2008,
according to the Israeli army. Israel cited the attacks as the
reason for its military offensive in Gaza in December 2008,
which left more than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis dead.  
 Hamas, classified as a terrorist group by the U.S. and
Israel, continued to fire rockets after the operation. The
number of projectiles fired from Gaza totaled 708 last year and
about 160 so far this year, the army said June 8.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Washington at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu  
                       
                         
                           Stan Honda/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu smiles during a meeting at UN headquarters in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu smiles during a meeting at UN headquarters in New York. Photographer: Stan Honda/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
