-- New York Lottery Rejects 2 Aqueduct Slot Bidders; Genting Malaysia Remains
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-07-07T00:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/new-york-rejects-two-racetrack-slot-machine-bids-genting-malaysia-remains.html

          
          
             Genting Malaysia Bhd.,  owner of
casinos in Singapore, the Philippines and the U.K., is the only
surviving bidder for an electronic slot-machine parlor at New
York City’s Aqueduct Racetrack after two U.S.-based firms were
disqualified, the New York Lottery  announced .  
 One excluded proposal was submitted by a group led by  SL
Green Realty Corp.,  Manhattan’s biggest office landlord, in a
bid with partners  Hard Rock International  and Toronto-based
 Clairvest Group . The other was from Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-
based  Penn National Gaming Inc.,  which operates 19 casinos and
racetracks.  
 “The  proposals  did not conform with the requirements of
the competition and, instead, attempted to negotiate for terms
more favorable to the bidders,” Lottery Director  Gordon Medenica  said in a statement. Neither New York-based SL Green
nor Penn National will be eligible for reconsideration even if
Genting isn’t approved, he said.  
 The  project , called a racino, would include more than 4,000
video slot machines plus a hotel and other facilities located at
the racetrack for thoroughbred horses in the New York City
borough of Queens. The developer of the project, which has been
planned for nine years, would pay a minimum $300 million up-
front fee to the state, which would issue $250 million of bonds
to help finance the facility, according to budget  documents .  
 Lottery Evaluation  
 The Lottery’s evaluation of Genting’s bid will continue,
and it is not guaranteed the award, even though it is the only
remaining bidder, said Jennifer Given, a state spokeswoman. The
Lottery expects to announce its recommendation by Aug. 3, she
said. The winner must also be  approved  by the governor, the
president of the state Senate and the speaker of the Assembly.  
 The Lottery’s announcement listed 19 aspects of the SL
Green proposal that were called “non-responsive” by the
Lottery. The Penn National proposal was disqualified on eight
counts.  
 Genting Malaysia, based in Kuala Lumpur, said July 1 it
will buy the U.K. casino businesses of  Genting Singapore Plc  for
340 million pounds ($510 million) to expand overseas. Both
companies are controlled by  Genting Bhd. , which has holdings in
hotels, palm oil plantations and cruise lines.  
 Spokesmen for SL Green and Penn National couldn’t be
reached for comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        