-- NYC Hits Record High Again Amid Northeast Heat Wave
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-07T19:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/new-york-faces-little-relief-as-u-s-northeast-swelters-in-100-degree-heat.html

          
          
             Temperatures in New York City passed
100 degrees today for a second day in a row, the first back-to-
back readings that high since 1999, the National Weather Service
reported.  
 The reading in Central Park was 101 degrees Fahrenheit
(38.3 Celsius) at about 2:50 p.m., breaking the daily record of
98 set in 1986 and tied in 1993. It reached 103 yesterday,
besting the old daily record by two degrees and coming within
three degrees of the city’s all-time high, the  National Weather
Service  said.  
 The heat wave that began over the weekend has strained
power grids and slowed rail service across the Northeast. Above-
average temperatures will hang on through the week, said  Joe Bastardi , chief meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc . in State
College, Pennsylvania.  
 U.S. nuclear production rose to the highest level in at
least 17 years, 98,740 megawatts, as the heat wave boosted
demand for electricity, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
reported.  
 Utilities asked customers to curb electricity use as the
high temperatures from Virginia to Maine strained air
conditioners and raised power use in New York to 33,450
megawatts, just below the record of 33,939 set in August 2006,
according to the New York Independent System Operator.  
 Conservation Urged  
 Consolidated Edison Co. urged its customers in the New York
City area to conserve power during the day. The company reduced
voltage to several Queens and Brooklyn neighborhoods by 5 to 8
percent last night and this morning because of problems with
electrical cables.  
 About 375,400 customers in those neighborhoods, which
included Flushing, Gowanus, Forest Hills and Brooklyn Heights
among others, were affected. About 6,934 ConEd customers are
without power in the metropolitan area, according to company
outage maps.  
 In Rhode Island, the heat overloaded the electric grid,
which is still damaged from flooding in March, according to
 National Grid . The company shut power down intermittently to
about 1,600 customers, according to a statement on its website.  
 “With temperatures approaching 100 degrees yesterday and
today, the local system in its compromised state simply cannot
handle the demand being placed upon it,” the company said.  
 Mid-Atlantic Heat  
 Temperatures today reached a record 102 in Washington, 101
in Baltimore and 103 in Richmond. Yesterday, Reagan Washington
National Airport recorded 102 and Baltimore-Washington
International posted a mark of 105 degrees.  
 The heat forced Amtrak and commuter trains to slow down
between Washington and Boston, according to a statement by the
railroad.  
 A series of weak cold fronts will “do battle with this
dome of heat” as the week goes on, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior
energy meteorologist at  Planalytics Inc.  in Berwyn,
Pennsylvania. While those fronts will knock temperatures down
from record levels, they will still be in the upper 80s to 90s
through next week.  
 “The record-breaking heat should come to an end
tomorrow,” Rouiller said by telephone today. “The trouble is,
the 90s and 100s will be replaced by 80s and 90s, so the heat
goes on.”  
 La Nina  
 The current weather pattern also tends to confuse the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s Global
Forecasting System model, Rouiller said. The model will predict
cooler temperatures, and traders will speculate on that even
though the cool air fails to materialize, he said.  
 Rouiller and Bastardi agreed the heat wave is a familiar
pattern that occurs after an El Nino, a warming in the Pacific
Ocean, collapses and is replaced by a La Nina, a cooling of the
same region.  
 “This shows a strong correlation to a rapidly emerging La
Nina,” Rouiller said. “La Nina supports hot summers.”  
 The Australian Bureau of Meteorology said this morning that
sea surface temperatures in the Pacific are as much as 4 degrees
Celsius below normal, indicating a La Nina is developing.  
 Heat advisories and air quality alerts stretch today from
Virginia through New York and Vermont to Canada. In  Montreal ,
temperatures hit the 90s yesterday, according to Environment
Canada, that nation’s weather service.  
 Heat Warnings  
 Heat advisories mean the high temperatures may have serious
health consequences while  air quality advisories  warn that
pollution and ground level ozone will be dangerous for people
with breathing problems.  
 An excessive heat warning has been issued for Philadelphia,
eastern Pennsylvania and parts of New Jersey and Delaware.
Temperatures in the area aren’t supposed to be as high as
yesterday but there will be greater humidity, making it feel
just as hot, the weather service said.  
 A heat wave is defined as at least three days in a row of
temperatures of 90 or more, and temperatures in New York reached
the upper 90s on July 4. New York’s last weeklong heat wave was
in August 1998, while the longest was 12 days from Aug. 24 to
Sept. 4, 1953, according to agency records.  
 The longest stretch of consecutive 100-plus days on record
at Central Park came in 1993, when it rose from 100 on July 8 to
102 on July 10.  
 A daily record high temperature of 102 degrees was set at
T.F. Green International Airport in Warwick, Rhode Island,
yesterday, breaking the mark of 97 set in 1999, according to the
weather service.  
 Northeast Records  
 A record high temperature of 102 degrees was also set at
Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks, Connecticut,
breaking the old mark for the day of 99 in 1999, the weather
service said.  
 Connecticut opened more than 100 “cooling centers” where
residents can get into air-conditioned buildings and out of the
heat, according to a statement from Governor  Jodi Rell , a
Republican. It was 97 in Hartford at 1:53 p.m., according to the
weather service.  
 Bastardi expects July will be much warmer than normal
across most of the country. Another heat wave will probably
arrive after July 15, bringing temperatures of 100 or higher to
the northern Great Plains and Chicago, he said.  
 “I don’t think this is the last of the heat,” Bastardi
said in an interview. “The next time it comes back it may not
be as extreme on the East Coast, but the Northern Plains,
Chicago and Minneapolis are liable to broil for the last two
weeks of July.”  
 Not Over  
 Rouiller said all the indicators point to above-normal heat
to continue for much of the U.S.  
 “I think more likely than not, July will go down as much
hotter than normal for a large part of the country,” he said.  
 Richard Castro, a  weather service meteorologist  in Upton,
New York, said the high temperatures in New York will only be in
the 90s as the week goes on and by the weekend will be in the
high 80s. He said normal high temperatures for this time of year
are in the 80s.  
 The cooling degree days value at Central Park yesterday was
27, or 16 above the normal value of 11, according to the weather
service.  
 Cooling degree days , calculated by subtracting a base of 65
degrees from the average daily temperature, is a value designed
to show energy demand, according to the weather service. The
higher the value, the warmer the weather, and thus the more
energy is probably consumed to cool homes and businesses.  
 For the month, the value in Central Park is 94, or 29 above
the normal value of 65. In Philadelphia, it’s 88, or 19 above
the normal of 69; and in Boston it’s 76, 29 above the normal of
47, according to weather service records.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman cools off in Washington Square Park in New York. Photographer: Adam Rountree/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Tom King, president of National Grid U.S., discusses the performance of the electricity transmission network and consumer demand during the Northeast heat wave.
     King talks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness with Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                           July 7 (Bloomberg) -- John Norris, commissioner at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, talks about the capacity of the U.S. power grid and the need to improve the nation's transmission infrastructure.
      Norris, speaking with Bloomberg Television's Peter Cook, also discusses the correlation between the economy and power demands.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
