-- Nigerian Money Supply, Business Credit Both Fell in May From Month Earlier
-- Paul Okolo
-- 2010-07-07T12:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/nigeria-s-broad-money-supply-credit-declined-in-may-central-bank-says.html

          
          
             (Corrects to say two consecutive months in first
paragraph.)  
 Nigeria’s money supply declined for
the second consecutive month in May, while credit to businesses
also dropped, indicating that last year’s banking crisis is
still damping economic growth.  
 The value of cash and notes in circulation, plus bank
accounts and treasury bills fell to 10.7 trillion naira ($71.5
billion) 10.9 trillion naira the month before, while credit to
businesses slid to 10.01 trillion naira from 10.1 trillion
naira, the  Central Bank of Nigeria , based in the capital, Abuja,
said today on its website.  
 It’s a sign that “banks are still not lending,” Pabina
Yinkere, an analyst at Access Bank Plc, said by phone from the
commercial hub, Lagos. “No new money is coming into the system
either through foreign investments or government spending.”  
 Lenders in the country have been shying away from giving
new credit since last year’s debt crisis threatened the industry
with collapse. The central bank bailed them out with 620 billion
naira and sacked the chief executive officers of eight of the 24
commercial banks for their handling of the problem.  
 The Senate on June 23 approved a law to set up a state-
owned company that will buy bad debts from banks. The bank will
clear $10 billion of toxic assets from the system this year, at
a cost of about $5 billion, Governor  Lamido Sanusi  said on July
1. The legislation is expected to get President  Goodluck Jonathan’s  approval soon, according to a central bank statement.  
 Sanusi on July 5 said the banks have started returning to
profit, mainly as a result of loan recoveries and the lower cost
of operations.  
 Nigeria’s economy, the second-largest in sub-Saharan Africa
after South Africa, grew 7.2 percent in the first quarter and
7.4 percent in the previous three months, as oil production
increased following a decline in attacks in the Niger Delta.
Nigeria is the continent’s top oil producer and the fifth-
largest supplier of U.S. crude imports.  
 The inflation rate declined to 11 percent in May from 12.5
percent a month earlier, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said
on June 15.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        