-- Nigeria Asks Britain to Extradite Former Leader of Intercontinental Bank
-- Paul Okolo
-- 2010-07-07T17:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/nigeria-asks-britain-to-extradite-former-leader-of-intercontinental-bank.html

          
          
             Nigeria asked Britain to extradite
 Erastus Akingbola , the former chief executive officer of
Intercontinental Bank Plc, so he can face charges which include
mismanagement of the lender, the Central Bank of Nigeria said.  
 Justice Minister  Mohammed Adoke  made the request for
extradition in a letter to the British Home Secretary, the
Abuja-based central bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Akingbola was among leaders of Nigeria’s commercial banks
that were fired by the central bank last year, after the lenders
gave out non-performing loans totaling 700 billion naira ($4.7
billion).  
 He is accused of “financial misappropriation, money
laundering, financial malpractices, corrupt practices and other
related offences,” according to the justice minister’s letter,
a copy of which was attached to the statement.  
 Akingbola, who helped found Lagos-based  Intercontinental
Bank  in 1989, has been living in the U.K. since his removal on
Aug. 14. He went to the U.K. on Aug. 19 after security officials
arrested and detained three other former managing directors who
were also removed by the central bank, ThisDay reported on Aug.
21.  
 Akingbola notified the U.K. authorities of his whereabouts
and provided them with full contact details through his legal
representatives, his media assistant, Suleiman Adebajo, said in
a statement on Sept. 14.  
 Akingbola didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone today.  
 Lamido Sanusi, governor of the central bank, fired
Akingbola and seven other bank chiefs and bailed the lenders out
with 620 billion naira after the debt problem that threatened
the industry with collapse.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at   pokolo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        