-- Asia's Third-Largest Iron-Ore Producer to Buy Coking Coal Mines in Russia
-- Ilya Khrennikov
-- 2010-07-07T10:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/nmdc-seeks-to-purchase-four-coking-coal-mines-in-russia-s-yakutia-region.html

          
          
             NMDC Ltd. , Asia’s third-biggest iron-
ore producer, may buy four coking coal mines controlled by
Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , securing raw material
supplies for two planned steel mills in India.  
 Talks to buy the OOO Kolmar mines, which have reserves of
about 400 million metric tons in Siberia’s Yakutia region, are
likely to be completed by December, NMDC Finance Director
 Swaminathan Thiagarajan  said today in a phone interview, without
giving price details.  
 Indian steelmakers are looking to protect themselves from
swings in raw material prices after global suppliers this year
switched to quarterly prices from a 40-year old system of annual
contracts. The deal would also benefit Prokhorov, once Russia’s
richest man, who bought Kolmar in April and planned an initial
public offering for this year.  
 “Attracting the Indians may seem a more favorable option
to Prokhorov than holding the company’s IPO,”  Alexander Pukhaev ,
analyst at VTB Capital, said by phone from Moscow. “Kolmar has
untapped coal mines in East Siberia and it will take billions of
dollars to develop the infrastructure there.”  
 Shares  of NMDC rose 0.3 percent to 264.05 rupees at the end
of trading in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s key Sensitive
Index fell 0.8 percent.  
 Sergei Liamin, deputy chief executive officer at
Prokhorov’s mining unit Intergeo, which owns and operates Kolmar,
declined to comment.  
 Price Increase  
 JFE Holdings Inc., Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, and
two rivals agreed to a 12.5 percent price increase for coking
coal contracts with BHP Billiton Ltd., three people with
knowledge of the agreements said June 1. Prices will rise to
$225 a metric ton for the July quarter, from $200 a ton for the
three months started April 1.  
 The Russian coal will be used to fire NMDC’s $3.6 billion
steel mill in Chhattisgarh, slated to start by fiscal year 2014,
Thiagarajan said. The material will also be used for NMDC’s
proposed $2 billion Karnataka factory, for which the Hyderabad-
based company is seeking partners.  
 NMDC is seeking to raise its production of iron ore, the
other key raw material used in steelmaking, at its mines in
Bailadila. Annual output is expected to rise more than 23
percent to 37 million tons from December after the 11/B mine
starts, Thiagarajan said on May 31. The company aims to produce
50 million tons by the end of fiscal 2015.  
 JSW Steel Ltd., India’s third-largest producer, plans to
spend as much as $100 million to acquire a U.S.-based coking
coal mine, Group Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  had said
on May 3.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        