-- No Eurosclerosis for U.S., Bank of America's Schmieding Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-07T18:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/no-eurosclerosis-for-u-s-bank-of-america-s-schmieding-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             The U.S. is no Europe when it comes
to economic growth and jobs, according to  Holger Schmieding ,
chief economist for Europe at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  
 There’s little risk right now of the U.S. contracting a
form of eurosclerosis, chronically high unemployment in a
growing economy, Schmieding said today during a radio interview
with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 “Europe has structural rigidities which are significantly
more pronounced than those in the U.S.,” said Schmieding.
“Europe actually in a funny way has the chance of improving by
now reducing some of these structural rigidities.”  
 Herbert Giersch, a German economist, coined the term
eurosclerosis in 1985 to describe European economies beset with
high unemployment at a time of overall growth. Joblessness that
year averaged 9 percent in France, 11.4 percent in Britain and
8.2 percent in what was then West Germany.  
 Employment at U.S. companies rose 83,000 in June, less than
the 110,000 gain forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey, the Labor Department reported July 2. Including
government, payrolls fell for the first time this year because
of a drop in federal census workers. The jobless rate dropped to
9.5 percent from 9.7 percent as the labor force shrank.  
 Schmieding said Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its gross
domestic product forecast for the U.S. and Europe by 0.7
percentage points.  
 Rally in Treasuries  
 Treasuries rallied in the second quarter on concern the
U.S. recovery is stalling. The  yield  on the two-year note
dropped on June 30 to 0.5856, the all-time low. The benchmark
10-year note’s yield touched 2.8793 percent on July 1, the
lowest level since April 28, 2009.  
 “People are very risk-averse at the moment, and there’s
just a lot of liquidity around, so I fully understand that you
want to go for the safest instruments,” Schmieding said.  
 As the economy grows, investors’ risk appetite will lead
them away from haven securities, creating more normal behavior
in equity markets, Schmieding said.  
 “We will eventually come away from these yields as
economies continue to heal, even if at a modest pace,”
Schmieding said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        