-- Nokia Asks Russian Police to Get Smartphone Back From Blogger
-- Anastasia Ustinova
-- 2010-07-07T13:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/nokia-enlists-russian-police-to-get-smartphone-prototype-back-from-blogger.html

          
          
             Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, asked the Russian police to help retrieve a
smartphone prototype from a Moscow-based blogger who riled the
company by posting information it calls confidential.  
 Eldar Murtazin, editor-in-chief of  mobile-review.com ,
published a detailed review of Nokia’s forthcoming N8 smartphone
based on a working prototype on April 26. Nokia then requested
the unit back in a post labeled “one of our children is
missing” on the company’s official blog.  
 “Several weeks back, we have formally requested the return
of all unauthorized Nokia property from Mr. Murtazin and he
declined to respond,”  Doug Dawson , a spokesman for the Espoo,
Finland-based company, said in an e-mail. “As a result, we have
contacted the Russian authorities to assist us in the return of
all unauthorized Nokia property.”  
 The increasingly competitive smartphone business has
attracted a pool of bloggers and analysts scrambling to be the
first with specifications of new products, which companies would
prefer to unveil at a time of their choosing. Apple Inc.
enlisted the California state computer crime task force in April
to seize computers from an editor whose blog bought an iPhone 4G
prototype the company said was stolen.  
 Murtazin didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail request
for comment. On his personal  blog  Murtazin said he has made
repeated attempts in the past two months to get in touch with
Nokia and never heard back from the company.  
 “Nokia says there has been a trade secret infringement,”
Murtazin said on his blog. “But we have never signed any non-
disclosure agreements with them and Nokia knows that very
well.”  
 Nokia said in a  post  today on its official blog that
Murtazin has identified himself as a consultant to other mobile-
phone manufacturers. “Whether Mr. Murtazin’s actions were as a
blogger, or whether he is acting in the capacity of a consultant
in order to provide information to his clients is an open
question,” it said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        