-- Novartis, Immigration, Cisco, TJX, Whistleblower, `Wiseguys' in Court News
-- Ellen Rosen
-- 2010-07-07T13:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/novartis-immigration-cisco-tjx-whistleblower-wiseguys-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Novartis AG’s  sales representatives
are covered by federal wage-and-hour laws requiring payment of
overtime, a U.S. appeals court in New York ruled.  
 A three-judge panel of the  court  yesterday overturned a
lower-court finding that the salespeople fell under exceptions
to the federal Fair Labor Standards Act for outside
representatives.  
 “The district court should have ruled that the reps are
not outside salesmen,” the appeals court said in its opinion.  
 The decision affects about 2,500 current and former
salespeople employed by Novartis from March 2000 to April 2007
who sued for unpaid overtime, according to the court’s decision.
The law requires the payment of 1 1/2 times a worker’s hourly
wage for more than 40 hours’ work in a week.  
 In its decision yesterday, the appeals court relied on
Labor Department  regulations  that define “outside salesman”
and “administrative” employees. The government supported the
salespeople on the appeal.  
 The court said the employees lack the “discretion and
independent judgment” required to classify them as
administrative employees.  
 In a related case, the appeals court yesterday upheld a
ruling that a group of Schering Corp. sales representatives
aren’t outside salespeople and the overtime requirement applies
to them. Eric Althoff, a Novartis spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  
 The case is  Re Novartis Wage and Hour Litigation, 09-437,
Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  
 New Suits  
 U.S. Sues in Effort to Block Arizona Immigration Law  
 The U.S. government sued the state of Arizona, challenging
the constitutionality of an immigration law set to take effect
later this month.  
 The lawsuit, filed yesterday in federal court in Phoenix,
follows challenges by the  American Civil Liberties Union  and by
an Arizona police officer who doesn’t want to enforce the
statute.  
 The law makes it a state crime to be in the U.S. illegally.
It requires local police officers, after having a law
enforcement reason to stop someone, to determine their
immigration status if they suspect the person lacks proper
documentation.  
 A legal challenge steps up the battle between the Obama
administration and Arizona officials. U.S. Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton earlier said the administration planned to
challenge the law.  
 Hedge Funds Holding WaMu Securities Want Exchange Deal Voided  
 Washington Mutual Inc .’s trust preferred securities holders
asked the court overseeing the company’s bankruptcy case to rule
that an exchange of the securities for preferred equity didn’t
happen in the hours before WaMu sought Chapter 11.  
 Black Horse Capital LP, Greywolf Capital Partners II,
Whitebox Special Opportunities LP and other funds also asked the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware, for a declaration
that  JPMorgan Chase & Co . was aware of misrepresentations in the
sale of the securities and that a regulator aided and abetted
fraud.  
 The holding company Chapter 11 case is Washington Mutual
Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Cisco Loses Court Appeal of Telcordia Patent Verdict  
 Cisco Systems Inc. , the biggest networking-equipment maker,
lost its appeal of a $6.5 million verdict for infringing two
Telcordia Technologies Inc. patents and must negotiate payments
for future use of the technology.  
 The ruling upholds a 2007 decision that Cisco appealed,
according to an  opinion  posted yesterday on the website of the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Telcordia lost in
its effort to revive a third patent claim that could have let it
collect damages on an industry standard for data transmission.  
 Telcordia, the former research division of the Bell
telephone companies, sought $75 million in damages related to
two patents. Cisco was found to infringe a patent for
synchronizing phone data and eliminating sound dropouts, as well
as another for re-routing voice, video and data when telephone
wires are cut, according to testimony in the 2007 trial.  
 Each side appealed aspects of the case. Piscataway, New
Jersey-based Telcordia appealed the ruling that the third patent
wasn’t infringed. Cisco challenged the validity of the patent.
The Federal Circuit said the judge erred in his interpretation
of patent wording and sent back the case for further arguments
on validity.  
 Telcordia sued  Tellabs Inc.  in another case pending in
Delaware involving the same patent.  
 Kristin Carvell, a spokeswoman for San Jose, California-
based Cisco, said the company had no immediate comment. Lawyers
for Telcordia didn’t immediately return a message seeking
comment.  
 The case is Telcordia Technologies Inc. v. Cisco Systems
Inc., 2009-1175 and 2009-1184, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Telcordia
Technologies Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 04CV876, U.S. District
Court for the District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 TJX Officials Sued, Settle With Investor Over Theft Losses  
 TJX Cos. , owner of the T.J. Maxx and Marshalls discount
retail chains, was sued by an investor seeking damages from
directors on behalf of the company over a computer-hacking
scheme, then settled the case almost immediately for $595,000 in
legal fees and enhanced oversight of customer files.  
 The lawsuit, made public yesterday in Delaware Chancery
Court in Wilmington, alleged that the TJX board failed to take
proper steps to protect company data and recover costs of
“computer intrusion” from 2005 to 2007.  
 “Criminals accessed the company’s computer system through
a wireless data network,” the Louisiana Municipal Police
Employees’ Retirement System said in court papers. The ring
stole card numbers of at least 45.7 million holders of credit
and debit cards, leading to card-replacement and investigative
costs and multimillion-dollar settlements with Visa Inc. and
MasterCard Inc., according to the complaint.  
 In March, a Miami man was sentenced to 20 years in prison
in connection with what prosecutors said was the largest
identity-theft case in U.S. history. In that case, TJX cited
$200 million in losses.  
 The lawsuit sought an order requiring officials to beef up
security to prevent fraud. In settlement papers, TJX agreed to
continue corporate governance changes including a telephone hot
line for customers and heightened computer oversight.  
 “The settlement is subject to court approval” and “the
current and former directors deny all allegations of
wrongdoing,” a TJX spokeswoman, Debra McConnell, said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System v. Alvarez, CA5620, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  
 Court News  
 U.S. Says It Charged Soldier With Disclosing Airstrike Video  
 The U.S. government filed charges, including the transfer
of classified information, against a soldier accused of giving a
video of an airstrike to a website, according to a press release
yesterday.  
 The soldier, Private First Class Bradley Manning, 22, of
the 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division, in Iraq,
was charged yesterday in a case involving a video obtained by
Wikileaks.org, a website that posts leaked documents, according
to the press release.  
 Manning was also charged with communicating, transmitting
and delivering national defense information to an unauthorized
source. Between November 2009 and May of this year, he obtained
the video, more than 150,000 diplomatic cables and a classified
presentation, according to a list of charges provided by the
Army.  
 “The initial investigation is still ongoing because there
are additional items to sift through,” said Lieutenant Colonel
Eric Bloom, a spokesman for  U.S. Division-Center , the Army
headquarters that oversees security in central Iraq.  
 Bloom said Manning faces up to 52 years in prison if
convicted.  
 In April,  Wikileaks.org  posted a video showing a U.S.
helicopter strike in July 2007 in which 12 people died,
including two journalists. It was taken by cameras on U.S.
Apache helicopters. Wikileaks.org said at the time it had
obtained the footage “from a number of military
whistleblowers.”  
 Attempts to contact a Wikileaks spokesman weren’t
successful.  
 Court Filings  
 ‘Wiseguys’ Ask Dismissal of Computer Ticket-Purchase Charges  
 Three men accused of beating computer security to buy and
scalp 1.5 million seats for events such as  Bruce Springsteen 
concerts asked for dismissal of charges they say seek to turn
lawful activity in crimes.  
 The men, dubbed the “Wiseguys” because they ran Wiseguy
Tickets Inc., claim U.S. prosecutors misapplied the Computer
Fraud and Abuse Act and wire fraud statute to charge them with
illegally getting ahead of the public to buy premium seats
through  Ticketmaster ,  Live Nation Entertainment Inc.,  Telecharge
and other vendors.  
 The indictment is “a naked effort to punish legal conduct
under federal law -- the resale of tickets for events -- by
using the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (‘CFAA’), a statute that
has nothing to do with so-called ‘ticket scalping,’” lawyers
for the men said in a July 2 motion in federal court in Newark,
New Jersey.  
 Prosecutors claim that after buying tickets on a first-
come, first-served basis, the defendants resold them making more
than $28.9 million in profit from 2005 to 2008. They were
accused of buying 220 of the 440 best seats offered to the
public for a Springsteen concert at Giants Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey, on July 27, 2008.  
 Rebekah Carmichael, a spokeswoman for  Paul Fishman , the
U.S. attorney in New Jersey, declined to comment and said
prosecutors will respond in writing by the Aug. 2 deadline.  
 By working with programmers in Bulgaria, California-based
Wiseguy Tickets defeated technology known as CAPTCHA, which
required users to read, then retype, distorted images of letters
and numbers to buy tickets, prosecutors alleged. They also
sidestepped audio CAPTCHA challenges for the visually impaired.  
 The case is U.S. v. Lowson, 10-cr-114, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York
at   erosen14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        