-- Obama Says U.S. Increasing Access to Export Financing
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-07T17:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/obama-says-u-s-expanding-access-to-export-financing-in-bid-to-create-jobs.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said his
administration is increasing access to export financing for
small and medium-sized U.S. businesses while removing barriers
to trade.  
 “The Export-Import Bank has more than doubled its loans in
support of American exporters since last year, and that step
alone has helped support nearly 110,000 new jobs,” Obama said
today at the White House.  
 The U.S. economy is struggling to recover from the worst
recession since the 1930s, with 83,000 private jobs added in
June and unemployment at 9.5 percent. Amid voter concerns about
the economy, Obama’s Democratic Party is seeking to stave off
Republican gains and retain Democratic control of Congress in
the November elections.  
 “Export growth leads to job growth and economic growth,”
Obama said.  Exports  in 2008 accounted for about one in three
manufacturing jobs and pay 15 percent more on average, he said.
“So at a time when jobs are in short supply, building exports
is an imperative.”  
 The president said he hopes to move forward on a free-trade
agreement with South Korea before his planned visit to the Asian
country in November. His administration is also working to move
forward on trade agreements with Panama and Colombia, he said.  
 “We’ll make sure each agreement we pursue doesn’t just
advance the interests of our businesses, workers and farmers,
but also upholds our most cherished values,” he said.  
 Boeing Chairman  
 In a Bloomberg Television interview after Obama’s remarks,
 Boeing Co.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney ,
chairman of the President’s Export Council, said he talked with
the president today about setting up a subcommittee structure to
increase exports. McNerney said “more boots on the ground
around the world” will help increase exports.  
 “It has to do with letting companies do what they do
best” and remove roadblocks in Washington that “slow things
down,” he said. “It’s about ensuring a level playing field out
there.”  
 “I think there’s a general recognition that the politics
can be difficult, but I think we’re looking at an economy, and a
need to drive job growth in this economy, that I think
supersedes the politics of the situation.”  
 Removing Hurdles  
 “We’re trying to unlock all of these things by removing
impediments, removing hurdles. Let people compete,” he said.  
 Obama also praised the June 30 World Trade Organization
ruling that  Airbus SAS  benefited from illegal subsidies, at the
expense of Boeing, which called decision a “sweeping legal
victory.”  
 “That practice was unfair and hurt American workers,” the
president said. “This ruling will keep the playing field level
and boost American jobs.”  
 Earlier today, Obama announced that  Ford Motor Co.  Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  and other top executives are
joining an advisory panel to help boost exports and create
millions of new jobs.  
 “Our efforts are off to a solid start,” Obama said.
“Part of this, of course, is due to the global recovery. But
we’re also moving forward on improving conditions for America’s
exporters.”  
 Export Council  
 Obama created the Export Council in March, laying out a
goal of doubling U.S. exports during the next five years to
about $3.1 trillion by 2015, supporting 2 million additional
jobs. He said today he wants the panel to send him a progress
report in September, two months before the elections.  
 The president highlighted 18 trade missions coordinated by
the Department of Commerce, loans from the Export-Import Bank
that have helped support almost 110,000 jobs, and new agreements
on exports of U.S. agricultural products.  
 The U.S. reached an agreement in March to resume exports of
pork to China and in June to reopen poultry sales to Russia, two
steps worth more than $1 billion in annual sales, according to
the administration.  
 Overall, U.S. exports rose 17 percent to $588 billion in
the first four months of this year from $502 billion during the
same period a year ago.  
 The U.S. signed agreements with Colombia in November 2006
and Panama in June 2007. U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  told
Congress in March the administration is still working to resolve
concerns from Democratic lawmakers and labor unions that the
trade agreements fail to align labor, tax and environmental
policies.  
 Intellectual Property  
 Kirk said the White House also wants to ensure protection
of U.S. intellectual property rights to guard against stealing
ideas and products with “cheaper inputs and labor.”  
 “Labor has not delayed our move,” Kirk told the Senate
Finance Committee on March 3. “But labor does have a seat at
the table with this administration.”  
 Mulally and  Walt Disney Co.  CEO  Robert Iger  were named
today to the export council, joining  James McNerney  and  Xerox
Corp.  Chairman and CEO  Ursula Burns , who were appointed March 11
to lead the group.  
 Appointees to the council, the White House said, will
include:  United Parcel Service Inc.  Chairman and CEO  Scott Davis ;  MetLife Inc.  Chairman and CEO  Robert Henrikson ;  Pfizer
Inc.  Chairman and CEO  Jeffrey Kindler ;  Verizon Communications
Inc.  Chairman and CEO  Ivan Seidenberg ;  Archer Daniels Midland
Co.  Chairman and CEO  Patricia Woertz ; and  UAL Corp.  Chairman and
CEO  Glenn Tilton .  
 Council members will also include: Vermeer Corp. CEO  Mary Andringa ;  Dow Chemical Co.  Chairman and CEO  Andrew Liveris ;  Dow
Corning Corp.  Chairman and CEO  Stephanie Burns ; Warburg Pincus
LLC Co-President Charles Kaye; Ernst & Young LLP Chairman and
CEO  James Turley ; and Carpenter & Co. CEO  Richard Friedman .  
 Other appointees will be: G&C Equipment Corp. President
Glen Hale; United Association General President William Hite;
former Greater Construction Corp. Chairman and CEO Robert
Mandell; and Magno International LP President  Raul Pedraza .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net 
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke talks about the outlook for trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama.
     Locke also discusses the Obama administration's efforts to increase exports and the possible impact on the U.S. economy. Locke talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Jim McNerney, chief executive officer of Boeing Co., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about a World Trade Organization ruling against some of the financial aid Airbus SAS has received for aircraft development.
     McNerney also discusses President Obama's efforts to boost U.S. exports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Ronald McKinnon, professor of international economics at Stanford University, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about U.S. President Barack Obama's goal to double exports during the next five years, and implications of China's currency policy on the trade relations between the two countries.
     Obama says his administration is increasing access to export financing for small and medium-sized U.S. businesses while removing barriers to trade. The U.S. trade deficit with China reached $71 billion in the first four months of the year, up 5.7 percent from the same period in 2009, U.S. government data show. China’s peg of its currency to the dollar had provided the country with an "unfair trade advantage," Obama said on June 24. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Ramscar, director wealth management at Financial Partners, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for global economy.
     Ramscar also discusses the outlook for gold, and U.S. and China stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
