-- Obama Critic Would Kill Ants in Tanning Bed: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-07-07T01:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/obama-critic-would-kill-ants-in-tanning-bed-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             The risk in going nuclear,
politically, is the likelihood of a retaliatory strike.  
 House Minority Leader  John Boehner  emerged from relative
obscurity last week to  denounce  the financial-regulation bill as
“killing an ant with a nuclear weapon.” A day after that quote
was published, President  Barack Obama  launched Boehner’s words
right back at him: “That’s what he said -- he compared the
financial crisis to an ant,” the president told a Wisconsin
crowd. “This is the same financial crisis that led to the loss
of nearly 8 million jobs, same crisis that cost people their
homes, their life savings.”  
 Boehner has never been so high profile -- or so wrong. On
the stupidity scale, his comment is up there with Representative
 Joe Barton  calling the $20 billion fund for victims of the Gulf
oil spill a White House “shakedown.”  
 Together, these comments reveal the GOP’s strategy of
redefining populism so that free enterprise is “us” and those
trying to rein it in -- the socialists, you know -- are
“them.”  
 Defending BP Plc, as we learned, wasn’t just a lark by
Barton. The day before, “Chicago-Style Political Shakedown”
was the headline on a press release issued by the Republican
Study Committee, which lists 115 House Republicans as members.
And Republicans clearly intended to do little more than tinker
at the margins of the financial crisis, leaving their corporate
allies -- also known as the perpetrators of the crisis -- to go
out and do it again.  
 Out Loud  
 Neither Barton nor Boehner uttered anything their party
doesn’t agree with. The trouble was, they said it out loud. It’s
best to protect  oil companies  and  Wall Street  in the quiet of a
backroom, even if, these days, Boehner is the only person making
it smoke-filled.  
 In his role as messenger for this new Republican populism,
Boehner, who harbors dreams of being House speaker some day, no
doubt feels elevated by the president’s attention.  
 Beloved by late-night comedians as the poor man’s George Hamilton, on account of the orange glow given off by his
industrial-strength tan, Boehner usually is more shop steward
than idea man, and proud of it.  
 When the president called him out on his ant analogy,
Boehner took it as an invitation to take it outside for a
rumble. At a press conference, mostly ignoring the substance of
the issue, he accused a “whining” Obama of “childish
partisanship.” Then he slinked back to the undisclosed location
of his personal tanning salon.  
 Hit the Links  
 A smoker, a duffer, a man who takes seriously the
admonition not to regret on your deathbed that you spent too
much time in the office, Boehner is the guy behind the scenes
moving the levers of retail politics as a prodigious fundraiser,
but with an asterisk: If you’ve got a tough race in  Maine  and
it’s winter, don’t look for Boehner in Bangor. His travels
conform to his  taste for golf  in a warm clime with a cool drink
waiting in a cocktail lounge with an ample smoking section.  
 Surprised that Boehner had stepped in it as he stepped out
to swat at Obama,  Joe Scarborough , the former Republican
congressman who now hosts  MSNBC ’s “Morning Joe” program,
 offered his insight  on Boehner’s, shall we say, less than
rigorous work ethic.  
 Boehner owes a giant thank-you to  Michael Steele  -- the
other man of color in the GOP -- for cutting short what could
have become a nasty national debate on his work habits.  
 Flunking History  
 In an unfathomable assault, Steele, chairman of the
 Republican National Committee , said at a party fundraiser in
 Connecticut  that Afghanistan is “a war of Obama’s choosing.”
He presumably forgot that America’s longest war started under a
Republican,  George W. Bush , in response to a terrorist attack
that killed 3,000 people on Sept. 11, 2001. Even after some big-
name Republicans called on him to resign, Steele elaborated on
his history-flunking comments rather than retract them.  
 Like Barton and Boehner before him, Steele may well have
been expressing, or at least previewing, a real Republican Party
tenet and talking point. For the moment, Republicans are
officially in favor of the troubled U.S. military campaign in
Afghanistan, at least until they can defeat Obama by being
against it.  
 A common thread through the financial crisis, the Gulf oil
spill and  Afghanistan  is that Democrats are counting on voters
to recognize that doing nothing wasn’t a viable option.
Democrats stepped up to do what they could to prevent the next
bailout, compensate the victims of corporate recklessness and
salvage a war that must be won. In November, we’ll see whether
voters paid close-enough attention to thank Democrats, rather
than punish them.  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        