-- Lobbyist: Wall St. Firms Don't Give `Rat's Ass' About Small Banks
-- Robert Schmidt
-- 2010-07-07T18:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/lobbyist-urges-community-banks-to-back-regulatory-reform-not-wall-street.html

          
          
             A lobbyist for community banks
privately urged his industry not to oppose the U.S. regulatory
overhaul, warning that smaller lenders are being used by Wall
Street to derail the legislation.  
 In an e-mail sent in late June to state bank trade
association executives,  Camden Fine , head of the Independent
Community Bankers of America, said his group wouldn’t publicly
take a position on the bill. Still, he said small bankers would
lose important exclusions they fought for and “are turning the
gun on themselves” if they work to defeat the legislation ahead
of a final Senate vote this month.  
 “Do you really think Wall Street mega firms give a rat’s
ass about small banks? Hell no,” wrote Fine, who represents
about 5,000 community lenders. “They only care about the
credibility small banks can wield on Capitol Hill to get them
out from under this rock.”  
 Fine’s e-mail highlights a fissure emerging in the banking
world over the legislation, which is the largest  re-write of
financial rules  since the 1930s. Other groups that represent
financial institutions, including the  American Bankers
Association , continue to lobby against the bill, which they say
is too burdensome on firms of all sizes.  
 The legislation, pushed by President Barack Obama’s
administration for more than a year in response to the credit
crisis, was approved by the House on June 30. Passage isn’t
assured in the Senate, where 60 votes are needed to prevent the
bill from being blocked.  
 ‘Stink Bombs’  
 Fine, in an interview yesterday, said he sent the memo to
point out some merits of the legislation and to remind fellow
community bank trade group leaders what is at stake. Several
state associations have come out in opposition to the bill.  
 In his e-mail sent June 29, Fine wrote that the legislation
does have some “stink bombs” that the group will continue to
fight against at federal agencies and by pushing for additional
legislation. Those policies include regulation of debit card
swipe fees, he said.  
 Small firms were treated better by Congress during the
legislative debate, winning exemptions from some regulation and
getting curbs enacted on large banks that would level the
competitive playing field, he said. If the bill fails, community
lenders may not be able to count on such protection again.  
 “Those that don’t like banking in general, and small bank
carve outs in particular, have not just faded away into the
dark,” he wrote. “They are desperate to get another shot at
us.”  
 ‘Goodwill’ Gone  
 Fine, 59, became president and chief executive officer of
the trade association in 2004, according to the  group’s website .
 Before  coming to Washington, Fine ran Midwest Independent Bank
of Jefferson City, Missouri, for almost 20 years. He also owned
Mainstreet Bank of Ashland, Missouri.  
 The community bankers association was active in the
regulatory debate, successfully advocating for the Federal
Reserve to keep its supervision of smaller lenders. The group
also won changes to how the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
assesses banks for deposit insurance, shifting more of the
burden to large institutions.  
 In his e-mail, Fine touted exclusions for small  banks  from
rules governing mortgage lending and increased capital
requirements, as well as from the new consumer protection
bureau’s examination and enforcement authority.  
 ‘Wrath’ of Obama  
 “If this bill goes down by our own hand, our goodwill will
be gone,” the trade association chief wrote. Friendly lawmakers
would feel “like we stabbed them in the back” and relations
with the Obama administration would turn sour, he said.  
 Obama is likely to remain president for six and a half more
years, and he will have appointed every head of the financial
regulatory agencies and most Fed governors by this time next
year, Fine said. Those officials will have sway over the
industry.  
 “If the conference report goes down it will be a pyrrhic
victory, because the wrath of the Obama administration will also
fall down on us hard,” he wrote. “There won’t be any meetings
with community bankers at the WH, I will guarantee you that,”
he said, referring to the White House.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Head of the Independent Community Bankers of America Camden Fine. Photographer: Matt Stroshane/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
