-- Mobius Says South Africa Should Sell State Companies to Improve Efficiency
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-07T14:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/mobius-says-south-africa-should-sell-state-companies-to-gain-efficiency.html

          
          
             South Africa should sell state-owned
companies to improve efficiency and provide a better platform
for economic growth, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. Executive
Chairman  Mark Mobius  said.  
 State-owned enterprises, which supply Africa’s biggest
economy with power and run its railways, have been mired in
management disputes, funding shortfalls and wage protests.  
 “The state-owned enterprises have not met the fast-growing
needs of the population,” Mobius, who oversees about $34
billion in emerging markets, said by phone from Hong Kong on
July 5. “South Africa has been moving too slowly. They are not
moving at the pace that is required to prevent major political
upheavals.”  
 The world’s most productive platinum and ferrochrome 
smelters were temporarily halted in January 2008, after funding 
for state-owned power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd.’s expansion
projects had been blocked, leading to five days of power
outages. In May, an 18-day wage strike at state-owned logistics
company Transnet Ltd. crippled exports until management offered
workers an 11 percent salary increase.  
 “If you don’t have electricity, you can’t grow,” said
Mobius. “It’s all tied together.”  
 Transnet, Eskom, South African Airways and the South
African Broadcasting Corp. all struggled for months to find
permanent chief executive officers. Eskom has 135.1 billion rand
($17.6 billion) in outstanding bonds and loans, according to
Bloomberg data. Transnet has 30.1 billion rand.  
 Power, Education  
 Electricity supply, education, housing and poverty
alleviation “are some fundamental problems that South Africa
has to address,” Mobius, 73, said.  
 The Congress of South African Trade Unions, which is in
alliance with the ruling African National Congress, supported
President  Jacob Zuma  in his successful bid to become party
leader in 2007 and ushered him into the country’s top office.  
 Just over a fifth of South Africa’s 48 million people live
on less than 283 rand a month, down from 31 percent in 2005,
according to the presidency.  
 South Africa’s housing backlog has leapt to 2.1 million
from 1.5 million in 1994, Human Settlements Minister Tokyo
Sexwale said in April. About 12 million people need better
shelter, he told parliament.  
 Risks  
 The national schools pass rate has dropped for the last six
years even as government spending on education increased more
than fourfold since the first all-race elections in 1994. The
country will next year start phasing out the current outcomes-
based education system, which was introduced in 1998 and has
been blamed for the failure rate, Basic Education Minister  Angie Motshekga  said yesterday.  
 Zuma, South Africa’s fourth president since the end of
white minority rule, has emphasized the need for government to
move faster to improve education, housing and poverty
alleviation.  
 Business ownership and labor laws risk being tightened if
poverty issues aren’t addressed, discouraging companies from
taking on staff and investors from putting their money into
entities operating in the country, Mobius said.  
 “The labor movement could get out of control,” Mobius
said. Should these laws be changed “in a way that
disenfranchises investors, then you’ve got a problem.”  
 ‘Hesitant’ Recovery  
 South Africa’s economy is recovering from the first
recession in 17 years, returning to growth in the third quarter
of last year. The  economy  expanded an annualized 4.6 percent in
the first quarter, while  inflation  slowed to 4.6 percent in May
from 8 percent in the same month a year earlier.  
 “The recovery is taking place, but it is hesitant, fragile
and uneven,” South African Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus 
said in Johannesburg today. “Its sustainability will be
dependent on the global recovery in general and in Europe in
particular.”  
 The ANC will discuss the nationalization of the country’s
mines at a policy conference in September at the behest of its
youth wing, which supports state control in new mining ventures.  
 “It’s a concern to anybody investing in South Africa,”
Mobius said. “If what the youth league is saying comes to pass,
then it’s a very worrying situation. That would discourage any
investment.”  
 The government isn’t planning to introduce nationalization
laws Mines Minister  Susan Shabangu  has said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        