-- Hong Kong Stocks Drop on Slow U.S. Services Growth; Yue Yuen, ICBC Decline
-- Ronnie Koo
-- 2010-07-07T09:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/hong-kong-stocks-drop-on-slow-u-s-services-growth-yue-yuen-icbc-decline.html

          
          
             Hong Kong stocks  dropped as U.S.
service industries expanded more slowly than estimated and after
a Chinese government official said the world’s fastest-growing
major economy is facing increasing uncertainties.  
 Foxconn International Holdings Ltd., the world’s biggest
contract maker of mobile phones, declined 2.2 percent.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
lender, fell 1.4 percent after Ming Pao Daily News reported that
the company is planning a rights offer.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s
biggest offshore oil explorer, dropped 2.8 percent as China
plans to impose a new tax on energy exploration. Chaowei Power
Holdings Ltd. and Sinoref Holdings Ltd. sank more than 6 percent
on their debut.  
 “I think it’s too early to gauge if there will be another
recession, as governments might step in sooner or later,” said
 Andrew Sullivan , a sales trader at Mainfirst Securities Hong
Kong Ltd. “The market is waiting to see if there are further
stimulus measures to come.”  
 The  Hang Seng Index  dropped 1.1 percent to close at
19,857.07, its fifth decline in six days. The gauge has fallen
9.2 percent this year as worries about budget deficits in Europe
and tighter monetary policy in China dented confidence in the
strength of the global economy.  
 Shares on the benchmark measure are priced at an average
 13.1 times  estimated earnings, down from 18 times on Nov. 16,
when the index hit its high for 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  
 The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares
of Chinese companies decreased 1.3 percent to 11,305.18.  
 ‘Very Long Siege’  
 Shares of exporters declined after the Institute for Supply
Management’s index of non-manufacturing businesses in the U.S.
fell more than expected to a four-month low in June from May,
adding to signs recovery in the world’s biggest economy is
faltering.  
 Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  told Bloomberg
Television yesterday that the U.S. should have a “kitchen-sink
strategy” that uses all fiscal and monetary policies possible
to prevent the economy from sliding back into a recession.  
 “We are looking at what could be a very long siege here,”
Krugman said. “We should be throwing everything we can get at
this.”  
 Foxconn declined 2.2 percent to HK$4.97.  Li & Fung Ltd. ,
the world’s biggest supplier for retailers including Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., slipped 1.4 percent to HK$34.55.  
 Chinese Banks  
 ICBC dropped 1.4 percent to HK$5.59. The lender will offer
0.3 to 0.5 of a share for every 10 held in Shanghai and Hong
Kong, raising as much as 45 billion yuan ($6.64 billion) in a
rights offer, Ming Pao Daily News reported, citing unidentified
people it said were close to the deal. The bank’s press officer
 Xie Taifeng  couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 Shares of Chinese banks also declined as  Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd.  sought to raise at least $19.2 billion in what may
become the world’s biggest initial public offering.  
 China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s second-biggest
lender, fell 1.3 percent to HK$6.20.  Bank of China Ltd. , the
third largest, lost 1.3 percent to HK$3.94.  
 Chaowei Power , an electric-bike battery maker, plunged 9.2
percent to HK$1.98 on its first day of trading. The company sold
250 million shares at HK$2.18 each, raising net proceeds of
HK$474.8 million ($61 million) in an initial public offering,
according to a statement.  
  Sinoref  slumped 6.6 percent to 71 Hong Kong cents on its
debut. The company, which makes molten-steel flow control
equipment, sold 390 million shares at 76 Hong Kong cents each,
raising net proceeds of HK$195.3 million in an IPO, it said in a
statement.  
 China’s Resources Tax  
 Shares of resource companies declined as China plans to
impose a new tax on the extraction of coal, oil and gas in the
country’s western region.  
 Cnooc declined 2.8 percent to HK$12.70. PetroChina Co., the
nation’s largest energy company, slipped 2.5 percent to HK$8.53.
 China Shenhua Energy Co. , the country’s biggest coal producer,
fell 1.8 percent to HK$27.95.  
 The country will change the resources tax in the region to
a price-based, rather than volume-based, levy, the government
said in a statement on its website, citing comments by Premier
 Wen Jiabao  at a meeting with officials yesterday.  
 Chinese property developers fell. China’s economy faces
increasing uncertainties and the economic situation is becoming
more complex,  Ma Jiantang , head of the National Bureau of
Statistics was quoted as saying in the bureau’s newspaper today.  
 ‘Healthy Correction’  
 China Resources Land Ltd. , a state-controlled developer,
slipped 1.1 percent to HK$14.70.  China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based developer controlled by the
Chinese construction ministry, dropped 1.6 percent to HK$14.68.
 Hang Lung Properties Ltd. , which got about 40 percent of sales
from China in the last fiscal year, fell 1.2 percent to HK$30.15.  
 Property prices in 70 Chinese cities rose 12.4 percent in
May, the second-fastest pace on record, heightening concern a
bubble is forming in the nation’s housing market. China’s home
prices are set to fall as much as 20 percent in a “healthy”
correction,  Michael Klibaner , head of China research at Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc., said today on Bloomberg Television.  
 Futures on the Hang Seng Index fell 1.2 percent to 19,786.
All but four stocks dropped on the 43-member gauge.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Liu Yang, chairwoman of Atlantis Investment Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, talks about Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s initial public offering.
     Agricultural Bank is raising at least $19.2 billion in what may become the world’s biggest IPO, according to people with knowledge of the pricing for Hong Kong and Shanghai. Liu speaks from Hong Kong with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
