-- Monsanto, Cisco, General Mills, Amaury, Men at Work: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-07T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/monsanto-cisco-general-mills-amaury-men-at-work-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Monsanto Co. , the world’s biggest
seed company, can’t use a European patent on its Roundup Ready
soybeans to block Argentinean soy meal imports, the European
Union’s highest court said.  
 The ruling by the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg
follows Monsanto’s decision last month to withdraw a Dutch suit
that triggered the EU court case. Yesterday’s decision is
binding across the 27 EU nations and can’t be appealed.  
 “Monsanto cannot prohibit the marketing in the EU of soy
meal containing, in a residual state, a DNA sequence” it
patented, the EU court said.  
 Monsanto said last week its decision to settle the Dutch
dispute was prompted by a preliminary opinion in March. The EU
court agreed with the non-binding decision of Advocate General
Paolo Mengozzi that the European  patent  for the trait that makes
soybeans resistant to the company’s Roundup herbicide doesn’t
extend to soy meal made from the patented seeds.  
 Argentine growers planted about 43 million acres of
soybeans containing Monsanto’s Roundup Ready trait last year,
making the country the company’s second-biggest soybean market
after the U.S., according to a  Monsanto report . About 95 percent
of soybeans grown in Argentina contain Monsanto’s Roundup Ready
trait, Jim Tobin, the company’s vice president of industry
affairs, said in July.  
 “The case itself has already been settled between the two
parties and this move in no way affects the outcome,” St.
Louis-based Monsanto said in an e-mailed statement. “This
ruling has only a limited meaning for the patent involved.
Overall patent protection of Monsanto’s Roundup Ready Soybean is
not at issue.”  
 Monsanto said Argentina is “the correct place for a
resolution in these matters” and it will continue to work on a
fair solution.  
 A Dutch court on June 23  granted  Monsanto’s request to
withdraw its lawsuit against Cefetra Ltd. and Alfred C. Toepfer
International. Toepfer is a unit of Archer Daniels Midland Co.  
 During 2005 and 2006, Monsanto had shipments of soy meal
from Argentina impounded in Amsterdam. Tests showed they
contained some of the patented seed traits and Monsanto sued the
importers for infringement. A court in The Hague sought the EU
tribunal’s guidance on the case in 2008.  
 While Monsanto had argued the patented trait in the
soybeans remains under its protection after the beans have been
processed into meal, the importers argued the patent’s scope
isn’t that wide under EU  biotechnology  rules.  
 The EU court case is C-428/08 Monsanto Technology LLC v.
Cefetra BV, Cefetra Feed Service BV, Cefetra Futures BV and
State of Argentina and Monsanto Technology LLC v. Vopak Agencies
Rotterdam BV and Alfred C. Toepfer International GmbH.  
 Cisco Loses Court Appeal of Telcordia Patent Verdict  
 Cisco Systems Inc. , the biggest networking-equipment maker,
lost its appeal of a $6.5 million verdict for infringing two
Telcordia Technologies Inc. patents and must negotiate payments
for future use of the technology.  
 The ruling upholds a 2007 decision that Cisco appealed,
according to an  opinion  posted yesterday on the website of the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Telcordia lost in
its effort to revive a third patent claim that could have let it
collect damages on an industry standard for data transmission.  
 Telcordia, the former research division of the Bell
telephone companies, had been seeking $75 million in damages
related to two patents. Cisco was found to infringe a patent for
synchronizing phone data and eliminating sound dropouts, as well
as another for re-routing voice, video and data when phone wires
are cut, according to testimony in the 2007 trial.  
 Each side appealed aspects of the case that went against
them. Piscataway, New Jersey-based Telcordia appealed the ruling
that the third patent wasn’t infringed, while Cisco challenged
the validity of that patent. The Federal Circuit said the judge
erred in his interpretation of patent wording and remanded the
case for further arguments on validity.  
 Telcordia sued  Tellabs Inc.  in another case pending in
Delaware involving the same patent.  
 Kristin Carvell, a spokeswoman for San Jose, California-
based Cisco, said the company had no immediate comment. Lawyers
for Telcordia didn’t immediately return a message seeking
comment.  
 Telcordia’s case was argued by  Donald R. Dunner  of
Washington’s  Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP .  
 Cisco’s argument was presented by  Edward R. Reines  of New
York’s  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP .  
 The case is Telcordia Technologies Inc. v. Cisco Systems
Inc., 2009-1175 and 2009-1184, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Telcordia
Technologies Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 04CV876, U.S. District
Court for the District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Apple Gets New U.S. Patent on ‘Workflow Widget’ Technology  
 Apple Inc. , maker of the iMac and iPod, received a patent
on “workflow widgets.”  
 Patent 7,752,556, which was one of  5,090 U.S. patents
issued yesterday , is for a technology that enables computer
users to perform common tasks and get fast access to
information, even if their desktops are cluttered with icons.  
 According to the patent, users often find it “difficult to
navigate to a particular user interface element or to locate a
desired element among a large number of onscreen elements,”
particularly when they have overlapped or minimized screens.  
 Users with too many things up on their computer screens at
one time may suffer from “information overload” and may no
longer be able to operate their computers efficiently, Apple
says in the patent.  
 A widget is a graphical user interface device that can
enable data manipulation. The widget can provide additional
functionality or act as an information repository.  
 Apple, of Cupertino, California, applied for the patent in
May 2006 with assistance from Boston-based  Fish & Richardson PC .  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 General Mills Says ‘My Dough Girl’ Infringes ‘Dough Boy’ Mark  
 General Mills Inc. , the Minneapolis-based maker of consumer
food products, is trying to block a Salt Lake City cookie shop’s
use of the name “ My Dough Girl ,” the Utah City Weekly
 reported .  
 The shop’s name, which was inspired by the pin-up girl
images used as “ nose art ” on World War II bombers, is accused
of infringing the food company’s Pillsbury ‘Dough Boy” mark,
according to the newspaper.  
 The owner of the shop says she will comply with General
Mills’s demands because she would be “broke and homeless”
before the case is finished, the newspaper reported.  
 The dispute has become the subject of a consumer-led
campaign against the Dough Boy that is being waged on Facebook
Inc.’s social-media site, according to the Weekly.  
 Golden Balls Withstands Trademark Challenge by Amaury Unit  
 Golden Balls, a London-based maker of underwear and t-
shirts, defeated a trademark challenge brought by the French
organizers of an award for the European soccer player of the
year, the U.K.’s Telegraph  reported .  
 Amaury Sport Organisation’s Intra Presse unit, which
annually awards the Ballon d’Or, or ball of gold, to the best
soccer player, claimed the underwear company infringed its
trademark, the newspaper reported.  
 Because of the trademark challenge, the closely held
underwear company missed out on a chance to license the name to
 Endemol NV  for a game show, according to the Telegraph.  
 The company began selling its clothing during the 2002
World Cup in Japan and South Korea, and had to close its London
shop during the trademark dispute, the newspaper reported.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Men at Work Ordered to Pay 5 Percent for Lifting Riff  
 Men at Work, the Australian band that won a Grammy award in
1983, must pay 5 percent of the royalties collected on their hit
“ Down Under ” for using a flute riff from a 1934 song
“Kookaburra Sits in The Old Gum Tree.”  
 Australian Federal Court Judge Peter Jacobson in Sydney,
who ruled in February that “Down Under” infringed the
copyright of “Kookaburra,” rejected Larrikin Music Publishing
Pty’s claim for as much as half the royalties the band earned
from the song.  
 “The sample of Kookaburra is not an immediately
recognizable part of the 1981 recording,” Jacobson wrote in his
39-page ruling. “To most listeners the similarity can only be
heard after this is pointed out to them.”  
 “Down Under” topped the charts in the U.S. and U.K.,
according to  Billboard , and was the theme song for the
victorious  Australia II  yacht team in the America’s Cup in 1983,
the year the band won the Grammy for Best New Artist.  
 It celebrates Australia as a land where beer flows and
“ women glow ” and remains a favorite on jukeboxes more than 25
years later.  
 Published first in 1979, “Down Under” gained popularity
following a 1981 recording that added the flute riff, which the
judge found had been lifted from “Kookaburra.” Both
“Kookaburra” and “Down Under” are “iconic” in nature, the
judge said.  
 EMI Music Publishing Australia Pty, the song publisher, was
also a defendant in the suit. EMI is owned by Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd., a private-equity firm.  
 John Anderson, managing director of EMI Music Publishing
and Adam Simpson, Larrikin’s lawyer, didn’t immediately respond
to requests for comment.  
 The damages weren’t awarded for copyright infringement,
rather because of misrepresentations made to the Australasian
Performing Rights Association and the Australasian Mechanical
Copyright Owners Society, Jacobson wrote.  
 The misrepresentations were that “Down Under” didn’t
infringe the copyright of any other work and that the composers
and publishers were entitled to all of the income from the song,
the judge said.  
 The case is Larrikin Music Publishing Pty v. EMI Songs
Australia Pty, NSD145, Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  
 Harry Reid Accused of Infringing Opponent’s Copyrights  
 U.S. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority
leader, was accused of copyright infringement by a Republican
candidate for his senate seat.  
 Counsel for Sharron Angle sent the Reid  campaign a cease-
and-desist letter  on July 2, claiming the campaign set up the
website www.therealsharronangle.com as a mirror image of one
belonging to Angle.  
 The letter, sent by Cleta Mitchell of Milwaukee’s Foley &
Lardner LLP, demanded an immediate removal of the content, and
the forwarding of any names and e-mail addresses “improperly
captured by the fake website.”  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        