-- Mortgage Applications in U.S. Rise 6.7% as Homeowners Move to Refinance
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-07-07T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/mortgage-applications-in-u-s-rise-6-7-as-homeowners-move-to-refinance.html

          
          
             An index of mortgage applications in
the U.S. rose last week to the highest level since October as
more Americans took advantage of lower interest rates and
refinanced.  
 The Mortgage Bankers Association’s  index  increased 6.7
percent in the week ended July 2. The Washington-based group’s
refinancing gauge jumped 9.2 percent to the highest reading
since May 2009, and its index of  purchases  fell 2 percent to the
second-lowest level since 1997.  
 Near record-low mortgage costs may encourage more
homeowners to refinance loans to trim their monthly payments.
Home sales are showing few signs of rebounding after the end of
a tax credit of as much as $8,000, indicating employment gains
and a reduction in foreclosures are needed to sustain the
housing recovery.  
 “Housing is looking exceedingly weak,”  Michael Gregory , a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said before
the report. “We need job growth and income growth for demand to
pick up.”  
 The  share  of applicants seeking to refinance a loan rose to
78.7 percent last week, the highest since April 2009, from 76.8
percent the prior week.  
 The average rate on a  30-year  fixed loan was little changed
at 4.68 percent, holding just above the record low of 4.61
percent reached in March 2009 after the Federal Reserve expanded
a mortgage-purchasing plan aimed at reducing lending rates. The
program ended in March of this year.  
 Mortgage Rates  
 At the current 30-year rate, monthly payments for each
$100,000 of a loan would be about $517, down about $40 from a
year ago when the rate was 5.34 percent.  
 The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage rose to 4.11
percent from 4.06 percent, and the rate on a one-year adjustable
mortgage increased to 7.2 percent, from 7.05 percent.  
 The tax credit for first-time homebuyers, which was
extended in November to include some current owners, required
contracts be signed by April 30 and closed by June 30. President
 Barack Obama  last week signed another extension, under which
buyers have until Sept. 30 to complete paperwork and settle on
the house.  
 The number of  contracts  to purchase previously owned homes
plunged in May by more than twice as much as forecast, according
to figures from the National Association of Realtors. Housing
starts and building permits also declined in May.  
 June Employment  
 Improvement in the labor market may be needed before home
sales recover. Payrolls fell in June for the first time this
year, reflecting a drop in federal census staff and a smaller-
than-forecast gain in private hiring, government figures showed
on July 2. The  jobless rate  fell to 9.5 percent from 9.7 percent
as the labor force shrank.  
 Covington, Louisiana-based  Pool Corp ., the world’s largest
wholesale distributor of swimming-pool products, said it is
focusing on the upkeep of older pools as the industry adapts to
plunging home sales and declining pool construction.  
 “We had to adjust to what the retail customer wanted,”
Chief Executive Officer  Manuel Perez de la Mesa  said in an
interview on June 30. “We had to come up with new products and
new marketing programs.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        