-- Total Agrees to Acquire UTS for $1.4 Billion to Expand in Canada Oil Sands
-- Stephen Cunningham
-- 2010-07-07T20:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/total-agrees-to-buy-uts-for-c-1-5-billion-to-expand-in-canada-oil-sands.html

          
          
             Total SA , Europe’s second-biggest oil
producer, will buy  UTS Energy Corp.  for C$1.5 billion ($1.4
billion) in cash and shares in a new company to boost its output
from Canadian oil sands.  
 UTS , a Calgary-based oil company, said in a statement today
that the deal is valued at C$3.08 a share, a 46 percent premium
over the closing price yesterday. UTS shareholders will also
receive shares in SilverBirch Energy Corp., whose assets will
include 50 percent interest in both the Frontier and Equinox
projects, interest in oil-sand exploration leases, as well as
undeveloped land.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon Mobil Corp. and Total are
investing in shale-gas deposits, oil sands and other alternative
resources in a trend that may accelerate following BP Plc’s oil
spill in the Gulf of Mexico, according to  Jean-Baptiste Bruny ,
an analyst at Banco de Sabadell SA in Madrid.  
 “Since the problem of BP in the Gulf of Mexico, the
interest in this kind of project is increasing again,” said
Bruny. “There are a lot of unknowns after BP. What is good with
Alberta is you know what’s needed for the project. It’s all
priced in, which is not the case with deep water.”  
 The purchase gives Total a 20 percent stake in the Fort
Hills mining project in the Athabasca region in Alberta. The
open-pit mine contains about 3.4 billion barrels of bitumen and
is estimated to produce about 160,000 barrels a day by 2016. The
project is 60 percent-owned by operator Suncor Energy Inc., and
the remaining 20 percent is held by Teck Resources Inc.  
 ‘High Quality Asset’  
 UTS surged as much as 66 percent to C$3.51, the highest
since Sept. 5, 2008. The shares rose C$1.33 to C$3.44 at 4:10
p.m. on the Toronto Stock Market. UBS AG raised its price target
for the stock to C$3.40 from C$2.90 after the acquisition was
announced. Total gained 1.6 percent to 37.21 euros.  
 This is the fourth-largest transaction among Canada’s oil
and gas deals this year, which are valued at a total of C$17.4
billion, according to Bloomberg data.  
 UTS is a “high-quality asset that will allow us to
strengthen and reorganize our asset portfolio in the Canadian
oil sands,”  Yves-Louis Darricarrere , Total’s president for
exploration and production, said in a separate statement.  
 UTS rebuffed a C$830 million hostile takeover attempt by
Total last year after a four-month contest that included a
sweetened offer from the Paris-based oil company. UTS agreed in
November to sell stakes in three oil-sands projects to Exxon
Mobil for C$250 million.  
 Surmont Project  
 Total is seeking to revive output growth following OPEC
cutbacks and disruptions in Nigeria. The company has teamed up
with Houston-based ConocoPhillips to begin a second phase at the
Surmont oil-sands project in Canada. Unconventional projects
including shale-gas deposits and oil sands were too complex to
develop until new technologies made extraction feasible.  
 The ecological costs of extracting crude from western
Canada’s tar-soaked bogs have drawn criticism. Oil from Canada’s
tar sands generates as much as 40 percent more carbon-dioxide
emissions than conventional wells, according to the Resources
Defense Council, a U.S.-based environmental group.  
 Total also said it is considering divesting some of its
stake in the Canadian Joslyn mining project. The company will
remain the operator of the project with an interest of about 50
percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  at   klundgren@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Cunningham  at 
 scunningha10@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        