-- Lucien Barriere Casino Operator Plans Initial Stock Offering by Year-End
-- Tom Mulier
-- 2010-07-07T16:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/hotel-casino-operator-lucien-barriere-plans-initial-offer-before-year-end.html

          
          
             Groupe Lucien Barriere SA, the French
casino operator in which  Accor SA  owns a 49 percent stake, said
it may hold an initial public offering by the end of the year as
the hotelier doesn’t consider its shareholding strategic.  
 The gaming company, which is controlled by the Desseigne
family, has filed with France’s AMF stock market regulator, it
said in a statement. Accor Chief Executive Officer  Gilles Pelisson  has estimated the value of the hotelier’s stake at 500
million euros ($630 million) to 700 million euros.  
 “We’re not forecasting great future growth from Lucien
Barriere,” said  Simon Larkin , a London-based analyst at Nomura
International, who values Accor’s stake at 500 million euros.
“How well the group convinces the market on the future growth
strategy will determine whether the gap between our valuation
and a book value of 700 million euros can be bridged.”  
 Lucien Barriere, which operates 37 casinos and 14 luxury
hotels, said it had sales of 1.07 billion euros in the year
through October 2009.  
 Accor said today it sold its Compagnie des Wagon-Lits
onboard rail catering operations to Newrest as part of its
strategy to focus on hotels. The company spun off its service-
voucher division Edenred last week.  
 “Selling the non-core businesses is important, but it
doesn’t detract from the key point: Accor has to continue
changing this hotel business and see” revenue per available
room recover, Larkin said. “That’s where the real delta in the
share price lies.”  
 Accor  shares  rose 62 cents, or 2.7 percent, to 23.39 euros
in Paris trading. The stock has fallen 5.9 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 5.3 billion euros.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        