-- Foreigners May Shun Thai Stocks on Political Concerns, Kasikorn Asset Says
-- Anuchit Nguyen
-- 2010-07-07T07:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/overseas-investors-may-shun-thai-stocks-on-politics-kasikorn-asset-says.html

          
          
             Thailand may fail to win back foreign
investors who exited the  stock market  on concern that political
instability will persist, overshadowing economic growth,
according to the country’s biggest money manager.  
 The “equity market is falling off the radar,”  Rapee Sucharitakul , executive chairman of Kasikorn Asset Management
Co., which oversees $15.8 billion of assets, said in an
interview. “Thailand will need major political reform and an
economic breakthrough to lure them back. This will take time.”  
 Overseas holders have  sold  $569.6 million more of Thai
stocks than they bought this year, the most in Asia after Taiwan.
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  yesterday extended for three
months a state of emergency in a quarter of the country that was
imposed in April to control anti-government street protests that
led to 89 deaths.  
 The  SET Index  has still gained 11 percent this year, the
second-best performance among Asia’s 10 biggest markets, as the
expanding economy bolstered corporate earnings growth and
dividend payments.  
 The  SET Index , which closed at a two-year high yesterday,
trades at 11.8 times estimated earnings for this year, the
second-lowest after South Korea among the 10 biggest markets.
Only Indonesian stocks have risen more this year among the 10.  
 ‘Remains Attractive’  
 “The Thai stock market remains attractive given remarkable
profits and high dividend yields among listed companies,”
Charamporn Jotikasthira, the Stock Exchange of Thailand’s
president, told a conference in Bangkok today.  
 The 476 companies in the  SET Index  have a dividend yield of
3.8 percent, compared with 2.1 percent for Indonesia’s  Jakarta
Composite index  and 3.1 percent for Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The economy may “conservatively” grow 5.5 percent this
year, Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said in an interview in
Bangkok today. The government is crafting economic policy on the
basis that an election will take place six to eight months from
now, Korn said.  
 Abhisit has set up at least five committees to work on
political reforms to bring reconciliation before his term
expires at the end of 2011. Many of his opponents, supported by
billionaire former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , have
rejected or boycotted the works of those committees.  
 “The government will be spending most of the time on
political issues for the rest of its term,” said Rapee. “Any
major economic policies to impress overseas investors are
unlikely in the near future.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Global statistics: STAT <GO>
For stories on Southeast Asia: TOP SAS <GO>
Thailand stories: NI THAI <Go>
Thailand Markets and Events: CBQ TH <GO>  
          
          


  


        