-- Toyota Extends Auto Development Time to Boost Quality
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-07-07T20:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/toyota-adding-four-weeks-to-vehicle-development-time-to-improve-quality.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  is taking more
time to develop cars and trucks and faces higher expenses as the
world’s largest carmaker seeks enhanced vehicle quality
following its worst  recall crisis .  
 The company is spending an average of four weeks more on
development to allow for added quality checks and has expanded
its quality review group to 1,000 engineers, Executive Vice
President  Takeshi Uchiyamada  told reporters today in Toyota
City, Japan, where the automaker is based. Such efforts will
probably increase costs for the next year or two, he said.  
 “Temporarily, the cost might increase,” said Uchiyamada,
who is leading Toyota’s product quality and manufacturing
operations. “But by improving the development process, we’ll
better stabilize quality.”  
 Toyota is working to regain a reputation for quality after
recalling about 8 million vehicles worldwide for defects linked
to unintended acceleration. It’s also preparing to recall
270,000 Lexus and Toyota cars for a flaw that may cause engines
to stall, and faces further questions from a U.S. congressional
committee about its models.  
 The average vehicle development time for a model for the
Japanese market has been 24 months, Uchiyamada said.  
 Toyota in May created the “design quality innovation
division” that’s now working with vehicle development teams to
ensure flaws are caught and corrected before models go into
production, Katsutoshi Sakata, the group’s general manager, told
reporters today.  
 Sales Effect  
 Recalls have hurt Toyota’s U.S. sales and market share.
Toyota for June reported a 6.8 percent increase from a year
earlier, compared with the industrywide gain of 14 percent and
Hyundai Motor Co.’s 35 percent surge. Toyota’s first-half U.S.
sales rose 9.9 percent, trailing the industry’s 17 percent.  
 Toyota has also fallen behind Ford Motor Co. in the U.S.,
with market share of 15.1 percent, down 0.9 percentage point
from a year earlier, while Ford’s has risen to 17.5 percent,
according to Autodata Corp.  
 Along with increased reviews of components, engines,
transmissions and electronics, Toyota is spending more time with
customers as part of the development process to understand how
they use the vehicles in daily driving, Sakata said.  
 “Under the current difficult situation, we want to know,
what were the phenomenon that caused problems,” Uchiyamada
said.  
 The carmaker in April recalled Lexus GX sport-utility
vehicles for a handling defect found by Consumer Reports
magazine and is completing repairs of cars and trucks worldwide
for the flaws linked to unintended acceleration.  
 Toyota’s  American depositary receipts  rose 97 cents to $71
at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They
have fallen 16 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Toyota City, Japan, at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Toyota is spending an average of four weeks more on development, Executive Vice President Takeshi Uchiyamada told reporters. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
