-- Papandreou Pension Plan Survives Vote as Labor Unions Strike in Protest
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-07-07T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/papandreou-pension-plan-survives-vote-as-labor-unions-strike-in-protest.html

          
          
             Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  passed an overhaul of the pension system in a vote
that tested the unity of his socialist government and prompted
the second national strike in as many weeks.  
 The plan, which includes lower pension payments and delayed
retirements, was carried with 159 votes to 137 against in the
Athens parliament. Papandreou, who expelled three members of his
Pasok party for defying him in a May vote on austerity measures,
managed to secure support from deputies even as some indicated
they may oppose various articles that will be voted on
individually today. A final vote on the bill will follow today.  
 “It is not the government or Pasok which will be at risk
if things remain the same,” Papandreou told the chamber before
the vote. “Those who are at risk are Greek citizens. We are
guaranteeing that the 20-year-olds and 30-year-olds of today
will get a pension.”  
 Papandreou committed to the pension overhaul to secure 110
billion euros ($135 billion) in emergency loans from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund that allowed
Greece to avert a default on its debt. The pension vote follows
passage in May of 30 billion euros in austerity measures,
including wage cuts and tax increases, that prompted the
defection of the three socialist lawmakers.  
 Their expulsions left Papandreou with 157 seats in the 300-
seat legislature, sparking concern that further defections could
threaten his hold on power less than a year after winning
elections.  
 Political Fatigue  
 “The dissent within the ruling party is increasing and
political fatigue is starting to emerge,”  Giada Giani , an
economist at Citigroup in London, said before the vote.  
 Government spokesman  George Petalotis  yesterday sidestepped
a question on whether dissenters would be expelled, saying “a
discussion on party discipline reduces the significance of the
huge reform under way.”  
 The vote prompted unions representing more than 2 million
Greek workers to strike. The walkout is set to ground flights,
keep ferries docked in port and shut down banks, hospitals and
news media. Parliament workers are also striking, with a
skeleton staff assisting today’s pension debate.  
 Papandreou, whose union-backed party won elections last
October on pledges of higher wages, has cut state workers’
salaries and raised sales, fuel and alcohol taxes to combat the
country’s financial crisis. The 58-year-old leader argues the
measures, aimed at reducing a budget deficit of 13.6 percent of
economic output, are needed to stave off a default and restore
investor confidence in Greece.  
 Deficit Target  
 Greece’s central government cash deficit narrowed almost 42
percent in the first six months, Bank of Greece data showed on
July 5, prompting Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  to
signal the country may even beat a target of bringing the
shortfall to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product. The European
Commission said in a report yesterday that Greece’s deficit-
reduction plan “was broadly on track.”  
 Overhauling pension rules including curtailing early
retirement and calculating payments over a longer period of
employment will shore up Greece’s public finances, the European
Union has said.  
 Spending on pensions would reach 24 percent of GDP if left
unchecked, twice the level of 2007. Concerns about Greece’s
future pension financing have played a part in the surge in the
risk premium investors demand to buy Greek 10-year debt over
comparable German bonds, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a July 2009 report. That
 spread  reached a euro-era record 973 basis points on May 7.  
 Split Opinions  
 Greeks are divided over the changes, an opinion poll showed
on July 3. More than 35 percent of 1,002 people surveyed by Kapa
Research for  To Vima newspaper  said the bill was unfair, yet
necessary and another 14.2 percent fully supported the changes
as “imperative.” Nineteen percent called them “catastrophic”
and 29.6 percent said the bill should be withdrawn.  
 Today’s walkout is the sixth general strike this year, and
the raft of austerity measures have sparked near-daily protests
from groups ranging from lawyers to dockworkers.  
 Petros Christodoulou , head of Greece’s debt agency, said on
June 22 that protests are a good sign because they show people
are “feeling the pinch” from the cutbacks.  
 While attendance at marches has dwindled from a peak on May
5 when three people died in a bank fire set by protesters, the
strikes are disrupting transport, commerce and tourism, as
visitors try to get to Greek islands for summer holidays.  
 Olympic Airlines will scrap 28 flights today, mainly
between Athens and the islands, and reschedule another 23.
Aegean Airlines is canceling six. All public transport in the
capital will shut down and no ferries will sail as dockworkers
and seafarers walk out.  
 Tourism contributes 16 percent to the country’s GDP,
according to the  World Travel and Tourism Council , and accounts
for one in five Greek jobs. The WTTC expects growth of 0.9
percent in the industry this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        