-- Patek Philippe's Stern Says High Gold Prices Are `Big Threat'
-- Olivia Sterns
-- 2010-07-07T23:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/patek-philippe-chairman-says-gold-price-is-big-threat-to-luxury-industry.html

          
          
             Patek Philippe SA  Chairman  Thierry Stern  said the Swiss watchmaker has bought gold futures as a
defense against high gold prices that are threatening the luxury
goods industry.  
 “My major problem is, where is gold going?” Stern, who
turns 40 tomorrow, said in an interview recorded by Bloomberg
Television in London. “I have no idea. I see it every time
going up, up, up. It’s a big threat.”  
 Gold futures have gained almost 30 percent in New York the
past year and set a record $1,266.50 an ounce on June 21. About
80 percent of Patek Philippe watches are made of precious metals
such as gold and platinum,  Rene Weber , an analyst at Bank
Vontobel, has estimated. Stern, who succeeded his father last
year, didn’t give further details of the hedging strategy.  
 Swatch Group AG  Chief Executive  Nick Hayek Jr . said in
March that gold prices posed difficulties for the world’s
largest watchmaker, which uses 10 tons of the metal a year.
Exports of gold watches from Switzerland rose 3.9 percent in
May, a third of the rate of total shipments, the Federation of
the Swiss Watch Industry said.  
 Patek Philippe makes about 42,000 watches a year, ranging
in price from about 10,000 Swiss francs ($9,500) to more than 1
million francs. It has cleared several thousand watches it held
in inventory last year, and now can’t make some models fast
enough, Stern said.  
 China Caution  
 The Geneva-based company is the fourth-largest watchmaker,
according to  Luca Solca , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. The
company’s 2008 sales were estimated at 1.2 billion francs by
Bank Vontobel’s Weber.  
 “Asia is booming today,” Stern said, adding that demand
from Europe and the U.S. is also fueling sales growth.  
 Stern said he is cautious about China, which, together with
Hong Kong, has surpassed the U.S. as the biggest market for
Swiss watches.  
 “This is a new market and you should always be careful
with new markets,” he said. “Many brands didn’t have the
choice: they had a lot of stock they didn’t know where to sell
it, they saw especially China as a new market.”  
 As a result, these companies will “lose control on the
merchandise and they will lose control really on the market,”
he said. “We’ll see it mainly coming maybe in 2011. That’s a
big danger for those brands.”  
 Family Control  
 Stern, who said he uses his  Apple Inc.  iPhone to tell the
time if he’s not wearing a Patek Philippe, said he hopes the
company will remain family-owned. His children are aged seven
and nine.  
 “As a father I would be very thrilled and very happy,”
if they eventually take over management of the company, “but if
I have to choose between Patek Philippe and their happiness,
guess which choice I will take,” Stern said.  
 The company’s roots date back to 1839, when two Polish
immigrants, Antoine Norbert de Patek and Francois Czapek, formed
Patek Czapek & Cie. The company was renamed Patek Philippe &
Cie. when Adrien Philippe, a French watchmaker, joined in 1851
after Czapek’s departure. Charles and Jean Stern bought the
watchmaker in 1932.  
 The record price of a watch sold in any auction was $11
million for a 1933 Patek Philippe pocket watch made for Henry
Graves Jr. The American banker had asked Patek Philippe to make
the most complicated watch in the world to win a contest he had
with rival collector James Ward Packard.  Sotheby’s  sold the
watch in a 1999 auction.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Swatch Group AG Chief Executive Nick Hayek Jr. said in March that gold prices posed difficulties for the world’s largest watchmaker. Photographer: Adrian Moser/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
