-- People's Bank of China Seeking to Tighten Liquidity Even as Economy Slows
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-07T05:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/pboc-seeks-to-tighten-liquidity-even-as-chinese-economic-growth-moderates.html

          
          
             The People’s Bank of China signaled
it remains focused on reining in liquidity and stemming
 inflation  even after evidence of slowing growth in the world’s
third-biggest economy contributed to a global stock sell-off.  
 A surfeit of cash is still the main problem facing monetary
policy, and PBOC should at an appropriate time use interest
rates to address it, Yang Guozhong, director of the bank’s
business management department, wrote in China Finance magazine.
 Zhang Jianhua , director of the research bureau, wrote in the
China Daily that the PBOC must “deal with” excess liquidity.  
 The comments, including a dismissal by Zhang of risks of a
double-dip slowdown in China, follow the biggest weekly drop in
the nation’s  benchmark  stock index in more than a year. Analysts
at banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to BNP Paribas SA have
lowered projections for the nation’s expansion in recent weeks
as property sales tumble and manufacturing growth moderates.  
 “Price pressures have been building for almost a year
now,” and inflation will likely accelerate in coming months,
said Brian Jackson, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Royal Bank
of Canada. “Today’s comments suggest that inflation and easy
liquidity remain at the top of the PBOC’s agenda.”  
 The Shanghai Composite Index  slipped 0.3 percent to
2,402.03 as of 1:08 p.m. local time. The gauge has declined
about 27 percent since the start of the year as policy makers
sought to rein in an  economic expansion  that reached an 11.9
percent annual pace in the first quarter.  
 Prudent Approach  
 Yang, writing in a biweekly PBOC publication, said China
doesn’t yet have the economic foundation to adjust its pro-
active fiscal policy and moderately loose monetary stance,
indicating that the bank may take a prudent approach to raising
deposit rates and borrowing costs.  
 Still, he didn’t exclude using  interest rates  to help
control the excess liquidity that’s resulted from a lending
surge aimed at supporting the government’s 4 trillion yuan ($590
billion) stimulus package.  
 Data next week may show that consumer prices rose 3.3
percent in June from a year before, exceeding Premier Wen
Jiabao’s target of a 3 percent average for the year. The
government may also report that gross domestic product rose 10.4
percent in the second quarter from a year ago, down from the
11.9 percent pace in the previous three months, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Inflation Expectations  
 “In a post-crisis era, China’s monetary policy should
still focus on consolidating economic recovery while at the same
time soaking up liquidity at the appropriate times to prevent
inflationary expectations from materializing,” Yang wrote.  
 In a commentary in the English-language  China Daily  today,
Zhang said negative real interest rates will trigger resource
misallocation in the longer term, even if they don’t affect the
economy in the short term.  
 The impact of the “massive” amounts of liquidity injected
into the market last year will surface sooner or later and will
have to be dealt with, he wrote.  
 Separately, Zhang said July 3 that projects and spending
under the government’s 4 trillion yuan stimulus package aren’t
yet fully allocated and adjustments can be made according to
future economic conditions, according to a transcript on the
state-sponsored news portal china.com.cn of his comments to a
real-estate forum in Boao, on the southern island of Hainan.  
 -- Li Yanping  and  Nerys Avery  in Beijing. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey   
 To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
 Yanping Li  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        