-- Rising Pessimism in Stocks Is Buy Signal for PNC, Raymond James
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-08T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/pessimism-peaked-before-rally-as-ubs-cuts-forecast-biggs-sells-his-shares.html

          
          
             Warnings from securities firms that
equity returns will slow and increasing bearishness among
brokerage clients are signs to Raymond James & Associates and
PNC Wealth Management that  stocks  may rally.  
 Investors who bought as skepticism climbed have been
rewarded this week with a 3.7 percent advance in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  after a two-week slump erased $2.7 trillion in
global equity value. The gains show why buying when others are
growing less optimistic may become a profitable strategy after
bears change their minds, according to  Jeff Saut , the chief
investment strategist at Raymond James, which manages $230
billion in St. Petersburg, Florida.  
 “I can sit and watch order flows at a brokerage firm that
has over 2 million retail accounts,” Saut said in a telephone
interview. “A lot of them are almost as freaked as they were
from January of ‘09 and March of ‘09, when the bottoming process
was being completed. My hunch is we’re going to get a rally.’’  
 The  S&P 500  surged 3.1 percent to 1,060.27 yesterday,
completing its biggest two-day increase since May, while the
MSCI World Index jumped 3.7 percent since July 5. The gains came
as strategists around the world lowered forecasts and measures
of market pessimism reached the highest levels in a year.  
 Global Gains  
 Shares rose after the  MSCI World index  fell to 15.4 times
reported results on July 5, the lowest level since March 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter results
that topped analysts’  estimates  at companies from Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based mobile-phone maker HTC Corp. to U.S. custody bank
 State Street Corp.  in Boston fueled speculation that earnings
will climb even as governments around the world cut spending.  
 Retailers and banks advanced as the International Council
of Shopping Centers said sales were growing at the fastest pace
since 2006 and people with knowledge of the talks said European
stress tests may assume a 17 percent loss on Greek bonds, half
of the worst-case scenario estimated by New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  
 Stocks increased even after UBS AG reduced its year-end
forecast for the S&P 500 will to 1,150, citing slower profit
growth and an unwillingness among investors to pay higher
valuations for earnings.  Jonathan Golub , the chief U.S. market
strategist at UBS in New York, cut his forecast from 1,350,
according to a note sent to clients.  
 Investors Intelligence  
 A separate report from Investors Intelligence showed 34.8
percent of newsletter writers surveyed described themselves as
bearish, the highest level since July 2009.  
 Barton Biggs , whose stock investments in March 2009 gave
New York-based Traxis Partners LLC a 38 percent gain last year,
said concerns the economy will contract spurred him to sell his
U.S. technology holdings last week. The Commerce Department said
that purchases of new homes fell 33 percent in May to an annual
rate of 300,000, the fewest on record. The Institute for Supply
Management’s manufacturing gauge expanded in June at the slowest
pace this year.  
 ‘‘The psychology of the market has been particularly
weak,” said  James Dunigan , chief investment officer at PNC
Wealth Management in Philadelphia, which oversees $104 billion.
“There’s been a bit of piling on. Any shift in that pessimism
or psychology could lead to a rally of some substance.”  
 Emerging-market equities will retreat as losses in
commodity funds spur investor redemptions, pushing oil below $65
a barrel, JPMorgan’s chief Asia and emerging-market strategist
 Adrian Mowat  in Hong Kong said in a July 4 research report. A
selloff in crude prices and equities this quarter may create a
buying opportunity, with markets rallying as much as 20 percent
by year-end, he said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  
 Russian Bank  
 Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest investment bank, cut its
year-end projection for the nation’s RTS Index to 1,600 from
2,000, according to a research report yesterday. Troika’s
 Kingsmill Bond , who was voted the top Russian strategist in last
year’s Thomson Extel survey, cited rising taxes on oil companies
and investor concern that global economic growth will slow for
the reduced forecast.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.9 percent this week,
while the RTS Index in Russia, the world’s largest energy
exporter, has climbed 2.7 percent to 1,352.72.  
 Rydex Investments’ Rydex Asset Ratio, calculated by dividing
assets in bear and money-market funds by those in bullish ones,
surged to 1.25 on July 6, the highest level since July 2009.
 John Wilson , chief technical strategist at Morgan Keegan & Co.,
says a reading above 1 may signal gains because it shows a
growing number of investors who may be persuaded to move money
back into equities.  
 “Contrarian indicators are telling you the guys who get it
wrong are very bearish,” said  Wilson , whose firm manages about
$120 billion in Memphis, Tennessee. “That’s making me want to
be kind of edging into the market here. The initial part of the
move will always be met by disbelief.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Barton Biggs said concerns the economy will contract spurred him to sell his
U.S. technology holdings last week. Photographer: Kevin P. Coughlin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks.
     Bianco, speaking from Chicago, also discusses his investment strategy, stress tests for European banks, and the U.S. housing market. European Union regulators are carrying out stress tests on 91 banks, accounting for 65 percent of the area’s banking industry, to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government bond values. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
