-- Petrobras Debt Risk Rises More Than Pemex on Deep-Water Drill Costs Climb
-- Andres R. Martinez
-- 2010-07-07T21:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/petrobras-debt-risk-rises-more-than-pemex-on-deepwater-drill-cost-increase.html

          
          
             The cost of protecting against a
default by  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the largest oil producer in
waters below 1,000 feet, is surging relative to Petroleos
Mexicanos on concern that deep-water drilling costs will jump.  
 Credit default swaps that protect against non-payment by
Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known, over
five years cost 187 basis points, or 37 more than its Mexican
counterpart, which has no production deeper than 1,000 feet (305
meters), according to prices compiled by CMA DataVision. The gap
reached a 17-month high of 47 basis points, or 0.47 percentage
point, on June 30, up from 19 on April 20, when BP Plc’s rig
explosion in the Gulf of Mexico sent oil spewing into the ocean.  
 Petrobras , whose $224 billion investment plan is the
world’s biggest oil investment program, will see insurance costs
for offshore operations rise because of the BP accident,  Samir Passos Awad , Petrobras’s head in the Netherlands, said July 2.  
 “What you’re seeing is a preference in the short term for
Pemex as opposed to Petrobras, especially as you have a disaster
in deepwater offshore,” said  Michael Shaoul , chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management, which oversees $800 million and
whose flagship fund  beat 97 percent  of peers over the last year.
“People understand how much more expensive it could be.”  
 Investors compare the default insurance costs of Pemex and
Petrobras because the Latin American oil companies are both
state-controlled and share the same Baa1 rating from Moody’s
Investors Service, the third-lowest investment-grade ranking.
Pemex is the region’s biggest oil producer and  Petrobras  the
third-largest, according to a Bloomberg News survey of oil
companies, producers and analysts.  
 Higher Insurance Cost  
 Petrobras default risk is rising as insurers charge 50
percent more for policies covering oil rigs after the spill,
which began when a drilling rig exploded, Moody’s said on June
3. BP’s well is leaking as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day,
according to a government estimate.  
 At 187 basis points, it costs $187,000 to insure Petrobras
debt against default for five years, an increase of 64 basis
points since Dec. 31. The rise led to a reversal of Petrobras
bond risk versus Pemex, as Mexico’s state-owned oil company is
known, in February. Over the past year, it cost an average of 19
basis points less to protect Petrobras debt than Pemex. While
Pemex swaps have climbed 38 since BP’s spill, those for
Petrobras have surged 56.  
 A Petrobras spokeswoman in Rio de Janeiro declined to
comment. Eduardo Marin, a Pemex spokesman in Mexico City, didn’t
return calls for comment.  
 Offshore Drilling Outlook  
 BP’s default swaps climbed to a record 595 basis points on
June 29. Yields on BP’s 3.875 benchmark bond due in March 2015
have increased to 6.76 percent from 2.89 percent on April 20.
BP’s  shares  traded in London declined 45 percent during the same
period. The cost of the spill response has reached $3.1 billion,
according to BP.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  
 “What happened in the Gulf of Mexico calls into question
the outlook for offshore drilling,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , who
helps manage about $5 billion in emerging-market debt at
Aberdeen Management Plc in London. “The insurance premium
they’re going to have to pay is going to go up.”  
 Yields on Petrobras 5.75 percent bonds due in 2020 have
climbed 22 basis points since April 20 to 5.57 percent. Yields
on Pemex’s 6 percent bonds due in 2020 fell 27 basis points in
that time to 5.27 percent.  
 Brazil’s Real Falls  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 11
basis points today to 233. The spread has increased from 196 at
the end of April.  
 The real gained 0.7 percent to 1.7674 per dollar at 5:26
p.m. in New York. The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures
contract due in January, the most active in Sao Paulo trading,
fell two basis points to 11.29 percent.  
 Petrobras  shares have dropped 20 percent since the BP
explosion on April 20, to 27.40 reais. The  Bovespa stock index 
has retreated 8.7 percent in the same period. Pemex is 100
percent owned by the Mexican government.  
 The cost for Petrobras to contract offshore oil rig
expenses could drop if exploration in the Gulf of Mexico is
suspended, said  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin American debt strategist
at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.  
 Key Project  
 “The Brazilian government isn’t going to interrupt
deepwater exploration,” Suarez said. “It’s their most
important project.”  
 Petrobras Chief Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli 
said June 21 in Rio de Janeiro that he was “not sure” whether
a U.S. moratorium on deepwater drilling would make more rigs
available for drilling in Brazil. Petrobras won’t delay drilling
programs because of the BP accident, he said.  
 The company  plans  to double output to 5.38 million barrels
a day by 2020, mainly from deepwater oil fields in Brazil
including Tupi, the largest discovery in the Americas since
Pemex found Cantarell in 1976.  
 Concern about the ability of Petrobras to finance its five-
year investment plan has also helped drive up bond insurance
costs. On June 22, Gabrielli postponed plans to raise as much as
$25 billion through a stock  offering  to minority shareholders.  
 Standard & Poor’s cut Petrobras one level to BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, a year ago on concern the investment
program was too big.  
 “Petrobras has more stuff going on right now than Pemex,
with a major exploration ahead and an equity offering being
postponed,” Marketfield’s Shaoul said. “Markets don’t like
uncertainties.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chairman of Marketfield Asset Management  Michael Shaoul. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
