-- Philippine Government Seeking Tax Evasion Reports via Facebook, Twitter
-- Cecilia Yap
-- 2010-07-07T07:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/philippine-government-seeking-tax-evasion-reports-via-facebook-twitter.html

          
          
             The Philippines is turning to
Facebook and Twitter in its campaign to track down tax cheats
and meet President  Benigno Aquino ’s pledge to boost revenue,
several finance officials said today.  
 “People are posting complaints in my Facebook and we’re
using that,” Internal Revenue Commissioner  Kim Henares  said
today in an interview.  
 The government is resorting to the social networking sites
to help boost collection after tax revenue fell to 12.8 percent
of gross domestic product in 2009 from a record 17 percent in
1997. The goal is to raise collection to 15 percent of GDP
within one year without new or higher taxes, Henares said.  
 “It will keep people in check,” said  Jonathan Ravelas ,
market strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. in Manila. “It
won’t have an immediate impact but it will be effective over
time.”  
 Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  and Energy Secretary  Rene Almendras , who were attending mass at the Manila Cathedral with
Henares and Aquino, said officials hoped to make use of the
sites’ popularity in the country. The Philippines has 14.6
million Facebook users, making it the eighth largest market for
the site, according to  Checkfacebook.com , which tracks data on
Facebook Inc. advertising.  
 The Philippines is the fourth worst at tax collection of
the more than 100 countries ranked by Fitch Ratings. The only
countries with lower tax revenue-to-GDP ratios are Guatemala,
the Dominican Republic and Costa Rica,  Andrew Colquhoun , head of
Asian sovereign ratings for Fitch, said in an interview today.  
 “This is a key rating weakness in the Philippines,” he
said. “We remain convinced an enforcement effort can raise
revenue.”  
 The Philippines ranks 139th out of 180 in Transparency
International’s corruption perception index, tied with Pakistan
and Bangladesh. Malaysia is 56th, while Thailand is 84th.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        