-- Philippine Peso's Bollinger Signals Slide Versus Yen: Technical Analysis
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-07-07T07:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/philippine-peso-s-bollinger-signals-slide-versus-yen-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             The Philippine peso may weaken to a
seven-month low against the yen as a technical gauge signaled
volatility in the Southeast Asian currency will increase,
according to Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.  
 A widening in the exchange rate’s Bollinger band, which
traders use to judge support and resistance levels based on a
currency’s moving average, suggests the peso will drop 3.8
percent to 1.807 yen in about a month, said  Minoru Shioiri ,
chief manager of foreign-exchange trading at Mitsubishi UFJ. The
peso declined 0.8 percent to 1.878 yen as of 2:20 p.m. in Manila,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The peso is also approaching a key level on a Fibonacci
chart, which if touched, shows the currency may erase its gain
from a low in November to a high in April, Tokyo-based Shioiri
said. Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low.  
 “The direction is for the peso to move lower at a gradual
pace against the yen,” Shioiri said. “The yen itself looks
strong across the board and emerging currencies don’t. That also
supports the technical view.” The peso has been trading near
the lower line of its Bollinger band for about a week and the
band itself began to widen, a signal for the peso to fall, he
added.  
 All 26 currencies of developing nations tracked by
Bloomberg have dropped against the yen over the past three
months.  
 Traders buy or sell a security when prices move closer
toward or break the upper or lower Bollinger bands, depending on
their individual thesis. In technical analysis, investors and
analysts study charts of trading patterns and prices to forecast
changes in a security, commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        