-- Gordon Ramsay Loses Second Chef in a Week: Food Buzz (Update2)
-- Richard Vines
-- 2010-07-08T12:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/pigs-trotters-calf-s-head-on-menu-as-chef-koffmann-returns.html

          
          
             Gordon Ramsay  has lost his second
chef in a week. Phil Carmichael at  Maze Cape Town  is quitting,
following Maze London Executive Chef James Durrant out the
door.  
 Their departure comes hot on the heels of the resignation
three months ago of  Jason Atherton , the British culinary master
who founded Maze in 2005, creating what was to become a mini-
chain with outlets in Doha, New York and Melbourne.  
 “We confirm the Gordon Ramsay Group’s announcement that
Philip Carmichael has resigned and will be leaving in
September,” Jennifer Glaisek, a spokeswoman for the One & Only
Hotel, which houses Maze, said last night in an e-mailed
statement. “He leaves with our best wishes for the future.”  
 Carmichael previously worked with Atherton at Maze in
London and was then head chef at the now-closed Maze in Prague.
Before that, he spent three years at the Roux Fine Dining
restaurant at Merrill Lynch in London, from 2003-2006,
according to  Ramsay’s website . Carmichael worked at Le Gavroche
from February 2002 to November 2003, joining from the Grand
Hotel, in Amsterdam.  
 A call to Carmichael’s office in the kitchen on July 6
went straight to voicemail. Ramsay’s spokeswoman referred
queries to Kerzner International, the hotel owners. Durrant’s
resignation was announced on July 1 amid speculation about who
might be next to go. A restaurateur who did not wish to be
identified said yesterday that he had spoken to another Ramsay
chef in London.  
 Kitchen, Pub Closures  
 Ramsay announced yesterday that he is closing GR Logistics
Ltd., the suburban London kitchen that attracted unwelcome
headlines when  the Sun reported  it produced meals in bags that
were sent to the TV chef’s London pubs and Foxtrot Oscar
bistro. Ramsay closed one of the three pubs last week.  
 If this all sounds like the end of the empire, it’s too
early to write Ramsay’s obituary. It is no bad thing that
Gordon Ramsay Holdings Ltd. should close unprofitable
businesses. What’s disturbing is the departure of chefs.  
 Ramsay has already lost key figures such as  Marcus Wareing ,  Mark Sargeant  and Atherton. While it’s normal for
chefs to move on, it is significant that the man who once
attracted the cream of U.K. culinary talent is now doing the
opposite.  
 Atherton is set to open his own London restaurant before
Christmas and don’t be surprised if Sargeant announces plans
for his own establishment later this year.  
 The draft menu for the new London brasserie of  Pierre Koffmann  at the Berkeley Hotel is a treat, with the former
three-star chef delivering on his promise to prepare the kind
of unfussy rustic fare he likes to eat.  
 Koffmann’s stuffed pig’s trotters are there at 27 pounds
($40) as is his pistachio souffle (12 pounds), along with
hearty options such as black pudding with sauteed apples, and
pan-fried calf’s head with sauce Gribiche.  
 There’s one little surprise for Francophiles. The roast
chicken is described as “Laverstoke.” That will be a
reference to  Laverstoke Park Farm , in the English county of
Hampshire, created by the former racing driver  Jody Scheckter .
Koffmann previously said a very good chicken had to be from
France. Opening is set for July 15.  
 Before top restaurants open, chefs are often invited along
to a private dinner.  Alain Ducasse  did it at the Dorchester and
 Daniel Boulud  at the Mandarin Oriental. Koffmann is thinking of
something different: a dinner for the wives and partners.
“Chefs should be cooking,” is Koffmann’s view.  
 Four of London’s finest Indian chefs are coming together
on July 20 to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Find Your Feet,
a charity that tackles poverty in rural India and Malawi.  Atul Kochhar  (Benares),  Cyrus Todiwala  (Cafe Spice Namaste) and
 Vivek Singh  (Cinnamon Club) will join Navin Bhatia at his
restaurant, Dockmaster’s House, for an evening of barbecue,
canapes and entertainment. Tickets are 35 pounds from
 catriona@fyf.org.uk  or click on  http://tinyurl.com/38rszhn .  
 Dishoom, “London’s first Bombay cafe,” formally opens at
12 Upper St Martin’s Lane, Covent Garden, on July 15. The menu
of casual Mumbai food includes small plates such as chili
cheese and fish tikka, along with kebabs and roti wraps. The
160-seat venue is in the St Martin’s Courtyard development,
where neighbors include Cantina Laredo, the first U.K. outlet
of the Mexican chain owned by Consolidate Restaurant Operations
Inc., of Dallas. The London outlet belongs to Oriole
Restaurants Ltd.  
 Le Cafe Anglais is to open a 50-seat Oyster Bar & Cafe in
the area currently occupied by the reception at the Bayswater
restaurant. Cafe Anglais will close for two weeks in late
August to build the bar, created by  Stiff + Trevilion . The
venue will be open from noon to 10 p.m. serving -- in addition
to mollusks -- sandwiches and dishes such as smoked mackerel
and apple salad; skirt steak with Bearnaise and chips; and
Bakewell Tart.  
 Waitrose is to release a range of products developed with
 Heston Blumenthal  in October. More than 20 are in development
and among the first to go on sale will be Vanilla Mayonnaise
and Ponzu Dressing. Not in the same bottle, I hope.  
 Union Market, a store with a 5,000-square-foot hall, opens
today in Fulham and promises to offer the quality produce of
farmers’ markets at supermarket prices. Let’s hope it’s not the
other way round. The address of 472 Fulham Broadway means it’s
near the Harwood Arms, which is a plus.  
 Texture won the Newcomer Award in the Cateys, the annual
hospitality awards of Caterer & Hotelkeeper, held at the
Grosvenor House on July 5. Brothers Chris and Jeff Galvin took
Restaurateur of the Year, following several awards for Galvin
La Chapelle, in Spitalfields.  Mark Hix  won the Chef Award.  
 I stopped off for a  Giorgio Damiani  jewelry party at
 Angelo Galasso  in Knightsbridge, taking a break from food for
the chance to rub shoulders with a former  Sugababe , Keisha
Buchanan. Obviously, I was there for the canapes, by Carpaccio.
The same day, I made it to a tasting of  Tesco  Finest wines. The
one that stood out for me was the Champagne Chanoine Vintage
2000, rich, biscuity and complex. It will cost 24.99 pounds
when it appears in stores later this month.  
 A chef from Noma -- which won the World’s Best Restaurant
award this year -- will spend a day at the Cooking Rooms
cookery school in York, northern England, on Aug. 1. Sam
Miller, a charming guy who comes from York, will create an
eight-course tasting menu that combines Noma’s style with local
ingredients. Pickled Yorkshire pudding anyone? You can try to
win a free place via  http://www.theworlds50best.com/ .  
 You can combine a picnic and Pimm’s with a play at
London’s  National Theatre  this summer. The first evening is on
Aug. 2, starting with food and drinks on the Deck, overlooking
the Thames river, at 6:30 p.m. The price is 55 pounds. For
information, tel. +44-20-7452-3000 or click on
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk/thedeck .  
 ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chef Pierre Koffmann opens his new London restaurant next week. The French chef has pigs' trotters on the menu at the Berkeley Hotel brasserie. Photographer: Richard Vines/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Wines are lined up for a tasting in London. The Tesco supermarket chain introduced some of its new bottles. Photographer: Richard Vines/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
