-- PKO to Sell Up to 5 Billion Zloty of Bonds, Prepares Bids for Polish Banks
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-07-07T11:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/poland-s-pko-may-sell-1-53-billion-of-bonds-as-bid-for-zachodni-continues.html

          
          
             PKO Bank Polski SA , Poland’s largest
lender, plans to sell bonds after the government, its
controlling shareholder, said it would bid for a $3 billion
stake in Bank Zachodni WBK SA.  
 PKO will sell as much as 5 billion zloty ($1.53 billion) of
10-year callable subordinated bonds this year, using the
proceeds to speed up its development, it said in an e-mailed
statement today.  
 On June 22, Treasury Minister  Aleksander Grad  said the
government would support PKO’s bid for Zachodni, the  Allied
Irish Banks Plc  unit that’s Poland’s third-biggest bank by
market value. Three days later, PKO’s shareholders postponed
their vote on a 2009 dividend until its chances to buy Zachodni
become clear.  
 “Several banks, probably with the exception of Pekao, will
probably go up for sale,” Chief Executive Officer  Zbigniew Jagiello  said at a news conference in Warsaw. “Zachodni won’t
be the last such sale.”  
 PKO must observe all such sales and “can’t rule out any
options” in order to create value for its shareholders,
Jagiello said, declining to comment on whether the bank has bid
for Zachodni.  
 AIB is selling 70 percent of Zachodni, a stake valued at
9.81 billion zloty at today’s share price, to raise capital in
line with demands from Irish regulators.  
 HSBC, Intesa Sanpaolo  
 HSBC Holdings Plc  and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA are among the
banks that placed initial bids last month, two people with
knowledge of the matter said July 2. Bank Pekao SA of Poland,
BNP Paribas, Banco Santander SA, and Apax Partners also placed
initial bids, Dziennik Gazeta Prawna reported yesterday, without
saying where it got the information.  
 The Irish bank will shortlist the bidders for further
negotiations to buy Zachodni this week, Warsaw-based
Rzeczpospolita said yesterday, citing a person close to the
deal. AIB declined to comment on the identities of the bidders
or the timing of the shortlist.  
 PKO may also sell as much as 3 billion euros ($3.8 billion)
of Eurobonds under a separate program, Jagiello said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        