-- California's Long Beach Votes to Tax Pot to Plug Gap
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-07-07T17:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/pot-tax-helping-berkeley-plug-budget-deficit-will-go-to-vote-in-california.html

          
          
             The city council of Long Beach,
California, voted last night to pursue taxes on medical
marijuana dispensaries, part of what may become a wave of
communities turning to such proceeds to plug budget deficits.  
 The Los Angeles suburb with a population of almost 500,000
scheduled a public hearing on the drug levy for Aug. 3. If the
council later approves the wording, a ballot initiative
establishing a 5 percent tax on the city’s 35 dispensaries could
go to voters in November, according to  Lori Ann Farrell , Long
Beach’s director of financial management.  
 Long Beach joins California cities including the state
capital, Sacramento, weighing marijuana taxes to bridge falling
revenue from the worst recession since the 1930s. The nation’s
largest state by population saw an explosion in the number of
marijuana dispensaries after voters approved a 1996 referendum
legalizing pot for medicinal use.  
 “We’re looking under every rock to find revenue sources
and under one of those rocks could be a marijuana tax,” Long
Beach council member  Patrick O’Donnell  said in an interview. His
city faces an $18.5 million deficit for 2011, according to a
letter to the council yesterday from Long Beach’s financial
management department.  
 Long Beach’s plan also proposes a 10 percent tax on non-
medicinal marijuana sales to take effect only if the state’s
residents vote for  Proposition 19 , according to Farrell.  
 Proposition 19  
 The proposition, a referendum on the November ballot, would
make it legal for anyone age 21 or older to possess 1 ounce or
less of marijuana, and allow local governments to regulate and
tax sales.  
 “We’re not trying to create a free-for-all, we’re trying
to end it,” said Jeffrey Jones, a longtime advocate of
marijuana legalization and sponsor of the referendum, in a
telephone interview.  
 Californians are about equally divided on the ballot
initiative, according to a  survey  released June 29 by  Ipsos SA ,
the Paris-based polling company. Support for legalization is
highest among Democrats, at 62 percent, compared with
Republicans, at 32 percent, the company said.  
 In San Jose, the 10th-largest U.S. city by population, the
city council will consider putting a marijuana tax to a public
referendum at its Aug. 3 meeting, according Michelle McGurk, a
spokeswoman for Mayor  Chuck Reed . Sacramento’s council will take
up a similar measure on July 13, according to Michelle Heppner,
who handles legislative issues for the city.  
 Berkeley Council  
 The city council of Berkeley, a community of 100,000 people
in the  San Francisco  Bay Area, will vote July 13 whether to put
a marijuana-tax initiative on the ballot in November, Mayor  Tom Bates  said at a meeting last night.  
 Berkeley’s measure would establish a 1.8 percent tax on its
three dispensaries, according to Wendy Cosin, the community’s
deputy planning director. The city balanced its current fiscal-
year budget in part with $300,000 in anticipated revenue from
the tax, Cosin said in a telephone interview.  
 In Long Beach, the city has already closed libraries
several days a week, eliminated after-school programs and for
the first time in its history cut police and fire positions,
Farrell said. Unlike sales and property taxes, which are shared
with the county and state, business taxes are kept by the city,
she said.  
 The medical-marijuana tax is modeled after one by the City
of Oakland, which expects to collect $1 million a year in
revenue from its four authorized dispensaries, Farrell said.  
 “Oakland taught us to get on our game,” council member
O’Donnell said. “If you can tax my Irish whiskey, why not your
Humboldt Bud?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     California cities are weighing marijuana taxes to bridge falling revenue from the worst recession since the 1930s. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
