-- Spain's 1-0 Victory Guarantees a New World Cup Victor Nation
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-07T23:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/puyol-powers-spain-into-final-vs-dutch-to-guarantee-new-world-cup-winner.html

          
          
             Carles Puyol ’s leaping header
guaranteed a new soccer World Cup champion will be crowned
in South Africa.  
 The Spain defender rose to score the only goal last
night against Germany in Durban, sending his team to its
first final at the championship against the Netherlands, a
two-time runner-up in the 1970s.  
 Facing three-time winner Germany and two-time champion
Uruguay in the final four, the Spanish and Dutch won to set
up a final at Johannesburg’s Soccer City on July 11, when
the victor will become the eighth nation to lift the trophy.  
 “There will be a new winner on Sunday, which is good
for football itself,” Spain backup goalkeeper  Pepe Reina 
told reporters after the game. “For us it will be motivation.”  
 Puyol’s 73rd-minute goal allowed Spain to repeat its
1-0 win over Germany in the European Championship final two
years ago. That victory gave the Spaniards, whose best
World Cup performance was fourth place 60 years ago, their
first major trophy since 1964.  
 Standing between Spain and soccer’s biggest prize is a
Netherlands team on a 14-match winning streak in
competitive games. The Dutch booked their place in the
final two days ago by beating Uruguay 3-2.  
 “They are a very solid team, as a collective they
work very well,” Spain midfielder Xabi Alonso  told
reporters. “So we are expecting a very tough game.”  
 12th Semifinal  
 Joachim Loew ’s Germany team entered last night’s
match, the nation’s 12th World Cup semifinal, as the top
scorer in South Africa with 13 goals following 4-0 routs of
Australia and Argentina and a 4-1 victory over England in
the round of 16.  
 Germany’s chances of a record eighth final appearance
were snuffed out when Puyol, whose shaggy hairstyle makes
him stand out on the pitch, ran in from the edge of the
penalty area and jumped above the pack to head  Xavi Hernandez ’s corner past Germany goalkeeper Manuel Neuer
from about 12 yards out.  
 “Puyol had a long run and thumped the ball in with
massive power and with great determination,” Loew said at
a news conference. “There were two of our defenders
somewhere close and we should have anticipated the ball.
Puyol approached us too quickly and thumped the ball in.”  
 It was Spain’s first goal at the tournament that
wasn’t scored or set up by  David Villa , who is tied atop
the individual  scorers’ list  on five goals with  Wesley Sneijder  of the Netherlands.  
 ‘Big Prize’  
 “Puyol just threw himself at the ball,” Alonso said.
“You could feel the whole team behind him when he scored.
We’re going for the big prize now and I hope we’ll have
more reasons to be celebrating soon.”  
 Puyol refused an interview with Spanish television
rights holder Canal+ after the game and went to shake hands
with Germany players including  Bastian Schweinsteiger .  
 “He’s very happy, it’s possibly the most important
goal of his career,” Spain defender  Joan Capdevila  said.  
 Spain, which has never played the Netherlands at the
World Cup, can become the first team to follow European
Championship success with the global title since West
Germany in 1974.  
 Keeping their emotions in check will be the key,
according to Xavi, who was named man of the match last night.  
 “It’s a mind game,” Xavi told reporters. “It’s the
final against Holland, a great team playing great football
with great players in the midfield and up front. If we play
the way we played today we stand a good chance.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Durban through the Johannesburg newsroom at
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Derby  in Durban through the Johannesburg newsroom at
   rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Spain's defender Carles Puyol, right, celebrates with Spain's defender Gerard Pique after scoring during the semi-final football match between Germany and Spain. Photographer: Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
