-- Trade Secret, Medical Staffing, Eco2, St. Vincent, Rangers: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-07T13:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/trade-secret-medical-staffing-eco2-st-vincent-rangers-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Trade Secret Inc. , a 612-store
beauty-supply retailer based in Markham, Canada, filed a Chapter
11 petition yesterday in Delaware along with a term sheet to
sell the business to former owner  Regis Corp.  and an entity
controlled by the family that bought the company from Regis in
January 2009.  
 The $45 million price is to be paid by a credit against the
$32 million in secured debt owing to Edina, Minnesota-based
Regis and the assumption of $13 million in debt. The term sheet
is to be converted into a formal purchase agreement.  
 Trade Secret, along with its affiliates, is asking the
bankruptcy court to set up sale procedures calling for other
offers by Aug. 20 and an auction on Aug. 25, followed the next
day by a hearing to approve the sale.  
 Brian Luborsky , the chief executive officer of the family-
owned unit, said in court papers that the bankruptcy was caused
in part by the recession and the decline in discretionary
spending. Some stores were losing money before the acquisition,
and some leases are above market, he said.  
 Trade Secret also operates under the names Beauty Express,
BeautyFirst and Pure Beauty.  
 The stores, mostly in shopping malls, generate 87 percent
of revenue through product sales. The remainder is from salon
services. Revenue for the fiscal year ended in January was $220
million.  
 Luborsky said in a court filing that the bankruptcy court
will be used to terminate 80 leases.  
 Rent must be reduced on other stores for them to be viable,
he said.  
 The Luborsky family also owns  Premier Salons Inc.  Neither
Premier nor any of its 340 stores are in bankruptcy.  
 The case is In re Trade Secret Inc., 10-12153, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Watch List  
 Skilled Healthcare Hit with $671 Million Jury Award  
 Skilled Healthcare Group Inc. , an operator of 78 nursing
homes and 22 assisted living communities, was hit for $613
million in statutory damages by a California jury yesterday for
not maintaining minimum nursing staff at 22 facilities.  
 The jury also assessed $58 million in damages for
restitution. The jury is yet to consider whether to impose
punitive damages.  
 The Foothill Ranch, California-based company said in a
statement that was “deeply disappointed” by the verdict and
believes its facilities were “appropriately staffed.” The
company vowed to “vigorously pursue” motions in the trial
court to reverse the verdict and to appeal if necessary.  
 Skilled Nursing, which has operations in seven states, said
taking an appeal would require posting a bond for 150 percent of
the verdict. There is currently $94 million available on the
revolving credit, although availability may be limited by
covenants in the loan, the company said.  
 Revenue of $759.8 million in 2009 resulted in a net loss of
$133.2 million. For the first quarter of 2010, net income was
$8.9 million on revenue of $189.3 million.  
 The balance sheet at March 31 showed current assets of
$131.4 million among total assets of $859 million. Current
liabilities were $91.7 million. Total liabilities were $574.7
million.  
 The stock closed yesterday at $6.22 on the New York Stock
Exchange, down 31 cents a share.  
 Molecular Insight, Cancer-Drug Developer, May Reorganize  
 Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals Inc. , a developer of
therapeutic and imaging radiopharmaceuticals for cancer
treatment, for a fourth time has a forbearance agreement with
bondholders. The new expiration date is July 16.  
 The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company says it’s
talking with bondholders about a debt-for-equity exchange.  
 MIP’s only income is less than $1 million from development
grants. Operating expenses in the first quarter were $10.4
million.  
 The balance sheet at the end of the first quarter had
assets on the books for $74.6 million and current liabilities of
$184.6 million.  
 New Filing  
 Medical Staffing Files for Sale to First-Lien Lenders  
 Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc. , a Boca Raton,
Florida-based provider of temporary nursing services, filed a
Chapter 11 petition July 2 in West Palm Beach, Florida, to sell
the business in exchange for $84.1 million in debt to first-lien
lenders owed $98.2 million.  
 The agreement for sale to the senior lenders has consent
from holders of 90 percent of the $26.8 million in second-lien
debt. The buyers are to assume the $15 million loan to be made
by existing lenders to sustain the Chapter 11 case.  General
Electric Capital Corp . is the agent for the senior lenders.
NexBank SSB is agent for the junior secured lenders.  
 To determine if there is a better offer, Medical Staffing
is asking the bankruptcy judge to set up an auction on Aug. 19,
with a hearing the following day for approval of the sale.  
 Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII LP owns 45 percent of
the equity of Medical Staffing. The company was created through
30 acquisitions since founding in 2008.  
 The petition listed assets of $87.8 million against debt
totaling $140.9 million. Revenue of $341 million in 2009
resulted in an operating loss of $34.3 million. Revenue of $72
million in the first quarter of 2010 threw off a $1.3 million
operating loss. Projected revenue for 2010 is $302 million.  
 To read about the sale and projected bankruptcy when it was
originally announced, click here for the June 16 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 The case is In re Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc.,
10-29101, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Florida
(West Palm Beach).  
 Molecular Insight, Cancer-Drug Developer, May Reorganize  
 Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals Inc. , a developer of
therapeutic and imaging radiopharmaceuticals for cancer
treatment, for a fourth time has a forbearance agreement with
bondholders. The new expiration date is July 16.  
 The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company says it’s
talking with bondholders about a debt-for-equity exchange.  
 MIP’s only income is less than $1 million from development
grants. Operating expenses in the first quarter were $10.4
million.  
 The balance sheet at the end of the first quarter had
assets on the books for $74.6 million and current liabilities of
$184.6 million.  
 Updates  
 Visteon Suppliers Claim Right to Block Plan Approval  
 Auto-parts maker  Visteon Corp . may be unable to confirm the
reorganization plan if a group of creditors are correct and can
deliver “no” votes by holders of 60 percent of $167 million in
debt owing to trade suppliers.  
 A negative vote by trade suppliers may squelch Visteon’s
effort to give some of the new stock to existing shareholders,
or could block the plan entirely for some subsidiaries. To read
Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 Visteon has a 10-day confirmation hearing scheduled to
begin Sept. 28. Shareholders and some creditors are opposing the
plan. For details on Visteon’s plan, click here for the June 15
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For a summary of the positions by
various parties before the judge approved the disclosure
statement, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co . Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Funds Claim WaMu Fraud on Trust Preferred Securities  
 A group of funds that purchased $1 billion of trust
preferred securities issued by bank holding company  Washington
Mutual Inc . asked the bankruptcy court to declare that they
continue holding the collateralized securities.  
 The funds want the bankruptcy judge to rule that the trust
preferred securities were never properly converted into equity
immediately before WaMu’s bank was taken over and sold.  
 Plaintiffs in the lawsuit begun yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Delaware include funds affiliated with Black
Horse Capital Advisors LP, Greywolf Capital Partners, Lonestar
Partners LP, Riva Ridge Capital Management LP and Whitebox
Advisors LLC.  
 The plaintiffs contend that there was collusion between
WaMu and the Office of Thrift Supervision that voids the
conversion of the trust preferred securities into equity. They
also argue that offering materials accompanying the securities
failed to disclose the unsound manner in which WaMu’s bank was
being run.  
 They say there was an improperly undisclosed agreement to
downstream the trust preferred securities to the failing bank
rather than retain them at the holding company level.  
 The funds contend that upholding their theory, coupled with
success by the WaMu holding company in other lawsuits, would
result in full payment to WaMu’s creditors.  
 WaMu has a hearing scheduled tomorrow for approval of the
disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan that
incorporates a controversial settlement with the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . The settlement and plan
confirmation would enable WaMu to distribute more than $7
billion to creditors.  
 To read about the settlement, click here for the May 24
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Click here to read the May 18
Bloomberg bankruptcy report for a summary of WaMu’s plan.  
 Shareholders and bank bondholders say WaMu and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. are giving up too cheaply and should
continue lawsuits with JPMorgan.  
 The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank was the sixth-largest depository and credit-card
issuer in the U.S. and the biggest bank failure in the country’s
history. The holding company filed formal lists of assets and
debt showing property with a total value of $4.49 billion
against liabilities of $7.83 billion.  
 The holding company Chapter 11 case is Washington Mutual
Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Fairfield Residential Confirms Reorganization Plan  
 Fairfield Residential LLC, a  developer  of multifamily
housing, persuaded the bankruptcy judge at a hearing yesterday
to approve the reorganization plan. For Bloomberg coverage of
the hearing, click here.  
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc.  is providing $180 million
in new-money financing for the plan, which includes a $19.5
million distribution for Fairfield’s unsecured creditors.
Brookfield’s investment includes working capital, a follow-on
investment, a revolving credit and $100 million as a limited
partner co-investor.  
 Fairfield’s Chapter 11 petition in December listed assets
of $958 million and debt totaling $835 million as of Sept. 30.
The San Diego-based company and its non-bankrupt affiliates have
200 projects in 40 markets, ranging from raw land to completed
developments.  
 When the Chapter 11 case began, debt at the parent level
included $33.7 million on a revolving credit and a matured $45.8
million term loan owing to a group with Capmark Finance Inc. as
agent. At the parent level, there was another $18.2 million
owing on a revolving credit with Wachovia Bank NA.  
 The case is In re Fairfield Residential LLC, 09-14378, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Uno Chicago Grill Reorganization Plan Confirmed in Delaware  
 Uno Restaurant Holdings Corp. , which once operated 99 Uno
Chicago Grill casual-dining restaurants, secured the signature
of the bankruptcy judge yesterday on a confirmation order
approving the Chapter 11 plan.  
 Largely negotiated before the Chapter 11 filing in January,
the plan gives noteholders all the new stock plus $1.75 million
cash. Noteholders were owed $82.1 million.  
 Unsecured creditors originally were to receive nothing.
Thanks to a settlement, they share $1.75 million provided by the
noteholders. The plan is intended to reduce debt to $41 million
from $176.3 million. Before and during the Chapter 11 case, 24
locations were closed.  
 Some noteholders are providing a backstop for a $27 million
rights offering for new second-lien debt.  
 Uno, based in West Roxbury, Massachusetts, listed assets of
$145 million against debt totaling $172 million. Along with the
second-lien notes, Uno at the outset owed $44 million on the
first-lien revolving credit and term loan, including letters of
credit. Revenue for a year was $287 million.  
 In addition to the company-owned locations, franchisees
operate 76 Grill locations. There are also 215 kiosks operated
by franchisees under the name Uno Express. The owned stores are
in 28 states, mostly in the eastern U.S.  
 The case is In re Uno Restaurant Holdings Corp., 10-10209,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Eco2, Recycling Tech Developer, Implements Reorganization Plan  
 Eco2 Plastics Inc. , the owner of patented technology for
cleaning and shredding plastics for recycling, implemented a
reorganization plan last week that the bankruptcy judge in San
Francisco approved in a May 8 confirmation order.  
 Secured lenders owed more than $11 million will take the
new stock. Unsecured creditors with $2.7 million in claims
received 5 percent in cash.  
 The Menlo Park, California-based company patented the
process in 2007. A demonstration plant was closed although there
were plans to build another.  
 The petition listed assets of $1.7 million and debt of $6.4
million.  
 The case is In re ECO2 Plastics Inc., 09-33702, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Detroit’s Greektown Casino Consummates Chapter 11 Plan  
 Greektown Holdings LLC , the owner of one of three casinos
in Detroit, implemented the reorganization yesterday that the
bankruptcy judge approved by confirming a Chapter 11 plan in
January. The plan reduced debt by about $500 million. Sponsored
by noteholders, the plan resulted from a settlement allowing
unsecured creditors to receive $10 million. Secured lenders are
to be paid in full under the plan. Existing noteholders took 6
percent of the new stock. The plan was financed with a $200
million fully-committed equity offering and $385 million from
the sale of new secured notes.  
 The casino filed under Chapter 11 in May 2008 owing $314.5
million on a defaulted term loan and revolving credit. The case
is In re Greektown Holdings LLC, 08-53104, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  
 St. Vincent Formally Authorized to Sell Staff House  
 St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers, a shuttered 727-bed
acute-care hospital in Manhattan’s Greenwich Village, was given
formal authority on July 2 to sell a residential building at 555
Avenue of the Americas (6th Avenue) and 15th Street in Manhattan
for $67.3 million. The price rose 40 percent at auction for the
property that was known as Staff House.  
 St. Vincent filed under Chapter 11 for a second time in
April, listing assets of $348 million against debt totaling
$1.09 billion. The hospital ended the prior reorganization in
July 2007 with a Chapter 11 plan claiming to have a “a
realistic chance” of paying all creditors in full.  
 The prior reorganization left the medical center with more
than $1 billion in debt. The hospital’s primary assets are 10
buildings with 941,000 square feet. The nonprofit hospital is
sponsored by the Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn and the Sisters of
Charity. It was founded in the mid-19th century. When the prior
bankruptcy began in July 2005, St. Vincent had seven operating
hospitals. Five were sold.  
 The new case is In re Saint Vincent Catholic Medical
Centers of New York, 10-11963, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The prior case was In re Saint
Vincent Catholic Medical Centers of New York, 05-14945, in the
same court.  
 Daily Podcast  
 Texas Rangers Baseball and Old General Motors: Audio  
 The auction for the  Texas Rangers  baseball club and a $3
billion transaction on the eve of the old  General Motors Corp .
bankruptcy are discussed in the latest bankruptcy podcast on the
Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Recording Officer’s Slow Work Voids Auto Lien  
 A secured lender is at the mercy of government recording
officers, as Branch Banking & Trust Co. was made painfully aware
in a July 2 opinion from the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Cincinnati.  
 Because the recording officer was slow in noting a lien on
the title to an auto, the security interest in the vehicle was
set aside as a preference. The ruling makes it clear that
lenders shouldn’t wait to send in lien documents, in case state
employees don’t perform their jobs punctually.  
 An individual purchased an auto on Feb. 8. The lender
mailed the necessary papers to the recording officer on Feb. 17
to perfect a lien on the vehicle. The papers were received on
Feb. 22, all within the 20-day period required by bankruptcy
law. The recording officer didn’t record the lien until March 7,
outside the 20-day period.  
 Given an ambiguity in Kentucky law, the 6th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals certified a question to the Kentucky Supreme
Court.  
 The highest court in Kentucky answered by saying that the
lien on the auto wasn’t perfected until title was issued, even
though the papers arrived on time. The arrival of the papers
only pertains to priority among secured lenders, not to
perfection.  
 Because the security interest wasn’t perfected within the
20-day window, the appeals court ruled that late perfection was
a preference that the bankruptcy court should void because the
owner filed for bankruptcy within 90 days of perfection.  
 The case is Brock v. Branch Banking & Trust Co. (In re
Johnson), 08-5088, 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Cincinnati).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        