-- Reliance Seeks Contractor to Explore for Coal-Seam Gas, Onshore Oil Blocks
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-07-07T04:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/reliance-seeks-contractor-to-explore-for-coal-seam-gas-onshore-oil-blocks.html

          
          
             Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s
largest natural gas producer, is seeking a contractor to help
explore for coal-seam gas and onshore oil.  
 Reliance is looking for equipment and services for drilling,
rigs and production testing for onshore blocks won in auctions
that closed in 2001 and 2005, the company said in a  tender
document  on its website. Partners in the block are  Oil & Natural
Gas Corp.,  Okland Offshore Holdings Ltd. and the local units of
 Tullow Oil Plc  and  Hardy Oil & Gas Plc , it said.  
 Reliance is seeking similar services to explore for methane
gas trapped in coal seams in blocks in Madhya Pradesh,
Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan states, according to the tender. Bids
must be submitted before July 21.  
 Reliance didn’t identify the oil and coal-seam gas blocks.
During the auction rounds identified in the tender, the company
won 6,850 square kilometers (2,645 square miles) of onshore
fields in Assam and Gujarat states and coal-bed methane acreage
with estimated reserves of 320 billion cubic meters of gas,
according to the website of the  Directorate General of
Hydrocarbons , the regulator.  
 In the coal-seam blocks, Reliance plans to drill 100 test
wells annually over the next five years with a depth of as much
as 1,700 meters, the tender said.  
 Coal-seam gas mostly comprises methane on the surface of
coal. The gas can be extracted when pressure on the seams is
reduced, usually by removing water. India has coal-bed-methane
reserves of at least 8 trillion cubic feet in five discovered
blocks, the oil ministry said Sept. 25.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        