-- Trichet Faces Market Rate Threat as Debt Crisis Hurts Growth
-- Gabi Thesing
-- 2010-07-08T11:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/trichet-faces-threat-of-higher-market-rates-as-debt-crisis-hurts-economy.html

          
          
             European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  is facing higher interest rates sooner than he
may have planned.  
 Interbank borrowing costs have been climbing since
financial institutions had to pay back a record 442 billion-euro
($557 billion) ECB loan on July 1, threatening to hurt the
economy just as investors fret about the health of the banking
system and the ongoing sovereign debt crisis. That may force the
ECB to consider additional lending measures when policy makers
convene in Frankfurt today, economists and analysts said.  
 “The question Trichet will have to answer is whether the
ECB will tolerate higher market rates at this point in time,”
said  Christoph Rieger , an interest-rate strategist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “It’s questionable whether these
rates are appropriate now.”  
 The increase in funding costs comes as Europe’s economy
shows signs of weakening after Greece’s fiscal crisis undermined
investor confidence, forcing governments to cut spending and
conduct stress tests on banks to prove their resilience. The ECB
has embarked on an unprecedented program of bond purchases in an
effort to contain rising yields in debt-strapped countries, and
has reintroduced some of the non-standard measures it employed
during last year’s financial crisis, such as unlimited longer-
term lending to banks.  
 Record-Low Benchmark  
 All 55 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  expect the ECB
to leave its  benchmark  rate at a record low of 1 percent today.
The Bank of England kept its key rate at 0.5 percent, also a
record low, and maintained its bond-purchase stimulus plan. The
ECB announcement is due at 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt and Trichet
holds a press conference 45 minutes later.  
 Market rates are rising after the expiry of the landmark
12-month loan this month, and lower-than-expected take-up of
shorter-term ECB loans, reduced excess liquidity in the system.  
 The European Overnight Index Average rate, or  EONIA , jumped
to 0.542 percent on June 30 from as low as 0.295 percent on June
3. The  rate  that banks charge each other to borrow for three
months has increased to 0.8 percent, the highest in 10 months,
from 0.63 percent at the end of March.  
 “Less liquidity in the system is leading to a significant
increase in money-market rates that in pre-crisis times could
only be achieved with an interest-rate hike,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup Inc. in London.
He predicts the overnight rate will increase to 0.8 percent by
October.  
 Positive Sign?  
 The ECB, which no longer offers banks 12-month loans, could
look at a new six-month offering in an effort to boost liquidity
and damp market rates, according to Citigroup and Commerzbank.
The ECB has already committed itself to another three unlimited
three-month loans fixed at its benchmark rate.  
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London, said the ECB may view the reduced
demand for its loans in recent offerings as a positive sign that
banks are less dependent on its funds and prepared to borrow on
the market instead.  
 “The ECB will wait at least until the bank stress tests
are published to see whether there will be a negative shock on
funding costs out of that,” he said.  
 European Union leaders pledged on June 17 to disclose the
results of the stress tests by the end of July, showing how
individual banks would hold up to economic and market shocks.  
 ‘Headaches’  
 The sovereign debt crisis triggered a rout in  Greek ,
 Portuguese  and Spanish bonds. European lenders had $2.29
trillion at risk in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain at the end
of 2009, including loans to governments, according to the Bank
for International Settlements.  
 Greek, Irish and Portuguese banks are the most reliant on
ECB funding, Barclays Capital analyst  Simon Samuels  wrote in a
note to clients on June 29.  
 Higher rates are “certainly causing the Greek, Spanish,
Portuguese and Irish Governing Council members some headaches
because it helps prolong their banks’ dependence on ECB money,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“On the other hand, I don’t think the Germans will be too
bothered.”  
 The ECB’s non-standard measures have already divided the
22-member Governing Council, with the most recent decision to
buy government bonds drawing criticism from Germany’s  Axel Weber 
and ECB Executive Board member  Juergen Stark .  
 The ECB “can do more,” said  Paul Donovan , deputy head of
global economics at UBS AG in London. “The question is whether
they choose to do so with sufficient enough unanimity to
reassure the markets.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet, arrives at a meeting in Aix-en-Provence. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Hans-Guenter Redeker, head of global currency strategy at BNP Paribas SA, talks about the outlook for today's European Central Bank monetary policy decision.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Donovan, deputy head of global economics at UBS AG, talks about European stress tests on 91 of the region's biggest banks.
     Donovan, speaking in London, also discusses the outlook for today's Bank of England and European Central bank monetary policy decisions. He speaks with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
