-- Rio, Chinalco in Talks Over Chinese Company Buying Stake in Ivanhoe, Mine
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-07-07T16:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/rio-chinalco-in-talks-over-chinese-company-buying-stake-in-ivanhoe-mine.html

          
          
             Aluminum Corp. of China, the nation’s
biggest producer of the metal, is in talks with  Rio Tinto Group 
to buy a stake in the $4.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi mine in Mongolia
or the U.K. company’s partner in the project, Ivanhoe Mines Ltd.  
 Chinalco, as the Chinese company is known, is in talks with
Rio and “indicated an interest in acquiring a minority equity
stake in the company or acquiring, from the company, a direct
minority ownership interest in the Oyu Tolgoi project,” Rio
said today in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing,
referring to  Ivanhoe .  
 Rio is working to repair relations with Chinalco, its
largest shareholder, which were soured last year when it
scrapped a $19.5 billion investment by the Chinese company and
four Rio employees were arrested in Shanghai. Ivanhoe Deputy
Chairman  Peter Meredith  said in May that the company may bring
in another partner to the copper and gold project and it made
sense for Chinese interests to study an investment.  
 Rio Tinto, the world’s third-biggest mining company, last
month exercised warrants in Ivanhoe for $393 million to boost
its stake in the Vancouver-based company to 29.6 percent.  
 Chinalco spokesman  Lu Youqing  couldn’t immediately comment
when reached on his mobile today. An Ivanhoe spokesman wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  
 Equity Conversion  
 “If any arrangement is agreed, it may be a bi-partite or
tri-partite arrangement with the company and/or Rio Tinto,”
London-based Rio said in the SEC filing.  
 Ivanhoe  rose 2.2 percent to C$14.17 by 12:03 p.m. in
Toronto. Rio  fell  0.4 percent to 3,036 pence in London.  
 Ivanhoe spent more than six years negotiating an accord
with Mongolia over the project, which Rio has described as the
world’s largest untapped copper and gold resource. Ivanhoe said
in January it hired Citigroup Inc. to study options, including
debt and equity offerings and asset sales.  
 Rio said in the filing it’s also in talks with Ivanhoe
about converting its equity stake in the company into a direct
ownership stake in the mine. Any agreement would require the
support of the Mongolian government, Rio said. Ivanhoe holds 66
percent of Oyu Tolgoi and Mongolia the rest. Rio has an option
to increase its stake in Ivanhoe to about 44 percent.  
 The 81.3 billion pounds of copper and 46.4 million ounces
of gold at Oyu Tolgoi may give the site a 59-year life, Ivanhoe
said in May. The mine will produce an average of 1.2 billion
pounds of copper and 650,000 ounces of gold a year for the first
decade. Production is scheduled to begin in 2013.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        