-- Rothschild $45.1 Million Turner; Spencer Family Sale (Update1)
-- Scott Reyburn
-- 2010-07-08T18:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/rothschild-bride-s-turner-painting-fetches-record-45-1-million-in-london.html

          
          
             A landscape by  J.M.W. Turner , once
owned by a member of the Rothschild family, sold last night for
an artist record 29.7 million pounds ($45.1 million) as
selective buyers continued to test the art market.  
 Turner’s work, on offer for the first time since it was
purchased in 1878 by Hannah Rothschild and her husband, was the
top lot of 57 in a  Sotheby’s  London auction of Old Master and
British Paintings.  
 The price is the latest record paid in 2010 for trophy
works by top artists with prestigious provenances.  Alberto Giacometti’s  1961 bronze “Walking Man I” sold for 65 million
pounds at Sotheby’s.  Pablo Picasso’s  1932 painting “Nude,
Green Leaves and Bust” fetched $106.5 million -- the most for
any artwork at auction -- at  Christie’s International  in New
York in May. An  Amedeo Modigliani  sculpture took 43.2 million
euros ($53 million) at Christie’s in Paris in June.  
 “I thought it would make between 22 million and 45
million pounds,” the New York-based dealer  Richard L. Feigen 
said in an interview after the Turner sale. “It depended on
whether a Giacometti or Modigliani buyer moved into the 19th
century. It seems they didn’t, which meant it was relatively
cheap: a wise buy.”  
 Getty Purchase  
 Turner’s 1839 canvas “Modern Rome -- Campo Vaccino,” a
twilight view of some of the Italian capital’s famous monuments
and his last depiction of the city, was estimated by  Sotheby’s 
to fetch between 12 million pounds and 18 million pounds at
hammer prices. It was bought in the room by the London dealer
 Hazlitt, Gooden & Fox  acting on behalf of the  J. Paul Getty
Museum  in California. The lot was underbid in the room by an
unidentified international private buyer, said the U.S.-based
auction house.  
 The 4-foot-wide (1.2-meter) work was shown at London’s
 Royal Academy of Arts  and four decades later acquired on
honeymoon by Rothschild and the 5th Earl of Rosebery, who later
became the U.K.’s prime minister. They paid 4,450 guineas -- an
old British currency unit -- for the work, and it hung in the
family’s country mansion,  Mentmore Towers , Buckinghamshire, and
their London residences for a century. It was in unrestored
condition in its original frame and was being sold by an
unidentified descendant of the 5th Earl. Harry Dalmeny, heir to
the present 7th Earl of Rosebery, is deputy chairman of
 Sotheby’s  U.K.  
 Bacon, Turner  
 Joseph Mallord William Turner is regarded as the U.K.’s
most important pre-20th century artist, said dealers, and the
most expensive. An 1841 view of Venice, “Giudecca, La Donna
della Salute and San Giorgio,” sold in April 2006 at
 Christie’s , New York, for $35.9 million, at the time a record
for a British painting at auction. Turner was later overtaken
by another U.K. artist,  Francis Bacon .  
 Apart from the Turner, six works sold for more than 1
million pounds, all of them by Dutch or Flemish artists.  
 The short-term investment potential of Old Masters was
tested by an early 17th-century panel painting of a bearded old
man by Rembrandt’s contemporary, Jan Lievens. The work sold at
Sotheby’s for a record 1.9 million pounds with fees in July
2004 to the London-based dealer  Johnny van Haeften . The
painting was subsequently acquired by a Dutch collector, who
re-offered it last night with a low estimate of 2 million
pounds. It sold in the room to the Paris-based dealer Bob
Haboldt for a hammer price of 2.2 million pounds, translating
to 2.5 million pounds with fees.  
 Breughel’s Fete  
 The same figure was paid by a telephone bidder for a
previously unrecorded painting by Pieter Breughel the Younger
of a village fete that carried a low estimate of 2.2 million
pounds. Datable to between 1617 and 1621, the work was
unrestored and had been in the same European family collection
for 60 years, said Sotheby’s.  
 A 1607 oil-on-copper village scene by Jan Breughel the
Elder had been in an English private collection for a similar
period. This was bought in the room for 1.6 million pounds,
above its high estimate, by a man with a pony tail identified
by dealers as a Russian art trader, underbid by Van Haeften.  
 Bidding for middling-quality paintings was subdued, with a
 Claude Lorrain  oil-on-copper landscape, estimated at 400,000
pounds to 600,000 pounds, among the 18 failures. This had been
sold at auction as recently as 2007.  
 “The sale did OK given the lackluster state of the
economy,”  Philip Hoffman , chief executive of the London-based
Fine Art Fund, said in an interview. “All the best things sold
well and the mediocre things had no market.”  
 Sotheby’s sale raised 53.5 million pounds with fees,
beating a high estimate of 49.6 million pounds, based on hammer
prices. Sixty-eight percent of the material sold.  
 Last year, Sotheby’s equivalent auction totaled 26 million
pounds from 48 lots, plus a further 9.9 million pounds for a
group of artworks from the  Barbara Piasecka Johnson  collection.  
 Spencer Sale  
 Following the 14.2 million-pound sale of works by Rubens
and Guercino at its Old Master paintings sale on July 6,
Christie’s raised a further 6.9 million pounds in London from
items entered by the Spencer family.  
 At a two-day event finishing this evening, Christie’s
auctioned more than 800 lots from the family’s country
residence, Althorp in Northamptonshire -- the childhood home of
Diana,  Princess of Wales  -- and Spencer House in London.  
 The top price was 802,850 pounds, for a pair of George II
armchairs thought to have been designed by James ‘Athenian’
Stuart, estimated at 200,000 pounds to 300,000 pounds.  
 The event attracted more than 1,000 bidders, drawn by the
aristocratic provenance and estimates as low as 200 pounds. A
George IV state chariot sold for 133,250 pounds. A group of 25
decorative jelly moulds climbed to 14,375 pounds against a low
estimate of 1,000 pounds.  
 ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "Modern Rome - Campo Vaccino'' by J.M.W. Turner. The painting, not seen at auction since 1878, was expected to fetch between 12 million and 18 million pounds at Sotheby's sale of Old Master and Early British Paintings in London. The work made 29.7 milion pounds. Source:  Sotheby's via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jan Lievens Painting  
                       
                         
                           Sotheby's via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A panel painting of an old man by the 17th-century Dutch artist Jan Lievens. The work was included in Sotheby's July 7 auction of Old Master & British Paintings in London. It sold for 2.5 million pounds with fees. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A panel painting of an old man by the 17th-century Dutch artist Jan Lievens. The work was included in Sotheby's July 7 auction of Old Master & British Paintings in London. It sold for 2.5 million pounds with fees. Source:  Sotheby's via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An early 17th-century panel painting of a village festival by Pieter Breughel the Younger. It was included in Sotheby's July 7 sale of Old Master & British Paintings in London with an estimate of 2.2 million pounds to 2.6 million pounds at hammer price. It fetched 2.5 million pounds with fees. Source: Sotheby's via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
