-- Rubber Increases for Second Day as Rainfall Reduces Supply From Thailand
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-07-07T08:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/rubber-fluctuates-as-stronger-yen-reduces-appeal-rainfall-limits-supply.html

          
          
             Rubber advanced for a second day as
reduced supply from Thailand, the world’s largest exporter, and
a rally in oil prices enhanced the appeal of the commodity used
to make tires.  
 Futures climbed as much as 1.5 percent to 272.2 yen per
kilogram ($3,123 a metric ton) in Tokyo. Rain has disrupted
tapping, lowering output, the Rubber Research Institute of
Thailand said this week. Crude oil futures in New York gained as
much as 0.6 percent, increasing the cost of making rival
synthetic rubber.  
 “Concerns over limited supply and crude oil prices
standing above $70 a barrel supported the market,” Navarat
Kaewpratarn, marketing official at Future Agri Trade Co., said
by phone from Bangkok. Buying interest was curbed by the
stronger yen, she said.  
 The December-delivery contract gained 0.8 percent to settle
at 270.1 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. November-delivery
rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange added 1 percent to
settle at 21,735 yuan ($3,207) a ton.  
 The Tokyo price earlier fell by as much as 0.5 percent on
concern that the global economic recovery is faltering. U.S.
service industries expanded at a slower pace than expected in
June as the Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses yesterday fell to a four-month low.  
 The Japanese currency today traded near a seven-month high
against the dollar, reducing the appetite for yen-denominated
rubber contracts.  
 The yen gained versus 15 of its 16 major counterparts
before a German report that may show factory orders grew at a
slower pace. The currency advanced to 87.68 per dollar from
87.52 yesterday.  
 Warehouse Stockpiles  
 Crude rubber stockpiles held at Japanese warehouses fell
8.9 percent to 3,247 metric tons on June 20, according to data
from the Rubber Trade Association of Japan.  
 China’s natural-rubber inventories increased 1,211 tons to
15,982 tons last week, based on a survey of 10 warehouses, the
Shanghai Futures Exchange said on July 2. Still, stockpiles have
slumped 89 percent this year.  
 “Low inventories in China and Japan provide hopes they
will soon build up their reserves,” said  Chaiwat Muenmee , an
analyst at Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures Co.  
 The benchmark price in Thailand remained unchanged for a
fifth day at 112.60 baht ($3.47) a kilogram, according to the 
Rubber Institute of Thailand,  which issues data in the afternoon.  
 Tight global supplies and strong demand, especially from
China, will support prices, the  Association of Natural-Rubber-
Producing Countries  said in its June newsletter. China’s gross
imports of natural rubber are projected to climb 5 percent this
year to 1.67 million tons, the group said.  
 The possibility of a “marked improvement” in supply in
the short term is limited given aging trees and weather
constraints, the association said June 30. Rain in southern
Thailand has disrupted plantation work in the major-growing
region, according to the institute.  
 Oil for August delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange
traded at $71.96 a barrel after earlier reaching $72.38.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        