-- Ruble Set to Rally on Global Economic Growth, Oil Price Rises, SocGen Says
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-07-07T11:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/ruble-set-to-rally-on-global-economic-growth-oil-price-rises-socgen-says.html

          
          
             The Russian ruble will resume its
“appreciating trend” following recent declines as the global
economy recovers and the cost of oil rises, Societe General SA
said.  
 The bank recommends investors buy the ruble against a
basket of currencies tracked by the country’s central bank. The
ruble will gain to 33.50 versus the basket, made up of dollars
and euros, within two to three months, SocGen analyst  Gaelle Blanchard  said in a note today.  The ruble was at 34.6725
against  the basket  at 1:26 p.m. in Moscow.  
 The Russian currency has weakened almost 4 percent since
April on concern the Chinese economy will slow, crimping demand
for oil and hampering growth prospects for Russia, the world’s
largest energy exporter. SocGen says the ruble will benefit from
a recovery in Russian manufacturing and domestic demand, which
will begin to fuel inflation and prompt the central bank to
allow some appreciation of the currency.  
 “We don’t think” the depreciation “is a lasting trend
though, and expect the ruble to resume its gradual appreciating
trend versus the basket, in line with our central scenario of
continued gradual global economic recovery and rising oil
prices,” London-based Blanchard wrote in the note. The current
ruble exchange rate “is attractive to play a rebound.”  
 Room to Gain  
 Bank Rossii has kept the ruble within 26-41 versus the
basket since January 2009. Narrower limits are set at 33.40 to
36.40, which means the currency has room to gain before the bank
would resume interventions by buying foreign currency, SocGen
said. The basket is calculated by multiplying the dollar’s rate
to the ruble by 0.55, the euro to ruble rate by 0.45, then
adding them together.  
 The  central bank  left its main interest rates unchanged on
June 30, ending a 14-month easing cycle as the economic recovery
gathers speed.  
 Russian  service  industries from banks to mobile phone
retailers expanded in the past three months at the fastest pace
since the third quarter of 2008, signaling consumer demand is
invigorating the  recovery , VTB Capital survey showed on July 5.  
 Corporate lending grew at the fastest pace this year in May
as the economic recovery gained momentum, the central bank said
last week. Retail loans advanced 1.2 percent in May, compared
with 1 percent the month before, it said. Retail deposits
increased 1.7 percent, according to the bank.  
 ‘Broader Based’  
 “The Russian economy is now enjoying a broader-based
recovery,” said Blanchard. “The recovery of domestic demand
should eventually trigger a reversal of the disinflation trend
observed since early 2009. The central bank should become less
resistant to some ruble appreciation.”  
 The ruble may strengthen to 28 versus the dollar by the end
of 2012 and maintain a “trend toward appreciation” in the next
three years, the government said last month. The ruble may gain
an inflation-adjusted 20 percent in the next three years against
the currencies of Russia’s major trading partners, it said.  
 Societe General expects Brent crude at $84.5 at year-end.
Brent crude futures for August delivery were at 71.49 today.
Income from oil and gas account for about 25 percent of Russian
gross domestic product.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        