-- Russian Bank Bonds Rallying After `One-Off' Default by Pugachyov's IIB
-- Jack Jordan
-- 2010-07-08T08:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/russian-bank-bonds-rallying-following-one-off-default-by-pugachyov-s-iib.html

          
          
             The first Eurobond default by a
Russian bank in more than a decade is failing to undermine
investor confidence in financial firms’ debt as the biggest
increase in lending since 2008 sends yields to a two-month low.  
 Dollar bonds due 2013 from Russian lawmaker  Sergei Pugachyov ’s International Industrial Bank traded yesterday at
59.5 cents, down from 100 at their February issue, after the
Moscow-based lender reneged on $453 million of obligations.
Securities sold by Moscow-based Alfa Bank, Nomos Bank and OAO
Sberbank rallied, cutting the yield on Alfa’s 2012 dollar bonds
to 6.49 percent, the lowest level since May 4.  
 Investor confidence in Russia’s banks is improving as the
recovery from last year’s worst  economic  contraction since the
Soviet Union’s 1991 collapse spurs loan growth. Central bank
Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  told lawmakers bank lending climbed 3
percent or 4 percent in the three months ended in June. The
increase would be the biggest advance since the third quarter of
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “IIB was a one off,” said  Peter Varga , who helps manage 3
billion euros ($3.8 billion) of emerging-market assets at Erste
Sparinvest KAG in Vienna and sold all its IIB debt two weeks
ago. “There could be many hundreds of really small banks in
Russia which are in trouble, I don’t know, but out of the ones
with bonds in the market I wouldn’t consider any near IIB’s
situation. More big U.S. banks have gone bust in the last two
years than Russian ones.”  
 Bailouts  
 The last time a Russian bank defaulted on an international
bond was the year after the government’s 1998 debt crisis that
triggered the collapse of Long Term-Capital Management LP. SBS
Agro Bank, once Russia’s largest private bank, defaulted on $250
million in July 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 IIB’s cash shortage stemmed from its reliance on central
bank funding rather than client deposits to finance new credit,
said  Yaroslav Sovgyra , a Moscow-based senior credit officer at
Moody’s Investors Service. The firm’s “specific” problems
aren’t evident in other banks, Sovgyra said.  
 Moody’s rated IIB bonds sold in February at B1, four levels
below investment grade, and has since cut the ranking by four
steps to Caa2. Standard & Poor’s downgraded the lender to D, its
lowest rating yesterday.  
 Pugachyov is a member of the Russian Federation Council,
the upper chamber of parliament. His United Industrial Corp.,
the parent company of IIB, also has assets in mining and
shipbuilding. IIB appointed Credit Suisse Group AG as an
adviser.  
 Bond Sales  
 “The IIB situation is materially different from that of
all of Russia’s major privately-owned banks, which are currently
experiencing a liquidity surplus on the back of continuing
deposit inflows,” said  Maxim Raskosnov , a banking analyst at
Renaissance Capital, the Moscow-based investment bank half-owned
by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov . “We don’t expect it to have
any material impact on the broader market of banking sector
bonds.”  
 President  Dmitry Medvedev  pledged more than $200 billion to
keep banks and companies afloat as the collapse of New York-
based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. caused a global freeze in
credit markets in 2008. The central bank cut its benchmark
refinancing rate 14 times since April 2009 to 7.75 percent to
help boost lending. Bank Rossii’s Ignatiev forecast 15 percent
loan growth this year after retail lending shrank 11 percent in
2009 and loans to companies climbed 0.3 percent.  
 Default Swaps  
 OAO TransCreditBank , the lending arm of Russia’s rail
monopoly, is meeting bond investors this week and VTB Group, the
country’s second-biggest lender may sell Swiss franc-denominated
bonds following meetings in Switzerland today, according to
bankers with knowledge of the transaction. The meetings follow
$2.2 billion of bond sales since June 30 by Sberbank, VEB and
ZAO Promsvyazbank, the busiest week for new Russian foreign-
currency issuance in two years.  
 The ruble gained 0.5 percent to 30.9805 per dollar by 11:32
a.m. in Moscow trading. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements as they
allow foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate
at a specific level in the future, show the ruble at 31.1749 per
dollar in three months.  
 Credit-default swaps linked to Russian debt fell 1 basis
points, or 0.01 percentage point, to 189 yesterday, the lowest
since June 28. The contracts, which investors use to hedge
against losses on debt or speculate on creditworthiness, pay the
buyer face value if a borrower reneges on its obligations.  
 Payment Delay  
 Russia credit-default swaps cost 3 basis points more than
the same contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower
at Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service. The  difference  has narrowed
from 40 basis points on April 20.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 6 basis points to 267
yesterday, according to JPMorgan EMBI+ Indexes. That compares
with 170 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 234 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  
 The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 sold in
April fell 10 basis points to 5.345 percent, the lowest level
since June 21. The so-called  yield  spread on Russian bonds is 55
basis points below the average for emerging markets, according
to JPMorgan indexes.  
 IIB said it didn’t pay 200 million euros of 9 percent notes
due July 6 and sent a default notice on $200 million of bonds
maturing in 2013 yesterday. The bank proposed a one-year
maturity extension on the 9 percent notes and said holders who
vote in favor of the new maturity date by July 14 will get a
payment amounting to 5 percent of the principal they’re owed,
according to a 17-page company report obtained by Bloomberg News
yesterday.  
 ‘Pain’ to Come  
 Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  told reporters in Moscow
yesterday he “hopes” IIB will resolve its problems without
losing its banking license. Ashmore Investment Management Ltd.’s
 Jerome Booth  said more Russian lenders may fail.  
 “There are still too many banks in Russia,” Booth, who
helps oversee $33 billion in emerging-market assets as head of
research at Ashmore, said at a press conference in London
yesterday. “If they collapse, they collapse. You can’t say
there won’t be pain, but it will be healthy. You want to have a
banking system which is unconditionally punishing irresponsible
behavior.”  
 IIB’s 9 percent euro bonds were trading at 50.25 cents on
the euro as of June 30, the last day Bloomberg compiled prices
for the debt, plunging from 97.75 at the start of June. The 11
percent dollar bonds due 2013 traded at 59.5 cents yesterday,
down from 100 cents when the notes were sold in February. Credit
Suisse and VTB Capital were joint lead managers of the February
issue.  
 Sberbank, Nomos  
 Nomos Bank bonds gained, cutting the yield on the 2015
dollar securities by 10 basis points to 9.12 percent, the lowest
since April 26. The 2013 dollar bonds sold by Sberbank, Russia’s
biggest lender, also climbed, pushing the yield down 17 basis
points to 4.23 percent. The yield is one basis points below the
government’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015.  
 IIB’s default “doesn’t affect our investment strategy at
all,” said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps oversee about $6 billion
of emerging-market debt at Union Investment in Frankfurt, and
holds bonds of Sberbank, Vnesheconombank and Bank of Moscow. “I
don’t see any systematic risks even for second-tier banks, which
have a very strong credit profile now.”  
 -- With assistance from  Paul Abelsky  in Moscow. Editors:  Gavin Serkin ,  Laura Zelenko .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        