-- Samsung Posts Record Operating Profit on Chip Prices
-- Sungwoo Park
-- 2010-07-07T01:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/samsung-posts-record-4-1-billion-operating-profit-fueled-by-chip-demand.html

          
          
             Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s
biggest maker of semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones,
posted record earnings last quarter, fueled by a recovery in
demand for computer-memory chips that drove up  prices .  
 Second-quarter  operating income  rose 87 percent to 5
trillion won ($4.1 billion) from 2.67 trillion won a year
earlier as sales gained 14 percent, the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said today. Profit beat the 4.74 trillion won average of
14 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 It’s the second straight quarter of record profit for the
maker of semiconductors that go into Apple Inc.’s iPhones and
Dell Inc.’s computers, giving Chairman  Lee Kun Hee  room to
invest more on plants and equipment than any other technology
company and widen Samsung’s lead in chips. The electronics maker
faces the challenge of sustaining earnings growth amid concerns
prices may have peaked and Europe’s fiscal crisis will persist.  
 “ Earnings  were very, very good, although we had already
expected such an outstanding performance,” said  Kang Shin Woo ,
chief investment officer at Seoul-based Korea Investment Trust
Management Co., which manages about $15.6 billion in assets.
“Some investors are concerned that earnings may slow down from
the fourth quarter.”  
 Samsung  fell 0.9 percent to 768,000 won as of 10:38 a.m. in
Seoul trading, while the benchmark  Kospi index  dropped 0.4
percent. The shares have fallen 3.8 percent this year, while the
benchmark Kospi index has been little changed.  
 Preliminary Figures  
 Operating profit may be 200 billion won higher or lower
than today’s estimate after an audit, Samsung said. Revenue
climbed to between 36 trillion won and 38 trillion won, up from
32.51 trillion won a year earlier, it said. The company was
projected to report sales of 37.9 trillion won, according to the
average analyst  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The preliminary figures are consolidated, meaning they
include earnings from overseas affiliates. The company didn’t
report net income for the period and didn’t give a breakdown of
divisional earnings.  
 Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expensive, will probably climb to a record 18.1
trillion won this year, according to the average of 19 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg before the announcement.  
 Chip Business  
 Profit from  chips  probably accounted for more than half of
its total operating income in the quarter, according to a
separate survey of seven analysts by Bloomberg News.  
 Samsung’s earnings growth will probably extend through the
third quarter, helped by rising profit from the chip division,
according to analysts at Mirae Asset Securities Co. and Daewoo
Securities Co.  
 “Samsung probably had better second-quarter earnings than
first quarter because semiconductors offset poor performance in
mobile phones,”  Kim Chang Yeul , an analyst at Mirae Asset,
wrote in a June 22 report. “Stable growth of chip demand and
Samsung’s confidence in expanding its market share may be
confirmed in third-quarter earnings as well.”  
 Global semiconductor sales are forecast to grow 27 percent
this year to $290 billion, compared with a February projection
of a 20 percent gain, Stamford, Connecticut-based researcher
Gartner Inc. said on June 3. The industry will show “continued
growth” and exceed $300 billion in sales in 2011, it said.  
 The market for dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips
that serve as short-term memory inside computers or smartphones
such as the iPhone, will surge 78 percent this year, according
to the research firm.  
 Chip Prices  
 The Dramexchange Index, which tracks prices of the most
widely used computer-memory chips, rose 9.3 percent this year as
the global economic recovery spurred demand for electronics,
lifting earnings for chipmakers.  
 Hynix Semiconductor Inc. , the world’s second-largest
computer-memory chipmaker, in April announced a third straight
quarterly profit. Taiwan’s Powerchip Technology Corp. and Boise,
Idaho-based  Micron Technology Inc.  have reported three straight
quarters of profit after years of losses.  
 Samsung’s flat-panel division likely generated income of
757 billion won, triple the 250 billion won a year ago,
according to the Bloomberg survey of analysts. Income at the
digital media division that makes TVs may have declined 43
percent to 660 billion won, according to the survey.  
 Global shipments of liquid-crystal display televisions may
rise 24 percent to more than 180 million units in 2010, Austin,
Texas-based DisplaySearch said in March.  
 Flat Panels  
 The average price of Samsung’s mid- to large-sized LCDs
probably rose 22 percent in the second quarter and may climb 10
percent for the year, according to a June 27 report by  Song Myung Sup , an analyst with HI Investment & Securities Co.  
 The phone division’s operating profit probably dropped 26
percent to 727 billion won, according to the survey of analysts,
as Samsung trails behind Apple and BlackBerry maker Research In
Motion Ltd. in the market for handsets designed to surf the
Internet and watch movies. Global smartphone sales will rise 36
percent to 247 million in 2010, ISuppli Corp. said in April.  
 Samsung, the world’s second-largest mobile-phone maker,
aims to more than double its share of the smartphone market,
helped by the introduction of the Galaxy S model,  Lee Donjoo ,
senior vice president of the Mobile Communications Division,
said on June 22. The company’s share of the more lucrative and
faster-growing market for the devices is just 4 percent,
according to the company’s own estimates.  
 “The new smartphone, Galaxy S, is likely to significantly
reduce investors’ skepticism on the company’s handset
business,”  Bae Seung Chul , an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG,
wrote in a June 28 report.  
 The Galaxy S may sell more than 7 million units by the end
of the year, which will probably create about $3 billion of
revenue in the fourth quarter, Bae wrote.  
 Samsung passed  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker of
mobile phones, in shipments of low-end handsets to Western
Europe in the first quarter, researcher IDC said on June 28.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Samsung Electronics CEO Choi Gee Sung speaks at the company's annual general shareholders' meeting in Seoul. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
