-- HSBC Units Sued by Consumers Over Sales of Credit-Card Protection Plans
-- David Voreacos
-- 2010-07-07T21:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/hsbc-units-sued-by-consumers-over-sales-of-credit-card-protection-plans.html

          
          
             Units of  HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s
biggest lender by market value, were sued by U.S. customers who
said the bank’s credit-card payment-protection service defrauds
disabled, retired and unemployed consumers.  
 While the service purports to safeguard accounts by
suspending or canceling required minimum payments when customers
become disabled or  unemployed , the circumstances that trigger
protection are “varied, complicated and always changing,”
according to complaints filed July 2 against HSBC units in
federal courts in Philadelphia and Camden, New Jersey.  
 “The payment protection device is designed to prey on the
financially insecure and is virtually worthless because of the
numerous restrictions that are imposed,” according to the
complaints.  
 The bank enrolls people before sending them restrictions in
small print that are “incomplete, indecipherable, misleading
and obfuscatory,” according to the complaints. The plan, which
costs $1.35 per $100 of a month-ending credit-card balance,
excludes the self-employed, part-time workers, retired people
and those who are already unemployed or on disability, the
customers said.  
 Kate Durham, a spokeswoman for London-based  HSBC , said the
bank doesn’t comment on legal matters.  
 State Consumer Laws  
 The Camden complaint, brought by Marilyn Rizera, said HSBC
Bank USA Inc. and HSBC Card Services Inc. are violating the New
Jersey Consumer Fraud Act and engaged in breach of contract. The
Philadelphia case, by Edward T. Esslinger, Gloria Glover and
Adrath Rogers, said the bank is violating the Pennsylvania
Unfair Practices and Consumer Protection Law.  
 Both sets of plaintiffs seek to proceed with group, or
class-action, lawsuits.  
 “Payment Protection is so confusing as to when coverage is
triggered, so restricted in terms of the benefits it provides to
subscribers, and processing claims is made so difficult by HSBC,
that the product is essentially worthless,” according to
Rizera’s complaint.  
 In her complaint, Rizera, 54, said she is disabled and
enrolled in the payment protection plan in January 2009. Rizera
has never held a job, and HSBC never inquired into her
employment or disability status before enrolling her, she said.  
 “Her credit card account is still charged for payment
protection every month even though she is virtually ineligible
to collect payment protection benefits,” according to the
complaint.  
 The cases are Rizera v. HSBC Bank USA Inc., 10-cv-03375,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden); and
Esslinger v. HSBC Bank Services, 10-cv-03213, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        