-- Seacom Fire-Optic Link Secures Extra Capacity From Safaricom, Telkom Kenya
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-07-07T12:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/seacom-fire-optic-link-secures-capacity-from-safaricom-and-telkom-kenya.html

          
          
             Seacom, operator of a fiber-optic
link owned by Mauritius-based Seacom Ltd., said it will sublease
capacity on a rival cable operated by Safaricom Ltd. and Telkom
Kenya Ltd. after a fault disrupted its services.  
 A Seacom repeater, which pushes signals along the cable,
failed on July 5 about 1,200 kilometers (746 miles) offshore
Tanzania, Jean-Pierre de Leu, Seacom’s senior vice-president,
said today in a phone interview from Kenya’s capital, Nairobi.  
 Connection speeds have slowed “greatly” to clients in
Tanzania and Kenya, he said, while the inland nations of Uganda
and Rwanda have suffered less disruption because they switched
back to satellite links.  
 Seacom was the first fiber-optic cable off Africa’s Indian
Ocean coast to go live in July last year, followed by the East
African Marine System fiber-optic cable, known as Teams, and the
East African Submarine System, linking 20 African countries.  
 “We have succeeded to make restoration agreements with the
local Teams operators and we are doing the patchwork now between
the two stations: Teams and Seacom Mombasa,” de Leu said.
“This work will be done today and restored in the late
afternoon.”  
 Fixing the faulty repeater may take eight days or longer
because the company is still looking for an available ship to
sail out with engineers to do the work, de Leu said.  
 The 17,000-kilometer cable stretches to India and Europe,
providing high-speed data and voice connections to African
nations such as South Africa, Kenya, Uganda and Mozambique at
rates cheaper than the satellites they previously depended on.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        