-- Aspen Pharmacare Lowers Its Takeover Offer for Sigma 8.3% to $550 Million
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-07-07T09:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/sigma-pharma-receives-formal-purchase-offer-from-aspen-at-a-0-55-a-share.html

          
          
             Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. ,
Africa’s biggest drugmaker, offered A$648 million ($549 million)
for  Sigma Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , lowering its bid by 8.3 percent
after examining the Australian company’s books.  
 Aspen offered 55 Australian cents a share for Sigma, the
Durban, South Africa-based drug company said in a statement
today. The bid is 39 percent higher than Sigma’s closing share
price of 39.5 cents yesterday. The shares today rose the most in
six weeks.  
 The purchase would give Aspen access to Australia’s biggest
drug distributor by market share. Aspen’s offer, which has 11
conditions, comes after Sigma said last month it may miss its
full-year profit forecast and announced resignations by three
top executives following a record  loss  in the 12 months to
January that triggered a 48 percent one-day plunge in the stock.  
 “The list of caveats there would suggest that there’s
still a lot of uncertainty,”  Dan Hurren , a health-care analyst
at UBS AG, said by phone from Sydney. “There’s a view out there
that this offer is too low and Sigma can trade out of this, and
it’s undervalued. A lot of people think that,” Hurren said.  
 Sigma  shares  jumped 14 percent to 45 cents in Australian
trading, the most since the company received an indicative, non-
binding offer from Aspen of 60 cents a share on May 21. Sigma
 shares  have remained below Aspen’s original offer price since
the African company made its initial bid. Aspen shares fell 0.2
percent to 76.09 rand at 10:02 a.m. in Johannesburg today.  
 Sigma’s board is considering the proposal and recommends
that shareholders take no action at this stage, it said in a
separate statement today, adding it will make a further
announcement about the proposal “in due course.”  
 Exclusivity Extension  
 Aspen’s review of Sigma is continuing and its 11 conditions
include a break fee payable to Aspen if the deal doesn’t proceed
for certain reasons, and the extension of an exclusivity period
for reviewing Sigma’s financial accounts to Aug. 2 from July 5.
Aspen would assume net debt of A$785 million.  
 A group of Sigma’s  shareholders  plan to sue the company for
breach of continuous disclosure and misleading or deceptive
conduct, said Ben Phi, a senior associate at  Slater & Gordon
Ltd. , the law firm coordinating the class action. The
shareholders will seek damages from Sigma, Phi said by telephone
from Melbourne yesterday, declining to say how much.  
 “If shareholders who don’t like the look of this deal are
also involved in that lawsuit, they may feel that they could
scuttle the offer by continuing with the lawsuit,” Hurren said.  
 The “vast bulk” of Sigma’s institutional shareholders are
participating in the action, Phi said. The company hasn’t filed
its papers yet and hasn’t spoken to either Sigma or Aspen about
the suit, he said.  
 “All we know is what we’ve read in the papers,” Ian Smith,
an external spokesman for Sigma, said in a telephone interview
today. “I don’t believe we’ve had anything formal.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        