-- Skilled Healthcare Falls Most Since 2007 After $671 Million Jury Verdict
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-07-07T20:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/skilled-healthcare-plunges-after-losing-671-million-california-verdict.html

          
          
             Skilled Healthcare Group Inc.  plunged
the most since its initial public offering in New York trading
after a California jury returned a $671 million verdict against
the nursing-home operator.  
 Skilled Healthcare  dropped  $4.70, or 76 percent, to $1.52
on the New York Stock Exchange, the largest decline since the
shares went on sale in May 2007.  
 The plaintiffs  accused  Skilled Healthcare of improperly
staffing 22 California facilities. A Humboldt County jury
yesterday found the company liable for $613 million in statutory
damages, the maximum allowed by state law, and $58 million for
restitution. Skilled Healthcare, based in Foothill Ranch,
California, said today that it will appeal.  
 “We strongly disagree with the outcome of this legal
matter and we intend to vigorously challenge it,” Chief
Executive Officer  Boyd Hendrickson  said in a statement. “Our
facilities are appropriately staffed,” he said.  
 The verdict is the largest jury award in the U.S. this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Skilled
Healthcare said the award exceeds the policy limits of its
insurance. The jury will return later to determine punitive
damages, said the company, which posted a  net loss  of
$133 million last year on revenue of $759.8 million.  
 Staffing Rates  
 The lawsuit was filed in 2006 on behalf of current and
former residents of 22 Skilled Healthcare operations in
California, plaintiffs’ attorney Tim Needham said. California
law requires nursing homes to maintain staff at a rate of 3.2
nursing hours per patient per day, he said.  
 “That’s the minimum; they would treat it as a target,”
Needham said today in a phone interview. “Using their own
figures, they understaffed 30 to 40 percent of the time.”  
 The lawsuit was certified as a class action in June 2008,
allowing the plaintiffs to pursue their claims as a group. About
32,000 people, including families of residents who died, are in
the class, Needham said.  
 Skilled Healthcare, which operates in seven states, said
pursuing an appeal would require posting a bond for 150 percent
of the verdict. There is $94 million available on revolving
 credit , although availability may be limited by covenants in the
loan, the company said.  
 JMP Securities equity  analyst   Peter Martin  cut Skilled
Healthcare today to “market perform” from “market outperform.”
 Ralph Giacobbe  of Credit Suisse downgraded the shares to
“underperform” from “outperform.”  
 The case is Lavender v. Skilled Healthcare Group, DR060264,
Superior Court, Humboldt County, California (Eureka).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        