-- Softbank Leads NTT DoCoMo, KDDI in Subscriber Additions, Helped by IPhone
-- Pavel Alpeyev
-- 2010-07-07T05:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/softbank-leads-ntt-docomo-kddi-in-subscriber-additions-helped-by-iphone.html

          
          
             Softbank Corp. , Japan’s third-largest
mobile-phone operator, added more new users than rivals  NTT
DoCoMo Inc.  and  KDDI Corp.  for the third straight month in June,
helped by demand for the latest model of  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone.  
 Softbank, the exclusive provider of the iPhone in Japan,
added a net 229,500 subscribers, the company said in a release
today. DoCoMo, the country’s largest wireless operator,
increased its customer base by 164,600, while KDDI, the No. 2,
added 61,300 users, the companies said in separate statements.  
 Softbank is spending a record amount on improving its
network this year to handle growing data traffic as users buy
handsets that can surf the Internet and download music, movies,
games and other applications. DoCoMo and KDDI are introducing
models running  Google Inc. ’s Android software to compete with
the iPhone, the country’s most popular smartphone.  
 “The release of the new iPhone contributed to subscriber
gains,” said  Makiko Ariyama , a spokeswoman at Tokyo-based
Softbank. Ariyama declined to give specific figures.  
 Softbank  fell 0.7 percent to 2,287 yen as of 2:38 p.m. on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange, while DoCoMo declined 0.8 percent and
KDDI slipped 0.1 percent. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
retreated 0.8 percent.  
 The iPhone 4, which is thinner than precursors and with a
sharper screen and video-chat features, went on sale in Japan,
the U.S., U.K., France, and Germany on June 24. The device has
sold 1.7 million units in the first three days after its debut,
Cupertino, California-based Apple said last month.  
 DoCoMo in April began selling its second Android model,
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB’s  Xperia . Last month KDDI
introduced a handset made by  Sharp Corp.  Softbank’s first
Android phone, made by Taiwan’s HTC Corp., went on sale in April.
Shipments of the iPhone in Japan more than doubled to 1.69
million units in the year ended March 31,  MM Research Institute
Ltd.  said in April. Apple captured 72 percent of the country’s
smartphone market, followed by HTC and  Toshiba Corp. , the Tokyo-
based researcher said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        