-- South African Gross Reserves Climb 1.4% as Gold Price Rises, Dollar Stalls
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-07T06:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/south-african-gross-reserves-climb-1-4-as-gold-price-rises-dollar-stalls.html

          
          
             South Africa’s gold and foreign
currency reserves increased 1.4 percent in June as the bullion
price rose and the dollar’s rally stalled, maintaining the value
of reserves held in precious metals and other currencies.  
 Gross reserves  climbed to $42.2 billion from $41.6 billion
in May, the Pretoria-based Reserve Bank said on its website
today. Net reserves rose to $38.2 billion from $37.9 billion,
according to the central bank.  
 “The Reserve Bank has stated its commitment to steadily
build reserves so we expect to see a modest improvement,”  Kevin Lings , chief economist at Stanlib Asset Management in
Johannesburg, said before the release of the data. “Gold
would’ve also helped.”  
 The dollar advanced 0.3 percent against the euro last
month, following a 7.5 percent surge in May that eroded the
value of the Reserve Bank’s holdings in euros, sterling and
other currencies. The gold price rose for a fifth straight month
in June, boosting bullion holdings which account for about 12
percent of gross reserves, by $88 million to $4.97 billion.  
 The  median estimate  of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had predicted an increase in gross reserves to $41.9
billion, while net reserves were forecast to climb to $38.2
billion.  
 The  South African Reserve Bank  has resisted calls from
labor unions and exporters to aggressively step up dollar
purchases to weaken the rand and boost exports. Deputy Governor
 Daniel Mminele  said June 3 that while policy makers would seek
to build foreign currency reserves, they would not target a
specific level for the rand.  
 South Africa still lags behind other emerging markets, such
as Turkey, which has reserves of $70.62 billion, and Malaysia,
with $91.7 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        