-- South Korean Stocks to Outperform Asia Markets on Valuation, Barclays Says
-- Saeromi Shin
-- 2010-07-07T03:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/south-korean-stocks-to-outperform-asia-markets-on-valuation-barclays-says.html

          
          
             South Korean stocks will outperform
Asian equities in the second half as the region’s cheapest stock
market and worst-performing currency attract more investors,
according to Barclays Wealth. The won may also rebound.  
 The MSCI Korea Index is trading at less than 9 times
estimated earnings for the next 12 months, and the valuation is
more than one standard deviation below its five-year average,
according to Barclays Wealth. The won is also “much more
inexpensive” than Asian peers, said  Manpreet Gill , Singapore-
based Asia strategist at the Barclays Wealth, the Barclays Plc
unit that had $229 billion in client assets as of 2009.  
 “It isn’t common to find an economically-sound market
where both the equity market and the currency are inexpensively
valued,”  Gill  said in a phone interview today. “We recommend
buying Korea equities without hedging Korean won.”  
 The benchmark  Kospi  index’s valuation of 10 times estimated
earnings is the lowest among Asia’s 10 biggest markets, while
the won’s 5.2 percent drop this year was the most among the
region’s 10 most-actively traded currencies.  
 The  Kospi  has fallen 0.3 percent this year, after losing as
much as 7.7 percent, as corporate profit growth was offset by
concerns that export demand will be hurt by Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis, and that increased tension between North and South
Korea will curb investment.  
 South Korean won may strengthen to 1,075 per dollar in a
year, from 1,219.40 currently, according to Gill. The nation’s
economic and export prospects are “strong,” he said.  
 Local Buying  
 South Korea’s largest fund managers are growing more
bullish on the nation’s stocks even as overseas investors sell,
helping the  Kospi  post one of only two gains among the 20
biggest equity markets last quarter.  
 KTB Asset Management Co. and Mirae Asset Global Investments
Co. of Seoul say shares may rise further as Korea Exchange Inc.
 data  show domestic pension funds increased equity holdings in
the first half. At the same time,  foreign investors  pulled a net
407.66 billion won ($334 million) from Kospi stocks in the three
months that started April as Europe’s debt crisis reduced the
allure of riskier assets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Domestic investors stepped up purchases of Korean stocks as
the economy rebounded at a faster-than-forecast 2.1 percent pace
in the first quarter, helped by rising exports and increased
domestic demand. The 0.3 percent  climb  in the past quarter for
the Kospi, which along with India’s Sensex were the only
benchmarks to rise among the largest markets, marks the first
time in six quarters Korea’s index advanced as foreigners sold.  
 The South Korean government boosted its 2010 gross domestic
product growth forecast to 5.8 percent on June 24 from a
December projection of 5 percent, saying the global recovery is
spurring exports and local demand.  Overseas shipments  increased
32.4 percent in June from a year earlier, an eighth straight
monthly increase.  
 “If the global outlook improves, Korean markets are likely
to rally alongside other risky assets, hopefully by much more,”
Gill said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saeromi Shin  in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Manpreet Gill, Singapore-based strategist for Asia at Barclays Wealth, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for gold and other commodities. 
     Gill also discusses the outlook for the Australian dollar and stocks, and South Korean equities. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
