-- Spain Beats Germany 1-0 to Reach First World Cup Final
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-07T22:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/spain-beats-germany-1-0-to-reach-world-cup-final.html

          
          
             Spain beat Germany 1-0 in Durban,
South Africa, last night to reach its first World Cup final.  
 Carles Puyol  took a running jump and headed in  Xavi Hernandez’s  corner after 73 minutes as the Spanish advanced to
the July 11 final against the Netherlands.  
 Spain was playing in its first World Cup semifinal, two
years after becoming European champion for the first time since
1964 to shake off an underachiever tag. Three-time champion
Germany was trying to reach the final for a record eighth time.
It scored eight goals in eliminating England and Argentina in
previous rounds.  
 “Germany was perhaps less strong than we expected because
our team did a great job,” Spain coach Vicente del Bosque told
reporters. “Our triumph is even bigger because of the size of
our opponent.”  
 The Germans, with their youngest squad in 76 years, had six
shots on target to Spain’s 13.  
 “Spain are the masters of the game,” Germany coach
 Joachim Loew  told reporters. “They are extremely calm and
convincing in the way they circulate the ball. Spain was just
better than we were tonight.”  
 Spain had also beaten Germany 1-0 in the 2008 European
Championship final in Vienna, on a goal by  Fernando Torres .  
 Torres was dropped from the starting lineup in favor of
Pedro Rodriguez. The Barcelona forward created the first chance
of the game with a pass to  David Villa , whose shot was blocked
by goalkeeper Manuel Neuer.  
 Puyol headed over the crossbar after throwing himself at
 Andres Iniesta’s  cross in the 13th minute. Germany then tested
 Iker Casillas  in the 32nd minute as the goalkeeper dived to push
away Piotr Trochowski’s 20-yard shot.  
 Penalty Claim  
 Germany midfielder  Mesut Oezil  had his claim for a penalty
waved off after tangling with  Sergio Ramos  just before halftime.
Television replays showed Ramos appeared to clip Oezil’s leg
just outside the penalty box.  
 In the second half, Villa just failed to touch Iniesta’s
cross as he slid in at the far post after 58 minutes and Germany
substitute Toni Kroos had his 15-yard half-volley knocked away
by Casillas.  
 Puyol then scored the winner when he ran at Xavi’s corner
and headed in from about 12 yards out.  
 Pedro spurned a chance to increase the lead after 84
minutes when he stumbled while Torres, who had entered as a
substitute, was left undefended in front of goal.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        