-- Stanford Professor Stung by Bond Fund Wins $2.2 Million
-- David Mildenberg
-- 2010-07-07T18:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/stanford-professor-stung-by-slapdash-bond-fund-sale-to-get-2-2-million.html

          
          
             A First Republic Bank unit was
ordered to pay a retired  Stanford University  professor and his
wife $2.18 million after arbitrators found the firm gave them
only a “fleeting and slapdash” explanation of a municipal bond
fund that imploded during the credit crisis in 2008.  
 Eight months after Elliott and Rhoda Levinthal entrusted $3
million to a leveraged investment vehicle called TW Tax
Advantaged Fund LLC, it collapsed, an  American Arbitration
Association  panel wrote in a July 2 ruling. Evidence shows
workers at First Republic didn’t try to fully grasp risks in the
fund they designed, the panel found. The firm also inadequately
trained a saleswoman who dealt with the Levinthals, and didn’t
ensure they understood the investment.  
 The education offered to the Levinthals “was fleeting and
slapdash,” arbitrators wrote. “An investment in a highly
complex and concededly risky product like the fund, sold in this
fashion, is by definition unsuitable” for someone with their
experience and objectives.  
 Greg Berardi, a spokesman for the San Francisco-based
company, declined to comment.  Bank of America Corp.  acquired
First Republic Bank while buying Merrill Lynch & Co. last year,
and sold it last week to an investor group that included founder
 James H. Herbert II .  
 Elliott Levinthal , 88, is a professor emeritus of
mechanical engineering at Stanford. He and his wife endowed
Levinthal Hall, a lecture hall at the  Stanford Humanities
Center .  
 Compensatory Damages  
 The panel ordered First Republic Securities to pay the
couple and their trust $2.1 million in compensatory damages,
plus $78,153 in fees and expenses.  
 About 35 retail mutual funds marketed as leveraged
municipal arbitrage strategies have failed in recent years, said
 Craig McCann  of the Securities and Litigation Consulting Group
Inc., a Virginia consulting firm that testified for the
Levinthals in the arbitration. Brokerage firms sold the funds as
“higher-yielding alternatives to conventional municipal bond
portfolios with little, if any risk,” he said in a 2009 report.  
 Funds using the strategy contended that the market had
historically mispriced the yield on municipal bonds compared
with taxable bonds. Exploiting that difference to create a
profit relied on hedging long-term municipal bond positions with
taxable, shorter-term interest-rate swaps. When long-term
municipal bond yields rose in 2007 and 2008 faster than short-
term rates declined, the strategy failed and portfolios of many
funds were liquidated, according to the report written by McCann
and four colleagues.  
 Less Liquid  
 The strategy ignored more than 30 years of research showing
that municipal-bond yields tend to be higher on a tax-equivalent
basis because most such bonds are callable and less liquid than
corporate bonds, which also are mostly non-callable, the report
said.  
 The Levinthal case is probably the largest individual award
related to the municipal arbitrage strategy, McCann said in an
interview. Citigroup said in March 2008 it would provide $1
billion to bail out six of its leveraged municipal bond funds,
sold under the names ASTA and MAT.  
 “First Republic Investment Management created and managed
the fund, and it was sold through First Republic, but we learned
that they had never run a fund like this before,” said Cary
Lapidus, a San Francisco lawyer who represented the Levinthals.
The fund was only sold to clients of  First Republic , which
caters to high-net-worth customers at 57 offices in five states,
he said.  
 While the Levinthals received written materials that
explained the fund’s risks, those disclosures didn’t fulfill
First Republic’s obligations, arbitrators said.  
 “An investor may put his or her head in the sand, but only
after the professional has done everything within reason to
bring to the investor a full, fair and balanced understanding,”
the panel wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elliott Levinthal, a retired Stanford University professor. Source: Stanford School of Engineering via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
