-- States of Crisis
-- Edward Robinson
-- 2010-07-07T13:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/states-of-crisis.html

          
          
             Forty-six of 50
governments face deficits, threatening the U.S. recovery.  
 Californians don’t see much evidence that the worst
economic contraction since the Great Depression is coming to an
end.  
 Unemployment was 12.4 percent in May, 2.7 percentage points
higher than the  national rate . Lawmakers gridlocked over how to
close a $19 billion  budget gap  are weighing the termination of
the main welfare program for 1.3 million poor families or
borrowing more than $9 billion in the bond market. California,
tied with Illinois for the lowest credit rating of any state, is
diverting a rising portion of tax revenue to service debt,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its August issue.  
 Far from rebounding, the Golden State, with a $1.8 trillion
economy that’s larger than Russia’s, is sinking deeper into its
financial funk. And it’s not alone.  
 Even as the U.S. appears to be on the mend -- gross
domestic product has climbed three straight quarters -- finances
in Arizona, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and other states show
few signs of improvement. Forty-six states face budget
shortfalls that add up to $112 billion for the fiscal year
ending next June, according to the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities, a Washington research institution. State spending is
12 percent of U.S. GDP.  
 “States are going to have to cut back spending and raise
taxes the same way Greece and Spain are,” says  Dean Baker , co-
director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in
Washington. “That runs counter to stimulating the economy and
will put a big damper on the recovery in the latter half of this
year.”  
 Stimulus Dries Up  
 State budget woes are a worsening drag on growth as the
federal government tries to wean the economy from two years of
extraordinary support. By Jan. 1, funds from the $787 billion
federal stimulus bill will dry up. That money from Washington
has helped cushion state budgets as tax revenue has plunged.  
 State leaders won’t be able to ride out this cycle the way
they have in the past. The budget holes are too large. For the
first time since 1962, sales and income  tax revenue  fell for
five straight quarters, through December 2009, according to the
Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State
University of New York at Albany.  
 Lawmakers need to overhaul tax policy, underfunded public
pensions and entitlement spending programs such as Medicaid if
they want to establish long-term plans that will foster growth,
says former New Jersey Governor  Christine Todd Whitman .  
 If they fail to act, state fiscal positions will steadily
erode and hurt the U.S. economy through 2060, according to a
March 2010 report prepared for Congress by the U.S. Government
Accountability Office.  
 ‘Major Surgery’  
 “States don’t have a choice anymore,” Whitman says. “These
problems are going to require major surgery.”  
 Reform may get short shrift as Republicans and Democrats
intensify their age-old fight over taxes and spending in this
election year. On May 20, New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
vetoed a Democratic bill that would have raised income taxes for
residents earning at least $1 million a year to help close an
$11 billion deficit. Christie, a Republican, wants to cut
spending for school districts and cap  property tax increases .  
 “At some point, the people’s ability to pay runs out,”
Christie said in a speech in New York on May 25.  
 The widening deficits have led to some unorthodox moves. In
California, the state grabbed $1.7 billion in redevelopment
money from local governments in May. Riverside County, a Los
Angeles suburb where the housing bust has left unemployment at
more than 15 percent, lost $28 million that had been set aside
to build fire stations, senior centers and other public works.  
 Jobs or Education  
 The projects would have created 3,000 jobs, says Tom
Freeman, spokesman for the county’s Economic Development Agency.
The government needed the county cash for schools, says  Aaron McLear , spokesman for Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger .  
 The episode demonstrates how the fiscal mess pits job
creation against education in a zero-sum game, says  Robert Hertzberg , the Democratic speaker of the State Assembly from
2000 to 2002. California is locked in a rigid system in which
legislators need a two-thirds majority to raise taxes and yet
must comply with voter-approved initiatives that mandate prison
construction and other spending.  
 There’s little chance of any sweeping changes this year
ahead of a gubernatorial race between Republican  Meg Whitman ,
former chief executive officer of EBay Inc., and Attorney
General  Jerry Brown , a Democrat who was governor from 1975 to
1983.  
 ‘So Dysfunctional’  
 The winner will have to muster the political courage to
take on core constituencies, whether anti-tax conservatives who
support Whitman or labor unions that back Brown, says  Steve Westly , California’s Democratic treasurer from 2003 to 2007.  
 The risk is that California ends up like  Greece , with no
one trusting that it can get its financial house in order, says
Westly, now a venture capitalist in Menlo Park. “It has to be a
combination of cuts and revenue increases,” he says.  
 Still, California isn’t Greece. It’s home to  Silicon
Valley , Hollywood and a $27 billion agriculture industry. “It’s
unbelievable,” says  Bob Nichols , CEO of Windward Capital
Management Co. in Los Angeles. “How do you screw up a place with
the growth capability of California? It’s so dysfunctional.”  
 Edward Robinson is in San Francisco at  edrobinson@bloomberg.net   
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jul/07/2010 13:47 GMT
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Illustration by Bryan Christie Design  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
