-- State Street Rises 9.9%, Most Since Last Year as Profit Beats Estimates
-- Christopher Condon
-- 2010-07-07T20:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/state-street-removes-redemption-restrictions-as-earnings-rise-shares-jump.html

          
          
             State Street Corp ., the third-largest
U.S. custody bank, rose the most in more than a year in New York
trading after reporting second-quarter operating profit that
beat analysts’ estimates.  
 State Street gained 9.9 percent after reporting earnings
per share of 93 cents, excluding some one-time items. The mean
 estimate  of 15 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for profit of
72 cents. State Street, which reported preliminary numbers in a
statement today before the scheduled earnings release on July
20, didn’t give year-earlier figures.  
 The operating profit doesn’t include $251 million in after-
tax costs to inject cash into funds in its securities-lending
business that had restricted redemptions. Led by Chief Executive
Officer  Joseph L. Hooley , the company has cleaned up the fallout
from the credit crisis of 2008 by settling lawsuits with
regulators, making investors whole who suffered losses in fixed-
income funds and repaying government bailout money.  
 “On an operating basis they did substantially better than
people expected,”  Richard Bove , an analyst based in Lutz,
Florida for Rochdale Securities, said in a telephone interview.
“But it’s a little more than annoying that these charges keep
happening, which obscures what they’re doing on an operating
basis.”  
 Including the after-tax charge of 50 cents a share, as well
as a tax benefit of 36 cents a share, earnings per share rose to
87 cents from a loss of $7.12 reported a year earlier, when
State Street consolidated off-balance-sheet commercial paper
programs and wrote down holdings.  
 Today’s move “demonstrates our commitment to resolving the
challenges resulting from the market turmoil over the past
several years,” Hooley said in the statement.  
 Securities Lending  
 State Street gained $3.29 to $36.63 at 4:45 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange Composite trading. That’s the biggest one
day gain since May 8, 2009. Before today, the shares had fallen
23 percent this year, twice as much as larger rival  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp.   
 State Street’s securities-finance operation acts as an
agent, matching securities lenders such as mutual funds and
pension funds with borrowers including hedge funds and broker-
dealers. Borrowers deposit cash as collateral, which is invested
on behalf of the lenders. The funds are managed like money-
market funds, seeking to maintain a $1 net-asset value.  
 State Street said in October 2008 that the share value of
some of the funds had fallen below $1. While the losses weren’t
passed on to clients, their ability to withdraw funds was
restricted.  
 Full-Year Outlook  
 The firm said the collateral pools, with $51.6 billion in
total net assets, had a weighted average share value of 98.9
cents as of June 30. The pools will be split by the end of 2010,
with one group containing fully liquid securities and the other
“holding primarily longer-dated securities,” the company said.
The latter will be subject to continued restrictions on
redemptions, the firm said in the statement.  
 Second-quarter results fell in line with the firm’s outlook
for full-year results, Hooley said in the statement. He said
April 20 that 2010 operating-basis earnings should be “slightly
higher” than the $3.32 a share reported in 2009.  
 State Street may have benefited from an increase in
transactions, such as foreign exchange, in the second quarter,
 Marty Mosby , a Memphis, Tennessee-based analyst with Guggenheim
Partners LLC, said in an interview. Acquisitions in December of
Mourant International Finance Administration in the U.K.’s
Channel Islands and the securities-servicing unit of Italy’s
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA also may have helped the bank, he said.  
 ‘Long-Term Benefit’  
 “Any positive coming out of the acquisitions is a long-
term benefit,” said Mosby, who rates State Street a “buy.”
“We’ll have to wait to weed through the details” in its
earnings report, he said.  
 Custody banks keep records, track performance and act as
lenders and deposit takers for institutional investors including
mutual funds, pension funds and hedge funds. State Street
oversaw $14.1 trillion in custody assets as of March 31, behind
Bank of New York Mellon and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . in New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     State Street Corp. CEO Joseph L. Hooley. Source: State Street Corp. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
