-- Swire Shipping Unit Ordered to Stand Trial on Australian Oil-Spill Charge
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-07-07T14:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/swire-shipping-unit-ordered-to-stand-trial-on-australian-oil-spill-charges.html

          
          
             Swire Navigation Co., a shipping unit
of John Swire & Sons Ltd., and a cargo liner captain were
yesterday ordered to stand trial in Australia over an oil spill
last year that blackened beaches, the company said.  
 Bernardino Gonzales Santos, the captain, was charged with
disposal of oil in coastal water and of not reporting a spill
after containers aboard the Pacific Adventurer fell overboard
during a March 11, 2009, storm and pierced the ship’s hull,
Swire said at the time. About 200,000 liters of oil spilled.  
 “All defendants and Captain Santos entered non-guilty
pleas and intend to vigorously defend the charges,” Camilla
Myers, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  
 Swire Navigation agreed in June 2009 to pay A$25 million
($21 million), in addition to A$2 million it spent on cleanup,
into a trust to compensate those affected by the spill. The
amount compares with the A$17.5 million maximum “legal
obligation,” the company  said  at the time.  
 John Swire, based in London, also controls Hong Kong
property company Swire Pacific Ltd. and  Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. , the city’s biggest carrier.  
 Swire Navigation expressed “deep regret” over the
accident, the company said in a statement e-mailed yesterday,
citing Chairman Richard Kendall, who made the comments before
the hearing to determine if the defendants would stand trial.  
 “We hope we demonstrated that in our support of the clean-
up operation at the time, and our subsequent compensation
agreement with both State and Federal governments,” Kendall
said. “We are proud of the way Captain Santos handled the
incident.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Hong Kong at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        