-- Swiss Stocks Gain as Credit Suisse, UBS Lead Rally in Banks; Holcim Drops
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-07T14:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/swiss-stocks-gain-as-credit-suisse-ubs-lead-rally-in-banks-holcim-drops.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks advanced, reversing
previous losses, as an increase in financial shares outweighed
losses by  Holcim Ltd.   
 Credit Suisse Group AG  rose 2.2 percent and UBS AG
increased 1 percent amid speculation European Union banking
supervisors may outline the methodology used for bank stress
tests today. Holcim, the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
dropped 3.4 percent after rival CRH Plc said a sales decline may
be “somewhat greater” than previously forecast.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  rose 27.66, or 0.5
percent, to 6,090.78 as of 4:52 p.m. in Zurich. The SMI has
retreated 13 percent from this year’s high on April 15 amid
speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may derail the economic
recovery and concern that Chinese authorities are cooling the
nation’s growth. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  also gained
0.5 percent today.  
 “We believe the stress test could be an important factor
in removing the fear of a large ‘contingent liability,’”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by  Jernej Omahen  wrote in
a note.  
 The Committee of European Banking Supervisors, which is
coordinating the stress tests, may disclose the process ahead of
the results that are due to be published on July 23, according
to two people familiar with the situation who declined to be
identified. The London-based committee, often referred to by its
acronym CEBS, may also reveal the names of the banks undergoing
the tests, one of the people said. CEBS may still decide to
publish no details today, one person said.  
 Credit Suisse, UBS  
 Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, rose 2.2
percent to 42.7 francs, reversing earlier losses. UBS, the
largest Swiss bank, gained 1 percent, to 14.7 francs.  Julius
Baer Group Ltd. , a 120-year-old private bank, increased 1.3
percent to 31.99 francs.  
 “The outcome of the stress test is likely to be a ‘pro
forma,’” said  Giorgio Mascherone , chief investment officer at
Deutsche Bank AG in Milan. “All major banks shouldn’t show
problems.”  
 Swisscom AG  gained 0.9 percent to 381.9 francs. Chief
Executive Officer  Carsten Schloter  said consolidation will
continue in Italy and the company’s Fastweb SpA unit will be
“active” rather than staying on the sidelines, according to
Finanz und Wirtschaft.  
 Novartis Gains  
 Novartis AG  rose 0.7 percent to 51.65 francs after Morgan
Stanley upgraded the pharmaceutical company to “overweight”
from “equal weight.” The brokerage cited “positive pipeline
developments and proactive management action.”  
 Holcim fell 3.4 percent to 68.75 francs.  CRH , the world’s
second-largest maker and distributor of building materials, said
a decline in full-year like-for-like sales may be “somewhat
greater” than previously forecast. Operating profit for the six
months to June will be approximately half of last year’s result,
the company said.  
 Syngenta AG , the world’s biggest maker of agricultural
chemicals, dropped 2.4 percent to 229.1 francs.  
 Cie. Financiere Richemont SA , the largest jewelry maker,
dropped 1.9 percent to 37.89 francs while  Swatch Group AG 
slid 0.2 percent to 304.8 francs.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        