-- U.K. Troops to Quit Sangin District in Afghanistan Handing Control to U.S.
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-07-07T12:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/u-k-troops-to-quit-sangin-district-in-afghanistan-handing-control-to-u-s-.html

          
          
             British troops will quit the Sangin
district in southern Afghanistan’s Helmand province, handing
control of the area to the U.S. in a simplification of command,
Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said.  
 The  International Security Assistance Force  in Afghanistan
has already transferred responsibility for the nearby Musa Qaleh
and Kajaki districts to U.S. forces and intends to restructure
its mission in two other southern provinces, Fox told lawmakers
in Parliament in London today.  
 “ISAF intends to restructure its forces in Farah and
Nimroz provinces so that it can consolidate a U.S. Marine
brigade in northern Helmand, which will assume responsibility
for security in Sangin later this year,” Fox said. “This will
simplify current command arrangements and enable U.K. troops to
be redeployed to reinforce progress in the key districts of
central Helmand.”  
 The number of British soldiers killed in the nine-year-old
war against the Taliban stands at 312, more than in any conflict
since the Troubles in Northern Ireland, which lasted for three
decades. The U.K. is the second-largest contributor to the NATO-
led force in Afghanistan after the U.S., with 9,500 soldiers.  
 With over 100 of those casualties occurring in Sangin,
questions have been raised in the U.K. media about whether
British forces were suffering too many losses in the area in
relation to progress being made in combating the insurgency.  
 Prime Minister  David Cameron  said June 25 he would like all
British troops to return from Afghanistan before the next
general election, scheduled for 2015. “We can’t be there for
another five years, having been there for nine years already,”
he told Sky News television.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        