-- 'Climategate' Scientists Cleared of Manipulating Data in U.K. E-mail Probe
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-07T15:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/u-k-climategate-scientists-wrongly-withheld-data-investigation-finds.html

          
          
             U.K. scientists at the center of an
international debate over the quality of climate-change research
were mostly cleared of wrongdoing by investigators except for
having avoided disclosing data to the public.  
 The most recent of three “climategate” probes into the
theft and leaking of e-mails at the University of East Anglia’s
Climatic Research Unit, or CRU, found that while the honesty and
rigor of the scientists weren’t in doubt, they may have deleted
e-mails to avoid having to make them publicly available.  
 “There has been a consistent pattern of failing to display
the proper degree of openness, both on the part of the CRU
scientists and on the part of the UEA,” the investigative panel
said in a 160-page  report  today on the group’s website. The
researchers were “unhelpful and defensive” in their response
to freedom of information requests, it said.  
 Hundreds of e-mails stolen from the university’s computers
in November sparked criticism from global-warming skeptics
including U.S. Senator  James Inhofe , a Republican from Oklahoma,
who said they provided evidence of data being manipulated.  
 The U.K. university helped compile one of the three main
data series on global average temperature used by the United
Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in its
reports, which influence energy and climate policy worldwide.  
 Several of the private e-mails showed scientists discussing
what they called a “trick” to hide a decline in temperatures
and blocking some papers from inclusion into what became the
most comprehensive UN report into climate change.  
 Data ‘Trick’  
 A diagram related to the so-called trick supplied by the
U.K. university for a 1999 World Meteorological Organization
report was misleading, and a clearer explanation and caption
outlining the methods should have been included, the study
found. At the same time, the methods behind the “trick”
weren’t misleading, according to the report entitled “The
Independent Climate Change E-mails Review.”  
 Phil Jones , who stepped aside as head of the climatic
research unit pending the outcome of today’s review, will return
to the institution as director of research, the university said.  
 The researchers didn’t display behavior that would
undermine the UN climate agency’s findings, according to the
probe, which also said the panel found no evidence the U.K.
school subverted the process of scientific peer review.  
 Today’s study was set up to investigate whether data was
altered or suppressed. It also examined the university’s
policies on responding to freedom of information requests and
for putting its papers up for review by scientists of similar
stature.  
 Tree Rings  
 The probe found no evidence of bias in the treatment of
data by the scientists, and said the researchers weren’t in a
position to tamper with the information.  
 One of the university’s main contributions to climate
science was its collection of data from tree rings, a proxy for
climatic variables that was used in the UN climate agency’s most
comprehensive report on climate change in 2007. The tree-ring
data wasn’t misleading, the report concluded.  
 The panel was led by  Muir Russell , a former vice-chancellor
of the University of Glasgow who was selected by the University
of East Anglia. The members include three more academics and BP
Plc Group Head of Research and Technology David Eyton. None has
links to East Anglia or to the UN Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change, according to the panel’s website.  
 Past Investigations  
 In April, a  report  by a separate group scientists found no
evidence of scientific malpractice at the school in eastern
England and that data weren’t tailored to a particular agenda.
That investigation said the school needed to keep fuller records
of its methods and should work more closely with statisticians.  
 A first investigation into the climate flap, carried out by
Parliament’s  Science and Technology Committee , said on March 31
that Britain’s global-warming scientists damaged their
reputation with the “unacceptable” withholding of data in
response to freedom of information requests.  
 Their 59-page report cleared climatic research chief Jones
of wrongdoing, saying he acted “in line with common practice”
in not publishing all his methods and computer codes.  
 “Today, for the third and hopefully for the final time, an
exhaustive independent review has exposed as unfounded the
overwhelming thrust of the allegations against our science,”
University of East Anglia Vice-Chancellor Professor Edward Acton
said today in a  statement  on the school’s website.  
 “We accept the report’s conclusion that we could and should
have been more proactively open, not least because - as this
exhaustive report makes abundantly clear - we have nothing to
hide,” Acton said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        