-- Russians Seek Prisoner Swap in Spy Case, Lawyers Say
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-08T14:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/u-s-prosecutors-in-new-york-unseal-indictment-in-russian-espionage-ring.html

          
          
             Russian officials and U.S. defense
lawyers discussed a possible prisoner swap for accused Russian
spy ring members while 10 alleged members of the ring are
scheduled to be arraigned on criminal charges in Manhattan
federal court later today.  
 As the 10 alleged Russian agents prepare to face charges,
Russian military researcher  Igor Sutyagin , convicted of
espionage by a Russian court in 2004, was flown to Austria as
part of the swap, RIA Novosti reported, citing his lawyer.  
 One of the accused agents, Anna Chapman, is to be flown to
Moscow as part of a swap agreed between  William Burns , U.S.
undersecretary of state for political affairs, and Russian
Ambassador  Sergey Kislyak , Gazeta.ru reported today, citing an
unidentified diplomat.  
 Lawyers for two of the defendants said yesterday that they
were contacted by Russian officials seeking to negotiate a way
to resolve the case.  
 “I’m in discussions with the government about a possible
resolution with this case,” Robert Baum, Chapman’s attorney,
said in an interview, referring to U.S. prosecutors. “I have
also spoken with officials from the Russian Federation. I can
only say we’ve had very sensitive discussions.”  
 Russian officials met Chapman, who Baum said was 28, on
July 4. Two days later, they discussed a possible swap with him,
Baum said.  
 Born in Peru  
 John Rodriguez, a lawyer for defendant Vicky Pelaez, 55, a
columnist for the Spanish-language newspaper El Diario La Prensa
in New York, said in an interview that he also was contacted
yesterday by Russian officials. Pelaez is a naturalized U.S.
citizen born in Peru, Rodriguez said.  
 “There was a phone call from a member of the Russian
Federation in New York concerning my client, asking if she was
interested in going to Russia,” he said. “I said I didn’t
think she would.”  
 In the indictment unsealed yesterday, 11 of the defendants
are charged with one count of conspiracy to act as an
unregistered foreign agent of a foreign country. Nine also are
charged with one count of conspiracy to launder money. The
accusations are similar to those contained in two criminal
complaints unsealed June 28 by prosecutors in the office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara .  
 Solitary Confinement  
 Baum said his client, who is being held in solitary
confinement at a federal jail in Brooklyn, New York, had
initially wanted to stay in the U.S. to fight the charges. He
said that U.S. officials informed him that she would no longer
be allowed to have contact visits.  
 “It’s one more aspect of the abusive detention concerning
my client,” Baum said, adding that he hoped negotiations
between U.S. and Russian officials could be resolved “one way
or another” by today.  
 Federal prosecutor  Michael Farbiarz  said in court last
week that under questioning, Pelaez’s husband, Juan Lazaro,
admitted he wasn’t born in Uruguay and that Lazaro isn’t his
real name.  
 Lazaro said that while he “loved his son, he would not
violate his loyalty to the ‘Service’ even for his son,”
Farbiarz said, referring to the Russian spy agency known as SVR.  
 Genesis Peduto, a lawyer for Lazaro, said her client denied
the allegations in the indictment.  
 Not a Russian  
 “My client has said he’s innocent of the charges and that
he’s not a Russian, he’s from Uruguay,” Peduto said in an
interview outside the courthouse. “He did not make the
statements the U.S. said he did.”  
 Peduto said Lazaro wasn’t interested in going to Russia in
a swap.  
 “His wife is here, his life is here, his work is here,”
she said.  
 She would not say whether Russian officials had gotten in
touch with her.  
 Five defendants in custody in Massachusetts and northern
Virginia were ordered transferred to New York for prosecution in
the case yesterday. Five others are in custody in New York. An
11th member of the alleged ring, Christopher Metsos, was
arrested in Cyprus and then fled after he was released June 29
on bail of 20,000 euros ($24,500).  
 Ring of Agents  
 The government claims the 11 were connected to a ring of
agents who worked to blend in with their U.S. surroundings while
attempting to infiltrate American policy-making circles.  
 With the indictment, the case was assigned to U.S. District
Judge  Kimba Wood . She scheduled an arraignment of the 10 in U.S.
custody for today.  
 In a letter to Wood, prosecutors also appealed a
magistrate’s decision to release Pelaez on bail. Wood agreed to
put a hold on Pelaez’s release pending a July 9 bond hearing.
U.S. Magistrate  Ronald Ellis  agreed on July 1 to release Pelaez
on $240,000 bond secured by $10,000 in cash.  
 Mark Toner , a U.S. State Department spokesman, said
yesterday that the case was discussed at a meeting between
 William Burns , undersecretary of state for political affairs,
and Russian Ambassador  Sergey Kislyak .  
 “That wasn’t the main purpose of the meeting, but I
believe the case was discussed,” Toner said.  
 The case is U.S. v. Metsos, 10-cr-00598, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russian weapons specialist Igor Sutyagin is seen behind bars in Moscow City Court. Source: AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
