-- Retailers' Sales Rise Most in 4 Years, Overcoming Job Concerns
-- Cotten Timberlake
-- 2010-07-07T20:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/u-s-retailers-sales-increase-most-in-four-years-overcoming-job-concerns.html

          
          
             U.S. retailers’ sales are growing at
the fastest pace in four years, a sign consumers may be
overcoming concern about unemployment and depressed home values.  
 Sales probably expanded at an average monthly rate of 4
percent in the first five months of the retail fiscal year that
began Jan. 31, the biggest gain since 2006, the  International
Council of Shopping Centers  trade group said in advance of its
June report tomorrow. Nordstrom Inc. and Kohl’s Corp. are among
chains that will report June sales increases at stores open at
least a year, according to analysts’ estimates.  
 Retailers may have bucked last month’s drop in consumer
confidence that threatens to temper the rebound. The year-to-
date growth in sales shows that spending, a key driver of the
U.S. economy, is faring better than many investors are betting,
said  Michael Niemira , the New York-based ICSC’s chief economist.  
 “The sales results have been uneven, which makes people
worry about the recovery,” Niemira said in a telephone
interview. “If you look at the underlying growth rate, it
suggests a relatively healthy, moderate pace of spending for the
remainder of the year.”  
 In the current fiscal year, the ICSC’s monthly number swung
as high as 9 percent in March, then receded to a 0.8 percent
gain in April, partly because of an earlier Easter.  
 June sales probably came in at the high end of a projected
3 percent to 4 percent range, the ICSC said today.  
 Luxury, Wholesale  
 The sales growth has been driven by a 4.2 percent increase
at wholesale clubs, excluding gasoline sales, and an 8 percent
jump at luxury chains this year, according to the ICSC. Wealthy
consumers tend to “come out of hibernation” first after a
recession, and the clubs are luring value-seeking customers,
Niemira said.  
 “Our customers in the U.S. are feeling more confident than
a year ago, tied to improved levels of net worth,” Tiffany &
Co. Chief Financial Officer  James Fernandez  told an investors’
conference June 30. “It’s probably also true, and not
surprising, that economic issues and stock-market volatility
still affect consumer psychology.”  
 The potential spoiler remains a lack of U.S. jobs.
Employment fell in June for the first time this year, reflecting
a drop in federal census workers and a smaller-than-forecast
gain in the private sector, the Labor Department said July 2.  
 Unemployment was one reason  Deborah L. Weinswig , a retail
analyst at Citigroup Inc., lowered her stock price forecasts and
earnings estimates for Macy’s Inc. and other retailers.  
 “We are tempering our outlook for retail sales for the back
half of 2010 based on mounting pressures against the consumer,”
the New York-based analyst wrote in a July 5 report. She also
cited a lack of consumer credit, less home equity, and tax
increases.  
 Wary Investors  
 The  Standard & Poor’s  500 retail index rose 2.4 percent
today. The 31-member index has declined 4.4 percent this year
after surging 47 percent in 2009.  
 “Investors seem to have given up on the consumers,”  Bill Dreher , an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said on a
July 1 conference call with clients. “Most of our retail
operators are very bullish.”  
 June sales reports will meet or beat analysts’  estimates ,
and the positive comparable-sales trend will continue, Dreher
predicted. Retailers are well-positioned for profitability, with
inventories and operating expenses tightly controlled, he said.  
 Nordstrom will report a same-store sales increase of 11
percent for June and Kohl’s and Macy’s will post gains of 8
percent, Dreher estimated.  
 Consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of the U.S.
economy. The Conference Board’s confidence index slumped to 52.9
in June from a revised 62.7 in May, the New York-based private
research group said June 29. Same-store sales are a key
indicator of a retailer’s growth because they exclude results
from new and closed locations.  
 Year-Earlier Declines  
 The chains’ numbers don’t tell the whole picture because
some retailers, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
largest, and New York-based Tiffany, don’t post figures monthly,
and the reports don’t include all spending online.  
 The industry’s latest gains look better partly because they
are coming off steep declines a year earlier, and while the
growth rates have improved, many retailers haven’t recovered
their earlier sales volumes, Niemira said.  
 Sales in 2010 will grow 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent at the
more than 30 chains it tracks, the ICSC predicted in mid-May,
faster than its January projection of 3 percent to 3.5 percent.
An increase within the latest forecasted range would be the
largest since 2006. Those sales dropped 1.6 percent last year.  
 “These growth rates are the best we’ve seen in several
years, after a multiyear slump,”  Craig Johnson , president of
Customer Growth Partners LLC, a consulting firm in New Canaan,
Connecticut, said in a July 2 telephone interview. “Some of the
analysts get caught up in the month-to-month comparable sales,
and they can be misleading.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sales probably expanded at an average monthly rate of 4 percent in the first five months of the retail fiscal year that began Jan. 31, the biggest gain since 2006. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- David Strasser, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, discusses the outlook for U.S. chain-store sales.
     Strasser, speaking with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "In Business," also discusses Wal-Mart Stores Inc.'s Sam's Club unit's plan to test an online loan program. The International Council of Shopping Centers will release its June sales report tomorrow. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
