-- Commercial Property Sales Trail Average as Supply Limited
-- David M. Levitt
-- 2010-07-07T18:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/u-s-commercial-property-sales-trail-average-as-supply-limited.html

          
          
             U.S. commercial real estate sales in
the first half totaled about a quarter of the average of the
previous six years as owners kept properties off the market,
impeding investors with record funds for purchases.  
 Buyers and sellers completed $34.2 billion of deals through
June, or 26 percent of the average first-half dollar volume
since 2004, according to preliminary figures from Real Capital
Analytics. The total was about 12 percent of the 2007 peak, when
$277.7 billion of properties changed hands in the same period,
data from the New York-based real estate  research firm  show.  
 Sales climbed 58 percent from last year’s first half, when
purchases dried up after the U.S. credit crisis and recession
sent values tumbling. A dearth of available properties has
sparked demand for the few deals being offered, according to
 Alan Kava , co-head of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Real Estate
Principal Investment Area in New York.  
 “People are frustrated that not a lot has been trading,”
Kava said. “When something does come to market, that lack of
supply is causing almost a feeding frenzy. People have real
estate funds that are not on an infinite time line -- they need
to put capital to work.”  
 Private equity real estate funds have a record $104 billion
of equity available for U.S. deals, London-based research firm
 Preqin Ltd . reported last month. Blackstone Real Estate Advisors
has the most to invest, with Goldman Sachs second, Preqin said.  
 Goldman Sachs, Blackstone  
 More than half of the $8.4 billion available for Goldman
Sachs’s property funds is reserved for overseas investments,
Kava said. Blackstone has about $12 billion for real estate
purchases, said Peter Rose, a spokesman for the New York-based
private-equity firm.  
 Much of the money raised by private equity firms was in
anticipation of a rush of foreclosure sales that failed to
materialize, said  Sam Chandan , Real Capital’s chief economist.  
 In top cities such as New York and  Washington , owners who
owe more than their properties are worth are instead finding new
sources of equity and lenders are willing to restructure their
loans, he said. In less attractive markets, banks have been
extending loans, waiting for higher prices so they don’t record
losses, according to Chandan.  
 “Many people were looking to acquire distressed assets,
but those opportunities have been few and far between,” he said
in a phone interview from New York. “That’s been leading to
bidding more aggressively for some of these core assets.”  
 No ‘Armageddon Scenario’  
 Record-low interest  rates  make it easier for owners to hold
a distressed property, said  Tom August , president and chief
executive officer of Equity Office Properties, a unit of
Blackstone Group LP. Equity Office owns more than 60 million
square feet (5.6 million meters) of so-called Class A  office 
properties in cities including Boston, New York and Los Angeles.  
 “The Armageddon scenario that several people predicted two
or three years ago just hasn’t occurred,” August said in a
phone interview from Chicago. “Part of it is the lenders
realize the current borrowers are in a better position to work
out problems than they the lenders are.”  
 Landlords will eventually need more money to maintain or
lease their properties, likely triggering more sales, he said.  
 There is little incentive for owners who bought as the
market climbed to sell now. Values in April were down 41 percent
from their October 2007 peak, according to the  Moody’s/REAL
Commercial Property Price Index .  
 Four Markets  
 Demand for properties is strongest in New York, Boston,
Washington and  San Francisco , “where domestic and foreign
investors alike have sought to acquire high-quality assets,”
said Chandan.  
 Those four markets accounted for 20 percent of first-half
sales, compared with about 15 percent last year, according to
Real Capital. For office buildings, the largest category, the
cities made up almost 35 percent of the volume, up from almost
32 percent in 2009.  
 Manhattan  totaled $2.92 billion of completed sales in the
first half, up 70 percent from a year earlier. About $1.42
billion were office deals, up 62 percent.  
 SL Green Deals  
 SL Green Realty Corp. , New York’s largest office landlord,
was both a buyer and seller. The company agreed in May to sell a
45 percent stake in Manhattan’s McGraw-Hill Building at 1221
Avenue of the Americas to Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
for $576 million, a deal that values the building at about $500
a square foot, according to Real Capital.  
 It also purchased 600 Lexington Ave. for $636 a square
foot, and agreed to buy 125 Park Ave., a tower across 42nd
Street from Grand Central Terminal. That deal was valued at
about $507 a square foot, based on data in a company statement.  
 Those prices reflect a rebound off market lows reached last
year, when similar midtown Manhattan properties sold for about
$350 a square foot, said Chandan. In 2006 and 2007, readily
available loans that were packaged and sold as commercial
mortgage-backed securities helped drive prices for top Midtown
skyscrapers beyond $1,000 a square foot.  
 “We basically went around the world talking to capital
sources, in Asia, Europe, Middle East, Canada, and domestically,
and hearing the same thing,” said  Andrew Mathias , SL Green’s
president and chief investment officer. “People’s confidence in
Manhattan was not at all shaken, because of the extraordinary
supply/demand metric that exists here, where you have very, very
limited new supply, and the interest rate environment.”  
 Monsanto Purchase  
 The company paid $523 million for its two  acquisitions ,
combining both closed and contracted deals. Its sales of partial
property interest totaled $663 million.  
 The biggest completed deal of the year so far was  Monsanto
Co.’s  purchase of Chesterfield Village Research Center, a
research and development complex in Chesterfield, Missouri, from
Pfizer Inc., according to Real Capital. Monsanto paid $435
million, said  Kelli Powers , a spokeswoman for the St. Louis-
based company.  
 Distressed building sales probably will remain scarce,
Chandan said. There are $184.6 billion of troubled properties
facing foreclosure or bankruptcy, out of a total $239 billion
since the credit crisis started in 2008, according to a June 1
Real Capital report.  
 “There’s tons of liquidity out there,” said  Barden Gale ,
chief executive officer of JER Partners, a McLean, Virginia-
based company with about $500 million available for investment.
“The trouble is it’s having a problem finding a place to
reside.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'The problem is more on the supply side than the demand side,' said Dan Fasulo, a Real Capital managing director.  Source: Real Capital Analytics Inc. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
