-- U.S. Plans to Invest $67 Million in 3 Years to Reduce Carbon-Capture Cost
-- Andrew Herndon
-- 2010-07-07T23:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/u-s-plans-to-invest-67-million-in-3-years-to-reduce-carbon-capture-cost.html

          
          
                  July 7 (Bloomberg New Energy Finance) -- The U.S. Energy
Department said it will invest $67 million over three years in
10 projects aimed at controlling the cost of capturing emissions
from coal-fired power plants.  
 The initiatives, which include work by  Siemens AG  and  URS
Group Inc. , will focus on reducing the energy and efficiency
costs that power companies will incur when installing technology
to capture carbon-dioxide pollution from their plants, the
agency said in a  statement  today. Each grant is contingent upon
recipients matching the federal investment with company funds.  
 Capturing and storing the emissions that scientists link to
global warming requires greater energy to operate, which reduces
net power output and decreases overall plant efficiency. The
goal of the projects is to reduce the added electricity costs to
less than 30 percent for new pulverized coal plants and 10
percent for new advanced gasification plants, the agency said.  
 “Post-combustion CO2 capture technology offers great near-
term potential” to reduce emissions because it can be
integrated into existing plants, the agency said.  
 Selected projects will develop and test post-combustion
capture technologies using membranes, solvents and solid
sorbents at “bench-scale” and “slipstream-scale,” the agency
said. Emissions will be captured from 500-kilowatt equivalent to
5-megawatt equivalent flue gas streams, the department said.  
 Siemens, URS  
 Siemens Energy, a unit of Europe’s biggest engineering
company, will get about $8.9 million to design and install
technology that uses an amino-acid salt formulation as a solvent
to absorb CO2 emissions at  Teco Energy Inc. ’s Big Bend Station
in Tampa, Florida, according to the statement.  
 URS Group was awarded $3 million, and St. Louis-based
 Akermin Inc.  $2.6 million for projects using solvents. 3H
Company LLC, Ion Engineering LLC and the University of Illinois
at Champaign also are receiving grants for solvents.  
 American Air Liquide Inc. will get $1.27 million and for-
profit researcher Gas Technology Institute about $2.98 million
to test their membrane-based technologies.  
 Membrane Technology and Research Inc. will get $14.8
million for a project to capture CO2 from a flue gas stream at
Arizona Public Service’s Cholla Power Plant over six months.  
 ADA-ES Inc . of Littleton, Colorado, will get about $11.1
million to design a pilot unit at one of its cost-share
participant’s power plants to demonstrate solid sorbent-based
CO2 capture for at least two months.  
 President Barack Obama in February created a task force on
carbon capture and directed the inter-agency group to develop a
comprehensive federal strategy within 180 days. Obama at the
time set a goal of bringing online 5 to 10 “commercial
demonstration” projects by 2016 and making widespread
deployment of the technology cost-effective within 10 years.  
 The inter-agency task force met for the first time in May,
and its first report is scheduled to be delivered to the
president in August.  
 For Related News and Information:
Today’s top environment news: GREEN <GO>
Renewable-energy markets home page: RENE <GO>
Sustainability, environmental indexes: SEI <GO>
Emission credit prices: EMIT <GO>  
          
          


  


        