-- UFG Equity Fund Raises $225 Million, Most in Russia Since Lehman Collapsed
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-07-07T15:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/ufg-equity-fund-raises-225-million-most-in-russia-since-lehman-collapsed.html

          
          
             UFG Asset Management, the investment
company run by Deutsche Bank AG’s former Moscow chief  Charles Ryan , raised $225 million for private equity investments, the
most by a Russian fund since the 2008 collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.   
 UFG has invested $100 million of the total in  Yandex ,
Russia’s most-used search engine, cinema chain Rising Star
Media, telecommunications services provider Russian Towers and
broadband Internet provider  Enforta , said Robert Sasson, senior
managing partner at UFG Private Equity. The fund closed last
month, Sasson said.  
 The funding is the most for private equity in Russia since
 Renaissance Capital  and  Siguler Guff & Co.  raised $660 million
and $626 million respectively in 2008, according to Sasson.
Lehman Brothers collapsed in September of that year, helping
trigger the global financial crisis.  
 Sasson said in an interview in Moscow that he plans to
invest the remaining funds in five or six companies in the
telecommunications, media, retail and finance industries. He
declined to be more specific. UFG has had an average annual
return on its private equity investments of 35 percent since
2005, Sasson said.  
 Yandex postponed plans to seek as much as $2 billion in an
initial public offering in New York in September 2008, citing
“market conditions.” UFG, which owns a stake in Yandex that’s
“in single percentage figures,” expects the Moscow-based
company to push ahead with the IPO once markets stabilize,
Sasson said.  
 Yandex handled 65 percent of all Internet searches in the
Russian language last month, up from 59 percent in December, the
Kommersant newspaper reported today, citing research group
Liveinternet. That compares with 22 percent for Google Inc., its
nearest competitor, according to Kommersant.  
 “In the past we have exited companies through strategic
sales, partly because our companies have not been of an IPO-able
size,” Sasson said.  
 The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is an
investor in the fund, whose clients come mainly from Europe, the
U.S. and the Middle East, Sasson said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        