-- Ukraine May Abandon Eurobond Sale If Too-High Yield Demanded, Tigipko Says
-- Kateryna Choursina
-- 2010-07-07T14:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/ukraine-may-abandon-eurobond-sale-if-too-high-yield-demanded-tigipko-says.html

          
          
             Ukraine may abandon this month’s
planned Eurobond sale if investors demand too high a yield after
a $14.9 billion bailout loan alleviated the country’s financing
needs.  
 “We are not going to take money at any cost,” Deputy
Premier  Serhiy Tigipko  told reporters during a government
meeting in Kiev. “We are very close now to signing a program
with the International Monetary Fund.”  
 The two-and-a-half year standby arrangement with the IMF,
announced on July 3, also gives the former Soviet state access
to a 600 million-euro ($755 million) loan from the European
Union and $800 million from the World Bank, Tigipko said. Fitch
Ratings yesterday raised Ukraine’s credit grade one level to B,
with a stable outlook, citing the IMF agreement and better
prospects of financial stability.  
 The government, which started its roadshow for the Eurobond
in Munich yesterday, would consider an interest rate of 8.5
percent too high, Finance Minister  Fedir Yaroshenko  told
reporters today.  
 “We got short-term money from” Russian lender VTB Bank
“at a 6.7 percent interest rate, now we want to attract long-
term money,” Yaroshenko said. The bond will have a maturity of
10 years, he said, declining to specify the amount.  
 ‘Good Moment’  
 Marina Vlasenko , a London-based emerging market credit
analyst at Commerzbank, said she expects “around $1.5
billion,” possibly in two tranches.  
 “It’s a very good moment for placement as investor
interest is normally higher during the spread compression rather
than just low spreads, which is currently the case on the back
of upgrades,” she said. The bond would probably yield 8.2-8.3
percent, she said.  
 The government said on June 16 it selected JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Morgan Stanley and VTB Capital to lead the former Soviet
republic’s planned Eurobond sale, the Finance Ministry said on
May 17. The country wants to sell $2 billion in Eurobonds this
year to cover the budget deficit, the Finance Ministry said
today in a statement on its  website .  
 The government expects a 6 percent to 7 percent coupon for
the bonds, Kommersant-Ukraine reported on June 24, citing Deputy
Finance Minister  Andriy Kravets . Investors are more likely to
demand “something like 8.5 percent, assuming a 10-year issue,”
said  Tim Ash , head of emerging market research at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in London, by e-mail yesterday.  
 The government will pay an interest rate of about 3.5
percent on the IMF loan, Tigipko said today.  
 Use of Funds  
 The IMF money will be used to bolster central bank reserves
and ensure hryvnia stability, Tigipko said today. Part of the
money will go to cover the budget deficit, which will be
narrowed to 4.99 percent of gross domestic product this year and
“at least” 3.5 percent of GDP in 2011, he said.  
 Credit default swaps on the country’s five-year debt eased
18 basis points yesterday to 633, according to  CMA DataVision  in
London, as investors scaled back bets of a default.  
 Ukraine’s bonds due 2016 gained to 92.2 cents, lowering the
yield to 8.175 percent from 8.213 percent, according to prices
on Bloomberg. The hryvnia strengthened to 7.9075 per dollar as
of 4:45 p.m. in Kiev, compared with 7.9140 yesterday, Bloomberg
data shows.  
 Unpopular Steps  
 The IMF’s Executive Board will make a final decision by
late July, following “approval of legislative changes relating
to the budget and financial sector,” the fund said in its July
3 statement. The IMF wants Ukraine’s government to keep its
deficit at 5.5 percent of gross domestic product this year and
3.5 percent of GDP next year.  
 The government will take “unpopular steps and increase
utility tariffs,” Tigipko said, without giving a time frame or
the scale of the increase. He said this will be decided by the
end of the week.  
 Ukraine’s  economy  shrank 15.1 percent last year, the
deepest decline since 1994, as demands for its exports slid.
Fitch expects the economy to expand 4.5 percent in 2010 and 4.7
percent in 2011, driven by stronger external demand and an
improvement in Ukraine’s terms of trade.  
 The government plans to sell state assets and cut its role
in the economy to between about 20 percent and 25 percent in
five years from 37 percent now to intensify growth. The state
aims to sell VAT Ukrtelecom, the state phone company, heating
utilities and electricity distribution companies, Tigipko said
in Moscow on June 28.  
 The cabinet has no plans to use IMF disbursements from this
month’s loan, which replaces a $16.4 billion program, to help
state managed oil and gas company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy adhere to
the ruling of a court in Stockholm last month, Tigipko said. The
Stockholm arbitration tribunal ruled that Naftogaz should
restore 12.1 billion cubic meters of natural gas to trader
RosUkrEnergo AG by Sept. 1. Tigipko said a month ago that the
state has no budget allocations for the refund.  
 With assistance from Jack Jordan in London 
Editors: Chris Kirkham, Tasneem Brogger  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        