-- UniCredit Poised to Take Control of Profumo's Archrival in Italian Soccer
-- Sonia Sirletti
-- 2010-07-08T08:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/unicredit-poised-to-take-control-of-profumo-s-archrival-in-italian-soccer.html

          
          
             UniCredit SpA , the main sponsor of
Europe’s Champions League, may take temporary control of soccer
team  A.S. Roma , a top Italian rival of the club supported by the
bank’s Chief Executive Officer  Alessandro Profumo .  
 Italy’s largest lender and Roma’s controlling shareholder,
oil services company Compagnia Italpetroli, plan to hold talks
today to reach an agreement on 325 million euros ($409 million)
million) of debt owed to Milan-based UniCredit.  
 The bank led by Profumo, who invited more than 1,000
UniCredit clients to see his favorite team Inter Milan play in
the Champions League final in Madrid May 22, may assume
ownership of Italpetroli as part of the agreement, according to
two people familiar with the talks. UniCredit then would seek to
sell the soccer team, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  
 UniCredit will hire investment bank Rothschild to look for
a buyer of the team, while Italpetroli’s owners, the Sensi
family, would keep about 30 million euros of assets and still
run the club until its sale, they said.  
 “UniCredit should sell the soccer team as soon as possible
to get the highest value from the sale,”  Wolfram Mrowetz , who
oversees 200 million euros as chairman of investment firm Alisei
SIM in Milan.  
 Three-Time Champion  
 Italpetroli has been in talks with UniCredit, its biggest
creditor, for more than a year about restructuring  its debt ,
assumed by UniCredit in 2007 when the bank bought Rome-based
Capitalia. The two companies started an arbitration process in
March to resolve their dispute over the bank’s request for
Italpetroli to sell assets, including the Rome soccer team that
has won Italy’s Serie A championship three times since the
league started in 1929.  
 Roma is one of three publicly traded soccer clubs in Italy.
Roma President  Rosella Sensi , whose father bought the team in
1993, is trying to strengthen the club that finished two points
behind Inter Milan at the top of Serie A last season. Last month
Roma signed former Inter striker Adriano of Brazil for 5 million
euros a season in a three-year contract.  
 Italpetroli said July 6 in a statement that it’s trying to
reach an agreement with UniCredit over the future of the company
and its talks with the bank will resume today at 6 p.m. A
UniCredit spokeswoman declined to comment.  
 The prospect of Roma being owned by Profumo’s bank, even
for a short spell, concerns some of its supporters. “Our team
is falling into the hands of the enemy,” said Ciro Di Carlo, a
Roma fan who writes on a team blog.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        