-- Turkey Court Partly Annuls Legislation Erdogan Sought to Curb Judges Power
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-07-07T19:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/turkey-court-partly-annuls-legislation-erdogan-sought-to-curb-judges-power.html

          
          
             Turkey’s top court annulled parts of
a set of constitutional changes designed to curb the powers of
judges and prosecutors, reviving political tension between Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and his secular opponents.  
 The Constitutional Court made the decision in a meeting
today, chief judge Hasim Kilic told reporters in Ankara. The
remainder of the articles will be put to a nationwide referendum
in September as planned, he said.  
 Erdogan, who called early elections in 2007 after the court
rejected his candidate for president, pushed the changes through
parliament in May, testing his authority and reviving an
ideological battle with his secular critics. Erdogan’s party has
roots in a banned Islamic movement and opposition groups view
the judiciary, along with the military, as a bulwark protecting
the secular system against the encroachment of religion into
politics.  
 “A period of intense political noise is expected in the
aftermath of the verdict,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst of
political risk at Eurasia Group in London, said in an e-mailed
report to clients today. It’s unlikely the decision will prompt
Erdogan to bring forward elections due July next year, he said.  
 The lira rose 0.1 percent to 1.5535 per dollar at 10:02
p.m. in Istanbul. It dropped as much as 0.5 percent immediately
after the decision. The stock and bond markets were closed.  
 ‘Exceeding Powers’  
 Erdogan has repeatedly said his governing Justice and
Development Party won’t call early parliamentary elections and
will serve a full term until July next year. The last time the
top court challenged Erdogan over the appointment of Abdullah
Gul as president, he called an early election to renew his
mandate.  
 By cancelling the articles, the court has “exceeded its
powers,” performing functions that are parliament’s domain,
Bekir Bozdag, a deputy chief of Erdogan’s party in parliament,
said in a telephone interview.  
 The court’s decision still preserves the aim of the legal
changes, which are designed to strengthen the nation’s
democracy, Justice Minister  Sadullah Ergin  told NTV news channel
in a televised interview.  Akif Hamzacebi, a deputy chief of the
main opposition Republican People’s Party, said the decision
“partly meets” its concerns, in a phone interview.  
 The ruling limits the type of candidates appointed to an
expanded board that oversees the judiciary that the original
changes envisaged. It also makes similar curbs on the president
for appointing officials to the board and Constitutional Court.
The court let articles stand that include making it easier for
civil courts to try military officers, widen labor union rights
for government workers and steps to protect consumers and
personal data.  
 Erdogan’s supporters say the amendments are necessary to
bring Turkey into harmony with European Union standards, enhance
democracy and encourage investment in the $660 billion economy,
whose expansion under Erdogan has lured companies including
 Citigroup Inc.  and  Vodafone Group Plc.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara on 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        