-- Richest Man in Turkey Gets $311 Million to Spend on Gap Stores, Wind Farms
-- Benjamin Harvey
-- 2010-07-07T15:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/turkey-s-richest-man-gets-311-million-to-spend-on-m-s-stores-wind-farms.html

          
          
             Husnu Ozyegin , Turkey’s richest man,
will spend the 485 million liras ($311 million) he’ll get from
selling insurer Fiba to grow his  Marks & Spencer  and  Gap Inc. 
franchises in Turkey and Russia, and invest in wind power.  
 The Istanbul-based Harvard Business School graduate, 66,
will also use the cash he gets for the insurer from  NKSJ
Holdings Inc.  of Japan on his university in Istanbul and to
expand a  cargo port  in northwest Turkey, he told reporters at a
news conference in the city today.  
 Ozyegin, who Forbes Magazine says is  worth $3 billion , has
led Turkish billionaires in selling Turkish banks and insurance
companies to foreigners and using the cash to switch into high-
demand industries such as retail, real estate and energy.
Ozyegin sold  Finansbank AS  to  National Bank of Greece SA  in
2006, a $5 billion deal that remains Turkey’s biggest banking
acquisition.  
 Over the past five years Ozyegin built shopping centers,
condos, acquired retail clothing brands and established Credit
Europe Bank NV in Amsterdam, expanding branch networks in
Romania, Ukraine and Russia. In February, he bought 95 percent
of Turkey’s Millennium Bank for 61.8 million euros from  Banco
Comercial Portugues SA .  
 New Deals  
 Cooperation between Ozyegin’s Fiba Group of companies and
NKSJ will also bring “many new deals” for Ozyegin’s European
banking operations, he said today.  
 Ozyegin declined to comment further on his business plans.  
 “He wants to expand his presence in the central and
eastern European region,”  Sadrettin Bagci , an analyst at the
Istanbul office of Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG , which opened a
broker in the city in April, said in a phone interview. Ozyegin
is also interested in doing more Turkish real estate deals and
will probably focus on corporate banking in the country because
he thinks retail banking “is almost matured,” he said.  
 NKSJ is expected to deliver the cash payment by the end of
October, subject to Turkish regulatory approval, said  Takeshi Ohiwa , an executive of NKSJ’s  Sompo Japan Insurance Co. , at the
same news conference.  
 Ozyegin’s Fiba Group has 63 companies in 12 countries with
more than 10,000 workers, according to the company’s  website .
Assets total $18 billion and equity $3 billion, it says. Units
include Fiba Mall Management, Fiba Air, which provides executive
air services, and Fiba Factoring. Ozyegin opened his  Ozyegin
University  in Istanbul two years ago to train entrepreneurs for
service industry careers. He also runs Istanbul’s  Swissotel the
Bosporus .  
 The businessman, born in Izmir on Turkey’s west coast,
established Finansbank in 1987, expanding it to more than 250
branches. He was formerly chief executive officer of  Yapi &
Kredi Bankasi AS , Turkey’s fourth largest listed bank by market
value.  
 Turkish billionaires such as  Ahmet Nazif Zorlu , the  Sabanci 
family and Dogus Group’s  Ferit Sahenk  sold stakes in banks and
insurers over the past decade to fund expansion. The buyers
included  Citigroup Inc.   Dexia SA  and  General Electric Co.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        