-- Utilities May Shut Smaller, Dirtier Plants Under U.S. EPA Rules
-- Kim Chipman
-- 2010-07-07T14:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/utilities-may-shut-smaller-dirtier-plants-under-u-s-epa-rules.html

          
          
             The Obama administration proposed
tougher air pollution rules for 31 states from Massachusetts to
Texas that may lead energy companies to shut some power plants.  
 American Electric Power Co. , the biggest U.S. producer of
coal-fueled electricity, and  Southern Co. , the second largest,
are among companies that may be affected by the regulations
announced yesterday by the Environmental Protection Agency to
curb smog and acid rain. The rules would take effect in 2012.  
 “It’s generally a negative for all of them,” Kevin Book,
managing director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a
Washington-based policy analysis firm, said in an interview.
“They are either going to have to buy new technology, switch
the fuel they use or shut down plants.”  
 The rules, tightening those issued by the Bush
administration five years ago for pollution that crosses state
lines, would add $2.8 billion in annual costs for utilities, the
EPA said yesterday.  
 The regulations will probably trigger the closing of the
“smallest and dirtiest coal plants” when coupled with new
limits expected from the EPA for mercury emissions from coal-
fired generators,  K. Whitney Stanco , a Washington-based analyst
with Concept Capital, said in a research note to clients
yesterday before the rules were announced.  
 The agency doesn’t know whether the regulations would
result in shutting plants,  Gina McCarthy , the EPA’s assistant
administrator, said on a conference call yesterday with
reporters.  
 Health Benefits  
 The EPA said the regulations would result in more than $120
billion in annual health benefits in 2014, protecting Americans
against illnesses from asthma to heart attacks that have been
linked to air pollution.  
 “Millions of people continue to breathe unhealthy air,”
McCarthy said.  
 The Obama regulations would cut sulfur dioxide, which
produces acid rain, by 71 percent by 2014 from 2005 levels,
according to the EPA. It would reduce nitrogen oxide, the cause
of smog, by 52 percent over the same period.  
 A federal court rejected in 2008 the regulations issued
under President  George W. Bush , saying the EPA sought to create
an unlawful emissions-trading program. The Obama
administration’s proposed rewrite of those rules would limit
trading of pollution rights while slashing permitted levels of
pollutants.  
 The standard for sulfur dioxide is more stringent than
Bush’s and starts earlier than had been expected, an industry
group said.  
 ‘Very Short Timeline’  
 “EPA’s new proposal would require dramatic reductions in
power-sector emissions, on top of major reductions to date, on a
very short timeline,”  Dan Riedinger , a spokesman for the Edison
Electric Institute, a Washington-based trade association
representing utility companies including AEP, Southern and Duke
Energy Corp., said in a statement yesterday. The standard
“leaves the power sector exposed to a great deal of regulatory
uncertainty.”  
 The new regulations, known as transport rules, would
protect the public from the health dangers better than those
issued under Bush, and the requirements would achieve “greater
reductions more quickly,” McCarthy of the EPA said.  
 “This rule represents an important and necessary step to
cut the harmful air pollution that forms smog and deadly soot
pollution from the industrial sector most responsible for these
emissions,” the Natural Resources Defense Council, a New York-
based environmental group, said in a statement.  
 Emissions Markets  
 The proposal caused the sulfur-dioxide emissions market to
trade lower yesterday, in part because the rules appear to
eliminate the ability to use surplus sulfur-dioxide trading
permits,  Paul Tesoriero , director of environmental trading at
Evolution Markets LLC in White Plains, New York, said in an
interview.  
 The EPA is proposing that emissions be reduced through a
limited cap-and-trade system among the states and Washington,
D.C., letting companies that exceed their pollution limits buy
credits from those that pollute less.  
 The EPA also proposed two alternative approaches, one that
would permit emissions trading only within a state and another
that would enable a company to trade pollution rights among its
own power plants.  
 “These are pretty aggressive cuts,” Tesoriero said.
“Companies are going to have to figure out a way to meet the
reductions. They will have to put in controls faster than they
possibly thought they would have to.”  
 Duke Commenting Later  
 Duke Energy spokesman  Tom Williams  said the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based company would respond during the EPA’s 60-
day public comment period for the rules. Duke, the third-largest
operator of U.S. coal-burning power plants, had sued to overturn
a part of the Bush administration’s rule that based emissions-
trading allowances on 20-year-old data.  
 Southern, the second-biggest U.S. utility owner, is
reviewing the rule, spokeswoman  Valerie Hendrickson  said today.
The Atlanta-based company had been waiting for the rule to make
“important compliance decisions,” though yesterday’s proposal
doesn’t provide the “regulatory certainty” needed because EPA
will be proposing more rules, she said.  
 AEP, based in Columbus, Ohio, also is reviewing the EPA
statement, said  Melissa McHenry , a spokeswoman.  
 Under Bush’s rules, the cap on sulfur dioxide would have
been about 4.66 million tons a year, while the proposed
regulations would permit about 3.4 million tons a year, Book
said.  
 “This is another example of the Obama administration
trying to be very aggressive in satisfying their environmental
constituency,”  Jeff Holmstead , a former assistant administrator
at the EPA and now a partner at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in
Washington, said in an interview. “The industry will be
surprised just how tight the sulfur dioxide caps are.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 KChipman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “U.S. producer of coal-fueled electricity, going to have to buy new technology, switch the fuel they use or shut down plants.” Kevin Book said. Photographer: Stephanie Kuykendal/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
