-- Vale Expanding Global Coal Business to Add to Iron Ore, Nickel Operations
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-07-07T04:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/vale-plans-to-expand-international-coal-business-to-diversify-production.html

          
          
             Vale SA , the world’s biggest exporter
of iron ore, said it’s expanding its coal business across the
globe as part of a strategy to diversify production.  
 “Today we’re  small , but in five to six years we’ll have a
number of projects in development and we’ll look more like Vale
in other areas,” Decio Amaral, head of Vale’s Brisbane-based
global coal unit, said in an interview. “Our strategy is to be
diversified not only in terms of minerals but also geography.”  
 Vale is mining and developing coal projects from Australia
to Columbia and Mozambique, aiming to boost global output to 40
million metric tons by 2016. Vale has 7,000 square kilometers of
exploration ground in Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of
the fuel.  
 “Most likely next year we’ll be able to transform some of
this exploration into projects,” Amaral said in a phone
interview July 30. There’s potential for an open-cut mine in
Queensland state’s Galilee Basin, he said. Billionaires  Clive Palmer  and Gina Rinehart have about A$16 billion ($13 billion)
of possible projects in the region.  
 Two of Vale’s projects in Australia are expected to start
construction next year following board approval, said Amaral.  
 Prices for steelmaking coal will peak in eight years, Metal
Bulletin Ltd. said last month, while Deutsche Bank AG raised its
forecasts for thermal coal prices through the 2013 Japanese
fiscal year, citing the “emergence of large energy-hungry
emerging markets.”  
 Mozambique Project  
 The $1.3 billion Moatize coking and thermal coal project in
Mozambique began some initial production last month, Amaral said.
The company is targeting production of 1.4 million tons next
year, rising to 11 million tons in three to four years, he said.  
 Vale plans to use the upgraded 600-kilometer Beira railroad
and port to the south to ship the ore rather than using river
barges, an option neighbor Riversdale Mining Ltd. is pursuing,
he said. Vale may study using the rail corridor to Mozambique’s
northern port of Nacala, he said.  
 “We’re studying an expansion to go to 24 million tons, so
it’s not necessary for us to look for M&A to be a huge and
strong producer in the Moatize area,” said Amaral. “Moatize is
well positioned for export to Brazil, Europe and for sure to
India.”  
 Vale’s Colombian thermal coal operations, a $306 million
acquisition settled last year, will produce 4.5 million tons
next year, up from 3 million in 2010, he said. Together with new
project Las Cuevas, output may rise to 9 million tons as early
as 2015, Amaral said. “Colombia is a very important producer in
terms of coal to the Atlantic market, and Australia is the
largest exporter of coal,” he said. “Vale is very well
positioned being present in these two geographies.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        