-- Valentino May Be Profitable in 2010; Permira Still Committed, Sassi Says
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-07T11:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/valentino-might-be-profitable-in-2010-permira-still-committed-to-company.html

          
          
             Valentino SpA , the Italian fashion
house owned by Permira Advisers LLP, may become profitable this
year should it maintain sales growth at the pace of the first
half, Chief Executive Officer  Stefano Sassi  said.  
 Revenue at the Milan-based company increased 11 percent to
12 percent in the opening six months of 2010, Sassi said
yesterday in an interview in Paris.  
 “If we are moving ahead at this speed and the economic
situation is fine, we can reach good results very soon,” Sassi
said. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization “could be positive” this year, he said. The CEO
declined to give a sales forecast, citing economic uncertainty.  
 Permira led a 5.3 billion-euro ($6.66 billion) buyout of
Valentino Fashion Group SpA, owner of the eponymous brand and
licenses for  MCS Marlboro Classics  and  M Missoni , in May 2007,
before the recession sapped luxury goods sales. The private
equity company is “still far away from” exiting its investment
and is “very committed to supporting us,” Sassi said.  
 Valentino Fashion posted a loss before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of 4.4 million euros in 2009,
compared with earnings of 38.6 million euros on the same basis a
year earlier, Sassi said. Revenue declined 11 percent in the
year to 464 million euros, with sales of the Valentino brand
down 9 percent to 238 million euros, he said.  
 U.S. Department Stores  
 Valentino ready-to-wear apparel, which was “very, very
well accepted” by wholesalers and retailers, led the growth in
first-half sales, followed by accessories, Sassi said. Clothing
sales more than doubled in U.S. department stores, while shoes
“are performing in an outstanding way,” the CEO said. At some
North American retailers, Valentino footwear is “just after
shoe specialists in terms of performance,” Sassi said.  
 After the U.S., sales in the six months through June grew
“very well” in Asia, particularly Hong Hong, Sassi said,
without being specific. European revenue recovered slowly at the
start of the year and accelerated from April, he said.  
 Creative directors  Maria Grazia Chiuri  and  Pier Paolo Piccioli  have broadened Valentino’s offer to include more items
that sell for less than 1,000 euros to attract a younger
consumer and break “a little bit this perception of always the
old Valentino eveningwear,” Sassi said.  
 “This is the basis for a customer development that we
think will benefit in the next years,” the CEO said.  
 January’s introduction of 290-euro limited edition t-shirts
at Paris-based retailer  Colette  is among strategic initiatives
that are boosting sales, Sassi said. Valentino plans similar
local activities in the second half of this year, including
temporary “pop-up” stores in Asia, he said.  
 New Customers  
 Valentino is also seeking new customers for custom-made
evening gowns, the fall 2010 collection of which will be shown
in Paris this evening, Sassi said. In the last two seasons, the
company, which dressed  Chloe Sevigny  at the Golden Globe Awards,
added at least 10 customers to its haute couture client list,
mainly from the Middle East and Eastern Europe. First-half
orders for the dresses, which sell for as much as 40,000 euros,
rose and compared well with expectations, Sassi said.  
 “There is a more positive attitude,” the CEO said,
without specifying the growth.  
 Although couture represents only 2 percent to 5 percent of
Valentino sales, it’s “a major communication tool” for showing
brand creativity and “developing the dream,” Sassi said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        