-- Fen-Phen Risks Won't Color U.S. FDA Diet Pill Review
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2010-07-07T20:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/vivus-arena-obesity-drugs-won-t-be-judged-by-fen-phen-risk-u-s-fda-says.html

          
          
             U.S. regulators won’t re-examine
safety data from fen-phen, the recalled diet drug tied to heart
damage, as they review a new generation of weight-loss pills led
by  Vivus Inc. ’s Qnexa that use some of the same ingredients.  
 The Food and Drug Administration doesn’t need to revisit
fen-phen’s risks because none of the new treatments contain the
same chemical mix, Eric Colman, deputy director of the agency’s
Division of Metabolism and Endocrinology Products, said today in
a telephone interview.  
 Qnexa and  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. ’s lorcaserin have
individual components similar to those blended to make fen-phen.
 Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. ’s Contrave, the third diet drug under
FDA review this year, contains an antidepressant and addiction
drug tied to nausea, vomiting and dizziness. If the new
medicines prove safe, the global diet-pill market may reach
$10.5 billion by 2018, according to Datamonitor Plc in London.  
 “To the best of our knowledge, the concern with the heart
valves was limited to fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine,” two
fen-phen ingredients that were  banned  from the market in 1997,
said Colman, who started in his division 15 years ago as risks
from the treatment were emerging. “It was a very specific
finding.”  
 Shares Surge  
 Shares  of Vivus, based in Mountain View, California, surged
12 percent, or $1.16, to $10.67 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the biggest single-day
increase in more than two months. Arena  increased  4.3 percent,
or 15 cents, to $3.64. Orexigen  climbed  6.4 percent, or 25
cents, to $4.15. Orexigen and Arena are based in San Diego.  
 “How many more drugs have to bite the dust in this
category?,”  Sidney Wolfe , health research director of the
Public Citizen consumer group in Washington, said today in a
telephone interview. “Weight loss is a long-term concern and
therefore if someone is arguably going to be taking a drug for a
long time you need to have long-term safety studies.”  
 An FDA  advisory  panel is set to meet July 15 to evaluate
Qnexa, the first of three pills facing review this year. A
review for Arena’s lorcaserin is scheduled for Sept. 16,
followed by Orexigen’s Contrave on Dec. 7. The FDA usually
follows the panel recommendations, though it isn’t required to
do so.  
 Medical products designed to help in weight management
should help people lose at least 5 percent more weight than a
placebo after one year, according to FDA  recommendations 
released in 2007. While “specialized safety assessments” such
as evaluating neurological function or immune-system response
may be appropriate for some drugs, the guidelines don’t specify
what side effects should be tolerable.  
 ‘Loss at Any Cost’  
 “‘What should you risk to lose weight?’ has been refined”
since fen-phen, said  Madelyn Fernstrom,  director of the
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Weight Management
Center, in a June 25 phone interview. “We’re not so convinced
that we want to have as many side effects. It’s not weight loss
at any cost.”  
 Sales of prescription weight-loss drugs fell 11 percent
last year to $153.7 million, according to the research firm IMS
Health Inc. in Norwalk, Connecticut. Of the almost 7.5 million
prescriptions dispensed, four of every five were for generic
phentermine, a component of fen-phen still sold as a short-term
appetite suppressant.  
 Two-thirds of American adults are overweight, raising their
risk of diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure and cancer,
according to the 2008 National Health and Nutrition Examination
 Survey . More than one-third of American adults are obese,
measured as a ratio between height and weight.  
 ‘Lingering Safety Issues’  
 Colman said the FDA doesn’t think any drug will “cure the
obesity problem in this country” and expects some side effects
to emerge after drugs are on the market and used in a broader
population. The agency gained new authorities in 2007 that allow
it to require companies to do additional studies after approval
to examine “lingering safety issues,” he said.  
 “One thing we’re always saying to people but it doesn’t
necessarily sink in is that we certainly don’t know everything
about a drug when it is approved,” Colman said. “More often
than not, there will be safety issues that arise.”  
 Qnexa combines phentermine with the anticonvulsant drug
topiramate, the generic form of  Johnson & Johnson’s  Topamax. The
experimental drug helped people lose an average of 14.7 percent
of their body weight, in a 56-week study of 1,267 morbidly obese
patients, compared with 2.5 percent on placebo. A second study
of 2,487 overweight and obese patients with high blood pressure,
high cholesterol or diabetes linked Qnexa to an average weight
loss of 13.2 percent, compared with 2.4 percent on placebo,
according to data released by Vivus in September.  
 Common Side Effects  
 The most common side effects were dry mouth, tingling,
constipation, altered taste and insomnia. There were no signs of
suicidal behavior, a danger seen with Topamax and other epilepsy
medicines.  
 “The current industry guidance for developing obesity
drugs suggests Qnexa will be approved,” said  Christopher S. James , an analyst at McNicoll Lewis & Vlak LLC in New York, in a
June 25 note to clients. “However, our view is that advisory
panels will be tough on the safety of all obesity drugs.”  
 A vote to recommend approval of Qnexa “without too many
complications” probably will boost shares of Arena and Orexigen
as investors gain confidence that the FDA will look favorably on
new drugs for obesity, said  Steve Yoo , an analyst with Leerink
Swann & Co. in New York, in a June 23 research report.  
 Similar to Fenfluramine  
 Lorcaserin is similar to fenfluramine, and binds to the
same receptor in the brain that controls appetite, while
avoiding a separate target in the heart that was linked to valve
damage with the recalled treatment, according to Arena. Tokyo-
based drugmaker Eisai Co. bought marketing rights to Arena’s
drug on July 1.  
 To make Arena’s pill more effective, it will likely “be
used in combination with phentermine as part of a ‘21st century
fen-phen’ combination,” Yoo said. “Even though the original
fen-phen combination was a medical and product liability fiasco,
weight loss of as much as 15 percent was possible.”  
 Orexigen’s Contrave adds a sustained-release version of the
smoking-cessation and depression treatment bupropion to
naltrexone, used for alcohol and opiate addiction.  
 Wyeth, acquired by  Pfizer Inc.  in October, set aside more
than $21 billion to resolve almost 200,000 lawsuits involving
fen-phen.  
 “There’s enormous pent-up demand” from doctors, said
 Michael Narachi , chief executive officer of Orexigen, in a June
29 interview. “They’ve been disappointed. The promise of new
tools with good data will convince them to use” these products.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        