-- Vuvuzelas Banned in Africa's Richest Shopping Mall as Customers Complain
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-07-07T11:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/vuvuzelas-banned-in-africa-s-richest-shopping-mall-as-customers-complain.html

          
          
             Vuvuzelas, the plastic horns heard
droning through every World Cup soccer match, have been banned
in some of South Africa’s largest malls after shoppers
complained.  
 “In an enclosed space a vuvuzela echoes and becomes almost
unbearable,” Sharon Swain, centre manager of  Sandton City ,
which has banned the instrument, said in a telephone interview
in Johannesburg yesterday. “We’re not trying to be difficult;
we’re trying to protect our clients, especially the moms and
tots. No one could hear themselves think, let alone speak.”  
 Sandton City, located in Africa’s most expensive shopping
district, has been a hub for World Cup visitors with more than
five hotels within walking distance and shops like  Louis Vuitton 
and Lacoste.  Cresta Shopping Centre , which sprawls over three
levels and offers shops, restaurants, movie theaters and sports
bars, has also banned the blowing of vuvuzelas, a move Swain
said many malls had followed.  
 Vuvuzelas have become one South Africa’s fastest-selling
sports items with manufacturers struggling to keep up, sending
their merchandise to countries like Brazil and Portugal. Four
weeks after the World Cup started the term, which is said to
mean “to make a loud noise” in Zulu, returns more than 20
million results when typed into  Google Inc’s  search engine while
Facebook Inc’s “I hate the vuvuzela sound”  group  has 1,607
followers.  
 “We haven’t banned them, but we don’t have that many going
around,” said Reinette van Tonder, general manager of  Hyde
Park , one of Johannesburg’s most exclusive malls where she says
spending 4,000 rand ($523) on a single item is “small change.”  
 Hyde Park has “had one or two complaints from shoppers and
then we’ve immediately stopped them,” Van Tonder said about
incidents involving vuvuzelas. “We don’t get the masses.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        