-- Wal-Mart, Yum Urged by Greenpeace to Stop Purchasing Paper From Sinar Mas
-- Yoga Rusmana
-- 2010-07-07T10:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/wal-mart-yum-urged-by-greenpeace-to-stop-purchasing-paper-from-sinar-mas.html

          
          
             Greenpeace urged  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ,
the world’s largest retailer, and  Yum! Brands, Inc.  to stop
buying from Sinar Mas Group’s pulp paper unit, accusing the
Indonesian company of destroying rainforest and peat land.  
 A report issued yesterday by the conservation group titled
 “How Sinar Mas is Pulping the Planet”  says companies including
closely held French retailer Groupe Auchan SA contribute to
climate change and the destruction of habitat of Sumatran tigers
and orangutans by doing business with  Asia Pulp & Paper Co .  
 Pressure from Greenpeace has led some companies to stop
buying from closely held  Sinar Mas , which owns businesses
ranging from palm plantations to pulp and paper mills to
property and a bank.  Nestle SA  and  Unilever NV  stopped buying
palm oil from Jakarta-based  Sinar Mas , the parent of Asia Pulp &
Paper, after the environmentalist group accused it of destroying
rainforests in Indonesia for palm-oil plantations.  
 “This series of reports on Sinar Mas by Greenpeace are
just part of a global competition that in the end will only hurt
Indonesia’s economy,” Gandi Sulistiyanto, managing director of
Sinar Mas said by telephone. “APP is a pulp and paper company
and we need the forest, so how can we destroy the source of our
business?”  
 Wal-Mart Discussions  
 Wal-Mart  has been in discussions with Greenpeace, company 
spokesman  Kevin Gardner  said in an e-mail. “ Wal-Mart  does not
support deforestation, and as Greenpeace’s report shows, our
largest markets do not source product from APP, and in the
remaining markets that do, we have taken the steps to stop
development on private-brand products with APP and are looking
at what measures can be taken regarding branded products.”  
 Carrefour SA’s Indonesia unit has halted purchases from
Asia Pulp & Paper, Hendri Satrio, external communication 
manager, said today in an e-mail.  
 “Carrefour is committed to sustainable development and has
decided to stop using APP as a supplier for its private-label
products starting in mid-2010 until a deadline that will be
determined later,” Satrio said. “For other products, Carrefour
has been and is still in discussions with APP.”  
 Yum  officials in the U.S. and China didn’t respond to voice
and e-mail messages seeking comment. Auchan had no immediate
comment, spokesman  Francois Cathalifaud  said yesterday.  
 ‘Slashed and Burned’  
 “This investigation shows how major international
companies like Wal-Mart and KFC are causing Indonesia’s peat
land and forests to be slashed and burned for everyday paper
products,” Bustar Maitar, Greenpeace Southeast Asia forest
campaigner, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. KFC is
Yum’s biggest restaurant chain.  
 PT Sinar Mas Agro Resources and Technology , or SMART, has
appointed two certified verification bodies to study the
allegation on its palm oil operations and may complete the
investigation this month,  Daud Dharsono , SMART president
director, said in April.  
 SMART’s first-quarter  net income  jumped to 439.1 billion
rupiah ($48.4 million) from 7.3 billion rupiah a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  
 Parent  Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. , based in Singapore,
posted a ten-fold increase in its first-quarter net income to
$88.53 million from a year earlier, Bloomberg data showed.  
 Palm oil producers benefited from a rebound in prices of
the cheapest edible oil, which climbed more than 57 percent last
year in Kuala Lumpur, on concern that erratic weather may
disrupt supply amid an increase in demand.  
 Shares of SMART have gained more than 22 percent this year,
compared with an 11.5 percent increase on the benchmark Jakarta
Composite Index. The stock fell 5.7 percent to close at 3,300
rupiah today.  
 Sumatran Forest  
 Sinar Mas was founded by the  Eka Tjipta Widjaja ,
Indonesia’s fifth-richest man according to Forbes Asia, with an
estimated wealth of $2.4 billion.  
 Greenpeace accused Asia Pulp & Paper of ruining the
environment in two areas in Sumatra, the Bukit Tigapuluh forest
landscape and peat land in Kerumutan, both in the east of the
island, which lies northwest of Jakarta.  
 Some of the forest’s peat is deeper than three meters (10
feet) and is illegal to clear according to Indonesian law,
Greenpeace said.  
 President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said on May 27 that
Indonesia will protect its rain forest while helping the
country’s rural population to become more prosperous.  
 Yudhoyono’s Commitments  
 “These are just two of many important rainforests being
decimated by Sinar Mas for pulp and paper and palm oil
expansion,” Greenpeace’s Maitar said. “President Yudhoyono’s
new commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from
deforestation will be undermined unless he extends the
moratorium on new deforestation licenses to cover all forest and
peat lands that are currently slated for destruction by Sinar
Mas and other companies.”  
 The Sumatran Tiger is one of six subspecies of tiger and is
classified as critically endangered, with about 400 left in the
wild, according to WWF’s  website .  
 There are about 6,500 orangutans, the only great ape found
outside Africa, left on Sumatra,  according  to WWF.  
 Asia Pulp & Paper in 2006 proposed setting up a tiger
reserve in Sumatra with an area 1,000 square kilometers (386
square miles), according to its  website .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoga Rusmana  in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        