-- Wheat Extends Longest Rally Since November as Dry Spell May Damage Crops
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-07T19:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/wheat-heads-for-longest-rally-since-november-on-adverse-weather-concerns.html

          
          
             Wheat rose to the highest price since
January, marking the longest rally in almost eight months, after
analysts lowered production estimates for Russia and France
because of hot, dry weather.  
 Output in Russia, the world’s third-biggest exporter, may
fall to 55 million metric tons this year because of drought,
down 3.5 percent from a June 28 estimate, the Institute for
Agricultural Market Studies said today. France’s soft-wheat
production will be less than a government forecast of 35.3
million tons this year, Paris-based farm adviser Agritel said.  
 “If Russia continues to stay dry, that’s a big area”
where output will be limited, said  Tomm Pfitzenmaier , a partner
at Summit Commodity Brokerage in Des Moines, Iowa. “I hear
they’re getting scattered showers across Europe, so that may
help.”  
 Wheat futures for September delivery rose 23 cents, or 4.5
percent, to $5.305 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
fifth straight gain and the longest rally since mid-November.
Earlier, the grain reached $5.3225, the highest price for a
most-active contract since Jan. 14.  
 The U.S. is the biggest exporter, followed by Canada.  
 The  dollar ’s decline may enhance the appeal of U.S. grain
for importing countries. Since June 29, the greenback has
dropped 2.6 percent against a basket of major currencies, and
wheat has jumped 16 percent.  
 “This recession has been keeping a fair amount of pressure
on the dollar,” Pfitzenmaier said. “It may continue to be set
back, which may be supportive for U.S. commodities.”  
 Australia Dry Spell  
 Dry weather also may reduce grain output in Australia, the
world’s fourth-largest exporter of wheat.  
 Rainfall averaged 11.1 millimeters (0.4 inch) last month,
Australia’s fourth-driest June on record, the Bureau of
Meteorology said on July 2. The southwest region of Western
Australia had its third-driest June ever with 60 percent less
moisture than normal, the bureau said.  
 Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        