-- Why Pimco Likes Stocks
-- Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
-- 2010-07-07T13:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/why-pimco-likes-stocks.html

          
          
             The managers of the
world’s biggest fixed-income fund champion equities, convinced
the best days for bonds are over.  
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s  biggest mutual fund , takes
a seat in a conference room and makes a confession. Overlooking
the ocean at the headquarters of Pacific Investment Management
Co., Gross describes missteps that doomed his bond firm’s
experiment with equities in the mid-1980s.  
 At meetings where Pimco set its strategies, Gross’s bond
traders overwhelmed the firm’s handful of equity managers,
shooting down their bullish arguments promoting stocks. With
limited freedom to pursue their own investing ideas, the equity
managers quit after about two years, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its August issue.  
 “Those sessions basically said, ‘Hey, we’re a bond shop.
This is what we’re going to do. It’s the party line,’” Gross,
66, says. “If I’ve been a problem, then I can be the solution
in terms of allowing equity investments to grow and prosper.”  
 Pimco, which has been synonymous with bonds for almost four
decades, is taking another run at equities. It may not be the
most propitious time to plunge into stocks. Volatility, as
measured by the  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index ,
was at a 14-month high in late May, as the sovereign debt crisis
swept through Europe.  
 Driving Pimco’s move into equities is Chief Executive
Officer  Mohamed El-Erian , who says the global economy is
entering a period of fundamental transformation he calls the
“new normal.”  
 New Normal  
 El-Erian says mounting deficits and tighter financial
regulation will dampen growth in the U.S. and the euro zone for
the next three to five years. Emerging-market nations such as
Brazil and China, with stable levels of government debt and
expanding middle classes, should continue to thrive, he says.  
 In the new normal, investors will be faced with anemic
returns and they’ll seek alternatives, says El-Erian, who’s
embracing several new asset classes. In the past year, he’s
presided over the creation of an  equity mutual fund  and a unit
to invest in hedge, real estate and buyout funds. Pimco has also
started 10 exchange-traded funds.  
 “We are living through a remarkable time of change,” says
El-Erian, 51, who shares the title of chief investment officer
with Gross. “We want to make sure we navigate the changes for
our clients.”  
 Not everyone agrees with this analysis from Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco. Some U.S. cabinet officials and
securities analysts say El-Erian’s new normal is off the mark.  
 End to Bond Rally  
 More than 2,000 forecasters set price estimates showing the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will jump 26 percent in the 12
months through May 2011 as corporate profits rise, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Some investors say the firm might be better off sticking to
what it knows best. Gross’s flagship  Pimco Total Return Fund ,
using a complex concoction of bonds, futures and credit-default
swaps, has outperformed 97 percent of its fixed-income rivals
during the past decade.  
 “When a fund company expands into new business lines, I
get very nervous,” says Martin Weil, whose Healdsburg,
California-based  MW Investment Strategy Group Inc.  manages $30
million, much of it in Pimco funds. “I have a very high degree
of respect for Pimco. Am I going to dive into their equity
offerings? No, but I’ll take a look.”  
 The three-decade rally in bonds, the very securities that
made Gross famous, will eventually fizzle out, according to
Pimco’s outlook. Gross says the rally will come to an end as
nations sell record amounts of debt to fund their deficits,
spurring a return of inflation and rising interest rates.  
 Bonds Best Days  
 “Bonds have seen their best days,” says Gross, who
anticipates returns of 4 percent to 5 percent in the new normal.  
 The king of bonds is now talking up stocks as a better
long-term investment. He says that as  U.S. Treasury returns 
fall, investors will have to take more risk with high-yield
bonds, equities and, eventually, real estate.  
 “If you’re talking about the next 10, 15, 20 years,
there’s certainly the recognition that assets will grow faster
in those categories,” he says. “Over the long term, stocks
return more than bonds when appropriately priced at the
beginning of an investment period.”  
 Gross’s prophecy on bonds may not be coming true anytime
soon. Since May, when he warned that European nations like
Greece can’t rely on growth to finance their soaring deficits
and would likely default, investors have poured into U.S.
Treasuries.  
 Pimco Pathfinder  
 While Pimco estimates that U.S. debt has the potential to
soar to 90 percent of gross domestic product, the country
remains a haven for investors. Even Gross increased his Total
Return Fund’s holdings of government-related debt, which
includes U.S. Treasuries, in May to the  highest level  since
November. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.12
percent as of 5 p.m. yesterday.  
 Spearheading Pimco’s push into equities is  EqS Pathfinder ,
a global fund the firm launched in April that buys undervalued
securities, mainly in Europe. Its only U.S.-based holding in the
top 10 positions is  SPDR Gold Trust , an ETF that buys gold. Most
of Pathfinder’s major positions --  British American Tobacco Plc ,
French foodmaker  Groupe Danone SA  and Hong Kong-based  Link Real
Estate Investment Trust  -- derive at least part of their
earnings from emerging markets. Pathfinder, which had attracted
more than $500 million,  declined  1.7 percent in the month ended
on June 7, beating 96 percent of similarly managed funds,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Bond View of Equities  
 Some analysts say Pimco’s exceptional performance with
bonds gives it an advantage with all investments. In Europe,
widening bond spreads last year were a warning sign for equity
investors of the looming debt crisis, which sent European stocks
to an eight-month low on May 25, says  Cynthia Steer , chief
research strategist at Darien, Connecticut-based Rogerscasey.  
 “It’s a needed look at equities through the bond view,”
says Steer, whose firm oversees $265 billion in assets for
institutional investors, many of whom have money with Pimco.
“Their research on sovereign debt is excellent, bar none.”  
 With $1.1 trillion in assets, Pimco is expanding into
stocks as part of an effort to lure more individuals to its
funds. They’re the fastest-growing group of investors,
accounting for 84 percent of all U.S. mutual fund assets at the
end of 2009, according to  data  from the  Investment Company
Institute  in Washington.  
 Individuals also pay more than institutions. The Total
Return Fund charges retail customers annual expenses starting at
more than 1 percent of assets compared with less than half of
that for institutional and 401(k) investors.  
 ETFs  
 Pimco’s income helped fuel the robust results in the first
quarter at the asset management unit of its parent, Munich-based
insurer  Allianz SE . The unit’s operating profit jumped 121
percent to 466 million euros ($555.6 million) from a year
earlier -- a figure that helps explain Allianz’s hands-off
approach to Pimco.  
 “They really have left us alone,” Gross says.  
 As Pimco increases its use of ETFs, it lags behind
 BlackRock Inc ., the world’s biggest fund manager, with $3.36
trillion in assets. New York-based BlackRock last year bought
Barclays Global Investors mainly to get iShares, the No. 1
manager of ETFs, with $509 billion in assets.  
 The securities, which trade on exchanges, have soared in
popularity by offering lower taxes and fees than mutual funds.
Pimco controls only about $1 billion in its ETFs, with  three
actively managed bond funds  and seven others that track indexes
linked to U.S. Treasuries.  
 Worrier By Nature  
 The two men responsible for plotting Pimco’s strategy share
adjoining desks. Their personalities couldn’t be more different.
El-Erian deliberates over almost every decision, while Gross
often acts out of instinct. At a round wooden table in a 10-
foot-by-10-foot (3-meter-by-3-meter) conference room that served
as Pimco’s first bond-trading floor, El-Erian, the son of an
Egyptian diplomat, says he’s a worrier by nature. When he was 10
years old, his mother, who’s French and Egyptian, urged him not
to take life so seriously.  
 “She said to me, ‘If you don’t have something to worry
about, you create something to worry about,’” says El-Erian,
who runs day-to-day operations at the firm of 1,300 employees.
He worked over the details of starting stock funds for some two
years.  
 Gross, who directly manages 24 mutual funds, relies on his
gut, as well as endless reams of data.  
 ‘Amazing Instinct’  
 “He is much bolder,” El-Erian says. “He has this amazing
instinct. I’ve never seen anything like it.”  
 Both men get to work at 5 a.m. -- before the start of
trading on Wall Street -- and take their seats in the middle of
a tightly packed trading floor that overlooks a parking lot.
Gross is surrounded by seven computer screens with two stuffed
animals -- a bull and bear -- sitting on top of them; El-Erian
uses four monitors.  
 The two leaders rarely speak to one another on the floor.
Gross enforces a policy of near silence, sometimes by glaring at
offenders who talk too loudly.  
 “I think Mohamed is respectful of my, sort of,
isolation,” says Gross, sitting in the conference room with his
blue-and-red printed tie unknotted. “You wouldn’t find me
walking around giving high-fives.”  
 El-Erian, on the other hand, enjoys creating camaraderie
around the office. In January, he planned a surprise celebration
on the trading floor for Gross. Morningstar Inc. had named him
the fixed-income fund manager of the decade after earning a 10-
year  annualized return  of 7.7 percent in the Total Return Fund.
The CEO even found a bakery to deliver a cake at 4:45 a.m. As
Gross arrived to work, traders erupted in a standing ovation.  
 Too Much Sugar  
 “Which is about the last thing he wanted, because then he
had to say something,” El-Erian says. Gross spoke briefly,
thanking everyone.  
 Gross, who keeps fit doing yoga and riding a stationary
bike for 90 minutes a day, also said he didn’t like to eat that
amount of sugar so early in the morning. “It only happens once
a decade, so don’t worry about it,” El-Erian responded.  
 The two executives do constantly communicate, often
debating investment ideas, mostly through e-mail. The exchanges
go on and on through weekends. “He’s unrelenting and
indefatigable,” Gross says.  
 One thing El-Erian and Gross share is a penchant for
publicizing their investment views, which can sometimes move
markets. On Nov. 19, Gross wrote in his Investment Outlook on
Pimco’s website that utility stocks were attractive with
dividend yields of 5 to 6 percent. On that day, the  Dow Jones
Utilities Average  of 15 stocks took off and hit a one-year high
in less than a month.  
 High Jobless Rate  
 El-Erian frequently touts the new normal on financial news
shows and his firm’s  website . An economist with a Ph.D. from
Oxford University, El-Erian argues that the U.S. faces
structural and long-lasting economic burdens, such as massive
public debt. He says the  U.S. jobless rate  -- 9.7 percent in May
-- will remain elevated for the foreseeable future. In May 2009,
he said that the U.S. economy would expand at an annual rate of
2 percent or less in the next several years -- a forecast he
hasn’t revised.  
 After El-Erian presented his outlook last year, the U.S.
economy grew 3 percent in the first quarter, suggesting that the
new normal was too pessimistic. El-Erian says the expansion will
slow as federal stimulus spending dries up, and May’s job report
supports his view. The economy created only 41,000 private-
sector positions -- a drop from the 218,000 nongovernment jobs
produced in April -- and not enough to make a dent in the
unemployment rate.  
 ‘The Old Cyclical’  
 In an April speech at Princeton University,  Christina Romer , head of the White House Council of Economic Advisers,
said she found the fatalism of the new normal distressing. Romer
said that shorter-term cyclical events like the drop in demand
were the real drag on job creation.  
 “Unemployment is high fundamentally because the economy is
producing dramatically below its capacity,” Romer said. “That
is, far from being the new normal, it is the old cyclical.”  
 El-Erian’s biggest challenge may be internal. As the CEO
builds a stable of new funds, he’ll have to overcome the
embedded bias for bonds that took root in 1971 with the founding
of the company. When Gross and his two bond-trading partners
left Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Co. to set up their own firm
across the street, they decided against taking an equities
manager with them.  
 Legal Scandal  
 “It would have been better to bring the equity person,”
Gross says. “We would have been balanced from the beginning.”  
 Decades later, the then-parent company of Pimco took a stab
at stocks that ended in a legal scandal. In 1999, Pimco Advisors
Holdings LP started Pimco Equity Advisors. The stock unit was
separate from Gross’s bond shop and didn’t provide any financial
benefits. Yet the equity group hoped to get a boost from the
success of Gross’s business by taking the Pimco name.  
 The equity managers got off to a fast start, almost
doubling assets to $9.6 billion by 2000 before running into
legal trouble. In civil complaints, the Securities and Exchange
Commission and New Jersey’s attorney general accused the equity
unit in 2004 of allowing a hedge fund to engage in market
timing, a practice of making short-term trades to exploit market
inefficiencies.  
 Following the lawsuits, Gross said that he regretted
allowing the group to use the Pimco brand. The equity unit,
which didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing, paid a combined $68
million in fines and repayments to investors to settle the
lawsuits. Allianz dissolved the stock group after the
settlements. Allianz spokesman  Eduard Stipic  declined to comment
on the lawsuits beyond previous statements.  
 Spreadsheet Matrix  
 Pimco learned a lesson from the fiasco. “We don’t do well
when we rent our brand,” El-Erian says.  
 This time, Pimco will control the equity funds and
integrate them into the firm. And, true to form, the CEO in 2008
rolled out an elaborate method to involve every part of Pimco in
choosing new assets to manage.  
 He gave executives a spreadsheet matrix and asked them to
use the color green to indicate markets the firm should enter
because it has the experience to do so. Yellow meant areas the
company should pursue but doesn’t have the know-how. Red
signaled businesses to avoid. Portfolio managers used the
matrixes to rank ideas for specific funds, and sales reps
indicated their clients’ preferences using the colors too.  
 “We got all these matrices back, we put them on top of
each other and we had this overlapping matrix approach that
resulted in a road map for Pimco,” El-Erian says. Asset-
allocation funds, which invest in a variety of securities,
earned a green; equities, a yellow; and direct private-equity
investments, a red.  
 Bearish View  
 In keeping with Pimco’s bearish view on America, the firm
doesn’t plan to create funds with a focus on U.S. blue chips.  
 “We’re not going to launch a large-cap U.S. fund,” says
 Neel Kashkari , who heads Pimco’s move into new asset classes.  
 Kashkari, 36, a former investment banker at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., has no experience in asset management. Then-Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  tapped him in 2008 to oversee the $700
billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 After TARP bailout money was doled out to banks, Kashkari
endured a grilling in Congress. In 2009, Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, and other congressmen blasted
Kashkari for failing to require transparency on how the banks
used the money. Kashkari told lawmakers at the time that TARP
was attempting to increase its transparency.  
 IMF  
 He resigned in May 2009 as part of the outgoing Bush
administration. As of the end of March, 77 TARP recipients had
paid back $180.8 billion of the $496.8 billion the fund has
distributed.  
 “Given my experience building the TARP from scratch, I
wanted to build new businesses in the private sector,” says
Kashkari, who declined to elaborate on the bailout program. At
Pimco, he plans to start fewer than 10 equity funds in the near
future. “You will see us offer a handful of strategies that are
global,” he says.  
 El-Erian forged his career analyzing the global economy,
first at the International Monetary Fund in 1983. A former
colleague says El-Erian was known for a work ethic that once
kept both of them up until 3 a.m. writing a research report. He
ascended from an entry-level post to become chief of staff to
 Stanley Fischer , then the No. 2 IMF official, in 1994.  
 “He was just terrific in that job,” says Fischer, 66,
who’s now governor of the Bank of Israel. “The only problem I
had with him was, he wasn’t in the job long enough.”  
 Salomon Smith Barney  
 After less than a year with Fischer, El-Erian became deputy
director of the Middle East department, a job he held until he
joined Salomon Smith Barney in January 1998.  
 As the European head of emerging-market research at Salomon
in London, El-Erian made a prescient call on Russia. In early
1998, he said the country would default on its sovereign debt
and devalue the ruble. In making his case to clients, El-Erian
said Russian credit was deteriorating and the nation’s
regulators didn’t have the flexibility to respond. Russia
defaulted in August 1998.  
 Gross offered El-Erian the job of managing Pimco’s
emerging-markets portfolio three months later. From April 1999,
when he joined Pimco, to the middle of 2004, his flagship
 Emerging Markets Bond Fund  posted an annualized return of 21.3
percent.  
 The Harvard Management Co. board hired El-Erian in October
2005 to be CEO and revamp the university’s endowment, which was
in turmoil. Prior to El-Erian’s arrival, about 30 managers,
including the entire fixed-income team, and CEO  Jack Meyer  had
left amid criticism from alumni who said they were overpaid.
Some managers had pocketed as much as $35 million a year.  
 Tail-Risk Hedging  
 Under El-Erian, the payroll went down as he hired managers
who were compensated using an existing formula that paid new
employees less. El-Erian was the top earner at the endowment in
fiscal 2007, making $6.5 million.  
 In overseeing teams at Harvard that focused on U.S. and
emerging-market equities as well as real estate and commodities,
El-Erian gained experience that would help him lead Pimco’s
expansion. At Harvard, in addition to creating a foreign-
exchange group, he developed tail-risk hedging, which involved
using portfolio insurance to try to protect investors from
unexpected events that would hammer markets. In fiscal 2007, the
then-$34.9 billion endowment posted a 23 percent return.  
 El-Erian says he didn’t realize a financial tsunami would
devastate markets a year later when he announced his departure
in September 2007. At the time,  mortgage delinquencies  were
rising and credit markets were just beginning to tighten.  
 ‘Plan for Succession’  
 “I had no idea that such a big crisis was coming,” he
says. “If I knew, I would have stayed there.”  
 The endowment performed well for months after El-Erian left
for Pimco in December 2007. It rose 8.6 percent while the  S&P 
lost almost 15 percent in the fiscal year ended on June 30,
2008.  
 Six months later, Harvard began to go into a financial
tailspin and would pay banks almost $1 billion to terminate
wrong-way bets on interest-rate swaps made prior to El-Erian’s
arrival. The endowment, down to $26 billion, fell 27.3 percent
in fiscal 2009.  
 Gross, then 64, brought back El-Erian to be co-CEO with
 William Thompson , who retired at the end of 2008. “Your most
important job, certainly in your 60s, is to plan for
succession,” Gross says. “We knew that Mohamed could fill an
important part of the puzzle.”  
 World’s Biggest Fund  
 The $227.9 billion Total Return Fund became the world’s
biggest mutual fund in 2009, as Gross lured in investors with
his handling of the financial crisis. Gross saw the mortgage
debacle coming and was able to dodge most of the damage --thanks
partly to yoga.  
 In 2005, he suspected a housing bubble had formed. During a
yoga session, it occurred to him to send analysts posing as
homebuyers into the field to test his theory. The research
helped him decide as early as 2005 to avoid subprime-mortgage-
backed securities.  
 While Gross shunned subprime debt, he hasn’t shied away
from other complex investments in his Total Return Fund.
Morningstar analyst  Eric Jacobson  says the manager boosts
returns partly by using derivatives -- contracts whose value is
derived from stocks, bonds, loans and currencies.  
 Gross increased his holdings of CDSs in 2009 as the
sovereign-debt crisis began to shake Europe. The fund sold
insurance on credit from countries such as Italy and the U.K.
and almost doubled its CDSs on sovereign debt to about $1.4
billion on Dec. 31 compared with three months earlier, according
to Pimco’s February filing with the SEC. The manager boosted his
bet in the first quarter, selling default protection covering
almost $5 billion in sovereign debt on countries such as Brazil,
France, Panama and the U.K.  
 Forward Contracts  
 Gross also buys forward contracts or futures on
Eurodollars, Treasuries and other investments, typically putting
down a 5 percent to 6 percent margin deposit, according to Pimco
filings. He then deploys the money that he saved by not buying
the actual investments in short-term cash equivalents such as
commercial paper, Jacobson says. The fund owns no bonds from
Greece, Portugal or Spain.  
 Lawrence Weinman, an independent financial adviser who
manages about $20 million in Los Angeles, steers his clients
away from Gross’s handiwork. “You don’t know what’s in it,”
says Weinman, who worked at Morgan Stanley and Societe Generale
SA. “Putting money in with Bill Gross and saying, ‘Just put it
anywhere you want,’ is not the way I advise people to invest
money.”  
 Market Manipulation  
 Some traders accuse Pimco of crossing the line from market
influence to market manipulation. In a lawsuit filed in 2005,
two individual investors and a derivatives-trading firm claim
that Pimco artificially drove up prices of Treasury futures on
the Chicago Board of Trade.  
 The suit claims that Pimco bought $16 billion worth of 10-
year Treasury futures and then hoarded a majority of the most
desirable notes underlying those contracts to drive up the value
of securities traders needed to fulfill their futures
agreements. The plaintiffs, who are seeking $600 million, had
sold the contracts short and claim they had to pay higher prices
to replace them.  
 The U.S. Supreme Court in February let stand a federal
appeals court ruling that the traders who filed the lawsuit in
Chicago could pursue the litigation as a class action. Pimco
denies the allegations.  
 ‘Drip, Drip Approach’  
 “The plaintiffs include hedge funds and other
sophisticated investors who made speculative investments and are
now trying to profit from what turned out to be their bad
bets,” a Pimco spokesman says.  
 Pimco won’t become a powerhouse in equities anytime soon.
The company has hired only about 12 executives, managers and
analysts to work in stocks, ETFs and funds of funds, with plans
to add several more.  
 “In terms of the drip, drip approach of doing this slow, I
can’t say it’s going to be successful,” Jacobson says. “But
they want to make sure everybody they bring in is not only Pimco
caliber, but also Pimco style in their thinking.”  
 El-Erian says he’s expanding cautiously to avoid damaging
the main bond business upon which Pimco is built. “We are very
careful not to dilute what has served our clients well,” he
says. “And that comes from being very realistic about what you
can deliver.”  
 Anne Gudefin  and  Charles Lahr , the value-oriented managers
who run Pimco EqS Pathfinder, aren’t in a hurry to buy stocks.
In December, El-Erian hired the duo, who had managed Franklin
Templeton Investment’s  Mutual Global Discovery Fund . Their
Pathfinder fund  held  about 22 percent of its assets in cash as
of the end of April.  
 ‘We’ve Grown Up’  
 Following the 10 percent plunge in the MSCI World Index in
April and May, the managers may deploy more money. “We’re happy
to say that the current sell-off is highlighting some
interesting opportunities,” the managers said in an e-mail.  
 Thirty-nine years after he founded Pimco, Gross says the
firm’s new funds are a sign of his own evolution.  
 “It simply means perhaps we’ve grown up, and I have,” he
says. “I’m 66 now and recognize there are lots of different
pieces to a puzzle and they each have a right to a place in the
capital markets.”  
 Gross says he has no plans to retire. But as he prepares
for succession, this may be one of the last chances for the king
of bonds to help his equity managers thrive and share the Pimco
limelight.  
 Seth Lubove  is in Los Angeles at  slubove@bloomberg.net ;
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  is in Boston at
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jul/07/2010 13:45 GMT
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mohamed El-Erian is leading Pimco's move into stocks. Photograph by Tim Rue/Corbis  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
