-- Microsoft's Online Xbox Sales Probably Topped $1 Billion
-- Dina Bass
-- 2010-07-07T20:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/xbox-live-sales-probably-topped-1-billion-for-the-first-time.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp. ’s Xbox Live online
video-game service probably broke the $1 billion revenue mark
for the first time in the year that just ended, helped by sales
of movies, avatar accessories and extra game levels.  
 Microsoft says about half the service’s 25 million users
paid an annual fee to play games online like “Call of Duty:
Modern Warfare 2” in the year ended June 30. That would be
about $600 million. Sales of products like movie and TV show
downloads topped subscription revenue for the first time,  Dennis Durkin , Xbox’s chief operating officer, said in an e-mail.  
 The remarks suggest the business generated more than $1.2
billion in sales last year, exceeding analysts’ estimates.
Success in online gaming is crucial for Microsoft because the
other products in this unit include the barely profitable Xbox
game console and mobile-phone software that’s losing ground to
 Apple Inc.  and Google Inc.  
 “Xbox Live has helped sell a lot of consoles and created a
lot of loyalty,” said  Matt Rosoff , an analyst at Directions on
Microsoft in Kirkland, Washington. “Everyone has been talking
about Microsoft’s inability to innovate, but this is a pretty
good example where they have innovated. They timed it just right
with this one.”  
 Durkin declined to give more detailed results for the
service, and Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft doesn’t break
them out when it reports earnings.  Sarah Friar , an analyst at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in San Francisco, estimates Xbox Live
had sales of $1.1 billion in the past fiscal year, up from $800
million a year earlier. Subscriptions for the premium service
are $50 a year.  
 Rival PlayStation Network  
 Microsoft may have difficulty extending the popularity of
Xbox Live to other consumer businesses like television software
and portable music and video players, Rosoff said.  
 Sony Corp. ’s rival PlayStation Network is starting a
subscription offering, and Xbox Live also competes against
Apple’s iTunes for music and TV show downloads. Microsoft said
in May that Entertainment and Devices Division President  Robbie Bach , who has overseen Xbox for a decade, will retire.  J Allard ,
one of the earliest executives on the Xbox project, also left.  
 Friar estimates Xbox Live has gross  margins , the percentage
of sales remaining after deducting production costs, of about 65
percent. That’s buoyed results in the entertainment division,
which has reported an annual profit only since 2008.  
 Microsoft will post operating income of $1.04 billion for
the division in the year that ended June 30, projected Friar,
who is based in San Francisco and  recommends  buying the shares.
That’s more than six times the income in fiscal 2009. The
company is due to report 2010 results July 22.  
 ‘Launch, Sustain, Retain’  
 Xbox Live is helping Microsoft draw in additional revenue
after gamers leave stores with games in hand, Durkin said.  
 “The old playbook of ‘launch and leave’ is a relic of the
past,” Durkin said in an e-mail. “Today with Xbox live, it’s
now about ‘launch, sustain, retain’ by continually adding new
content that enhances the original experience.”  
 To boost future revenue, Xbox Live struck content deals
with Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN and Activision Blizzard Inc. and
introduced a family subscription that gives four memberships for
the price of two. Its Kinect device, which lets users play games
by movement rather than with a controller, will also fuel sales,
Friar said. Microsoft probably can increase Xbox Live sales by a
rate of “mid-teens to 20 percent” a year, she said.  
 Activision says Xbox Live is the only online gaming
business -- except for Activision’s own personal-computer based
“World of Warcraft” franchise -- that generates substantial
money.  
 Revenue Sharing  
 “When it comes to online gaming, they’re the only
significant alternative to us,” says Activision Chief Executive
Officer  Bobby Kotick , whose “Call of Duty” titles have 50
million registered online players.  
 Success may breed increased demands from content providers
to share more  revenue . Already Activision says it wants a cut of
the take from subscriptions, not just the percentage it
currently gets from its content sold through the service.  
 “We’re driving a lot of the subscription interest and
certainly hours of game play,” Kotick said.  
 Microsoft rose 48 cents, or 2 percent, to $24.30 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The stock has
dropped 20 percent this year.  
 Microsoft’s decision to invest early on in a subscription
service for online gaming is paying off, said  Michael Pachter ,
an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles, who covers
the video-game industry. Xbox Live began in 2002.  
 Sony Plays Catch Up  
 Pachter estimates Microsoft sank about a billion dollars
into the effort and didn’t break even until it released its
second console in 2005. Still, the early start, combined with
exclusive games, means Sony won’t catch up with its PlayStation
Network, he said.  
 “I was skeptical in ‘02 -- I thought it was stupid,”
Pachter said of Xbox Live. Now, the service is driving gamers to
 Microsoft . “If your friends are all playing on Xbox, you get an
Xbox. If they’re all on Xbox Live, you get Xbox Live.”  
 Pachter estimates that Sony is losing money on PlayStation
Network, which sells games and other content. Last month, Sony
said it will add a premium service and charge $50 a year,
matching the Xbox Live fee.  
 Some of Xbox’s success is due to the popularity of the
alien-shooting “Halo” games, which are  Xbox exclusives  and
top-sellers.  
 The “Halo” franchise “essentially invented” the market
for multiplayer online games on consoles, Pachter said. There
are 6 million people a month who play the game on Xbox Live, and
Sony probably doesn’t have half as many people playing all of
its exclusive online games combined, he said.  
 Microsoft is working to extend Xbox Live’s success to
mobile phones. Its overhauled phone software, available later
this year, will let customers play Xbox Live games and see
users’ avatars, profiles and achievements.  
 The company needs to expand its success with Xbox Live to
its other consumer businesses, Rosoff said.  
 “They need to take it more broadly,” he said. “It’s
taken longer than I expected to do that.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Xbox’s chief operating officer  poses during a conference in New York. Photographer: Natalie Behring/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
