-- XenoPort Tumbles in Stock Trading After Migraine Medicine Fails in Study
-- Tom Randall
-- 2010-07-07T20:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-07/xenoport-tumbles-in-stock-trading-after-migraine-medicine-fails-in-study.html

          
          
             XenoPort Inc.  tumbled the most in
almost five months after an experimental migraine drug it makes
with London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  failed to help patients in
a study.  
 XenoPort fell $2.36, or 27 percent, to $6.51 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. It was the
biggest one-day drop since Feb. 18.  
 Eight people who took the drug, Horizant, had serious side
effects and two died during the study of 526 patients, the Santa
Clara, California-based company said today in a statement.
Patients taking Horizant didn’t show significant improvement
over those given a placebo.  
 About 12 percent of people in the U.S. experience
migraines, according to the  National Institutes of Health . The
headaches last from 4 to 72 hours, with additional symptoms that
include sensitivity to light, noise and odors. XenoPort’s drug
is separately being reviewed by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration as a treatment for restless legs syndrome.  
 “These results are somewhat surprising,” said  Eric Schmidt , an analyst at Cowen & Co. in New York, in a note to
clients. “These deaths could make the FDA incrementally more
conservative in its review of Horizant for restless-legs
syndrome.”  
 One of the deaths in the study was from pneumonia unrelated
to the drug, according to the statement. The second death was
from an accidental overdose of another drug, and the role of
Horizant, also known as GSK1838262/XP13512, in the second death
wasn’t determined, the company said.  
 Horizant’s benefits may have been obscured by an unusually
high rate of improvement experienced by patients given the
placebo, the company said.  
 On February 18, XenoPort plunged 66 percent after the FDA
didn’t approve Horizant for restless legs, citing concern over
tumor cells found in a study of the drug in rats. The company in
March said it would fire half its workers and curtail efforts to
discover new drug candidates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        