-- `Grit-Your-Teeth' Thanksgiving Awaits Fliers
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   J u l i a n n   N e h e r
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/-grit-your-teeth-thanksgiving-awaits-fliers-on-fullest-planes-since-1944.html
U.S. airline passengers  face a
Thanksgiving holiday travel season in which they’ll pay more to
squeeze onto planes flying at their fullest since World War II.  “It’s like a war zone already,” said Brad Phillips, an
Atlanta-based executive who will take a  Delta Air Lines Inc . jet
to Dallas when he and his wife visit their daughter. “I don’t
even want to think about what the holidays are going to be like.
It’s going to be mayhem.”  Sold-out first-class cabins will force Phillips to squeeze
his 6-foot-3-inch (1.9-meter) frame into a coach seat. He will
have plenty of company, because the U.S. industry’s  trade group 
projects airlines will carry 24 million people, 3.5 percent more
than in 2009, in the 12-day holiday period starting Nov. 19.  The crowding reflects cuts in airlines’ capacity and a
rebound in travel after the recession spurred businesses to pull
back and vacationers to stay home. Airport hassles may rise as
well, as the Nov. 25 Thanksgiving holiday draws leisure
travelers unfamiliar with guidelines for  carry-on items .  Passengers trying to avoid fees on most big airlines of as
much as $25 each way for a first checked bag will jockey for
overhead bin space, raising the prospect of delays at gates
while excess luggage is stowed in the hold.  “Delays and chokepoints are going to be at security, where
people don’t know what they can carry on and what they can’t,”
said  Mike Boyd , president of consultant Boyd Group International
Inc. in Evergreen, Colorado. “The situation with carry-on
luggage is terrible now; it can’t get any worse.”  Full-Body Scanners  Slowdowns also may loom with the spread of full-body
scanners to more airports, because passengers who decline the
checks will be subjected to physical searches. There were 300
scanners in use as of last month, up more than sixfold from
early in 2010, and that total will reach 500 by year’s end,
according to the U.S.  Department of Homeland Security .  “When it’s a combination of very full flights, plus extra
bag charges, plus crowding in overhead bins, plus additional
patdowns in security, it can lead to a challenging environment,
especially when you are talking about a peak travel period like
Thanksgiving,” said  Genevieve Shaw Brown , senior editor for
Southlake, Texas-based travel website  Travelocity.com .  Round-trip domestic holiday fares average $378, up 7.4
percent from 2009, including taxes, fees and surcharges,
according to Travelocity.com. Average international tickets are
$689, 14 percent higher than a year earlier. The 2010 prices are
still less than 2008 levels.  1944 Benchmark  An average 90 percent of aircraft seats will be filled on
the busiest days of Nov. 19, 24, 28 and 29, according to the
Washington-based  Air Transport Association , which represents the
nation’s largest airlines.  Load factor, or the percentage of seats filled, is poised
to finish the year at its highest since 1944, based on data from
the airlines, the ATA and U.S. Transportation Department. Loads
reached 88 percent that year and have stayed in a range of 70
percent to 80 percent since 1997, ATA data show. Last year’s
industrywide figure was 80.4 percent.  “If the airlines could have people standing in the aisles,
they’d do it,” said  David Swierenga , president of aviation
consultant AeroEcon in Round Rock, Texas.  Phillips, 53, a partner and managing director at the
Atlanta office of design and construction firm  Beck Group , said
online seating charts already suggest his Delta flight for
Thanksgiving will be full.  ‘Nightmare’ Scenario  “It’s going to be a nightmare, especially when you factor
in kids and people who don’t fly very much and don’t know the
rules,” said Phillips, who says he travels by air three to four
times a month. “You just have to be resigned to it and show up
early and grit your teeth.”  Airlines’ seating cuts during the recession, the deepest
industry retrenchment since 1942, have enabled the biggest
carriers to raise fares and report two consecutive quarterly
profits as a group for the first time in more than two years.  “For the holiday periods, we will absolutely have full
airplanes,”  Southwest Airlines Co.  Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said in an interview.  Travelers will pay as much as $60 more for round-trip
tickets on any of the 24 days from Nov. 1 through year’s end
that are designated by airlines as times of peak demand, which
carry an extra charge, said  Rick Seaney,  CEO of Dallas-based
travel website  Farecompare.com .  “We’re already starting to see holiday travel book up
where the cheap seats are gone,” said Lisa Sellers of  Travel
Experts Inc. , a Fairfax, Virginia-based travel agency. “People
are going to pay through the nose.”  15-Hour Drive  Fares discouraged Andy Gilbert, 37, a Cincinnati-based
account executive for  Teradata Corp. , from buying tickets for
his family of four. Instead, they’ll drive 15 hours to Dallas
for the Thanksgiving holiday.  “If it was only a couple of hundred dollars more, I would
fly,” Gilbert said. “But it’s not. It’s twice the cost.
Economically, I can’t justify it.”  Crowded planes and airport gridlock won’t deter Bhuvan
Lall, who plans to fly to the U.S. from India for business and
leisure during the holiday season. Lall, 45, said he wants to
take his son to the northeastern U.S. to see snow for the first
time, and plans to use frequent-flier miles to shrink the bill
for his family of three.  “We travel a lot, so we are very determined travelers,”
said Lall, president of New Delhi-based filmmaker Lall
Entertainment. “You have to take the good and the bad and the
ugly together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Juliann Neher  in Washington at 
 jneher1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  