-- Aiful Surges In Tokyo After Lender Revises First-Half Forecast to Profit
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-11-09T07:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/aiful-surges-in-tokyo-after-lender-revises-first-half-forecast-to-profit.html
Aiful Corp. , Japan’s third-biggest
consumer lender, surged the most in more than a year in Tokyo
after reporting a swing to profit on higher loan interest income.  Aiful rose 32 percent to 66 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the biggest increase since
March 23, 2009. The gain pared its slump this year to 50 percent.  Kyoto-based Aiful and its rivals are trying to endure a
government crackdown that has forced them to cap interest rates
and limit loans to protect low-income borrowers. Takefuji Corp.
went bankrupt in September, Promise Co. last week posted a loss
in the fiscal first half, and Acom Co. today cut its full-year
forecast to a loss.  Aiful posted  net income  of 3.4 billion yen ($42 million) in
the six months ended Sept. 30, compared with its earlier
forecast of a 3.2 billion yen loss, according to a preliminary
earnings statement released yesterday. The increase in interest
income exceeded expectations, it said. Operating expenses
dropped by about 3 billion yen as bad-loan costs fell.  The consumer lender retracted its previous full-year
earnings projection amid “uncertain elements” that may affect
its business. Aiful had previously forecast net income of 2.82
billion yen for the year ending March 31.  Acom, meanwhile, lowered its projection for the year ending
March 31 to a net loss of 50.9 billion yen from profit of 26.2
billion yen, citing higher provisions for interest repayments.
The announcement came after the close of trading in Tokyo.  Takefuji’s collapse in September spurred an increase in
customer inquiries to the country’s consumer lenders about
overcharged interest repayments. The government tightened credit
rules in June, capping interest rates at 20 percent and limiting
loans to a third of a borrower’s annual income.  Aiful, which unlike bigger rivals Promise and  Acom  isn’t
backed by a major bank, avoided bankruptcy last December when it
reached an agreement with creditors to defer loan repayments.  The company’s 50 percent decline on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange this year is bigger than Promise’s 39 percent and
Acom’s 41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo Kawamoto  at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 