-- Myanmar Clashes Ebb as Officials Set to Free Suu Kyi
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-10T12:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/thailand-seeks-to-return-15-000-myanmar-minorities-who-fled-after-election.html
Thousands of people who fled
election violence have returned to Myanmar, where Agence France-
Presse reported officials are preparing to release detained
opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi .  About 20,000 people fled across the border to Thailand on
Nov. 8 as troops clashed with the Democratic Karen Buddhist
Army, one of more than 30 ethnic armies based in Myanmar. The
violence was sparked by the nation’s Nov. 7 election, which was
won by a party backed by the junta and criticized for excluding
Suu Kyi and about 2,100 other political prisoners.  “The situation has been calm without new clashes,” Samard
Loyfar, governor of Thailand’s Tak province, said by phone
today. “There are no Myanmar people left in Thailand after 700
of them returned home this morning.”  Ethnic unrest may complicate Myanmar’s attempts to set up
its first multiparty parliament since 1962. Rival military
factions are vying to control the legislature and nominees for a
new president to ensure the ruling generals maintain their grip
on power as 22 years of direct military rule comes to an end.  Preparations are under way for the possible release of Suu
Kyi this weekend, AFP said, citing an unidentified government
official. Suu Kyi, 65, is scheduled to be released on Nov. 13.  “We haven’t got any instruction from superiors for her
release yet,” the unidentified official told AFP. “But we are
preparing security plans for Nov. 13.”  ‘Soon as Possible’  Suu Kyi will visit supporters around the country “as soon
as possible” if she’s freed, Win Tin, a senior member of her
party, said from Yangon on Nov. 7. The Nobel Peace Prize
 laureate  has been detained for 15 of the past 21 years, with her
latest house arrest starting in 2003.  In August 2009, a court sentenced Suu Kyi to three years
with hard labor for violating her detention order. The sentence
was immediately commuted to 18 months of house arrest, which may
have begun in May 2009, when her previous detention term
expired.  Myanmar’s counterparts in the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations have engaged the junta in a bid to bring about
change, declining to follow the U.S. and Europe in placing
economic sanctions on the regime.  The country’s strategic location between China, India and
Thailand has drawn investment from its neighbors eager to
capitalize on its natural resources.  ‘Utter Sham’  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  condemned the vote
and called for the release of Suu Kyi during the weekly
question-and-answer session in the House of Commons in London.  The polls “were a complete and utter sham. The conclusions
of those elections were in place before they even began,” Clegg
told lawmakers. “They are simply swapping their military
uniforms for civilian clothing and keeping their iron grip on
the people of Burma.”  In Thailand, gunfire could still be heard today near the
Myanmar border in Kanchanaburi province, Sittichai Phaophan, an
official in charge of security, said by phone. About 3,500
people returned to Myanmar from Kanchanaburi, though they may
cross the border again if the fighting intensifies, he said.  Thailand anticipates more attacks until Myanmar’s new
government is established, a process that may take three months,
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said yesterday. People who
cross the border into Thailand will be treated humanely, he
said.  The DKBA is among ethnic armies resisting government
efforts to turn them into border guards, as mandated by the 2008
 constitution  under which the elections were held. About a third
of the country’s 55 million people belong to ethnic minorities,
and occupy roughly half of total land area, according to the
 International Crisis Group .  The skirmishes started when troops moved to reclaim parts
of the Myawaddy border crossing from the  Democratic Karen
Buddhist Army  a day after the election. Tak, Thailand’s fourth-
largest province by area, sits adjacent to Myawaddy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  