-- Air France-KLM, BA Among Airlines Fined $1.1 Billion by EU
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-11-10T10:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/air-france-is-among-11-airlines-fined-1-11-billion-in-eu-cargo-fee-probe.html
Air France-KLM Group  and  British
Airways Plc  were among 11 carriers fined a total of 799.4
million euros ($1.1 billion) by European Union regulators for
coordinating air-cargo fuel and security surcharges.  Air France and its units got the biggest penalty of 339.6
million euros and British Airways was fined 104 million euros,
the European Commission said yesterday. Air France-KLM, Europe’s
largest airline, and British Airways are recovering from record
losses in 2009 when the financial crisis ravaged sales.  Airlines “are much more financially sound now than they
were a year and a half ago,” said  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst
with Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa, Denmark. “They must be satisfied
this happened now and not back then because that would have been
far worse.”  The EU fines come three years after regulators sent
complaints to 26 airlines, following coordinated antitrust raids
worldwide that led to jail terms for some executives, fines and
settlements. U.S. authorities have fined 18 airlines at least
$1.6 billion and filed criminal charges against 14 executives
for price-fixing.  “It is deplorable that so many major airlines coordinated
their pricing,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said. Extra security costs in the aftermath of the attacks on
Sept. 11, 2001, also weren’t “an acceptable reason to stop
competing,” Almunia told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  SAS, Cargolux  SAS Group AB got a 70.2 million-euro penalty and Cargolux
Airlines International SA, Europe’s third-biggest air-freight
carrier, was fined 79.9 million euros, the commission said.  The global airline industry has lost money in seven of the
past nine years, racking up losses of more than $50 billion,
according to the International Air Transport Association.  The EU can’t fine companies more than 10 percent of the
previous year’s sales. That rule forced it to reduce fines for
two of the carriers. It didn’t identify those airlines.  Air France-KLM Group said it would appeal a combined fine
that puts its total payout over the provision it set aside to
cover the cartel probes.  From 530 million euros set aside as a provision in 2008,
Air France-KLM had already paid out almost 330 million euros in
fines and class-action awards in the U.S., Canada and Australia,
spokeswoman  Brigitte Barrand  said in a telephone interview.  British Airways said in an e-mailed statement its fine was
“within the provision made by the company in its 2006/7 report
and accounts.”  ‘Manageable’  The British Airways penalty is “manageable” and will have
a “modest” impact on the company’s cash balance, which was
1.857 billion pounds on Oct. 29, said  Douglas McNeill , an
analyst at Charles Stanley Group in London.  SAS, owner of Scandinavia’s biggest airline, said it will
appeal its fine.  “SAS believes that it has not been involved in a global
cartel and that therefore, the fines are disproportionate,” it
said in a statement to the Stockholm stock exchange yesterday.  The company posted its fourth consecutive quarterly loss
today after recording the fine. It had a 1.05 billion kronor
($156 billion) loss in the third quarter. The carrier has been
 unprofitable  in all but one of the past 12 quarters as it
struggled with declining traffic, strikes and a volcanic
eruption this year in Iceland.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s second-largest airline,
wasn’t fined because it was the first to inform on the cartel,
the EU’s antitrust agency said.  Fine Reductions  Airlines received reductions in the fines for cooperating
with officials, Almunia said. Regulators refused to grant larger
reductions to five companies that claimed the penalties could
force them into bankruptcy. The EU executive didn’t name those
five carriers.  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  must pay 74.8 million euros. Air
Canada was charged 21 million euros, Chile’s Lan Airlines SA was
fined 8.2 million euros, Japan Airlines Corp. has a fine of 35.7
million euros and Qantas Airways Ltd. got an 8.9 million euros
penalty.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. , which was fined 57 million
euros, is reviewing its options with lawyers, the Hong Kong-
based carrier said in a statement today.  Singapore Airlines said in an e-mailed statement that it is
disappointed in the decision and “strongly contests” that it
was involved in fixing prices. The carrier also said it was
likely to appeal and that it would set aside 134 million
Singapore dollars ($108 million) for the fine.  Qantas ‘Improper Conduct’  Qantas , Australia’s largest airline, “acknowledged the
improper conduct” by its freight unit during the period and
will consider the fine when the full decision is received next
week, the carrier said in an e-mailed statement. In 2008, the
Sydney-based company was fined A$20 million ($20.1 million) by
Australia’s antitrust regulator for its role in the cartel.  Air Canada said in an e-mailed statement that the fine
amount is “more than adequately covered by the $125 million
provision taken by the company in 2008.” It said it hasn’t made
a decision on a possible appeal.  Lan, Latin America’s largest carrier by market value, plans
to appeal, according to a statement posted on the website of
Chile’s securities regulator.  Japan Airlines set aside 6.2 billion yen ($76 million) in
2007 for a possible penalty and the fine won’t affect its on-
going re-organization in bankruptcy protection, said  Sze Hunn Yap , a spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based carrier. The airline will
review the ruling before responding further, she said.  Not Enough Evidence  Almunia said regulators “didn’t find evidence enough” to
fine other companies it investigated, including  AMR Corp .’s
 American Airlines , United Airlines, Korean Air Lines Co., Nippon
Cargo Airlines Co., Alitalia SpA, Air New Zealand Ltd., Malaysia
Airline System Bhd. and South African Airways.  The airlines still face other payment claims including a
case brought by freight customers for damages against Air
France-KLM in the Dutch courts.  “It is basic justice that customers harmed by cartel
behavior should obtain redress for the harm,” Almunia said.  Cargo airlines often work together to carry freight,
setting aside as much as 10 percent of space for partners.
Carriers’ price structures include surcharges that change
depending on oil prices and security measures. 