-- Taiwan to Restore Curbs on Foreign Investment in All Government Securities
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2010-11-09T12:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/taiwan-to-restore-curbs-on-foreign-investment-in-all-government-securities.html
Taiwan will restore curbs on foreign
investment in its debt, only allowing offshore funds to have up
to 30 percent of their portfolios invested in all types of
government bonds and money-market products, the Financial
Supervisory Commission  said  on its website today.  The new rule extends a current regulation which applies
only to debt with maturity of less than a year.  “This is not unexpected,” said  Wai Ho Leong , a Singapore-
based senior regional economist at Barclays Plc. “It won’t have
a lasting impact on the Taiwan dollar because a lot of these
flows will move from bonds to equities.”  China also announced today that it will force banks to hold
more foreign exchange and strengthen auditing of overseas fund
raising as part of efforts to crack down on hot-money inflows.  Developing nations have stepped up attempts to curb
volatility in their currencies as near-zero interest rates in
the U.S. and Japan spur demand for higher-yielding emerging-
market bonds and equities. The Taiwan dollar has advanced 2.6
percent against the greenback over the past month, the best
performance among the 10 most-traded Asian currencies.  In addition to the new measure, Taiwan’s central bank has
intervened most days for more than six months to check
appreciation that may hurt exports, according to currency
traders who declined to be identified.  Government bonds gained for the first time in four days.
The yield on the 1.125 percent note due September 2020 fell one
basis point to 1.278 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “It’s in line with what the other central banks are
attempting to do, which is containing the volatility, rather
than designed to totally limit capital inflows,” said Emmanuel
Ng, a currency strategist in Singapore at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. “We are probably not going to see much weakening
of the currency just because of this.”  Thailand last month removed a 15 percent tax exemption for
foreigners on income from domestic bonds to curb inflows of
funds. Brazil raised taxes on foreign investments in fixed-
income securities two times in a month, as part of an effort to
defend exports.  With assistance from Lilian Karunungan in Singapore and Yumi
Teso in Bangkok. --Editors: Andrew Janes, Richard Dobson.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  