-- Malaysia's Ringgit Declines for Third Day as Europe Concerns Reduce Demand
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-09T02:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/malaysia-s-ringgit-declines-for-third-day-as-europe-concerns-reduce-demand.html
Malaysia’s ringgit weakened for a
third day as heightened concern that some European governments
will struggle to repay debt damped appetite for emerging-market
assets and boosted demand for the U.S. currency.  The ringgit fell as the Dollar Index, which gauges the
greenback against six major trade partners, rose for a third day,
its longest winning streak since August. The World Bank said
yesterday Asia may need capital controls to curb asset bubbles
as leaders from the Group of 20 nations prepare to meet in Seoul
later this week.  “The ringgit’s decline is driven mostly by the rise in the
dollar rather than any domestic factor,” said  Calbert Loh , head
of treasury at Bangkok Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “Europe’s
debt concern triggering safe-haven buying in the dollar is one
of the factors. Then, there is the G-20 issue.”  The ringgit dropped 0.1 percent to 3.0960 per dollar as of
10:06 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, after reaching a 13-year high of
3.0775 last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has gained more than 10 percent this year, the second-
best performer in the region outside of Japan after the Thai
baht.  “I don’t see the ringgit going back to 3.08 as the central
bank has been supporting the dollar there aggressively,” Loh
said. “They don’t want it to be too volatile.”  Asian economies may need to turn to capital controls as
quantitative easing by the U.S. threatens to spur asset bubbles
in the region’s stock, currency and property markets, Sri
Mulyani Indrawati, a World Bank managing director, said
yesterday. Any curbs should be “targeted,” temporary and
tailored to address specific problems, she said.  “Central banks in the region are vigilant and are in close
regular contact in the monitoring of capital flows in the
region,” Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in
an e-mailed statement on Nov. 4. “The central banks in the
region also have a sufficient range of instruments to manage
this challenge and are willing to act collectively if the need
arises to ensure stability in the region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 