-- Aldar Gains Most in 6 Weeks in Abu Dhabi on Government Funding Speculation
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-11-09T12:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/aldar-seeks-abu-dhabi-government-help-as-it-posts-biggest-quarterly-loss.html
Aldar Properties PJSC  climbed the
most in six weeks on speculation that Abu Dhabi’s biggest
developer will secure government funding after posting its
biggest quarterly loss on record.  The shares  rose  3.2 percent at 2.29 dirhams in Abu Dhabi,
the most since Sept. 26. Aldar expects to reach a “framework”
agreement with the state on “cash requirements” by the end of
the year, it said in a statement today.  Abu Dhabi’s government aided Aldar earlier this year when
it agreed to buy assets on the Yas Island leisure resort from
the developer for 9.14 billion dirhams ($2.49 billion). The
company, 19.2 percent-owned by state-backed investor Mubadala
Development Co., has been hurt by slumping sales, falling asset
values and about 26 billion dirhams of outstanding debt.  Aldar today  reported  a third-quarter loss of 731.2 million
dirhams compared with net income of 270.1 million dirhams a year
earlier. The median estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a loss of 215 million dirhams.  “Aldar is in the final stages of discussions with the Abu
Dhabi government regarding the company’s cash requirements and
anticipates that a framework will be concluded before the end of
the fourth quarter 2010,” it said.  “This alleviates some of the concern out there,”  Majed Azzam , a real-estate analyst at HC Securities in Dubai, said.
“The main issue is not its quarterly performance but rather its
liquidity position.”  The Abu Dhabi based company reported a nine-month loss of
1.52 billion dirhams, after a profit of 1.41 billion dirhams a
year earlier. The shares, which climbed as much as 9.5 percent
today, are down 54 percent this year.  Aldar will need 9.8 billion dirhams by 2011 to “survive”
as the United Arab Emirates’ real-estate market recovers, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch said Nov. 4.  Aldar yesterday appointed  Sami Asad  as its third chief
executive officer in four years. Asad replaced  John Bullough  who
left the company last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 