-- Orascom Telecom Calls Algeria Arbitration Last Resort
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-11-09T14:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/algeria-arbitration-is-orascom-s-last-resort-arabiya-reports.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE , the
Middle East’s biggest mobile-phone operator by users, said it
sees international arbitration to settle its disputes with
Algeria over its unit there as a last resort.  “We need to exhaust all amicable possibilities,” Chairman
 Naguib Sawiris  told a news conference today in Dubai. “If we
get a negative reply or don’t get a reply, then we will decide
to go for arbitration,” he said. “Arbitration is the last
resort.”  The Algerian government, which wants to buy the unit,
known as Djezzy, has ordered it to pay more than $800 million in
back taxes and banned it from transferring money abroad,
penalties that Orascom has contested. The dispute has brought
the Cairo-based company’s  shares  down 16 percent this year,
valuing it at 22.1 billion Egyptian pounds ($3.8 billion.)  The Algerian government this year thwarted a plan by MTN
Ltd., Africa’s biggest mobile-phone operator, to buy several of
Orascom’s African assets because it objected to the inclusion of
Djezzy in the transaction. MTN had valued Djezzy at $7.8
billion, Sawiris said.  Algeria will name consultants this month to assess Djezzy’s
value, Communications Minister  Moussa Benhammadi  said on Nov. 5.
Sawiris said today that the acceptable price for Djezzy should
be more than $7.8 billion.  “You think that you are going to knock the price down and
then take it,” the Egyptian billionaire said at the press
conference. “It’s not going to happen.”  ‘Biggest Issue’  “Algeria is the single biggest issue for Orascom now,”
 Dalibor Vavruska , telecommunications analyst at ING Groep, said
by e-mail. “Its value could be anything between $1 billion to
$7 billion. Only the difference between the best case and the
worst case for Djezzy is bigger than Orascom’s current entire
market capitalization.”  VimpelCom Ltd. , Russia’s second-biggest mobile network
operator, and Orascom parent company Weather Investments SpA
said Oct. 4 they had agreed to merge most of their assets in a
transaction valued at about $6.5 billion.  Sawiris said that the talks with Algeria will not affect
the potential merger, which he gave a “50-50” chance of
success.  Benhammadi said that before the government’s planned
acquisition of Djezzy, the company must meet conditions
including tax payments. Orascom said it has already paid
$596 million in back taxes, pending an appeal.  Orascom  is also being asked to pay compensation to Algerian
workers in its Lacom landline subsidiary, which has been
dissolved, as well as debts to local telecommunications
partners, the minister said.  Orascom operates in countries including Egypt, Pakistan,
Canada, Bangladesh and North Korea. The company has bought the
documents required to bid for Serbia’s sale of Telekom Srbija
and is also looking to expand into Poland, Sawiris said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 