-- Halliburton Fails to Give Gas-Drilling Data, EPA Says
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-11-09T21:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/halliburton-subpoenaed-by-u-s-for-information-on-hydraulic-fracturing.html
Halliburton Co. , the second-largest
oilfield-services company, was subpoenaed by the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency  after failing to provide
requested information on hydraulic fracturing.  Halliburton was the only one of nine companies that didn’t
respond to the inquiry about hydraulic fracturing, a drilling
technique that shoots water, sand and chemicals into shale rock
under high pressure to extract natural gas, the EPA said in an
e-mailed statement today. The environmental regulator is
gathering data for a congressionally mandated report on the
effects of fracturing on drinking water.  “Halliburton has failed to provide EPA the information
necessary to move forward with this important  study ,” the
agency said in the statement. “Today EPA issued a subpoena to
the company requiring submission of the requested information
that has yet to be provided.”  Halliburton , based in Houston, called the agency’s request
for data overly broad. The company said it has already turned
over almost 5,000 pages of documents to the agency and
fulfilling the full request would require preparing about 50,000
spreadsheets.  “We have met with the agency and had several additional
discussions with EPA personnel in order to help narrow the focus
of their unreasonable demands so that we could provide the
agency what it needs,” Teresa Wong, a Halliburton spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Halliburton welcomes any
federal court’s examination of our good-faith efforts with the
EPA to date.”  Half of Supply  Gas from shale may total half of the U.S. natural-gas
supply by 2035, up from 20 percent today, according to IHS
Cambridge Energy Research Associates, an Englewood, Colorado-
based adviser to energy companies. Expansion of fracturing has
produced opposition in communities where residents say water
mixed with chemicals may taint local drinking water.  The  Independent Oil & Gas Association  of New York, an
industry group whose directors include representatives from
Halliburton, says fracturing is safe. Environmental groups such
as the New York-based Natural Resources Defense Council say the
chemicals used are often toxic, citing cases in Wyoming and
Pennsylvania where residents were told not to drink well water.  Clean Energy  President  Barack Obama  is promoting U.S. natural-gas
reserves as an opportunity to advance a national “clean-
energy” agenda. EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  has said she
will inform the public immediately if environmental dangers from
fracturing are discovered.  Halliburton  fell  21 cents to $33.22 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Halliburton has also been
a focus of inquiries by Congress and a presidential panel for
its role in providing cement work for the BP Plc well that
failed in the Gulf of Mexico, creating the largest U.S. offshore
oil spill.  The EPA asked the nine companies in September to disclose
the chemicals used to dislodge underground natural gas.
Halliburton said at the time it would comply with the EPA’s
request.  Schlumberger Ltd., the largest provider of oilfield
services, and  Key Energy Services Inc. , both based in Houston,
were among companies that complied with the EPA’s request,
according to the agency.  The EPA said the following companies also provided the data
voluntarily: BJ Services Co., which was acquired this year by
Baker Hughes Inc.; Complete Production Services Inc.; Patterson-
UTI Energy Inc.; RPC Inc.; Superior Well Services Inc. and
Weatherford International Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 Kchipman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 