-- AMD Chief Meyer Fights for Credibility in Showdown With Intel
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-11-09T21:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/amd-chief-dirk-meyer-fights-for-credibility-in-latest-showdown-with-intel.html
For Chief Executive Officer  Dirk Meyer ,  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. ’s new lineup of chips is more
than an effort to win back customers lost to Intel Corp. It’s a
bid for credibility.  After four years of production delays, slumping  sales  and
shrinking market share, Meyer says he wants to convince
customers and investors that  AMD  can consistently deliver
quality products and challenge its dominant competitor. The
first test comes with its new Fusion chips, built with graphics
capabilities that AMD says Intel can’t easily match.  Fusion also provides a chance to redeem AMD’s 2006
 acquisition  of ATI Technologies Inc., a $5.4 billion purchase
that threatened to sink the company with debt. By combining its
processors with ATI’s graphics chips, AMD aims to get a payback
on the deal. Another part of the comeback plan: AMD spun off its
factories in 2008, freeing up cash to focus on innovation.  “You gain credibility out of executing successfully over
quarters and years,” Meyer, 48, said in an interview at the
company’s Sunnyvale, California, headquarters. “We haven’t been
doing it for years yet.”  AMD, which was founded a year after Intel, has spent 40
years in the shadow of its rival, the world’s largest chipmaker.
AMD has less than 20 percent of the global personal-computer
processor market, compared with Intel’s 80 percent, and its
revenue last year of $5.4 billion was a seventh of Intel’s.  Fusion Release  AMD began shipments today of its first Fusion product,
which puts processors and graphics chips onto one piece of
silicon. Computers based on the product will go on sale in early
2011. That will coincide with a new design from Intel, called
Sandy Bridge, which also beefs up graphics features.  AMD ’s last big hit was a server processor called Opteron
that over three years grabbed 20 percentage points of market
share from Intel. Opteron, introduced in 2003, also helped AMD
squeeze more profit from each chip. In 2005, AMD’s products
began to approach Intel’s famously  high gross margins , which run
as high as 67 percent.  That’s when AMD’s fortunes reversed. Opteron’s successor,
Barcelona, was late to the market and needed to be redesigned.
That failure was partly because  AMD  wasn’t ready for the big
time, Meyer said.  Meyer is familiar with both companies. He worked at Intel
in the 1980s, then spent almost a decade at Digital Equipment
Corp., a computer maker acquired by Compaq Computer Corp., which
is now part of  Hewlett-Packard Co.  When Meyer arrived at AMD in
1995, he led the team that designed its flagship processor.  Focus on Execution  Meyer comes from a technical background. He earned a degree
in computer engineering from the University of Illinois and got
an MBA from Boston University. After rising through the
executive ranks at AMD, he replaced  Hector Ruiz  as CEO in 2008.  So far, AMD has struggled to follow through on its
innovations, said  Josh Spencer , a portfolio manager at  T. Rowe
Price Group Inc. in Baltimore.  “Where they’ve always fallen down in the past has been
execution,” said Spencer, whose firm owns AMD shares as part of
the more than $400 billion it has under management. With Fusion,
“they have a chance to compete with Intel.”  AMD  now has more than one engineering team capable of
delivering multiple chip designs on time, Meyer said. That’s
possible because it no longer has the distraction of running
multibillion-dollar chip plants, known as fabs. AMD spun those
off into a new venture called Globalfoundries Inc., backed by
the government of Abu Dhabi.  ‘Deep Hole’  The $8.4 billion transaction in 2008 helped reduce AMD’s
debt from $5.5 billion in 2007 to about $2.2 billion now. It
also let the company cut capital spending to about 10 percent of
what it was three years ago, according to Chief Financial
Officer  Thomas Seifert .  Profitability will continue to improve. Today, Seifert
predicted gross margin, the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting production costs, will be between 44 percent and 48
percent in 2011. A year ago, he predicted a 40 percent to 45
percent range for 2010. AMD will be able to achieve a margin of
above 50 percent in the long term, he said today during a
presentation at the company’s headquarters.  “They were coming out of a deep hole,” T. Rowe’s Spencer
said. “I’m impressed by what they’ve done.”  ‘Critical Mass’  The moves haven’t reignited investor interest in the stock.
The shares have declined 18 percent this year, and they’re
trading at a fraction of their $42 price in 2006. Intel shares
have climbed 3.7 percent this year.  AMD fell 23 cents to $7.91 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . Intel lost 7 cents to $21.16.  “A company that’s up against some huge odds managed to stay
in it,” said  Alex Gauna , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in San
Francisco. “The question is: Will they get more interesting? I’m
not anticipating they’re going to be a disruptive force.”  Rick Bergman , AMD’s senior vice president of products,
disagrees.  “The No. 1 thing we have to do is have a differentiated
product,” said Bergman, who joined AMD with Markham, Ontario-
based ATI in 2006. In the past, “AMD didn’t have the critical
mass, got bogged down in running fabs, and now we’re free from
that burden.”  The difference between the new chips, according to Bergman,
is that  AMD  will have state-of-the-art graphics, worthy of the
most advanced computer games. Intel’s Sandy Bridge chip is years
away from being able to handle that, he said.  “It just can’t do certain things,” Bergman said. “Would you
want to buy a notebook and know from day one it has three-or
four-year-old graphics technology?”  Single Chip  Intel  says its Sandy Bridge chip represents a significant
advance in graphics. “The overall performance and graphics
capabilities of the Sandy Bridge processor are outstanding and
represent a major step forward,” said  Tom Beermann , a spokesman
for Santa Clara, California-based Intel.  Both Fusion and Sandy Bridge combine two of the key
components of a computer onto one chip. That reduces battery
drain and speeds up processing by letting computers better share
memory. Until now, advanced graphics chips have mainly gone into
add-on computer boards. Those products are popular with gamers,
who use them to get more realistic visuals.  AMD is counting on more than gamers to help Fusion catch
on. New versions of programs for surfing the Web, including
 Microsoft Corp. ’s Internet Explorer, could take advantage of the
graphics features as well, the company says.  If AMD is right, computer users will get faster browsing,
higher-definition video from programs like  Adobe Systems Inc. ’s
Flash, and home movies that can remove the jerks and swings from
handheld cameras.  Before  AMD ’s vision for Fusion can take hold, the company
needs to keep delivering chips on time and find ways to be more
nimble than Intel, Meyer said.  “As a small company, we’ve got to always look for ways to
answer the question, ‘What’s better, what’s different about
AMD?’” he said. “I can’t rely on having home runs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  