-- Manhattan Salaries Rose 11.9% in First Quarter, Fed by Financial Industry
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-09T18:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/manhattan-salaries-rose-11-9-in-first-quarter-fed-by-financial-industry.html
New York City’s borough of Manhattan
experienced an 11.9 percent increase in salaries between January
and March, the most for any big county in the nation after
federal policies helped stabilize the financial industry,
according to the U.S. Labor Department.  The jump in Manhattan, where average weekly wages surged to
$2,404, the highest rate among the biggest U.S. counties, didn’t
extend to the city’s four outer boroughs, where average pay
declined in the 2010 first quarter, the department’s  Bureau of
Labor Statistics  said today. It said wages rose an average of
0.8 percent nationwide.  Brooklyn led the city in job-creation, with a 1.4 percent
gain from the 2009 first quarter. The Bronx added 0.7 percent,
while Manhattan, Staten Island and Queens each lost employment,
according to the bureau. While the losses in Manhattan were
second-highest in financial activities, that category also had
the greatest average pay, at $7,709 between January and March,
up 23 percent from a year earlier.  “The financial-services industry is coming back in New
York and we’re seeing the effect that bonuses have on the
economy,” said  Michael Dolfman , regional labor commissioner in
the city. “We can attribute this obviously to the TARP program,
which helped the financial industry around the country and in
Manhattan,” he said, referring to the U.S. aid plan for banks.  Dolfman described the results as “mixed, with good news
that financial services, which drives the New York City economy,
coming back with the promise of influencing a wide variety of
businesses.”  ‘Bad News’  “The bad news is that the outlying boroughs did not
experience the level of recovery we saw in Manhattan,” he said.
Average weekly wages fell 1.5 percent in the Bronx, and 1
percent each in Queens and Brooklyn, the bureau said. None of
the four outer boroughs had average pay rates above the $889
national average, according to the bureau.  The information industry had the next-highest weekly
average wage in Manhattan, at $2,504, followed by professional
and business services, at $2,422. Leisure and hospitality had
the lowest average wage, at $707, the bureau said. Compensation
in every “supersector” was higher in Manhattan than the
national industry averages.  The city’s unemployment rate dropped to 9.3 percent in
September, the lowest level in 16 months, the state  Labor
Department  said on Oct. 21. The rate fell from 9.4 percent in
August and was down from 10.3 percent a year earlier. The
nation’s most-populous city saw private employment rise by
33,700 in the year through September, the department said.  Financial Employment  In September, the number of financial-industry workers fell
by 1,600 to 432,200, though that total was 3,900 higher than a
year earlier. Wall Street gained jobs in July and August.  In the first quarter, Manhattan’s greatest job losses came
in the professional and business services category, which shrank
by 17,300 jobs from a year earlier, according to the Bureau of
Labor Statistics. The financial activities category lost 14,200.  Enacted in October 2008, the federal Troubled Assets Relief
Program, or TARP, provided $700 billion to be used by the U.S.
Treasury to buy illiquid assets from banks and other financial
institutions. The capital helped them to stabilize their balance
sheets in the aftermath of widespread foreclosures on properties
financed with subprime mortgages and the collapse of the
derivatives market upon which they were based.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  