-- Hanjin, China Shipping May Lead Revival in Ship Orders on `Roaring' Trade
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-11-09T05:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/hanjin-china-shipping-may-lead-revival-in-ship-orders-on-roaring-trade.html
Hanjin Shipping Co. , South Korea’s
largest shipping line, and China Shipping (Group) Co. said they
were close to ordering new vessels as world trade rebounds from
the global recession.  Hanjin may announce a deal for mid-size container ships by
as early as year-end, Chief Executive Officer  Kim Young Min  said
today at a conference in Guangzhou, China. China Shipping will
make an order soon, President  Li Shaode  said at the same event.
He declined to say which type of ships the group was looking at.  Evergreen Group is also near to ordering about 10 ships,
part of plans to buy 100, as trade recovers from a slump last
year that caused industrywide losses. Global container-shipping
volume may jump as much as 8 percent next year, as economic
growth in the U.S. and Europe spurs demand for Asian-made goods,
Kim said.  “The worst is over for Asian shipping lines, so it’s a
good time to order vessels,” said  Minoru Matsuno , president of
Value Search Asset Management Co., a Tokyo-based investment
advisory firm. “At the same time, the industry needs to ensure
it doesn’t repeat the overcapacity mistakes that helped hammer
rates last year.”  Evergreen Orders  Evergreen Group, Asia’s largest container line, plans to
order ships able to hold about 8,000 containers, said Vice
Chairman  Bronson Hsieh . The Taiwan-based company has ordered 20
similar vessels, worth about $2 billion, from  Samsung Heavy
Industries Co.  since June. Second-ranked Neptune Orient Lines
Ltd. has ordered 12 ships from Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. in the same period.  Evergreen Marine Corp., Evergreen’s listed unit, fell 0.2
percent to NT$25.15 at 1:03 p.m. in Taipei trading. Hanjin
Shipping rose 1.7 percent to 35,250 won in Seoul. China Shipping
Container Lines Co., a unit of China Shipping Group, fell 0.3
percent to HK$3.44 in Hong Kong.  The global economy is recovering and the shipping market is
“roaring,”  Wei Jiafu , chairman of China Cosco Holdings Co.,
Asia’s biggest shipping line by market value, said at the
Guangzhou conference.  Still, the industry needs to adopt a “more rational
mentality” to prevent a glut of new vessels from damping rates.
China Cosco has no plans to order vessels this year, and it will
assess market conditions before deciding on fleet plans next
year, he said.  Sinotrans & CSC Holdings Co.  plans to adjust orders in
segments where there is overcapacity, said President  Zhao Huxiang . He declined to elaborate. The company is China’s third-
largest state-controlled shipping group behind China Cosco
parent China Ocean Shipping (Group) Co. and China Shipping.  Shipping lines have eased overcapacity by scrapping vessels
and by operating ships more slowly. This reduces capacity as the
same number of vessel make fewer trips and also pares fuel
usage.  Separately, China Shipping Group also plans to announce a
“major” logistics investment in coastal regions, Li said,
without elaboration. The group operates container vessels and
dry-bulk ships used to carry commodities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Beijing at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  