-- U.K. Factory Production Expanded for Fifth Month in September
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-09T09:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/manufacturing-in-u-k-expands-for-fifth-month-as-economy-sustains-rebound.html
U.K. manufacturing expanded for a
fifth month in September to reach the strongest level in almost
two years as the economic recovery sustained its momentum.  Output climbed 0.1 percent from the previous month, the
Office for National Statistics said today in London. The median
forecast of 25 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey  was for an
increase of 0.2 percent. Overall industrial production rose 0.4
percent, and the trade deficit narrowed as exports gained.  The Bank of England last week kept its bond-purchase plan
unchanged at 200 billion pounds ($322 billion) after Britain’s
economy grew twice as fast as predicted in the third quarter.
Still, officials have said that the government’s planned fiscal
squeeze, the deepest since World War II, may hamper the recovery
and hurt  consumer confidence .  “It’s a small increase,” said Hetal Mehta, an economist
at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe and a former U.K. Treasury
official. “We will avoid a double-dip recession as there will
be enough momentum to see us through the first half of next
year.”  The pound rose about 0.3 percent against the dollar after
the release and traded at $1.6120 as of 9:42 a.m. in London. The
yield on the benchmark two-year government bond was unchanged
today at 0.676 percent.  Chemicals, Food  The index of manufacturing rose to 91.3, the highest since
November 2008, the statistics office said. Out of 13 categories
of factory production, seven rose, led by chemical and man-made
fibers, basic metals and metal products, and food, drinks and
tobacco. Six of the components fell on the month.  London-based Associated British Foods Plc said in a
statement today that annual profit jumped 52 percent as its
sugar-producing unit raised sales.  Overall industrial production, which also includes
utilities, mining and quarrying and accounts for 17 percent of
the economy, increased 0.4 percent in September, matching the
median forecast 29 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Output in the mining and quarrying industry increased by
1.3 percent on the month as oil and gas production rose 0.9
percent. Utilities production climbed 1.4 percent, the
statistics office said.  Bank of England policy makers have split three ways on
whether to focus on fostering growth or curbing inflation.
 Andrew Sentance  has since June argued for higher interest rates,
while  Adam Posen  in October voted for a 50 billion-pound
increase in the emergency bond plan.  The trade deficit narrowed to 8.2 billion pounds from 8.5
billion pounds in August, the statistics office said in a
separate report. Exports increased by 2.2 percent, while imports
rose by 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Fraher  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  