-- M&S's Bolland Targets Overseas, Online to Boost Revenue 30%
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-11-09T10:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/marks-spencer-targets-sales-of-as-much-as-12-5-billion-pounds-by-2014.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc’s  new Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  plans to add stores in Shanghai
and India and strengthen the U.K. clothing retailer’s online
offering to boost sales by more than 30 percent in four years.  The number of Simply Food convenience outlets will also
increase, while a cost-saving plan will be accelerated, Bolland
said today after a six-month review of the business. Marks &
Spencer also reported a 14 percent gain in first-half  earnings.   “The business is in good shape and we have strong
foundations on which to build through evolution not
revolution,” the CEO said on a conference call. “We want to
bring more specialty back into the brand and our stores.”  Bolland, the 51-year-old Dutchman who joined Marks in May,
said he aims to build on the retailer’s “brand strength” to
maintain an acceleration in  sales growth  at the U.K. food and
clothing businesses. The plan will lead to additional capital
spending of 850 million pounds ($1.37 billion) to 900 million
pounds over three years, funded from existing cash flows.  “It’s a bit more of everything, more international, more
online, more cost savings,”  Simon Irwin , an analyst at Liberum
Capital, said by phone. “It’s a bit dull.”  Marks & Spencer  rose  2.8 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 416
pence at 10:28 a.m. in London trading, reversing a drop of as
much as 3.2 percent. The stock has gained 3.5 percent this year.  Overseas Sales  Bolland said he aims to increase the retailer’s sales to as
much as 12.5 billion pounds by fiscal 2014.  Revenue  was 9.54
billion pounds in the year ended March 2010.  Overseas sales are forecast to increase to between 800
million and 1 billion pounds. Marks & Spencer, which has more
than 320 owned and franchised stores in 41 countries, plans to
make India the first “priority market” for overseas growth,
followed by Shanghai, where it will open a third outlet in
December. Stores will also open in countries such as Poland
through joint ventures and franchise arrangements.  “We are looking at a couple of new markets,” Bolland
said. These include western Europe and Asia, though the CEO said
he has “no specific plans” to buy back stores sold to El Corte
Ingles in 2001 following a report in the Sunday Telegraph that
he plans to repurchase some of the 38 stores sold that year.  Bolland also plans to increase online sales to between 800
million pounds and 1 billion pounds by fiscal 2014 by building a
new platform for the retailer’s website and adding innovations
such as “personalization” which allow customers to tailor
jeans or dresses to their own style, color and size.  The CEO ruled out adding a full online food service “at
present,” as it wouldn’t be economically viable.  New Team  Pretax profit rose to 348.6 million pounds in the six
months ended Oct. 2, Marks & Spencer said today, less than the
348.9 million-pound average  estimate  of nine analysts.  Bolland, who spent his first months in the job meeting
suppliers abroad and visiting stores, has a reputation for
reviving businesses. Within two years of his arrival as CEO of
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc, he turned a 250 million-pound
loss into a record profit of 554 million pounds, scrapping the
company’s century-old logo and introducing new store formats.  At Marks & Spencer, he’s starting with a new team of
executives.  Alan Stewart  began in October as finance director to
replace  Ian Dyson , who stepped down days after Bolland started.
 Robert Swannell , who helped defend the company against
billionaire  Philip Green ’s 2004 takeover bid, will replace Rose
as chairman in January. The company is also seeking division
heads for its Internet, international and homeware businesses.  Portfolio Axed  The 125-year-old retailer said today it plans to reduce a
trial of 400 branded food products such as H.J. Heinz Co.
ketchup to 100 items and will add 100 exclusive international
brands like Japanese soy sauce.  The Portfolio clothing brand, which was introduced last
year and aimed at female customers aged 45 years and over, will
be eliminated as part of the shake-up in clothing. Other brands
will get dedicated managers and be enhanced through better in-
store presentation and marketing, the retailer said.  Marks & Spencer will also exit the technology market where
it sells televisions, in preference for more home furnishings,
kitchen products and bedding.  The CEO plans to increase the amount of selling space by 3
percent per year with more Simply Food convenience outlets. Cost
savings from the supply chain and information technology will
increase to 300 million pounds from 250 million pounds.  “Overall, this package looks challenging, but not
impossible,”  Tony Shiret , an analyst at Credit Suisse, said in
a research report. He has a “neutral” recommendation.  The retailer said its  dividend  will continue to be
“broadly” 50 percent of earnings per share, after increasing
the first-half payout by 13 percent to 6.2 pence a share.  Bolland said he’s “cautious, but optimistic” about this
year’s holiday season, with 12,000 orders for Christmas dinners
already in place and 1,000 new food products in store.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 