-- Asian Currencies Rise as China Allows Faster Yuan Gains Ahead of G-20 Meet
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-09T10:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/asian-currencies-rise-as-china-allows-faster-yuan-gains-ahead-of-g-20-meet.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led by
the yuan and the Thai baht, on speculation China will allow
faster appreciation of its currency ahead of a meeting of
leaders from the Group of 20 nations in Seoul later this week.  The yuan gained 0.51 percent to 6.6440 as of 5.30 p.m. in
Shanghai, its biggest daily advance since a peg against the
dollar was scrapped in July 2005. The People’s Bank of China
raised the yuan’s reference rate by 0.17 percent to 6.6580
against the dollar today, the biggest increase in more than
three weeks, after U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
said yesterday the country needs to continue to allow the yuan
to strengthen.  “China surprised markets by fixing the yuan higher despite
the move of a lower euro,” said Brad Bechtel, a currency trader
at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros Trading LLC. “This added a
boost to risk assets which caused non-Japan Asian currencies to
rally.”  Thailand’s baht advanced 0.5 percent to a thirteen-year
high of 29.51 on speculation exporters were converting overseas
earnings to guard against further gains in the currency.
Thailand needs to adjust to a stronger currency, Finance
Minister Korn Chatikavanij said last week.  Bucking the appreciating trend, the Philippine peso fell by
0.3 percent to 43.36 against the dollar. Malaysia’s ringgit
weakened by 0.1 percent to 3.0955.  Capital Controls  The two currencies declined after the World Bank said
yesterday Asian economies may need to turn to capital controls
as quantitative easing by the U.S. threatens to spur asset
bubbles in the region’s stock, currency and property markets.
China will force banks to hold more foreign exchange and
strengthen auditing of overseas fund raising as part of efforts
to crack down on hot-money inflows, the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange said in a statement on its website today.  “Concern over the timing and extent of capital controls is
likely to cause swings in Asian currencies,” said Enrico
Tanuwidjaja, an economist at OSK-DMG Group in Singapore.  Capital controls should be “targeted,” temporary and
tailored to address specific problems, Sri Mulyani Indrawati, a
World Bank managing director, said in an interview. This could
include countries tying up funds for as long as a year to help
limit hot money, she said.  Taiwan Deputy Finance Minister Chang Sheng-ford said today
a faster and more effective way for the island to control the
inflow of speculative funds would be to impose a management fee
rather than a tax. South Korean Financial Supervisory Service
Governor Kim Jong Chang said in Seoul yesterday the country may
seek to strengthen rules that limit foreign and domestic banks’
currency derivative positions and that banks will be penalized
if inappropriate trades are found.  Elsewhere, the Taiwanese dollar was little changed at
NT$30.63 compared with NT$30.636 yesterday. South Korea’s won
recovered from early losses to close unchanged at 1,113.25. The
Indonesian rupiah was unchanged at 8,908 and the Singapore
dollar gained 0.3 percent to S$1.2840.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 