-- AT&T Cuts Price of RIM's BlackBerry Torch Smartphone in Half
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-11-09T22:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/at-t-cuts-price-of-rim-s-blackberry-torch-in-half-three-months-after-debut.html
AT&T Inc. , the second-largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier, cut the price of the  Research In Motion
Ltd.  BlackBerry Torch in half less than three months after it
began selling the smartphone.  The carrier dropped the price to $99.99 with a two-year
contract from the $199.99 it charged when it began selling the
Torch on Aug. 12. AT&T faces competition from websites such as
 Amazon.com Inc. , where the device sells for as little as 1 cent,
and Wirefly.com, which prices it at $29.99. The sites previously
offered the Torch for $99.99.  AT&T is adding phones, including three yesterday using
Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7 software, to help reduce its
reliance on its top-selling  Apple Inc.  iPhone. The Dallas-based
carrier’s stores feature a separate section for the Torch.  The price cut doesn’t necessarily mean that RIM will get
less money for each Torch it sells. Carriers typically subsidize
the price of mobile phones to help lure customers into signing
multiyear service contracts. The Torch is RIM’s first device to
combine a touch screen with a full Qwerty keyboard.  “We are pleased with the business and consumer response to
the Torch,” said  Kate Tellier , a spokeswoman for AT&T, adding
the carrier doesn’t provide specific sales figures. She said the
price cut was promotional and declined to comment on prices
available at other websites.  “The promotional price is obviously an amazing value and
we think it will attract a lot of interest in retail channels,”
 Marisa Conway , a spokeswoman for Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM,
said in an e-mail.  AT&T was unchanged at $29.18 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading and RIM  fell  $1.50, or 2.7 percent,
to $55 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  