-- Tata Motors Boosts Quarterly Profit 100-Fold on Jaguar Land Rover Sales
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2010-11-09T19:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/tata-motors-boosts-quarterly-profit-100-fold-on-jaguar-land-rover-sales.html
Tata Motors Ltd. , the owner of
Jaguar Land Rover, posted a more than 100-fold gain in second-
quarter profit as the global economic recovery and growing
demand in China and the U.S. boosted sales of luxury vehicles.  Group net income , including Jaguar Land Rover, reached 22.2
billion rupees ($502 million) in the three months through
September, compared with 218 million rupees a year earlier, the
Mumbai-based company said yesterday. Profit beat the 17.1
billion-rupee average estimate of 10 analysts  compiled  by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 36 percent to 287.8 billion rupees.  Jaguar Land Rover returned to a profit in the quarter, with
sales up 43 percent on rising demand for $72,000 Jaguar XJ
sedans in the U.S. and China. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and
 Daimler AG , the owner of Mercedes-Benz, have both raised their
profit forecasts. Tata Motors shares have jumped 60 percent this
year in Mumbai, triple the gain in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
benchmark Sensitive Index.  “The margins at Jaguar Land Rover look good, and the
demand remains strong,” said  Juergen Maier , a fund manager at
Raiffeisen Capital Management in Vienna. “They have models a
lot of people are interested in. Within their niche, they are
very well positioned.”  Excluding Jaguar Land Rover and certain other units, profit
declined 41 percent to 4.33 billion rupees, trailing the 5.14
billion-rupee average estimate of 19  analysts . The year-earlier
figure included a one-time gain from a share sale.  Jaguar Profit  Tata  rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,269.9 rupees in Mumbai
yesterday before the earnings release.  Jaguar Land Rover’s profit reached 238.1 million pounds in
the quarter, compared with a loss of 60.4 million pounds a year
earlier, Tata said.  Higher sales of Tata-brand trucks, buses and cars were
offset by rising raw-material costs in Asia’s third-largest
economy. The company would offset higher input costs with a
price increase that took effect Oct. 1 and by streamlining
operations, Chief Financial Officer C. Ramakrishnan told
investors on a conference call yesterday.  Last month, the automaker raised prices of the Nano, the
world’s cheapest car, by as much as 7 percent, or 9,000 rupees.
Tata opened a factory in June in the western state of Gujarat
that eventually may make as many as 350,000 Nanos a year.  The company plans to retrofit Nano cars to reduce the risk
of them catching fire, Tata Chief Executive Officer  Carl-Peter Forster  told reporters in Mumbai. The cars, a few of which had
earlier caught fire, would be fitted with fuse boxes to prevent
short-circuits, and catalytic-converter covers to prevent
anything that touched them from igniting.  Debt Ratio  Tata Motors’ debt-to-equity ratio has shrunk to 1.16,
Ramakrishnan told reporters. The company raised $750 million
selling shares overseas, it said on Oct. 12. Tata plans to raise
as much as 47 billion rupees to expand operations and pare  debt 
from the purchase of the luxury brands, it said June 28.  The company, also India’s largest commercial-vehicle maker,
has  outstanding bonds and loans  of more than 200 billion rupees,
according to Bloomberg data.  Last month the company had its debt rating raised by
Standard & Poor’s by one level to “BB-,” three levels below
investment grade. The ratings company also gave Tata a
“stable” outlook. Moody’s Investors Service also upgraded  Tata 
for the second this time year on Oct. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  