-- Atlantic Yards Judge Tells Empire State to Re-Examine Environmental Effect
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-11-10T00:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/atlantic-yards-judge-questions-n-y-s-environmental-review-of-project.html
A New York state court judge ordered
 Empire State Development Corp.  to re-examine whether a further
environmental review is needed for the Atlantic Yards project in
Brooklyn that will include offices, housing and a sports arena.  Justice Marcy Friedman, whose decision today didn’t halt
construction at the site, faulted the state agency for failing
to provide the statutorily required “reasoned elaboration” for
dispensing with a supplemental environmental impact study. The
judge said the agency should have determined whether the study
was needed after the developer, Forest City Ratner Cos.,
acquired additional air rights and the timeframe for the
project’s completion was extended to 25 years from 10.  Forest City’s $4.9 billion Atlantic Yards project will
include residential and commercial properties, the centerpiece
of which will be the Barclays Center sports arena that will
house the National Basketball Association’s New Jersey Nets.  The 22-acre project, sitting astride the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority’s Vanderbilt Rail Yards, will include
17 buildings, comprised of 336,000 square feet of offices and
6.36 million square feet of residential space in addition to the
18,000-seat venue, according to the developer’s  website .  Two groups opposing the project,  Develop Don’t Destroy
(Brooklyn) Inc.  and the Prospect Heights Neighborhood
Development Council Inc., had asked Friedman to re-examine her
March ruling that no supplemental review was needed.  Lies, Deception  “We are thrilled with the court’s decision,” Candace
Carponter, chairwoman of Develop Don’t Destroy (Brooklyn)’s
legal committee, said in a statement posted on the group’s
website. “It has laid bare the pattern of lies and deception by
ESDC and Forest City Ratner that underlie this project,” she
said, referring to the state development agency.  The state agency is reviewing Friedman’s decision, said
 Elizabeth Mitchell , an ESDC spokeswoman, in an e-mailed
statement.  “Nothing was announced today that’s going to impact
construction,”  Jeff Linton , a spokesman for Cleveland-based
Forest City Enterprises, said in a phone interview.  The Nets currently play their home games at the Prudential
Center, the Newark arena they share with the National Hockey
League’s New Jersey Devils.  Barclays Plc has signed a 20-year, $400 million naming-
rights agreement for the Brooklyn arena.  Mikhail Prokhorov , a
Russian billionaire, acquired 80 percent of the basketball team
and 45 percent of the arena from Forest City principal  Bruce Ratner  last year for $200 million.  The cases are Develop Don’t Destroy (Brooklyn) Inc. v.
Empire State Development Corp., 114631/2009, and Prospect
Heights Neighborhood Development Council Inc. v. Empire State
Development Corp., 116323/2009, New York State Supreme Court,
New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 