-- Latvia's Economy Expands for First Time Since Crisis as Austerity Pays Off
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-11-09T13:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/latvian-third-quarter-gdp-grows-2-7-first-annual-expansion-in-2-5-years.html
Latvia’s  economy  expanded on an
annual basis for the first time since the Baltic state was
engulfed by the global financial crisis more than two years ago
as the European Union’s toughest austerity measures pay off.  Gross domestic product grew an annual 2.7 percent last
quarter, the  central statistics office  in Riga reported today,
citing preliminary data. That compares with the 0.9 percent
median forecast in a  Bloomberg survey  of eight economists. The
economy grew a seasonally-adjusted 0.8 percent from the second
quarter, the third consecutive increase.  “The Latvian economy, which was hardest hit by the global
credit crisis, has gradually moved upward,” said  Violeta Klyviene , a senior analyst at Danske Bank A/S, in a note to
clients. “We expect the gradual recovery of the Latvian economy
to continue.”  A rebound in Latvia’s industrial production and exports
helped end the longest economic decline in the European Union.
Budget cuts needed to comply with the country’s $10.4 billion
international bailout have improved competitiveness as lower
wages help companies sell their goods abroad. The economy is
recovering after shrinking about 25 percent through nine
quarters of declines, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  ‘Draconian’ Cuts  “Mainly on the back of stronger competitive power arising
from the draconian wage cuts, Latvian exports are growing at an
annual rate of 30 percent,” said  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist at
JPMorgan Chase, in an e-mailed note. Growth next year may reach
3 percent, he said.  Industrial production  expanded 19.4 percent in the third
quarter and exports increased to a record 460.7 million lati
($904.6 million) in September. Latvia’s economy will contract
about 1 percent this year, central bank Governor  Ilmars Rimsevics  said on Nov. 4.  “Although the details are yet to be announced, we suspect
that continued export strength and some inventory build-up were
the main factors behind this growth performance,” Cebeci said.
JPMorgan expects Latvia’s economy to contract 0.4 percent on
average this year, compared with a previous forecast for a 1.5
percent slump.  The economic contraction this year “may be close to
zero,” said Finance Minister  Andris Vilks , according to the
 Baltic News Service . The government is well positioned to
improve its credit rating within about six months, Vilks said,
according to the Riga-based newswire.  Credit Ratings  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, which cut Latvia’s
credit rating to junk in 2009, raised their outlooks to stable
this year. Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Latvia Baa3,
its lowest investment grade, also raised its outlook to stable.  The recovery is boosting tax revenue as Latvia seeks an
additional 400 million lati of spending cuts and revenue
measures to meet its goal of slashing the budget deficit to 6
percent of GDP next year. Lawmakers already approved austerity
measures equal to about 14 percent of economic output since
seeking the IMF and European Union loan in late 2008.  Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis  has said the government
will decide on the size of cuts in the 2011 budget after the
third quarter figures are released.  The yield on Latvia’s 5.5 percent bond due March 2018 fell
3 basis points today to a record-low 5.12 percent. That compares
with a high of 12 percent in March 2009. The cost of insuring
against default has eased. Credit default swaps on Latvian five-
year debt slipped to 273 basis points yesterday, compared with
328 at the beginning of last month and 1,200 in March 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  