-- Auburn's Newton Cheated While at University of Florida, Fox Sports Reports
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-09T20:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/auburn-s-newton-cheated-while-at-university-of-florida-fox-sports-reports.html
Auburn University quarterback  Cam Newton  had three instances of academic cheating during his two
years at the University of Florida,  Fox Sports said .  Newton, who has led Auburn to a 10-0 record and No. 2
ranking in college football’s Bowl Championship Series
standings, attended Florida in 2007 and 2008 before transferring
to a junior college in Texas. Newton faced potential expulsion
from Florida, Fox Sports said, citing a person familiar with the
situation it didn’t identify.  Newton is a leading candidate for the Heisman Trophy as
college football’s top player, having passed for  1,890 yards  and
19 touchdowns with five interceptions. He’s also rushed for a
team-leading 1,146 yards and 15 scores.  Auburn  Athletic Director Jay Jacobs said the school
supports Newton “100 percent” and that he’s eligible both
academically and athletically.  “In the past 24 hours, a lot of allegations have surfaced
that date back two years ago and further,” Jacobs said in an e-
mailed statement. “These allegations and rumors about Cam
Newton are unfortunate and sad because they seem intent on
tearing down the reputation of a young man who has done
everything we’ve asked him to do.”  Newton, who transferred to Auburn in January, cheated in a
class as a freshman at Florida, Fox Sports said. The following
year he turned in another student’s paper with his name on it
and submitted a subsequent paper that was purchased off the
Internet, according to the report.  Tebow’s Backup  Newton, who was a backup to  Tim Tebow  at Florida,
transferred to junior college before a scheduled hearing in
front of Florida’s Student Conduct Committee, Fox Sports said.  “Any discussion of academic records is a clear violation
of federal privacy laws,” Jacobs said. “We will not go down
that path or stoop to that level as others have apparently
done.”  Auburn hosts the University of Georgia on Nov. 13 before
finishing its regular-season schedule on the road against
Alabama on Nov. 26.  Auburn is among five schools eligible for the Southeastern
Conference championship game on Dec. 4 in Atlanta. If Auburn
claims one of the top two spots in the final BCS standings
released on Dec. 5, the Tigers would play for the national title
on Jan. 10 in Glendale, Arizona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  