-- Mauritius Stocks Rated `Bullish' in New Coverage at Nomura International
-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n   a n d   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2010-11-09T11:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/mauritius-stocks-rated-bullish-in-new-coverage-at-nomura-international.html
Mauritian stocks were rated
“bullish” in new coverage at Nomura International Ltd., which
said the island nation was well positioned to act as a financial
hub between the Middle East, North Africa and India.  “The combination of a low tax regime and an expanding
duty-free zone, a strong western legal structure and a
reputation for financial diligence has given Mauritius the
comparative advantage to develop an offshore financial services
centre that we believe compete with Dubai and Singapore,” Hong
Kong-based strategist Sean Darby wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients dated today. “The market remains quite cheap on price-
to-book terms, and on price-earnings terms, it is still
attractive relative to other emerging markets.”  Mauritian stocks gained for a second day, with the SEMDEX
adding 1 percent to 1,890.15, the highest since June 2008, by
the 1:30 p.m. close in Port Louis, the capital. The 37-member 
index  has increased 14 percent this year, outpacing an 8.1
percent gain in the  MSCI World  index and underperforming the
 MSCI Frontier Market  measure’s 15 percent advance.  The Mauritian measure trades on a multiple of 16.58 times
earnings, compared with 15.13 times for the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index . In price-to-book terms, the SEMDEX is at 1.16
compared with the MSCI EM’s 2.16.  Nomura defines a “bullish” stance as indicating that an
analyst expects the industry to outperform the benchmark during
the next 12 months. Nomura International is a unit of Nomura
Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in Cape Town at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net ;
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  