-- Australia Consumer Confidence Declines 5.3% on Central Bank Rate Increase
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-09T23:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/australia-consumer-confidence-declines-5-3-on-central-bank-rate-increase.html
Australian  consumer confidence 
declined in November to a five-month low after the central bank
resumed raising interest rates, sending mortgage payments higher.  The sentiment index fell 5.3 percent to 110.7 this month,
according to a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute
survey of 1,200 consumers conducted Nov. 1-7 and released today
in Sydney.  Today’s report comes after Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board boosted the benchmark
interest rate to 4.75 percent on Nov. 2, ending a five-month
pause as a mining investment boom bolsters the economy. A gauge
of family finances dropped 10.2 percent, the biggest decline
among five components in the sentiment index, Westpac said.  “The mining boom will be positive for the economy but not
necessarily helpful to households’ own financial position,”
said  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief economist. “The general mood”
of consumers and businesses heading into the holiday sales
season “is not particularly upbeat,” he said.  Evans expects the  RBA  to hold the benchmark rate unchanged
until the second quarter of next year.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s biggest home
lender, said after last week’s rate decision it will raise its
standard mortgage interest rate by almost double the central
bank’s increase.  ‘Disturbing’  Evans said the decline in confidence about a family’s
finances from a year earlier was “disturbing.” He also said
responses to questions about spending plans over the next two
months “underscore the cautious consumer mood.”  Still, a “modest” decline in consumer views about whether
now is a good time to buy a major household item is “certainly
welcome,” Evans said.  “We expect that the soaring Australian dollar is
supporting this optimism and does provide retailers with reason
for some optimism despite the overall fall in the index,” he
said.  The RBA said in its quarterly monetary policy statement
last week that economic growth will strengthen to 3.75 percent
by the end of 2011, climbing to 4 percent by the end of 2012.
Consumer prices will rise 2.75 percent through June 2012;
previously, the RBA had estimated inflation of 3.25 percent.  Australia’s unemployment rate, at 5.1 percent in September,
is about half the level of joblessness in the U.S. The level
probably dropped to 5 percent last month, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of a Nov. 11
government report on employment.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  