-- Babcock to Seek Partial Revival of Scrapped U.K. Defense-Training Program
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-11-09T12:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/babcock-to-seek-u-k-defense-training-program-s-partial-revival-after-cuts.html
Babcock International Group Plc ,
which maintains Britain’s submarine fleet, said it aims to
revive parts of a U.K. military-training project after a venture
including Qinetiq Group Plc lost an order amid budget cuts.  Babcock, which bought government-services company
VT Group Plc in July, already trains parts of Britain’s army,
navy and air force and is “very capable” of delivering new
teaching plans, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Rogers  said today
in a telephone interview.  The government canceled the first stage of the so-called
defense training rationalization program on Oct. 19 as part of a
plan to reduce military spending by 8 percent. Metrix UK, a
joint venture including  Qinetiq  and France’s Sodexo SA, was the
preferred bidder on the program, which was aimed at specialists
in aeronautical engineering, electro-mechanical engineering and
communications and information systems.  “The original plan was to build a university of the armed
forces in south Wales,” Rogers said. “That’s become
unaffordable, but they still have the need for training.”  Government efforts to revise the program are “something we
are very capable of helping them with,” and training could take
place at a number of sites the Defense Ministry already owns
without the cost of setting up a university, Rogers said.  Military Cutbacks  Other military-spending cutbacks outlined in October
include a 6.9 percent reduction in the U.K.’s standing army,
reduction of the naval fleet and cancellation of an order for
BAE Systems Plc’s Nimrod surveillance plane. The Defense
Ministry said when it scrapped the training program that it will
“examine a range of alternative proposals.”  The U.K. will proceed with building two aircraft carriers,
adapting the vessels to allow the use of a variant of Lockheed
Martin Corp.’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter plane. Babcock is one
of the contractors building the ships.  Alexander Hesketh  resigned yesterday from Babcock’s board
after the London-based company distanced itself from comments he
made in a Daily Telegraph interview criticizing U.K. defense
policy.  The Daily Telegraph cited Hesketh as calling the aircraft
carrier program “a disaster” and saying Britain’s fleet of
Typhoon warplanes, made by a group including London-based BAE,
could have been adapted for naval operations rather than the F-
35s built by Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed. Rogers said
today that he didn’t know whether this option had been explored.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  