-- Bank of England Should Keep Loose Policy as U.K. Squeezes Budget, IMF Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-11-09T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/bank-of-england-should-keep-loose-policy-as-u-k-squeezes-budget-imf-says.html
The Bank of England should maintain
emergency stimulus for the economy to offset the government’s
budget squeeze and a protracted recovery in bank lending, the
International Monetary Fund said.  “A highly accommodative monetary stance remains
appropriate given the need to maintain overall policy stimulus
as fiscal tightening takes hold and financial intermediation
normalizes only gradually,” the Washington-based IMF said in a
report released on its website today.  Policy makers this month held their bond-purchase plan at
200 billion pounds ($323 billion) and the key  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
will tomorrow present officials’ first economic forecasts since
the government unveiled the details of Britain’s biggest budget
squeeze since World War II.  The IMF repeated its forecast released in October for the
U.K. economy to expand 1.7 percent this year and 2 percent next
year. Today’s report said the central bank should be prepared to
“be nimble” and respond quickly to either persistently high
inflation or signs the recovery is faltering.  “Policy rates should be raised gradually if output
recovers apace and inflation continues to surprise on the
upside,” the IMF report said. “Conversely, asset purchases
should resume if the recovery weakens and disinflationary
pressures mount.”  BOE Split  A three-way split has emerged on the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee, with  Andrew Sentance  maintaining a
campaign he began in June for higher interest rates to control
inflation, and  Adam Posen  arguing for more bond purchases to
support the recovery. Minutes of this month’s decision will be
published on Nov. 17.  Inflation , which was above the government’s 3 percent limit
in September, may remain high next year as the government raises
sales tax, though it will slow below the bank’s 2 percent goal
in 2012, the IMF said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government plans
to reduce annual expenditure by 81 billion pounds by 2015.
The IMF said that  economic growth  will keep momentum through the
budget cuts, helped by a weaker pound and an improving global
environment. The U.K. currency has fallen by about a fifth on a
trade-weighted basis since the start of 2007.  Growth Risks  “Very low real interest rates, the past depreciation of
sterling, and the ongoing recovery of global demand could give a
greater boost to U.K. growth momentum,” the report said. Still,
“the possibilities of further rapid deleveraging among
households and banks, a sharp new downturn in the housing
market, and greater-than-expected weakness in parts of the euro
area constitute important downside risks to growth.”  The U.K. also faces the risk of a renewed slump if a major
shock, either domestically or from abroad, undermines
confidence, the IMF said.  “A particularly consequential, if unlikely, scenario would
see major new shocks -- arising from either external or domestic
forces -- derail confidence and thrust the U.K. economy into
another extended recession,” the report said. “In this case,
companies might begin large layoffs of staff they have retained
so far, prompting a step increase in  unemployment  with highly
adverse macro-financial feedback effects.”  The Bank of England’s bond-purchase plan has so far aided
the economic recovery by improving confidence and credit
conditions, and may be responsible for a drop of as much as 125
basis points in bond yields since the program started in March
2009, the IMF said. Still, a “clear-cut causal link” from
asset purchases to recovery in equity and other markets “is
impossible to establish.”  While monetary policy can offset strains on the economy
from the budget cuts, the government can also curtail the speed
of fiscal retrenchment in case its plans create too great a drag
on growth, the report said.  “If there’s a sharp and prolonged downturn in the economy,
the pace of fiscal consolidation may need to be adapted,”  Ajai Chopra , IMF mission chief, said in the report. “The current
accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. It
will help offset the shrinkage in the budget.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  