-- Barclays Profit Declines 76%, Says Capital Remains `Strong'
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-11-09T16:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/barclays-third-quarter-profit-declines-76-as-investment-bank-reports-loss.html
Barclays Plc , Britain’s third-largest
bank, said its capital ratio remained “strong” as quarterly
profit fell 76 percent on lower revenue at the investment
banking unit.  Pretax profit in the three months to Sept. 30 dropped to
327 million pounds ($527 million) from 1.36 billion pounds in
the year-earlier period, the London-based company said today in
a statement, missing the 797 million-pound median estimate of
four analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Barclays Capital, the
investment banking unit formerly led by Chief Executive Officer-
designate  Robert Diamond , posted a pretax loss of 182 million
pounds from a profit of 369 million pounds.  Barclays’s capital ratio “is a lot better than people will
expect and should be taken really well by the market,” wrote
 Michael Helsby , an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, who
has a “buy” rating on the stock. The Core Tier 1 ratio, a
measure of financial strength, was 10 percent, unchanged from
the first half, Barclays said. The shares rose.  Diamond, 59, will replace CEO  John Varley , 54, next year as
the bank seeks to shift its reliance on the investment bank,
which generates two-thirds of profit, to the rest of the group.
Barclays doesn’t intend to seek additional funding from
shareholders even as new international capital regulations
affect its ability to generate earnings, Diamond said in
September.  Lower Provisions  Group revenue in October was “consistent” with the rest
of 2010, the bank said, while Barclays Capital’s October income
was in line with the third quarter, the bank said. Barclays’s
bad loan provisions declined 27 percent to 1.2 billion pounds,
the company said.  The results were “alright,” said  Julian Chillingworth  who
helps manage $21 billion including Barclays shares at Rathbone
Brothers Plc in London. “They had lower provisioning, which
means they could get away without a rights issue.”  Barclays should, but won’t raise additional capital, wrote
 Mike Trippitt , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd., in a note to
investors last week.  Standard Chartered Plc  this month raised
3.3 billion pounds in a rights offering to boost capital.  “Our income and profit performance was resilient for the
first nine months of 2010 despite a subdued economic
environment,” Varley said in the statement. “Capital, leverage
and liquidity ratios remain strong,” Barclays said.  ‘Not Good Numbers’  “These are not good numbers,” wrote  Bruce Packard , an
analyst at Seymour Pierce in London who has a “hold” rating on
the stock. The bank’s shares are “unlikely to perform while
momentum slows” at the investment bank.  The  stock  gained 4 percent to 297 pence at the close of
London trading, the best performer in the five-member FTSE  350
Index  of U.K. banks. The bank is down 11 percent in the past
three months, the second-worst performance in the index.  Revenue at Barclays Capital declined 24 percent to 2.8
billion pounds as earnings from fixed income, currency and
commodities trading fell by 28 percent, while equities and prime
services fell by 34 percent in the third quarter, the bank said.
Operating expenses at the division were little changed at 1.8
billion pounds.  “Market conditions remained challenging in the third
quarter of 2010, with income also affected by a seasonal
reduction in activity,” Barclays said in the statement.  Barclays posted a 947 million-pound charge on the value of
its own bonds. Barclays Capital would have made a profit of 765
million pounds if the debt revaluation was excluded, the bank
said.  Bonus Allocation  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  last week reported a 9
million-pound loss at its investment bank after charges linked
to the revaluation of its own debt, compared with a profit of
321 million pounds a year ago. Credit Suisse Group AG, the No. 2
Swiss bank, posted a 395 million-franc ($410 million) profit at
its securities unit during the period from 1.75 billion francs a
year ago.  Barclays set aside a total of 2.2 billion pounds for
bonuses for 150,000 people across the company this year, Finance
Director  Chris Lucas  told analysts on a conference call today.
The bank increased the compensation ratio at the investment bank
to 43 percent of revenue from 42 percent in the first half. It
employs 25,000 people at Barclays Capital, up from 23,000 last
year.  Pretax profit in global retail banking declined 9 percent
to 1.37 billion pounds in the first nine months of the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  