-- Baucus, Levin Say Congress to Keep `Onerous' Minimum Tax From Increasing
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-09T21:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/baucus-levin-say-congress-will-keep-onerous-minimum-tax-from-increasing.html
Congress will “do everything
possible” to prevent the alternative-minimum tax from forcing
21 million households to pay an additional $66 billion in taxes
this year, four lawmakers said in a letter to the Internal
Revenue Service.  Max Baucus  of Montana and  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, the
chairman and top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee,
urged IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  today to prepare for the
2011 tax filing season by assuming the minimum tax will be
adjusted for inflation. A delay in making the adjustment in 2007
held up processing of tax returns and refunds the following
year.  “We will work to craft the AMT provision so that, in the
aggregate, not one additional taxpayer faces higher taxes in
2010 due to the onerous AMT,” the senators wrote in the letter.
It also was signed by Michigan Representatives  Sander Levin  and
 David Camp , the chairman and top Republican on the House Ways
and Means Committee.  The lawmakers were responding to a Nov. 5 letter from
Shulman in which he warned of delays in 2011 if legislation
isn’t enacted “until late this year.”  “We will move as fast as we possibly can to implement any
late tax law changes and minimize the impact to taxpayers,”
Shulman wrote. “However, our implementation timelines are
driven by careful planning and risk management. Changes to
systems that handle the enormous transaction and dollar volume
that the IRS manages cannot be completed without substantial
engineering and testing work.”  Lame-Duck Session  Congress plans to act on the tax during a lame-duck session
beginning Nov. 15.  The alternative-minimum tax was created in 1969 to prevent
155 wealthy Americans from avoiding any tax by claiming
excessive deductions, credits and exemptions.  It replaces deductions such as those for medical expenses
and state and local taxes with a flat exemption when the
itemized deductions become too large compared to income. Amounts
over the exemption are taxed at 26 percent or 28 percent,
depending on the amount of income.  The tax wasn’t indexed for inflation and over time has
affected Americans of more modest income. Congress has responded
with a series of annual “patches” for inflation that raise the
exemption amount.  H&R Block  For this tax year, about 21 million additional households
would face an average tax increase of between $3,000 and $5,000
unless Congress raises the exemption, said Kathy Pickering,
executive director of the Tax Institute at  H&R Block Inc . in
Kansas City, Missouri, the nation’s largest preparer of tax
returns.  The lawmakers said they are drafting legislation to set the
2010 exemptions at $72,450 for married taxpayers filing jointly
and $47,450 for singles. The exemptions currently are $45,000
and $33,750.  If lawmakers don’t adopt the patch, Pickering said, a
family of five with $50,000 in income and a child in college
would pay more taxes.  Without the patch, the minimum tax would have its greatest
effect on large families and residents of states with high
taxes, such as California and New York, because exemptions for
children and deductions for state and local taxes are denied
under the AMT. People earning between about $75,000 and $500,000
would be most likely to pay the tax, she said.  Balance Due  “Those who were looking forward to getting a refund
wouldn’t be getting one and some would have a balance due they
would otherwise not have expected,” she said.  In 2007, Congress didn’t renew the patch until Dec. 26. The
leaders of the tax-writing Senate Finance and House Ways and
Means committees sent a letter the previous Oct. 30 to the IRS
saying they planned to adopt the tax adjustment.  Because of the late change, the IRS didn’t start accepting
tax return filings until mid-February 2008, delaying refunds for
about 4 million households that usually file tax returns in
January.  IRS spokesman  Anthony Burke  said the letter from the
lawmakers “will be very helpful.” The IRS expects to process
about 140 million individual tax returns in 2011 and distribute
almost $300 billion in tax refunds, Shulman’s letter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  