-- BCE Aims to Close Purchase of `Improved' CTV Television as Early as April
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-09T21:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/bce-aims-to-close-purchase-of-improved-ctv-television-as-early-as-april.html
BCE Inc ., Canada’s largest phone
company, is aiming to close as early as April its acquisition of
broadcaster CTV, whose financial results are improving, BCE
Chief Executive Officer  George Cope  said.  “The economy turning around from where we were 24 months
ago is really important to everyone who is in the advertising
business,” Cope told reporters today after giving a speech in
Montreal. “CTV’s results have improved this year over last year
for sure.” He declined to give figures for the closely held
broadcaster.  BCE agreed in September to buy the shares of CTV it didn’t
already own for C$1.3 billion ($1.29 billion) to distinguish
itself from wireless operators new to the Canadian market. With
data revenue from BlackBerrys, iPhones and iPads growing faster
than any other source, the company plans to accelerate that
increase by broadcasting programs from CTV’s 27 television
stations and 30 specialty channels onto those devices.  Cope said at the time that the deal would close by midyear
2011, pending approval from the Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission. He said today, “I am hopeful
that it’s early in the second quarter,” cautioning that the
timing rests with the regulator.  BCE, Canada’s second-largest wireless carrier after Rogers
Communications Inc., fell 20 cents to C$33.12 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares have jumped 14
percent this year.  The Canadian government’s next auction for wireless
spectrum, or mobile-device airwaves, is unlikely to happen in
2011 and more likely in 2012 or 2013, Cope said.  “The demand we are seeing for video on wireless is what is
going to drive the spectrum requirements,” he said. “There is
incredible demand, because these new devices are so much fun.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  