-- Berlusconi Phoned Milan Police on Behalf of Arrested Minor, Minister Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-09T18:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/berlusconi-phoned-milan-police-on-behalf-of-arrested-minor-minister-says.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
called a high-ranking police officer in Milan to enquire about
the arrest of an underage woman on theft charges who he referred
to as a relative of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , Italy’s
interior minister said today.  On May 27 the chief of staff of Milan’s police headquarters
received a call “from a member of the prime minister’s security
detail who passed him to the premier,”  Roberto Maroni  told
Italy’s upper house of parliament today. “Berlusconi enquired
about the presence in the police station of a North-African girl
who had been presented to him as a relative of President
Mubarak.”  Maroni was asked to testify on the case after press reports
that Berlusconi used his influence to secure the release of the
girl, a nightclub dancer who had attended a party at his Milan
residence. The story of “Ruby Heart Stealer,” as she calls
herself, has prompted calls for Berlusconi’s resignation from
opposition leaders.  On the night of her arrest in May, the premier’s staff
called a second time “about an hour later to get more details”
on what had happened to the girl, Maroni added. The woman was
eventually released when a Nicole Minetti, a Lombardy regional
official, arrived at the police station and accepted custody of
her, Maroni said. Minetti is a former television dancer and
Berlusconi’s former dental hygienist.  A Moroccan runaway unrelated to Mubarak, Ruby was 17 years
old at the time of her arrest. Berlusconi has admitted helping
the girl, saying he had merely aided a young woman “in a tragic
situation.” He has denied pressuring police officials to
release her.  The girl said in a Nov.2  interview  with “Oggi” magazine
that she attended a party in February at one of Berlusconi’s
residences with 10 other women and was given cash and gifts by
the premier. She said in the interview that she told Berlusconi
that she was 24 years old at the time.  Editors: Andrew Davis, Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  