-- Berlusconi Refuses Former Ally's Fini's Demand to Step Down, Official Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-09T12:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/berlusconi-refuses-former-ally-s-fini-s-demand-to-step-down-official-says.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  will reject his former ally’s demand that he resign,
his chief spokesman said, escalating a political crisis that
threatens the survival of his government.  Gianfranco Fini  and his Future and Liberty for Italy party
should vote against Berlusconi in parliament and assume the
responsibility for toppling the government if he wants
Berlusconi to go,  Paolo Bonaiuti  said today at a conference in
Rome. Fini, speaker of the lower house of parliament, has enough
support in the legislature to deny Berlusconi a majority.  Fini said in a nationally broadcast  speech  on Nov. 7 that
he would pull his allies out of the government if Berlusconi
refused to step down and agree to a new governing program and to
broaden the administration to include an opposition party, the
 Union of Centrists . The rift between Berlusconi and Fini, who
co-founded the ruling  People of Liberty Party  in 2008, has
deepened since Fini broke with Berlusconi in July to set up his
new formation and challenge the premier’s leadership.  Berlusconi has not publicly commented on Fini’s ultimatum.
 Umberto Bossi , the head of the  Northern League , Berlusconi’s
closest coalition ally, said today on a visit to the flood-
damaged Veneto region, that the prime minister had given him a
mandate to try to negotiate with Fini to find a way out of the
impasse.  Underage Girl  Berlusconi’s governing coalition has been under growing
strain since media reports last month that Berlusconi intervened
to free an underage girl from police custody. The 74-year-old
leader admitted to helping the girl, who had attended a party at
one of his private residences near Milan.  Opposition leaders called for Berlusconi to step down and
former Prime Minister  Massimo D’Alema , who is the chairman of a
parliamentary committee on security, has requested he appear to
discuss security issues related to the parties. Berlusconi’s
resignation or the collapse of his government wouldn’t
necessarily lead to early elections. Italian President  Giorgio Napolitano  would first consult the political parties to see if
another government could be formed with or without Berlusconi as
its head, before calling for a vote.  The rising political tensions within Berlusconi’s coalition
come at a time when the Parliament needs to approve the
government’s budget plan, which includes spending cuts worth 13
billion euros ($18.1 billion) aimed at reducing the country’s
 deficit  which topped 5 percent of  gross domestic product  last
year.  Risk Premium  Berlusconi has repeatedly said that Italy can’t afford the
political instability caused by an election campaign at a time
when investors are shunning the bonds of Europe’s so called
peripheral countries. The spread or yield premium investors
demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds over similar maturity
German bonds rose 6 basis point today to 169.4 basis points, the
highest in five weeks.  Italy’s ratings “could come under downward pressure if
political instability were to impede the implementation of the
current” budget plan, Standard & Poor’s said in a Nov 2 report.  Napolitano called on the government’s partners to meet the
budget plan’s “mandatory commitments,” in a  statement  posted
on the Presidency’s website last night.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  will meet with members of
the coalition’s parties in parliament today to discuss possible
changes to the measures included in the plan.  Leads in Poll  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party remains the country’s
most popular and would win 29.5 percent of the vote, according
to an Ipsos Srl poll published Nov. 3 in Il Sole 24 Ore and
conducted before the story of Berlusconi’s intervention to
ensure the girl’s release hit newspapers. That compared with 24
percent for the main opposition Democratic Party. The Northern
League would gain more than 11 percent, the poll found. Fini’s
party had the support of 5.1 percent, the poll said.  “Nobody wants elections right now, apart from Berlusconi
and the League and even for them that could be a big gamble,”
said  Roberto D’Alimonte , a professor of politics at Luiss
University in Rome. “For Fini and the Democratic Party
elections would be a difficult test. For Berlusconi and his
allies there would be the risk of a hung parliament without a
majority in the Upper house.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  