-- BGC Capital Markets Sues Tullett Americas for Alleged Misuse of U.S. Data
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-11-09T20:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/bgc-capital-markets-sues-tullett-americas-for-alleged-misuse-of-u-s-data.html
BGC Capital Markets LP sued Tullett
Prebon Americas Corp. over claims it misused proprietary U.S.
Treasury data that earned it profits of “at least hundreds of
millions of dollars.”  BGC Capital, based in New York, and Tullett Americas
operate in the competitive interdealer broker industry. BGC
Capital accuses Tullett and its affiliates of misappropriating
price data derived from the electronic brokering eSpeed system
to generate profits in the market for historically unregulated
financial instruments, such as swaps, according to the lawsuit.  More than $400 billion is traded daily on the eSpeed
system, which is operated by BGC affiliates, according to the
complaint filed today in New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan. Under contract, the U.S. Treasury data has been
provided to a Tullett Americas affiliate. That contract
prohibits the use of the real-time data by their brokers, who
unfairly use it to compete against BGC, according to the suit.  “Because defendant’s brokers compete directly with
plaintiff’s brokers, profits earned by defendant by brokering
based on misappropriated data were earned improperly and at
plaintiff’s expense,” BGC said in its complaint.  Tullett Americas, an affiliate of  Tullett Prebon Plc , has
its principal U.S. offices in New York and New Jersey, according
to the suit.  Stephanie Kuffner, an outside spokeswoman for Tullett,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is BGC Capital Markets LP v. Tullett Prebon
Americas Corp., 651954/2010, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  