-- MBIA Reports $213 Million Third-Quarter Net Loss on Derivatives Contracts
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-11-09T23:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/mbia-reports-third-quarter-loss-of-213-million-on-derivatives-contracts.html
MBIA Inc. , the bond insurer seeking
to jumpstart its business of guaranteeing municipal debt,
reported a $213 million net loss in the third quarter on a
change in the value of derivatives contracts that reduced an
accounting benefit.  The  loss  of $1.06 a share in the three months ended in
September narrowed from $728 million, or $3.50 a share a year
earlier, according to a statement today. Excluding the change in
the value of derivatives, the company had an adjusted pretax
loss of $68 million as the company increased its expectations
for losses on guarantees of collateralized debt obligations and
commercial-mortgage securities.  Armonk, New York-based MBIA was shut out of the bond
guarantee business after being stripped of its top insurance
ratings in June 2008 because of losses on mortgage-linked debt
it insured. Chief Executive Officer  Jay Brown  is seeking to
start insuring city and state debt again by separating the
company’s municipal and structured-finance businesses. While
approved by New York state regulators, banks and investors are
challenging that move in courts.  “The litigation that constrains our re-entry into the U.S.
public finance insurance business continues, but our belief that
the New York State Insurance Department made the right decision
in February 2009 is borne out by the fact that we continue to
pay all claims and obligations as they come due,” MBIA Chief
Financial Officer  Chuck Chaplin  said in the statement.  Ambac Bankruptcy  MBIA reported the loss a day after Ambac Financial Group
Inc., once its biggest competitor, filed for bankruptcy
protection after failing to raise capital as it grappled with
losses from mortgage debt. Ambac, which today sued the U.S. to
protect $700 million in tax refunds, said in a statement that
its third-quarter net income plunged 97 percent to $76 million,
or 25 cents a share.  MBIA’s net loss includes declines related to the value of
credit derivatives contracts tied to its own creditworthiness.
Under accounting rules, an improvement in the contracts
increases the company’s liabilities.  Expectations for losses on bonds backed by commercial
mortgages jumped by $172.3 million and anticipated losses on
asset-backed collateralized debt obligations increased $163.2
million, the company said.  The insurer increased its expectations on future losses
linked to residential mortgages because of slower declines in
expected delinquencies. The increase was more than offset by
recoveries it anticipates from efforts to force mortgage
originators to buy back loans it says were marketed for sale
using faulty information.  Net Claims  The insurer said it paid $329 million in net claims
connected with second-lien mortgage debt, down from $421 million
in the second quarter. Claims on insured mortgage securities
peaked at $636 million in the second quarter of 2009.  MBIA  fell  81 cents, or 6.7 percent, to $11.29 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have almost tripled this year from $3.98 at the end of 2009.  MBIA created National Public Finance Guarantee Corp. to
jumpstart its municipal bond business, assuming $5.4 billion of
MBIA Insurance Corp.’s assets and its public-finance
obligations. MBIA’s structured-finance guarantees, including
those related to mortgage securities, remain the obligation of
MBIA Insurance Corp.  Dinallo Approves  The split, approved by then-New York State Insurance
Superintendent  Eric Dinallo , is being challenged by banks
including JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. that
say it unlawfully strips away assets, leaving MBIA Insurance
Corp. insolvent.  Hedge funds managed by firms including Aurelius Capital
Management and Fir Tree Partners also have sued the company over
the split, saying in a  complaint  that it leaves policyholders
“stranded in a denuded insurer that will be unable to meet its
obligations as they come due.”  Brown said in an August conference call that the
uncertainty caused by the litigation has “prevented National
from receiving high enough ratings” from Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service and that the company had been “unable
to write any new business.”  National Public Finance is rated Baa1 by Moody’s, three
levels above speculative grade, and A by S&P, or five levels
above.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  