-- Billionaire Savitri Devi's Jindal Saw Forecasts Revenue Decline This Year
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-11-09T01:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/billionaire-savitri-devi-s-jindal-saw-forecasts-revenue-decline-this-year.html
Jindal Saw Ltd. , a pipe maker
controlled by India’s richest woman,  Savitri Devi Jindal, 
forecast sales will fall this year due to rising input costs.  “We expect that the gross sales will be lower” this
fiscal year, Managing Director  Indresh Batra  said in an e-mail
interview. The New Delhi-based company is also seeing price
 increases  in coking coal and iron ore and “this may have an
impact on profit,” Batra said, without elaborating.  The manufacturer of pipes for crude oil, gas and water
transportation, whose  customers  include Royal Dutch Shell Plc
and  Saipem SpA , yesterday reported a 42 percent fall in second-
quarter revenue. Prices of coking coal, a key steelmaking
ingredient, may climb to $200 to $220 a ton,  Arun Kumar Jagatramka , chairman of Gujarat NRE Coke Ltd., said last month.  The iron-ore market is likely to remain “tight” because
of a lack of new supply and increasing demand from China and
higher infrastructure spending in India, according to Vale SA,
the world’s biggest producer of the commodity. Prices more than
doubled in the three months ended Sept. 30 to $128.21 per ton
from $57.23 a year earlier.  Construction demand and higher spending on roads and power
plants in Asia’s third-largest economy helped boost sales at
India’s largest steelmakers in the fiscal second quarter,
according to Tata Steel Ltd. and Steel Authority of India Ltd.  Ductile Pipes  Jindal Saw  is building a ductile pipes plant with an annual
capacity of 200,000 tons in Mundra, western India, and has
orders worth $700 million till Sept. 30, Batra said. The company
aims to start production at the plant in two years and is
planning to construct another 300,000 tons facility in Abu Dhabi,
he said.  A project to build railroad wagons may also start
operations in February once the company’s prototypes receive
approval from India’s railway design and standards body, Batra
said. Sales “may improve in subsequent years due to better
quantitative performance,” he said.  Jindal Saw s hares  have climbed 21 percent this year in
Mumbai trading, outperforming the 19 percent increase in the
Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index.  Savitri Devi, the company’s chairwoman, ranks fifth among
India’s richest and with a net worth of $14.4 billion is the
only woman in the top 10 list, according to Forbes Asia magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell in Mumbai at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  