-- Ambac, Blockbuster, WaMu, FX Luxury, MGM: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-09T13:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/blockbuster-connector-wamu-fx-point-blank-mgm-bankruptcy.html
  Ambac Financial Group Inc ., whose
principal insurance subsidiary was taken over by regulators in  Wisconsin , filed a Chapter 11 petition yesterday afternoon in  New York  after failing to negotiate a so-called prepackaged
reorganization with the insurance commissioner and an ad hoc
committee of holders of senior debt.  The petition listed liabilities on a non-consolidated basis
of $1.69 billion, including $1.22 billion on six issues of
senior unsecured notes and $400 million in subordinated notes.
New York-based Ambac said it has a “non-binding term sheet”
with the insurance commissioner to be the “basis for further
negotiations with the ad-hoc committee.”  The Wisconsin insurance regulator created a so-called
special account in March for about $35 billion in policies
issued by Ambac Assurance Corp., the principal operating
subsidiary. The policies in the segregated account are for
credit default swaps, residential mortgage-backed securities,
the Las Vegas Monorail, and some student loans. No claims on the
policies in the special account will be paid until there is a
rehabilitation of the insurance company worked out in the
Wisconsin court.  Financial problems at the insurance subsidiary cut off the
flow of dividends in 2007 which the parent used to pay debt. The
insurance subsidiary stopped writing new business entirely in
mid-2008.  To protect the ability of the reorganized company to
utilize $7.5 billion in tax loss carry-forwards, Ambac said it
will file papers in bankruptcy court asking the judge to prevent
the purchase or sale of large blocks of stock. Large transfers
of stock can result in a so-called change of control that limits
the ability to use tax losses in the future.  The term sheet with the insurance commissioner calls for
Ambac to retain ownership of the insurance company. There is to
be no rehabilitation of the remainder of the insurance company.
Ambac is to have use of not less than $2.5 billion of the tax
losses while the insurance company can use up to $3.5 billion.  Ambac explained in a court filing how it was required to
file precipitously in Chapter 11 to prevent the Internal Revenue
Service from making a levy on its assets and those of the
insurance company, evidently as the result of disagreement over
prior tax refunds that were paid.  The Chapter 11 case is being structured to prevent the need
for rehabilitation of the remainder of the insurance company and
thus avoid $3 billion in claims from the termination of credit-
default swaps on collateralized loan obligations.  Apparently as a consequence of the dispute with the IRS,
Ambac said it will ask the bankruptcy judge to rule that it has
no tax liability for the years 2003 through 2008. It also wants
a ruling that it’s entitled to retain all tax refunds for the
same years.  Ambac said that the Wisconsin insurance commissioner
proposed a rehabilitation plan for the special account where
holders of allowed claims will be paid 25 percent in cash and 75
percent in notes. The plan is up for approval in the Wisconsin
court Nov. 15 to Nov. 19.  Ambac didn’t make the payment due Nov. 1 on 7.5 percent
debentures due 2023.  The case was assigned to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley C. Chapman, the newest of the bankruptcy judges in  Manhattan .  For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Bank of New York Mellon is indenture trustee for all the
note issues. Ambac previously said liquidity would be sufficient
until the second quarter of 2011 although it might elect not to
pay debt sooner.  The case is In re  Ambac Financial Group Inc ., 10-15973,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Updates  Blockbuster Committee to Investigate Lien Validity  The creditors’ committee for Blockbuster Inc., the movie
rental chain, has a late-December deadline for filing suit if it
finds defects in the claims of secured lenders. To enable an
investigation, the committee arranged a Nov. 24 hearing where it
will ask the bankruptcy judge in  Delaware  to authorize the use
of subpoenas to evaluate the validity of secured claims.  The committee, in its Nov. 4 motion, also said it intends
to investigate the so-called plan-support agreement negotiated
before the Chapter 11 filing in late September. The committee
describes the plan as giving unsecured creditors a “de minimis
return.”  Before the Chapter 11 filing on Sept. 23, Blockbuster
negotiated a reorganization plan with holders of 80 percent of
the senior notes. The plan would give the new stock to holders
of the $630 million in 11.75 percent senior-secured notes.
General unsecured creditors would have warrants for 3 percent of
the stock. Holders of the $300 million in 9 percent subordinated
notes are not to receive anything.  Dallas-based Blockbuster has 5,600 stores, including 3,300
in the U.S., with the remainder abroad. Among the U.S. stores,
3,000 are owned and the rest are franchised.  The petition listed assets of $1.017 billion against debt
of $1.465 billion. Blockbuster estimated it owes $57 million in
accounts payable in addition to the secured and subordinated
notes.  The case is In re  Blockbuster Inc ., 10-14997, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Connector Toll Road May be Near Settlement with State  Connector 2000 Association Inc. , the not-for-profit owner
of a 16-mile toll road in South Carolina, is evidently near
settlement with its principal adversary, the  South Carolina 
Transportation Department.  After the toll road filed for reorganization in June, the
department submitted papers contending the organization isn’t a
municipality and is ineligible for Chapter 9, which is
exclusively for the reorganization of municipalities. The
dispute was scheduled for trial on Dec. 6 until the bankruptcy
judge called a halt to trial preparation on Nov. 5.  The judge said there are settlement negotiations pointing
toward a “consensual plan of reorganization.”  The toll road filed a proposed Chapter 9 plan in October to
deal with $224 million in senior bonds and $88 million in
subordinated bonds. There is another $20 million in other
liabilities, according to the disclosure statement.  The plan called for giving the senior bondholders about
$202 million in Tier 1 and Tier 2 bonds. The subordinated debt
holders, if they were to vote for the plan, would receive $4.2
million in Tier 3 bonds.  The disclosure statement says that the Tier 1 bonds will
consume 83.5 percent of projected net revenue.  Connector 2000 is a public benefit corporation under South
Carolina law. A court filing said toll revenues from the outset
trailed projections and were insufficient to service $316
million in tax-exempt bonds.  The case is In re Connector 2000 Association Inc.,
10-04467, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of South Carolina
(Spartanburg).  WaMu Objects to Derivative Claims of Bank Bondholders    Washington Mutual Inc ., the bank holding company, has no
liability on fraud claims to individual holders of bonds issued
by the failed bank subsidiary, the parent will argue to the
bankruptcy judge at a Nov. 23 hearing.  Holders of bonds issued by the bank subsidiary filed a
proof of claim against the parent, contending that the holding
company made fraudulent representations that caused them to buy
bonds issued by the bank. The holding company responded by
filing papers in October contending that only the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. has the right to file a claim based on
the misrepresentations.  The FDIC agrees with WaMu’s theory and goes on to say that
it will compromise the claims as part of the global settlement
that underlies the holding company’s Chapter 11 plan.  WaMu and the FDIC both contend that the bondholders’ claims
are so-called derivative claims that can be pursued only by the
receiver for the failed bank subsidiary. The bondholders believe
they are direct claims they are entitled to assert on their own.  The examiner for WaMu said in his report last week that the
proposed settlement with the FDIC and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
“reasonably resolves contentious issues.” The bankruptcy judge
approved WaMu’s disclosure statement on Oct. 21. The voting
deadline is Nov. 15. The confirmation hearing for approval of
the plan is set for Dec. 1 through Dec. 3.  For a discussion of changes WaMu made to its plan in
October, click here for the Oct. 7 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.
WaMu’s revised plan is designed to distribute more than $7
billion to creditors. To read about the settlement before it was
modified, click here for the May 24 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.
Click here to read the May 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy report for a
summary of WaMu’s plan.  The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank, which had been the sixth-largest depository and
credit-card issuer in the U.S., was the largest bank failure in
the country’s history. The holding company filed formal lists of
assets and debt showing property with a total value of $4.49
billion against liabilities of $7.83 billion.  The holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Washington
Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Mexicana Airlines Receives Chapter 15 Recognition  Compania Mexicana de Aviacion SA de CV, the Mexican airline
known as Mexicana, won recognition under Chapter 15 yesterday
from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York that proceedings in  Mexico  are the “foreign main proceeding.”  With exceptions carved out by the bankruptcy judge,
recognition means that the Mexican court has the primary
authority to reorganize the airline. For the most part, U.S.
creditors must assert their claim in Mexico and receive
distributions under Mexican law.  The order signed yesterday by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin
Glenn lays out ground rules allowing aircraft owners to
repossess aircraft and engines. Likewise, airport authorities
are free to terminate leases with Mexicana and stop providing
services if Mexicana doesn’t pay debts arising after bankruptcy.
If an airport decides to continue doing business, yesterday’s
order requires Mexicana to pay within seven days.  Similarly, specified suppliers are not required to continue
providing goods and services unless the airline pays for
everything delivered after bankruptcy and pays in the future
within seven days.  Mexicana says it will perform in full under interline
agreements and clearing house agreements with the air transport
association. For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The airline filed the Chapter 15 petition on Aug. 2 and
simultaneously began a reorganization in Mexico called a
concurso mercantile. Until compromises were reached, aircraft
owners and airport authorities were in opposition to recognition
under Chapter 15.  Although Mexicana stopped flying on Aug. 28, the airline’s
new owners hope to resume flights.  The U.S. case is Compania Mexicana De Aviacion SA de CV,
10-14182, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Plan for Las Vegas Strip Owner Confirmed Yesterday  FX Luxury Las Vegas I LLC, the owner of 17.7 acres on the
Las Vegas Strip, has a Chapter 11 plan that the bankruptcy judge
said yesterday he will approve by signing a confirmation order.
The plan resulted from a compromise between first- and second-
lien lenders.  There were no votes against the plan. The judge gave
permission for the plan to become effective immediately.  The compromise was reached after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Bruce A. Markell in Las Vegas granted a request by second-lien
creditors and took away the current owners’ exclusive right to
propose a plan that would have given ownership to the senior
lenders.  Rather than ownership, the plan gives a new first-lien note
for $188 million to the first-lien lenders in return for their
$271 million in claims. They also will receive a junior note for
$71 million plus $7.5 million in accrued interest. Both notes
will mature in six years with options for three one-year
extensions.  Ownership goes to second-lien lenders owed $233 million.
They receive the new equity along with junior lenders providing
$7.5 million in equity.  FX filed under Chapter 11 in April with a plan that would
have given ownership to first-lien creditors absent a cash bid
of at least $256 million. FX later abandoned the plan that would
have given nothing to the second-lien creditors and unsecured
creditors. For details on FX’s abandoned plan and negotiations
that preceded the Chapter 11 filing, click here to see the April
22 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  FX intended to develop the property into a hotel, casino
and other businesses until the financial markets collapsed and
the Las Vegas gaming market declined. After default on the first
mortgage, a receiver was appointed in June 2009.  The petition listed assets of $140 million against debt
totaling $493 million.  The case is In re FX Luxury Las Vegas I LLC, 10-17015, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  Point Blank Equity Committee Says Has Rival Plan  The official shareholders’ committee for  Point Blank
Solutions Inc . says the stockholders have worked out a “fully
funded plan of reorganization” that will serve creditors better
than a sale of the business.  The shareholders for the manufacturer of soft body armor
for the military and law enforcement said in a Nov. 5 court
filing that it also has a “fully funded alternative financing
facility” to take over if existing lenders don’t extend their
loan beyond the year’s end.  The equity committee is therefore opposing an amendment to
the loan agreement which would require selling the business on a
fast track. The equity committee didn’t provide details on its
plan or financing.  Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,  Florida , and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 exceeded $153 million.  The Chapter 11 petition in April listed assets of $64
million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan paid off by financing for the Chapter
11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade
suppliers.  The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Trico Shipping Misses Payment, Signs Up Forbearance  Trico Marine Services Inc., a provider of support vessels
for the offshore oil and gas industry, announced in a regulatory
filing yesterday that the Nov. 1 interest payment won’t be made
on the 11.875 percent senior secured notes due 2014 issued by
Trico Shipping AS. Trico also violated covenants related to
liquidity and minimum cash flow, the filing said.  Noteholders agreed on a forbearance agreement good until
Nov. 19. Trico also said it won’t be filing financial statements
that would be due today.  Trico announced at the end of October that it had an
agreement in principle to give all the equity of Trico Supply AS
to holders of the 11.875 percent senior secured notes. The
agreement was made with holders of 83 percent of the notes.  Two funds affiliated with Arrowgrass Capital Partners
alleged that Trico made a “substantial amount” of fraudulent
transfers to subsidiaries in the Trico Supply Group, which
operates mostly in Norway. The Supply Group subsidiaries aren’t
in Chapter 11.  The Chapter 11 filing in August was the second by
Woodlands, Texas-based Trico. It completed a so-called
prepackaged reorganization in early 2005 by exchanging $250
million in debt for equity. Shareholders received warrants.  Other than a Cayman Islands holding company, none of the
foreign subsidiaries are in bankruptcy this time. The
consolidated balance sheet for June listed assets of $904
million against liabilities totaling $1.027 billion. The
bankruptcy petition listed liabilities of $354 million for Trico
Marine.  Liabilities include $202.8 million on secured convertible
debentures and $150 million owing on unsecured convertible
debentures. Non-bankrupt Trico Shipping owes $400 million on the
11.875 percent senior secured notes.  The case is In re Trico Marine Services Inc., 10-12653,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Centaur Committee Given Approval to Test Lenders’ Liens  The creditors’ committee for casino and racetrack operator
Centaur LLC was given authority by the bankruptcy judge last
week to sue lenders for what the panel believes are defects in
the security interests on $192 million in collateral claimed by
the first- and second-lien lenders.  The committee also believes that guarantees of secured debt
given by subsidiaries are fraudulent transfers that may be
voided in bankruptcy.  Although the bankruptcy judge is allowing the committee to
sue, the panel’s lawyers can be paid only from lawsuit
recoveries, if any.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey turned down the
committee’s request to have the exclusive right to settle. The
committee’s motion for authority to sue was filed in July.  Centaur has a confirmation hearing scheduled on Dec. 13 for
approval of a Chapter 11 plan.  Centaur LLC and 12 affiliates filed Chapter 11 petitions in
March. Affiliates Centaur PA Land LP and Valley View Downs LP
filed for bankruptcy reorganization in October 2009 to keep a
project alive in  Pennsylvania . All the companies are
subsidiaries of closely owned Centaur Inc., which isn’t in
bankruptcy.  The March filings listed assets of $584 million and debt of
$681 million. The newer cases resulted from the failure to make
payments due in October 2009 on a $382.5 million first-lien debt
and a $192 million second-lien credit. The companies have horse
racing and gambling facilities in five markets in  Indiana  and
Colorado.  The companies own Hoosier Park, a casino and horse
racetrack, in Anderson, Indiana, along with three offtrack
betting parlors in Indiana. Fortune Valley Hotel & Casino in
Central City, Colorado, was sold. The companies generated
revenue of $277.5 million in 2009.  The newer case is Centaur LLC, 10-10799, and the first case
was In re Centaur PA Land LP, 09-13760, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filing  Tivoli Tenside in Atlanta Files to Stop Foreclosure  Ten Side Holdings LLC , the owner of a residential and
commercial development on Northside Drive in Atlanta, filed a
Chapter 11 petition on Nov. 3 to stop the holder of the first
mortgage from having a receiver appointed.  The mortgage was purchased in October by Waterton Tenside
H.H. LLC, court papers say. There is $45.8 million owing on what
originally was a construction loan.  The project has a $10.8 million mezzanine loan owned by an
affiliate of Archstone-Smith Trust, a real estate investment
trust where  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . is part owner.  The property has 336 residential units and 38,600 square-
feet of retail space. The residential development is known as
Tivoli Tenside.  Before the mortgage was sold, a group of insiders and
third-party investors were negotiating to buy the debt and make
a payment on the mezzanine loan in return for release of the
junior lien, according to court papers.  The case is In re Ten Side Holdings LLC, 10-93402, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  Daily Podcast  Distressed Exchanges, Tamarack, Gulfstream, Equity: Audio  Distressed exchanges yield greater recoveries than
prepacks, lenders aim to take back  Tamarack Resort LLC , feeder
airline  Gulfstream International Group Inc . to reorganize, and
equity saves an injured worker’s ability to sue are covered in
the bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Briefly Noted  MGM to Keep Exit-Loan Fees Confidential  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. is seeking permission from the
bankruptcy judge not to disclose the fees it will pay for $500
million in financing to become effective on emergence from
Chapter 11. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  MGM is hoping to secure court approval of the prepackaged
plan at a Dec. 2 confirmation hearing. The plan exchanges $4.89
billion of debt under a credit agreement for most of the equity.
The plan pays general unsecured claims in full while existing
stockholders receive nothing.  MGM’s assets include a library with 4,100 feature films and
10,800 television episodes. The assets at Sept. 30 were $2.67
billion with total liabilities listed for $5.77 billion, without
adjustments required by generally accepted accounting
principles. MGM owns 62.5 percent of United Artists
Entertainment LLC, which isn’t in bankruptcy.  Los Angeles-based MGM was acquired in April 2005 in a $4.8
billion transaction by a group including  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Providence Equity Partners Inc.,  Sony Corp . and TPG Capital.  The case is In re Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc.,
10-15774, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Advance Sheets  U.S. Courts Don’t Collect Foreign Country’s Taxes  Courts of the U.S. can’t be used by another country to
collect their taxes, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert F. Gerber
ruled on Nov. 5 in the aftermath of the confirmed Chapter 11
plan of BearingPoint Inc.  The government of Indonesia filed proofs of claim based on
about $4 million in taxes that weren’t paid by a BearingPoint
subsidiary in  Indonesia . Although Gerber assumed that the
BearingPoint parent company was liable for taxes owing by the
non-bankrupt Indonesian subsidiary, he denied the claims based
on what he called the “longstanding common law doctrine know as
the Revenue Rule.  Gerber said that ‘‘it has long been a general rule that one
sovereignty may not maintain an action in the courts of another
state for the collection of a tax claim.’’  Gerber said that Indonesia’s ‘‘eloquent pleas for
fairness’’ can’t overcome a rule of common law establish by the
U.S. Supreme Court.  To read the opinion, click here. The case is In re
BearingPoint Inc., 09-10691, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 