-- Bourbon Third-Quarter Sales Rise 6.4% on Offshore Exploration, Maintenance
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-11-09T07:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/bourbon-third-quarter-sales-rise-6-4-on-offshore-exploration-maintenance.html
Bourbon SA , owner of the second-
biggest fleet of supply and crew ships for the oil industry,
said third-quarter revenue rose 6.4 percent as offshore
exploration and maintenance of production facilities pick up.  Sales rose to 222 million euros ($308 million) from 209
million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said today
in an e-mailed statement.  “This confirms the upturn in our offshore activity,”
Chief Executive Officer Jacques de Chateauvieux said in the
statement. The rise in revenue confirms a trend of a “gradual
recovery” in oil companies’ activity in the second half of this
year and “more substantial growth in 2011,” he said.  Bourbon plans to  spend  $2 billion to almost double its
fleet through 2015 when it will have 600 vessels, up from 357 at
the end of last year, the company said in June. The expansion is
coming amid a continuing “difficult” market environment due to
oversupply of vessels, the company has said.  Boubon’s offshore division, the company’s largest, had a
vessel utilization rate of 79.2 percent in the third quarter
compared with 81 percent in the previous three months and 78.1
percent in the first quarter.  Revenue from own vessels rose 4.1 percent compared with the
previous three months in spite of the lower fleet utilization
rate which was mostly due to “administrative difficulties
encountered in importing vessels to Brazil,” according to the
statement.  “The quarter saw progressive upturn in activity,
particularly in West Africa and Brazil,” Bourbon said. “The
oversupply of vessels kept up the pressure on daily rates but at
the same time was favorable for the replacement of old vessels
with modern vessels.”  Bourbon was founded in 1948 by sugar plantation-owning
families on Reunion, the French island east of Madagascar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  