-- BowLeven to Expand Cameroon Drilling on `Potentially Significant' Finds
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-11-09T11:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/bowleven-to-ramp-up-cameroon-drillimg-after-oil-find-sends-shares-to-high.html
     Nov. 9 (Bloomberg) --  BowLeven Plc ’s Chief Executive
Officer  Kevin Hart  is considering plans to ramp up exploration
in Cameroon after two “potentially significant” oil
discoveries sent the shares to a two-year high.  BowLeven is drilling the Sapele-1 exploration well located
in the MLHP 5 block offshore Cameroon, the Edinburgh, Scotland-
based company said today in a statement. The company will need
at least another 30 days to extend the well at the Etinde
license to the target depth of 4,450 meters (14,600).  “We’ll certainly be investigating the potential of side-
tracking the existing wells,” Hart said in a telephone
interview today. “We can bring the second rig so that we have
dual operations.”  Sapele-1’s Lower and Deep Omicron two reservoirs may hold
as much as 670 million barrels of oil equivalent, according to
BowLeven estimates. Cameroon holds about 2 billion barrels of
proved oil reserves, according to U.S. Central Intelligence
Agency  data .  “The major excitement is in the Deep Omicron where the
company has found 64 meters of high quality reservoir sands,”
 Peter Hitchens , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London,
wrote in a report. “There is further upside as the company
tries to work out the potential of the deeper oil zones that
were discovered in this last well.”  BowLeven jumped as much as 27 percent to 253.25 pence, the
highest since September 2008. The shares traded at 240.25 pence
as of 10:52 a.m. local time.  ‘Major Emerging’  “We see that Duala basin as a major emerging hydrocarbon
province,” Hart said. It “allows us to bring in a further
industry partner.”  BowLeven is cooperating with Vitol, the world’s largest
independent oil trader, in the IE-3 well at the MLHP 7 block at
Etinde. The Scottish explorer may also work with Noble Energy
Inc., which was behind the Aseng and Alen discoveries with more
than 200 million barrels of oil equivalent resources each in
bordering Equatorial Guinea, according to Hart.  “We will drill all the way down through two other
prospects finishing up in the Cretaceous” in Sapele-1, Hart
said. “That’s a very, very large prospect at the bottom. It has
a potential to contain hundreds of millions if not billions
barrels of oil or gas condensate, but it’s risky.”  The company has “sufficient cash” of about $115 million
to fund operations, Hart said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  