-- BP's Dudley Shrinks Trading as Stagnant Oil Prices Crimp Profit
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-11-09T17:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/bp-chief-shrinks-trading-desk-as-morgan-stanley-sees-oil-volatility-slide.html
BP Plc’s  Robert Dudley  said he’s
shrinking oil trading after the least volatile prices in seven
years made buying and selling commodities less profitable.  Crude futures have moved between $68 and $88 in New York
this year, the narrowest range since 2003, making it harder to
make money from price swings that netted BP $2 billion in 2004,
the last time it broke out trading profits. BP told employees
last month its 3,500-strong trading business will cut management
and reduce costs to cope with lower margins, and a restructuring
will be announced on Nov. 15.  “We are just right-sizing the trading organization as a
result of a change in volatility,” Dudley, who became chief
executive officer last month, said in an interview at the
company’s London head office on Nov. 2. “I think everyone is.
Our big competitors are a lot of trading houses and the banks.
They’re all looking at this carefully.”  BP’s trading business, where a single crude oil cargo can
tie up more than $150 million, may be further constrained by the
group’s need to  conserve capital  and avoid risk after the spill
left the company facing a bill projected to reach $40 billion.
The persistence of slack across the industry -- in crude
production, shipping and storage and oil refining -- will peg
back profits from trading, Morgan Stanley said.  Lower Volatility  “Overcapacity in all parts of the supply chain of oil is
still an issue and will dampen any price spikes,” said  Goran Trapp , the bank’s London-based head of global oil trading.
“That will keep us in a price range with lower volatility than
we have experienced the last few years.”  BP shares  rose  to a five-month high today, gaining 2.4
percent to 454 pence as of the 4:30 close in London. The U.S.
presidential panel said yesterday it found no evidence so far
that the company intentionally jeopardized safety to cut costs
on the well that spewed 4.9 million barrels of crude into the
Gulf of Mexico. Shares are still down more than 30 percent since
the April 20 accident that started the leak.  At BP, the combination of declining profits and internal
constraints may be prompting traders to leave, analysts said. A
court filing in Singapore said BP has lost 25 percent of Asian
trading staff this year.  “BP’s mantra at the moment is liquidity,” said  Lucy Haskins , an analyst at Barclays Capital in London. “The traders
haven’t been able to play with the capital they’ve had in the
past, and you also have a lack of volatility which makes it
harder to make money. They haven’t been making the windfall
profits they have in the past.”  ‘Weak’ Profits  BP said oil-trading profits will stay “weak” during the
fourth quarter. While the company doesn’t publish the level of
profits from trading, Chief Financial Officer  Byron Grote  said
last week the previous two years were good for the division as
oil prices rocketed to a record $147 a barrel in 2008 before
slumping below $40 in the global financial crisis.  BP’s trading competitors such as investment banks Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are also having a
harder time in the parts of their business that include energy
markets. Revenue from trading fixed-income, currencies and
commodities, the biggest money-maker for most investment banks,
fell at six of the world’s eight biggest securities firms this
year, according to disclosures compiled by Bloomberg News.  Blythe Masters , JPMorgan’s head of commodities, sought to
reassure her team on an internal conference call in August after
a first half in which some results were as much as 20 percent
below expectations. She said the oil unit had lost “key
people,” according to a recording of the call.  Singapore Staff  Spokespeople at Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan
declined to give more details of revenue and headcount for their
energy trading desks.  BP’s former head of fuel oil trading,  Quek Chin Thean , who
is accused by the company of misusing confidential information
and helping a rival, said in a Singapore court filing about 50
out of 200 employees have quit BP’s Asian trading operations
this year.  London-based spokesman  David Nicholas  said headcount at the
supply and trading business in Singapore is about 200 including
support and back office staff. He wouldn’t comment on staff
turnover.  In September, Barclays Capital hired seven BP salesmen in
North America to strengthen its desk, according to an internal
memo at the London-based bank obtained by Bloomberg News.  Aggressive By Nature  “Quite a few of their good traders were taken by
headhunters,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equities analyst who
covers BP at Standard & Poor’s in London. “Trading by nature
has to be aggressive. Politically, they just can’t afford that
now. They’re bending over backwards to win people over.”  BP’s difficulties in trading pre-date the Gulf spill,
internal company e-mails filed to a Singapore court show. On
April 15, David Garza, a crude-trading manager in Chicago, said
BP was falling behind competitors because of bureaucracy,
inadequate capital and below-average compensation.  The percentage payout to employees is the “lowest in the
industry” while “we are obsessed that our competition is in
the banking sector,” the e-mail said.  BP is committed for the next three years to paying into a
$20 billion escrow fund for legal claims from the Gulf of Mexico
spill, the worst in U.S. history. The company took an additional
$7.7 billion charge in  the third quarter , bringing its total
provision for the disaster to $39.9 billion.  Past Profits  BP CFO Grote said in April last year that the company was
reaping a windfall from trading $500 million higher than “the
normal range of volatility.” In its 2004 annual report, when BP
published trading profits, it said it made $2 billion from the
desk. That was more than 10 percent of the company’s $17 billion
group profit that year.  Grote said last week that 2010 was “more challenging” for
the trading desk after an “extraordinary contribution” in
previous years.  “We know it’s volatile and it has over a long period of
time made a very solid contribution to the performance of the
group,” Grote said. “We’ll continue to nurture that activity.
But we’re focused on ensuring that we do it very efficiently, so
there are some structural changes.”  BP’s trading hubs are in London, Chicago, Houston and
Singapore. BP aims to refocus its trading business on faster-
growing markets in China, India, West Africa and Brazil,
according to an Oct. 6 memo to employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  