-- BP May Pay Billions for `Missed Signals' That Led to Disaster
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l ,   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-11-09T02:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/bp-may-pay-billions-for-missed-signals-that-led-to-worst-u-s-oil-spill.html
BP Plc  remains at risk for billions
of dollars in fines and legal costs even after a U.S. commission
said safety wasn’t sacrificed for profit in the weeks and days
leading up to the worst U.S. offshore oil spill.  The presidential panel said yesterday it found no evidence
so far that BP, operator of the Gulf of Mexico well that erupted
in April and spewed 4.9 million barrels of crude, intentionally
jeopardized safety to cut costs. The catastrophe stemmed from
“several very human decisions made by competent persons who
missed signals,” said  William Reilly , co-chairman of the
National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill.  The panel’s finding contradicted allegations by
environmental groups, lawmakers and a joint U.S. Coast Guard-
Interior Department board that BP cut corners to rein in costs
and pressured employees to accelerate work on the Macondo
project in the Gulf.  The London-based energy producer still may be held liable
in civil and criminal courts, said  David Uhlmann , a University
of Michigan law professor and the U.S. Justice Department’s
former head of environmental enforcement, who has followed the
case.  “BP has a broader corporate culture that does put profits
ahead of safety, and that message permeates throughout the
company and down through the rank and file,” Uhlmann said in a
telephone interview. “BP will still have to pay tens of
billions of dollars in natural resources damages and
compensation to victims for economic losses.”  Scott Dean , a spokesman for BP, didn’t immediately return
messages left after regular business hours on his office and
mobile phones. The company doesn’t believe it will be found
grossly negligent or will be found the sole responsible party,
BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  said in a July interview.  Over Budget  BP’s Macondo well, about 40 miles (64 kilometers) off the
coast of Lousiana, was almost $60 million over budget when it
exploded April 20. The blowout occurred just hours before
workers aboard  Transocean Ltd. ’s Deepwater Horizon vessel were
scheduled to complete the well and sail away to a new project.
Eleven workers died.  “We have not seen a single instance where a human being
made a conscious decision to favor dollars to safety,”  Fred Bartlit , chief counsel of the presidential panel, said
yesterday.  The commission may have stepped outside the bounds of its
mission in attempting to assess whether cost controls played a
role, said Gregory Evans, a Los Angeles attorney who represents
corporations in pollution cases.  An analysis of BP’s spending priorities would require
examining budgets and other financial details the commission
wasn’t provided as part of its mission to examine the root
causes of the catastrophe, Evans said in a telephone interview.  ‘A Stretch’  “It’s a bit of a stretch for the commission to make
statements regarding the company’s spending priorities as it
relates to safety,” he said.  The Justice Department is conducting its own investigation
to determine whether criminal charges are warranted against any
of the companies or individuals involved in the well.
Congressional committees also are conducting probes.  BP’s findings in its internal investigation of the
incident, released in September, spread the blame among BP
engineers and workers from contractors including Transocean and
 Halliburton Co.   The top federal regulator of offshore drilling, Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management Director  Michael Bromwich , is scheduled
to discuss new regulatory plans with the panel today.  Preliminary Findings  Also scheduled to appear today are  Rex Tillerson , chief
executive officer of  Exxon Mobil Corp. , the world’s second-
largest producer of oil from deep-water wells, and  Marvin Odum ,
director of oil and gas exploration in the western hemisphere
for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc .  The panel, appointed by President  Barack Obama , released
preliminary findings yesterday on causes of the blowout. The
commission said  Halliburton Co ., the world’s second-largest
oilfield-services provider, may have contributed to the disaster
by recommending an inadequate formula for the cement used to
seal the well.  “It’s very difficult for me to conclude there was not a
culture of complacency with everything involved with this
experience,” Reilly said at the conclusion of yesterday’s
hearing.  BP is on probation for criminal charges stemming from a
2005 refinery explosion near Houston that killed 15 workers and
hit the company with $87.4 million in fines from the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration.  “It was a big blast then, a big spill now, and either way
nobody at BP’s being held accountable,” David Senko, a former
Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. construction manager who oversaw
11 of the workers that perished in the 2005 refinery blast, said
yesterday by telephone. “This is business as usual for BP.”  ‘Tradeoffs’ Cited  Stuart Smith, a New Orleans lawyer for clients claiming
economic damages from the spill, said the panel’s report is
“not going to change anything because the presidential
commission’s findings are not going to be admissible at any
trial. From our engineers’ reviews of the documents so far, it
is clear that profit motives played a part in every aspect of
this well.”  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat,
said in a statement that BP’s culture “favors risk-taking and
cutting corners above other concerns” and failures such as the
Gulf blowout “result without direct decisions being made or
tradeoffs being considered.”  BP’s American depositary shares, each representing six
ordinary shares, fell 56 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $43.23 at 4
p.m. yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
Halliburton rose 4.7 percent to $33.43 and Transocean rose 4.9
percent to $67, the biggest advance for both companies in two
months.  Equipment Vetoed  Bartlit, who presented the preliminary findings, touched on
the role of BP’s wells-team leader,  John Guide , who vetoed a
proposal to install equipment that may have kept explosive
natural gas from seeping into the well and jetting up to the
floating rig.  Guide, a University of Pittsburgh-trained engineer,
discounted results of computer-generated modeling that showed a
potential defect with cement used to keep natural gas from
seeping into the well, Bartlit said.  “From time to time, cement jobs are not perfect,” Bartlit
said. “They were running these cement models and the BP man in
charge didn’t think they were worth much. We’re not saying that
it was right or wrong or that that caused any problem.”  Bly Report  Bartlit  said yesterday the panel agrees with “about 90
percent” of the findings in BP’s so-called Bly report, the
investigative document compiled by a team led by BP’s safety
chief,  Mark Bly . Bartlit said the choice of well design didn’t
contribute to the blowout, a finding that corroborates BP’s
internal inquiry.  Bartlit’s investigators have had to seek cooperation from
witnesses without being able to issue subpoenas to compel
testimony. Co-Chairman  Bob Graham , a Democrat and former U.S.
senator from Florida, said the panel will ask Congress this
month to approve subpoena power.  Halliburton was ordered by a federal judge in New Orleans
to turn over cement used on the Deepwater Horizon to
investigators from the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard
Investigation Board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 