-- Brait Should Exit Pepkor, List Stock in Johannesburg, Absa's Gilmour Says
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2010-11-09T12:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/brait-should-exit-pepkor-list-stock-in-johannesburg-absa-s-gilmour-says.html
Brait SA , South Africa’s largest
private equity company, should exit its Pepkor Ltd. investment
by listing the clothing retailer’s shares on Johannesburg’s
bourse, said  Chris Gilmour , an analyst at Absa Investments.  “This would be a good time for Brait to return Pepkor to
the market,” Gilmour said in a telephone interview from
Johannesburg yesterday. Pepkor will have a market capitalization
of at least 10 billion rand ($1.5 billion), he said.  Brait helped  Shoprite Holdings Ltd.  Chairman  Christo Wiese 
buyout minorities in Pepkor, which targets low-income earners
with its Pep and Ackerman stores, in 2004 for 2.66 billion rand.
Pepkor accounts for almost a third of the value of Brait’s
private equity portfolio, which includes “mature assets that
should be realized in the next six to 18 months,” Brait said in
its  annual report , without giving more details on its plans.  “Brait is ready to exit the Pepkor investment,” said  Syd Vianello , a retail analyst at Nedcor Securities. “Natural
buyers” for Brait’s estimated 35 percent Pepkor stake might be
its main shareholder, Wiese, Vianello said.  With price-earnings ratios of more than 20 times for South
African retail stocks, the challenge will be to find buyers for
the “high prices demanded by South Africa’s retail
investments,” he said.  Mr Price Group Ltd.  is a good benchmark for Pepkor because
it is also a mostly cash-focused business that doesn’t rely on
store cards used by customers for sales, Absa’s Gilmour said. Mr
Price has a price-earnings ratio of 23.4 while  Truworths
International Ltd. , South Africa’s largest clothing retailer,
trades at 19 times earnings, according to Bloomberg data.  Brait Executive Director  John Gnodde  did not immediately
return telephone messages left with his personal assistant
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 