-- Brazil Rate Yields Rise to Five-Week High as Inflation Quickens in October
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2010-11-09T20:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/brazil-rate-yields-rise-to-1-month-high-as-inflation-quickens-real-climbs.html
The yield on the Brazilian interest-
rate futures contract maturing in January 2012 rose to the
highest level in five weeks as  consumer prices  increased more
than analysts forecast.  Yields on the contract, the most traded today in Sao Paulo,
climbed 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 11.50
percent at 3:15 p.m. New York time. The yield on the contract
reached 11.50 percent on Sept. 30.  “The rates are reacting to the CPI,”  Silvio Campos Neto ,
chief economist with Banco Schahin SA in Sao Paulo, said in a
phone interview. “Inflation is above expectations now and this
could generate a reaction from the central bank.”  Prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA price index rose
0.75 percent in October from September, exceeding the median
estimate of 0.67 percent among 41 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The acceleration in inflation, from 0.45 percent the
previous month, spurred speculation that policy makers may be
forced to raise borrowing costs to keep a lid on inflation.  High inflation could cause the central bank to raise its
benchmark overnight lending rate next year, Campos Neto said.  Yields on contracts with longer-term maturities fell. The
yield on the contract due in July 2015 fell 3 basis points to
11.88 percent after increasing 15 basis points yesterday. Yields
on the contract due in April 2015 fell 5 basis points to 11.85
percent after rising 13 basis points yesterday.  The yield on the contract due in January 2017 fell 1 basis
points to 11.85 percent after rising 14 basis points yesterday.  “The other part of the curve, the long-term, is reacting
to news about the political transition,” Campos Neto said.  Central Bank  President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  may remove  Henrique Meirelles  as central bank president, O Estado de S.Paulo
newspaper reported on Nov. 7, without saying where it obtained
the information. Meirelles may keep his post for the first four
months of the new government, when he is likely to be replaced
by someone already at the bank, most likely  Alexandre Tombini ,
Valor Economico reported today, citing an unidentified person.  “Yesterday some newspapers announced rumors about the exit
of Meirelles from the central bank presidency and so this put
some uncertainty in the monetary policy,” Campos Neto said.
“Today is the reverse of this movement from yesterday.”  Brazil’s benchmark Selic  overnight rate  of 10.75 percent
compares with deposit returns of as low as 0.1 percent in Japan
and 0.25 percent in the U.S., making the Brazilian real a
popular purchase as traders seek higher yielding assets with
borrowed money, a strategy known as the carry trade.  Increased inflation pressure could “aggravate” the
country’s “currency problem,”  Octavio de Barros , chief
economist at Banco Bradesco SA, said at an event in London
today.  The real has climbed 36 percent since the start of 2009.
The currency is the second-best performer in that period of 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, behind South
Africa’s rand.  The real fell 0.1 percent to 1.7013 per dollar, from 1.7003
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Josue Leonel  in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
 Ana Monteiro  in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 