-- Brazilian Consumer Prices Rose Most in 8 Months in October on Food Costs
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-11-09T16:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/brazil-s-benchmark-inflation-index-rose-0-75-in-october-from-september.html
Brazilian  consumer  prices rose more
than forecast in October, pushing inflation to an eight-month
high and adding pressure on the central bank to resume interest
rate increases.  Prices  as measured by the benchmark IPCA index rose 0.75
percent in October, fueled by food costs, the national
statistics agency said today. The gain, which compares with a
0.45 percent increase in the previous month, was higher than the
median  forecast  of 0.67 percent among 41 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg and surpassed all but one estimate.  As prices climb, traders are wagering that Brazilian
President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  is unlikely to cut spending
enough to stem inflation, which exceeded the central bank’s
annual target for a second month in October. Traders expect
policy makers will raise the rate to as high as 12.5 percent by
December 2011, according to Bloomberg estimates based on
interest rate futures contracts.  “The robust economic activity opens room for food price
increases to spread,”  Flavio Serrano , senior economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said in an interview from Sao
Paulo. “In this situation, the central bank needs to act.”  The yield on interest rate futures contracts due January
2012, traded on Sao Paulo’s BM&F exchange, rose seven basis
points to 11.49 percent at 11:02 a.m. New York time. The real
strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.6968 per U.S. dollar.  Serrano expects the central bank to resume interest rate
increases in January to rein in consumer prices.  Inflation Target, Food  Traders are forecasting annual inflation will average about
6.1 percent through 2015, according to Bloomberg estimates based
on the yield gap between Brazilian fixed-rate and inflation-
linked bonds.  Policy makers, led by central bank President  Henrique Meirelles , on Oct. 20 kept the Selic rate unchanged for a second
straight meeting after increasing it by 200 basis points from a
record low of 8.75 percent this year.  The bank reduced its 2011 inflation forecast on the so-
called reference scenario to 4.6 percent, from 5 percent in
June, according to the bank’s  quarterly inflation report 
released Sept. 30. The bank  targets  inflation of 4.5 percent.  Food and beverage prices had the biggest gain last month,
rising 1.89 percent from September and accounting for more than
half of the monthly jump, the statistics agency said.  Annual  inflation  accelerated to 5.2 percent from 4.7
percent a month earlier. The October result was above the 5.11
percent median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Convergence  Even as evidence mounts that food prices will continue to
stoke inflation, the central bank expects the IPCA index to
converge to the 4.5 percent target next year, according to the
 minutes  of its Oct. 19-20 meeting.  Policy makers at last month’s meeting said that this year’s
interest rate increases haven’t yet taken full effect and will
help contain inflation through next year. They also said the
outlook for inflation depends on a more moderate expansion of
credit and government spending next year.  “Today’s inflation figure isn’t enough to change the
monetary policy stance,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at
Banco WestLB do Brasil, said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo. “The fact food prices would press inflation in October
was widely expected.”  Brazil’s economy will grow 7.6 percent this year and 4.5
percent next year, according to a weekly central bank survey of
about 100 economists published yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  