-- British Pound Declines Before Tomorrow's Bank of England Inflation Report
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-11-09T18:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/british-pound-declines-before-tomorrow-s-bank-of-england-inflation-report.html
The pound fell against the dollar and
the euro on speculation tomorrow’s Bank of England quarterly
inflation report may be detrimental to the currency.  Sterling depreciated against all 16 of its most actively
traded peers, falling from its strongest level against the euro
in more than five weeks, amid speculation that details from the
report made their way into the market. The Bank of England
declined to comment. The pound rose earlier after data today
showed  manufacturing  expanded for a fifth month in September,
reaching the strongest level in almost two years.  “There are rumors in the market that tomorrow’s inflation
numbers have leaked and that has driven down sterling,” said
 Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. in London. “I find it difficult to believe.”  The pound fell 0.6 percent to $1.6039 as of 6:14 p.m. in
London, after appreciating to $1.6184. The U.K. currency
weakened 0.2 percent to 86.39 pence per euro, after
strengthening to 85.90 pence, the most since Sept. 30.  “The market appears to be reacting to a rumor that the
inflation report has been leaked,” said  Daragh Maher , deputy
head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London.  Manufacturing output  rose 0.1 percent from the previous
month and the trade  deficit  narrowed as exports gained,
according to figures from the Office for National Statistics in
London. Overall industrial production increased 0.4 percent.  U.K. government bonds declined, pushing the 10-year gilt
yield up three basis points to 3.03 percent. The two-year note
yield gained one basis points to 0.71 percent.  Gilt Auction  The Treasury sold 700 million pounds of 1.25 percent
inflation-linked gilts maturing in November 2055 at a yield of
0.619 percent, the Debt Management Office said. The sale drew
bids of 2.1 times the amount on offer.  “The auction went very well due to strong demand from real
money investors,” said  Matteo Regesta , an interest-rate
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “Despite some pressure
today we remain very much constructive on gilts.”  A U.K. housing-market  gauge  dropped to an 18-month low in
October as homebuyers became “cautious” on prospects for
prices, data from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors
showed today.  Gilts have returned 8.9 percent this year, compared with a
8.7 percent gain for German bonds and an 8.9 percent increase
for U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 