-- HCA Said to Plan $2 Billion Dividend for Private-Equity Owners
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-11-09T19:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/hca-said-to-plan-2-billion-dividend-payout-funded-by-high-yield-bond-sale.html
HCA Inc., the hospital chain acquired
four years ago in a $33 billion leveraged buyout, plans to pay a
$2 billion dividend to owners including KKR & Co., Bain Capital
LLC and Bank of America Corp.  The dividend will be partly funded with a $1.53 billion
high-yield bond issue, according to a statement today by the
Nashville, Tennessee-based company. A planned share sale is
still pending, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Bracken  said on a
conference call today.  HCA, which in May filed to sell shares worth as much as
$4.6 billion, is using the dividends to pay investors after 55
companies in the U.S. withdrew or postponed initial public
offerings this year. Buyout firms including Bain and Carlyle
Group have bought publicly traded companies in recent months as
stocks are selling at the biggest discount to debt when
comparing cash flow and investment-grade bond yields.  “We will assess a timing of the launch based on overall
market conditions, sector performance and input from our
underwriters,” Bracken said, declining to take questions on the
conference call.  HCA, in the May filing, said it plans to raise a net $2.5
billion of the total by selling new shares and will use the
proceeds to repay debt.  Health-Care Overhaul  The hospital operator may profit from the health-care
legislation President  Barack Obama  signed into law on March 23
that provides for coverage for millions of uninsured patients,
 Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut, said in April.  HCA will use Citigroup Inc., Bank of America and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. as underwriters, said a person briefed on the plans
who asked not to be identified.  The bonds will be issued as senior unsecured notes due 2021
and will be used to fund the dividend and pay related fees and
expenses, HCA said in the statement. The company said it will
also tap revolving credit agreements for the dividend.  HCA’s 7.25 percent notes, due in September 2020, rose 0.25
cents on the dollar to 109.38 cents as of 1:26 p.m., according
to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Agency. The yield fell to 5.97 percent from
6.01 percent.  HCA on Jan. 29 said it would distribute $1.75 billion to
stockholders and vested option holders on Feb. 5.  Net Income  Third-quarter net income jumped 24 percent to $243 million,
HCA said in a separate statement today. Sales rose 1.5 percent
to $7.65 billion, boosted by a “focus on revenue growth and
operational efficiencies,” HCA said.  HCA operated 162 hospitals and 104 freestanding surgery
centers as of Sept. 30, according to the earnings statement.  The hospital chain’s purchase in 2006 shattered the record
for the largest leveraged buyout, held since 1989 by KKR’s
acquisition of RJR Nabisco Inc. HCA’s record was eclipsed by
Blackstone’s acquisition of Equity Office Properties Trust and
again by the 2007 takeover of  Energy Future Holdings Corp ., by
KKR and TPG Inc., for $43 billion including debt.  HCA’s owners put up about $5.3 billion to buy the company,
according to a regulatory filing, funding the rest with loans
from banks including Bank of America, Merrill Lynch & Co.,
JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup.  Frist Founders  HCA was founded in 1968, when Nashville physician  Thomas Frist Sr ., and his son,  Thomas Frist Jr ., and Jack Massey built
a hospital there and formed Hospital Corp. of America. By 1987,
the company had grown to operate 463 hospitals, according to the
 company’s website . Thomas Frist Sr. is also the father of  Bill Frist , a physician and the former Senate majority leader.  HCA went private in a $5.1 billion leveraged buyout in
1989, and then went public again in 1992, according to the
company Web site. In 1994, HCA merged with Louisville, Kentucky-
based Columbia Hospital Corp. In the mid-1990s the company, then
called Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp., operated 350 hospitals,
145 outpatient clinics and 550 home-care agencies, according to
the company.  In December 2000, HCA  agreed  to pay $840 million in
criminal and civil penalties to settle U.S. claims that it
overbilled states and the federal government for health-care
costs. It was the largest government fraud settlement in U.S.
history at the time, according to a U.S. Justice Department news
release on Dec. 14, 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 