-- California's $14 Billion in Sales Preceded by University Debt: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/california-s-14-billion-in-sales-preceded-by-university-debt-muni-credit.html
University of California, whose
medical centers represent the third-biggest U.S. public-hospital
system, is selling $700 million in taxable Build America Bonds
as the state prepares to borrow $14 billion this month.  The college’s revenue-bond sale comes as the extra yield
investors demand to hold 10-year general-obligation debt from
California issuers instead of top-rated tax-exempts was  127
basis points yesterday , the highest since July 7, according to
Bloomberg Fair Market Value data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  California , the largest U.S. issuer of municipal debt, will
offer $2 billion of federally subsidized, Build Americas Nov. 18
and $1.75 billion of tax-exempt, general-obligation bonds Nov.
23, according to Treasurer  Bill Lockyer ’s  website . The state is
also planning to issue an estimated $10 billion in one-year,
revenue-anticipation notes next week.  “If you can beat the onslaught of issuance, it’s a good
time to come to market,” said  Chris Tota , a principal at Los
Angeles-based De La Rosa & Co., one of the underwriters of the
university bonds.  Today’s issue, the week’s largest taxable sale, carries
ratings of Aa2 from Moody’s Investors Service and AA- from
Standard & Poor’s, the third- and fourth-highest, respectively.
The bonds are backed by pooled revenue of the system’s five
medical centers, preliminary offering documents show. It totals
$760 million, including $50 million in tax-exempts and $10
million in traditional taxables.  Previous Sale  The university priced 35-year Build Americas to yield 5.95
percent on Sept. 21, or 215 basis points above  30-year U.S.
Treasuries . The so-called spread widened to more than 220 basis
points in trading on Nov. 5, according to Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board data.  Bonds due in May 2050 were priced at 250 basis points above
Treasuries in the September sale, up from 225 basis points for
the same maturity in December, the university’s prior offer.  Today’s offering wasn’t intentionally scheduled to beat the
state to market, said Sandra Kim, the university system’s
executive director for external finance. Getting the deal done
to lock in the 35 percent federal subsidy on Build Americas was
part of the planning, she said.  The Build America Bond program is set to end on Dec. 31.
Legislation from U.S. Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, would extend the subsidy until
December 2011 while reducing it to 32 percent. The program was
created as part of last year’s economic-stimulus package.
Previous extension plans passed by the House of Representatives
stalled in the Senate. Congress has recessed until Nov. 15.  End of Subsidy  “We saw the subsidy going to end and long-term interest
rates still reasonably low, so we decided to pull the trigger,”
Kim said in a telephone interview.  The proceeds will help finance a new 289-bed inpatient
building for children’s, women’s and cancer hospitals at the
University of California, San Francisco Medical Center’s  Mission
Bay  facility, and a medical building adjacent to the Santa
Monica-UCLA Medical Center and Orthopaedic Hospital, offering
documents show. Pooled medical-center revenue was about $5.9
billion for the fiscal year ended June 30, up from $5.6 billion
the previous year, the documents show.  The five academic medical centers collectively represent
the third-largest system of publicly owned hospitals in the
nation, after the federal Veterans Administration system and New
York City’s Health and Hospital, according to Moody’s.  “There’s a strong appetite,” Tota said. “UCal doesn’t
come to market that often, and it’s a very strong credit.”  ‘Dark Period’  Lockyer plans to issue the state’s long-term bonds before a
self-imposed “dark period” in December and early January, when
he typically doesn’t sell debt while new economic data are
prepared. Governor-elect  Jerry Brown  must deliver a new spending
plan to the Legislature in the second week of January.  The revenue-anticipation notes are a type of short-term
municipal bond the state offers when cash is low. The money is
repaid with tax collections. Lockyer had been unable to sell the
notes because the promise to repay them had to be included in
the budget.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  HARVARD, the oldest and richest U.S. university, plans to
sell $741 million in tax-exempt bonds today through the
Massachusetts Development Finance Agency. Harvard will use the
funds to refinance long-term debt and for construction costs
related to the Fogg Art Museum, according to a Moody’s report.
The general-obligation bonds are top-rated by Moody’s and S&P,
and will be marketed by underwriters led by Morgan Stanley.
(Updated Nov. 9)  NEW YORK CITY MUNICIPAL WATER FINANCE AUTHORITY, which
funds the capital needs of the water and sewer system in the
most-populous U.S. city, plans to sell $500 million of Build
America Bonds as soon as this week. The securities are rated
second-highest by S&P and Fitch Ratings, AA+, and third-highest
by Moody’s, Aa2. They will be marketed by a group led by Samuel
A. Ramirez & Co. (Updated Nov. 8)  REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, which manages mass-
transit operations in the Denver region, plans to issue about
$710 million in taxable and tax-exempt debt as soon as today.
About $267 million will be Build America Bonds issued as
certificates of participation. Another $300 million will be
conventional Build Americas. The RTD is selling $100 million in
traditional tax-exempts and another $43 million in tax-exempt
certificates. Bonds, rated AA, will be backed by sales tax, with
the so-called COPs, rated AA-, backed by system revenue,
according to Fitch. Banks led by Morgan Stanley will market the
COPs, and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . will handle the bonds.
(Updated Nov. 9)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York, at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 