-- Cameron Risks Spat With Chinese by Wearing Poppy During Visit
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-11-10T10:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/cameron-risks-spat-with-chinese-by-wearing-poppy-during-visit-to-beijing.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
resisted a request from Chinese officials yesterday to remove
the poppy symbol that Britons wear every November in memory of
their war dead during his visit to Beijing, according to two
British officials familiar with the matter.  Poppies have been Britain’s symbol of remembrance since
World War I, when the flowers grew on battlefields. The  Royal
British Legion  sells paper poppies in November to raise funds
for veterans in the run-up to Armistice Day on Nov. 11.  The flower has a different resonance in China, which fought
and lost two Opium Wars with Britain in the 19th century. Those
resulted in the U.K. forcing the Chinese to open their borders
to trade, including in the narcotic derived from the Asian
variety of the poppy. Britain also gained the territory of Hong
Kong, which was not handed back to China until 1997.  “The Chinese leadership is increasingly projecting a
‘Great Power’ mentality and it is a reflection of rising
nationalism in the country,”  Joseph Cheng , a political-science
professor at the City University of Hong Kong, said in a phone
interview. “The Chinese leaders understand very well that the
Chinese people in general expect their leadership to fight for
an enhancement of China’s international status. The performance
of Chinese leaders in diplomacy becomes an important source of
the regime’s legitimacy.”  Honor Guard  The U.K. officials said the Chinese requested the prime
minister and his delegation remove the poppies from their lapels
before they arrived yesterday at the Great Hall of the People in
Beijing, where Cameron was greeted by Premier  Wen Jiabao  and
inspected an honor guard of the People’s Liberation Army. The
U.K. government refused, on the grounds that the symbol was
important to Britain.  The Chinese Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed statement
today that it had no knowledge of the incident.  “British Prime Minister Cameron is paying an official
visit to China as the leader of a large delegation,” the
ministry said. “The purpose of the visit is to strengthen the
nations’ pragmatic cooperation in various areas and to improve
the friendship between the people of the two countries.”  This year is the 150th anniversary of the Second Opium War,
which ended when the British and French armies arrived in
Peking, as Beijing was then known, and destroyed the emperor’s
Summer Palace to remind the Chinese of their defeat.  Trade Focus  Cameron’s two-day visit has focused on boosting trade ties.
He signed an accord yesterday improving access for U.K.
companies to China’s securities markets.  Rolls-Royce Group Plc 
signed a $1.2 billion order to provide 16 jet engines to  China
Eastern Airlines Corp. , and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
reached a deal with Guolian Securities Co. to underwrite bonds
and shares.  The governments agreed to work together to improve
financing for small companies. British companies will help build
corporate and government bond markets, develop alternative
investment vehicles and create an offshore market for the
Chinese yuan.  In Beijing today, Cameron told an audience of students
today that multiparty democracy, a free press and independent
judiciary make Britain stronger, as he urged China to open up
its political system. He also said economic imbalances,
including China’s trade surplus and curbs on its currency, risk
sparking protectionism and pushing the world economy into
recession.  Cameron then traveled to South Korea for the summit of the
Group of 20 leading economies. He will mark Armistice Day
tomorrow by visiting a memorial for British troops killed in the
Korean War, where their opponents included the Chinese.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Beijing at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  