-- Cameron Gains Preferred U.K. Access to China's Financial Markets in Visit
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-11-09T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/cameron-gains-preferred-u-k-access-to-china-s-financial-markets-in-visit.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  gained
preferential access for U.K. companies to China’s securities
markets as two of Britain’s leading financial institutions
signed agreements to expand their business in Beijing.  The accord signed today gives British banks and financial
firms advantages with Chinese customers ahead of the U.S., the
U.K. Treasury said in an e-mail.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  teamed with Guolian Securities to underwrite bonds and
shares and Aberdeen Asset Management won approval for a $200
million-a-year investment fund.  “China and the U.K. agree to renew and expand their
unrivalled programme of bilateral technical cooperation and
joint research on financial sector reform and development,” the
two nations said in a statement released in Beijing today.  Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  are
in China with the largest-ever U.K. business delegation. The
coalition administration has vowed to make trade the cornerstone
of its foreign policy.  The U.K. Treasury said that Britain’s work with China on
regulatory issues has opened doors for its companies.  “I want to connect Britain up with the fastest-growing
countries and the fastest-growing parts of the world,” Cameron
told Sky News after meeting with 400 entrepreneurs in Beijing.
“We have brought a really big trade delegation here, bigger
even than the one we took to India, some of Britain’s best known
companies and best known names, coming here to deepen and expand
our trading and economic relationship with China.”  The two countries agreed to work together to improve
financing for small companies. British companies will help build
corporate and government bond markets, develop alternative
investment vehicles and create an offshore market for the
Chinese yuan.  Both governments also agreed to push ahead with plans to
allow some Chinese companies to list in London and to improve
transaction technology, clearing systems and data management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Beijing on  gvina@bloomberg.net 
 Robert Hutton  in Beijing on  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 