-- Canada's Dollar Falls From Parity With Greenback as Crude Oil, Stocks Drop
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-09T22:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/canada-s-dollar-rises-to-parity-with-greenback-on-revived-demand-for-risk.html
Canada’s dollar dropped from parity
with its U.S. counterpart as crude oil, Canada’s biggest export,
fell after touching a two-year high and stocks dropped.  The greenback rose against most major currencies including
the loonie after an increase in yields following the U.S.
auction of 10-year Treasuries. Stocks, commodities and medium-
term U.S. debt rallied last week after the Federal Reserve
announced $600 billion in bond purchases under the policy known
as quantitative easing. Canadian bonds fell.  “A significant pullback in commodities and equities after
the U.S. 10-year auction is pressuring the Canadian dollar,”
 Michael Leavitt , a Montreal-based institutional-derivatives
broker at MF Global Holdings Ltd., said via e-mail. “Treasuries
and commodities have been performing well since QE2 along with
equities, and so a sell-off there had a ripple effect into
equities and commodities.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.4 percent to
C$1.0080 per U.S. dollar at 5:02 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0036
yesterday. It earlier touched parity for a third day.  Crude for December delivery slid 0.7 percent to $86.47 a
barrel after touching $87.63, the highest level since October
2008. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.8 percent after
earlier gaining 0.3 percent. The loonie tends to rise and fall
with stocks and commodities as a proxy for risk appetite.  Treasuries Fall  A drop in U.S. Treasuries pushed the  yield  on 30-year bonds
to the highest level in five months after the government sale of
$24 billion in 10-year notes drew the lowest demand since
February.  The yield on Canada’s five-year bond rose 10 basis points,
or 0.1 percentage point, to 2.20 percent, the highest level
since Sept. 20. The price of the 3 percent security maturing in
December 2015 slipped 48 cents to C$103.81.  Canada will auction C$3 billion ($3 billion) of 1.5 percent
bonds maturing in December 2012 tomorrow, according to a
statement on the Bank of Canada’s website.  The loonie is the second-worst performer against the
greenback since the end of July among its 16 most-traded
counterparts on concern a slowdown in the U.S. economic recovery
will crimp Canadian exports.  The loonie has gained 1.6 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track 10
developed-world currencies. That’s less than the advances of the
dollars of Australia and New Zealand, the Swiss franc, Sweden’s
krona and the yen. It has outperformed the pound, U.S. dollar,
Norwegian krone and euro.  Canada’s new-home prices rose 0.2 percent in September
government figures showed. The median forecast of 13 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent gain.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in response to an
audience question after a speech today in Geneva that he has
confidence in the Fed’s measures to boost economic growth. He
also said he understands the concern raised on the Fed’s moves
by officials in other countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  