-- Capital One Buys Hudson's Bay Card Portfolio With $1.3 Billion in Assets
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-11-09T20:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/capital-one-to-acquire-portfolio-with-receivables-about-1-3-bln.html
General Electric Co.  said its finance
arm sold the $1.3 billion credit card portfolio and related
services of Canada’s Hudson’s Bay Co. to Capital One Financial
Corp. as it pares assets to reduce the size of GE Capital.  The purchase price wasn’t disclosed. The portfolio was the
only one Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE owned that was all
Canadian assets,  Margaret Keane , who runs GE’s retail consumer
finance, said in a statement today. About 400 GE employees will
be transferred to the Canada unit of Maclean, Virginia-based
Capital One.  GE Capital is shifting assets to focus on commercial
financing, including lending to small and mid-sized companies.
In consumer finance, the division will concentrate on select
markets in which it dominates, including the U.S., Korea, parts
of Europe and Australia, Chief Operating Officer  Bill Cary  said
in an interview earlier this month.  On Nov. 2, GE capital sold the majority of its stake in
Turkey’s  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS  to Spain’s  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria  for $3.78 billion. The division has sold
other consumer finance assets this year, mostly under the GE
Money brand, in places including Panama, Brazil and Hong Kong.  GE Capital ended last quarter with  $489 billion in earning
net investment  in finance divisions, signaling faster progress
in shrinking the unit than GE anticipated. The figure was down
from $516 billion at the end of the first quarter.  GE  fell  10 cents to $16.61 at 3:16 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares had gained 10 percent
this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 