-- Carlsberg Misses Estimates on `Challenging' Europe Market
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-11-09T07:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/carlsberg-last-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-on-northern-western-europe.html
Carlsberg A/S , the maker of Tuborg
and Baltika beer, reported third-quarter profit that missed
estimates amid “challenging” conditions in northern and
western Europe.  Net income was 1.95 billion kroner ($363 million), the
company said today in a statement. That missed the 2.17 billion-
kroner  average estimate  of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
So-called organic net revenue, which excludes the effect of
acquisitions and disposals, grew 2 percent, driven by improving
sales in eastern Europe, where the company gets 31 percent of
its revenue.  “While we see signs of the market recovering in the
important eastern Europe region, conditions remain challenging
in several northern and western European markets,” Chief
Executive Officer  Joergen Buhl Rasmussen  said in the statement.
“Looking forward, we will be impacted by rising input costs and
will therefore have to increase sales prices.”  The Copenhagen-based company derives over 50 percent of its
profit from eastern Europe, including Russia, where sales
plunged earlier this year after the government tripled alcohol
taxes. Carlsberg raised its full-year earnings forecast in
August as the ruble strengthened against the Danish krone and
said the Russian market would decline less than it had expected
in 2010.  Asia, Russia  The company said today it expects to report full-year
operating profit of “more than 10 billion kroner” compared
with a previous estimate of about 10 billion kroner.  Operating profit, excluding some items, rose to 4.2 billion
kroner, a so-called organic increase of 16 percent, which
doesn’t take account of acquisitions and disposals. This was
aided by lower input costs and operating expenses in Asia, and
“efficiency improvements” in Russia. Rasmussen said in
September the company will close more breweries in northern and
western Europe to offset declining sales. Revenue rose 2 percent
on an organic basis to 17.7 billion kroner, the company said,
with “flat” pricing compared with a year earlier.  The volume of beer sold, on an organic basis, rose 3
percent helped by favorably warm weather in northern and western
Europe and strong sales in Asia. All three regions saw growth in
the amount of beer sold. Carlsberg gained market share in most
Asian markets, while its share fell 80 basis points in Russia
over nine months.  AB InBev, SABMiller  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, the world’s largest brewer, said
last week that it had seen improvement in Russia, where it
started selling its Budweiser brand.  SABMiller Plc , the maker of
Grolsch and Peroni, said it saw growth in the second quarter of
its fiscal year in the country “aided by exceptionally warm
weather in July and August.”  Carlsberg continues to forecast net profit growth,
excluding some items, of 40 percent this year. The company
raised its operating profit outlook to reflect the improving
market situation in Russia, which the company had forecast would
show a decline of a “high single-digit” percentage. The
company now expects a “mid single-digit” percentage decrease
in Russia, a slight decline in northern and western Europe and
ongoing growth in Asia.  The company said today that rising input costs and the
“weakness” of currencies including the ruble may lead to price
increases. Eastern Europe may see “significantly lower”
earnings in the fourth quarter compared with a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 