-- Carlsberg Misses Estimates on `Challenging' Europe Market
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-11-09T13:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/carlsberg-misses-estimates-on-challenging-europe-market.html
Carlsberg A/S , the maker of Tuborg
and Baltika beer, fell the most in six months in Copenhagen
trading after third-quarter profit missed estimates and the
company said it will raise prices because of rising costs.  Net income was 1.95 billion kroner ($363 million), the
Danish brewer said today. That was less than the 2.17 billion-
kroner  average estimate  of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The shares fell as much as 5.7 percent, the most since May 7.  Rising expenses for commodities including malt and barley
may lead to higher prices and “significantly lower” earnings
in eastern Europe, where operating profit increased 27 percent
in the third quarter, Carlsberg said. The region accounts for 31
percent of the brewer’s revenue and more than half its
profitability. Beer markets in northern and western Europe
declined “slightly,” the company also said.  “Our expectations of a challenging fourth quarter were
confirmed,”  Trevor Stirling , a London-based analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein, said today in a note. “They face significant
pressures on input costs in 2011.”  The  shares  traded at 567.5 kroner as of 1:22 p.m. in
Copenhagen, down 27.5 kroner, or 4.6 percent.  So-called organic net revenue, which excludes the effect of
acquisitions and disposals, grew 2 percent in the third quarter,
helped by improving sales in eastern Europe.  Malt, Barley  “While we see signs of the market recovering in the
important eastern Europe region, conditions remain challenging
in several northern and western European markets,” Chief
Executive Officer  Joergen Buhl Rasmussen  said in the statement.
“Looking forward, we will be impacted by rising input costs and
will therefore have to increase sales prices.”  Rasmussen said expenses for malt and barley will increase
after a heatwave and fires across the region destroyed crops.  “It’s very hard to hedge” in eastern Europe, the CEO
said. “I’d say that the price and costs of the raw materials
have gone up more than we had visibility for.”  Carlsberg said it lost market share in Russia, where the
company is the biggest brewer, as companies including Budweiser
maker Anheuser-Busch InBev NV stepped up competition.  “There will be some concern over the share loss in
Russia,” said  Simon Hales , an analyst at Evolution Securities
in London. “Winning this back may cost margin.”  Marketing Costs  Carlsberg said it has increased marketing costs “by
double-digit percentages” and will continue to invest in
promotional spend across all its regions.  Fourth-quarter earnings in eastern Europe will also be
affected by a surge in sales in the same period a year earlier
as consumer stocked up on beer before the Russian government
increased taxes on Jan. 1.  Still, Carlsberg said it now expects a “mid single-digit”
percentage decline in the Russian beer market, having forecast a
“high single-digit” decline.  The company also raised its full-year forecast, saying it
expects to report full-year operating profit of more than 10
billion kroner compared with a previous estimate of about 10
billion kroner. It maintained its target for net profit growth
of more than 40 percent for 2010.  “Focus today is likely to be on the outlook statement,
which is more cautious than in previous quarters,” Hales said.  Operating profit, excluding some items, rose to 4.2 billion
kroner in the third quarter, an increase of 16 percent excluding
acquisitions and disposals, Carlsberg said.  The volume of beer sold, on an organic basis, rose 3
percent in the quarter helped by favorably warm weather in
northern and western Europe and strong sales in Asia. All three
regions saw growth in the amount of beer sold. Carlsberg gained
market share in most Asian markets, while its share fell 80
basis points in Russia over nine months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 