-- Carney Says New Financial Rules Must Curb G-7's `Enormous' Moral Hazard
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-11-09T17:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/carney-says-new-financial-rules-must-curb-g-7-s-enormous-moral-hazard.html
Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said
global regulators must curb “enormous moral hazard” linked to
bailouts, centralize derivatives trading and implement tougher
capital requirements for banks to prevent another credit crunch.  The Group of Seven nations rescued a “profoundly fragile”
financial system by pledging to prevent the failure of important
institutions,  Carney , 45, said in the text of a speech he’s giving
today in Geneva, Switzerland. “The cost has been enormous moral
hazard that, if left unchecked, will distort private behavior and
inflate public costs.”  Regulators should consider making companies raise “contingent
capital” that would help cover future losses and draft “living
wills” that map out a firm’s potential wind up, Carney said. The
risks of “contagion” spreading between lenders can also be
reduced by moving derivatives trading to centralized clearing
houses, he said.  Carney’s call for the implementation of so-called Basel III
banking standards echoes a letter Prime Minister  Stephen Harper 
sent last week to leaders of the Group of Twenty nations, who meet
later this week in Seoul, South Korea. Such rules will make the
global financial system look more like Canada’s, Carney said. None
of the country’s banks needed a rescue during the crisis and the
institutions are rated the soundest in the world by the Geneva-
based World Economic Forum.  “Basel III incorporates many of the advantages of the
Canadian system, such as a leverage ratio and substantially higher
quantity, quality and transparency of Tier 1 capital,” Carney
said.  Central Clearinghouses  The speech made little reference to current economic
conditions. Canada had a “short, sharp recession” and is now
alone in the G-7 in restoring employment and output to “pre-crisis
levels,” Carney said. The central bank on Oct. 19 kept its  key
interest rate  at 1 percent and cut its economic growth forecast.  The Bank of Canada is working on central clearinghouses for
over-the-counter derivatives and repos, Carney said. That can help
ensure markets remain open in times of stress and, by setting
proper margin rules, can prevent the spread of a crisis, he said.  The credit squeeze was compounded by the growth of a “shadow
banking sector” which, just before the crisis in the U.S., had
assets about equal to those in regulated markets, Carney said.  “With pricing and risk management lagging reality, there was
a widespread misallocation of capital,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer M. Freedman at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 