-- Carney Says He Has `Confidence' in Fed's Measures to Support U.S. Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-09T21:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/carney-says-he-has-confidence-in-fed-s-measures-to-support-u-s-economy.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said he has confidence in the U.S. Federal Reserve’s measures to
bolster economic growth.  “We have absolute confidence in the measures taken by the
Federal Reserve,” Carney said in response to an audience
question after a speech today in Geneva, Switzerland. The policy
is appropriate “in the context of the weakening U.S. economy,
the prospect of missing both halves of their dual mandate,”
Carney said, adding he also understands the concerns raised
about the Fed’s moves by officials in other countries.  The Fed said Nov. 3 it will buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus in a bid
to reduce unemployment and avert deflation. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  called the plan “clueless” on Nov.
5 and officials from Asia to South America have warned the
decision will depress the U.S. dollar and spark flows of capital
to emerging markets, which could foment asset bubbles.  “We recognize that measures to ease, through purchases of
government securities or, in the case of Europe, to aid
sovereign bond markets, are extraordinary measures,” Carney
said. “We recognize that extraordinary times can call for
extraordinary measures.”  In his earlier speech, Carney said global regulators must
curb enormous moral hazard linked to bailouts, centralize
derivatives trading and implement tougher capital requirements
for banks to prevent another credit crunch.  ‘Enormous Moral Hazard’  The Group of Seven nations rescued a “profoundly fragile”
financial system by pledging to prevent the failure of important
institutions,  Carney , 45, said in the speech. “The cost has
been enormous moral hazard that, if left unchecked, will distort
private behavior and inflate public costs,” he said, referring
to the tendency of a company to take on risks because it knows
it will get bailed out by governments if it gets into trouble.  Regulators should consider making banks raise “contingent
capital” that would help cover future losses and draft “living
wills” that map out a firm’s potential wind up, Carney said.
The risks of “contagion” spreading between lenders can also be
reduced by moving derivatives trading to centralized clearing
houses, he said.  The Bank of Canada  is working  on central clearinghouses for
over-the-counter derivatives and repurchase agreements, Carney
said. The changes will help ensure markets remain open in times
of stress and clearinghouses can prevent the spread of a crisis
by setting proper margin rules, he said.  Companies will be “the first line of defense” before
regulators in an improved system, Carney said.  ‘Short, Sharp Recession’  The speech made little reference to current economic
conditions. Canada had a “short, sharp recession” and is now
alone in the G-7 in restoring employment and output to “pre-
crisis levels,” Carney said. The central bank on Oct. 19 kept
its  key interest rate  at 1 percent and cut its economic growth
forecast.  Carney’s call for the implementation of so-called Basel III
banking standards echoes a letter Prime Minister  Stephen Harper 
sent last week to leaders of the Group of Twenty nations, who
meet later this week in Seoul, South Korea. Such rules will make
the global financial system look more like Canada’s, Carney
said. None of the country’s banks needed a rescue during the
crisis and the institutions are rated the soundest in the world
by the Geneva-based World Economic Forum.  “Basel III incorporates many of the advantages of the
Canadian system, such as a leverage ratio and substantially
higher quantity, quality and transparency of Tier 1 capital,”
Carney said.  The credit squeeze was compounded by the growth of a
“shadow banking sector” which, just before the crisis in the
U.S., had assets about equal to those in regulated markets,
Carney said.  “With pricing and risk management lagging reality, there
was a widespread misallocation of capital,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net 
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  