-- Celanese to Spend $700 Million on Chinese Coal-to-Ethanol Plants
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-11-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/celanese-to-spend-up-to-700-million-on-chinese-coal-to-ethanol-factories.html
Celanese Corp. , the largest producer
of acetyl chemicals used in paint and plastics, plans to spend
as much as $700 million to build two factories in China that
turn coal into ethanol for industrial uses.  Each plant would have annual production capacity of 400,000
tons of ethanol, or 134 million gallons, Dallas-based Celanese
said today in a statement. Ethanol output may begin 30 months
after China grants approvals and would cost less than the
current method of fermenting food products such as corn, Chief
Executive Officer  David Weidman  said in a telephone interview.  “It’s a new paradigm for manufacturing ethanol,” Weidman
said in the interview. “The technology can manufacture both
industrial and fuel-grade ethanol. Our principal focus is the
industrial market.”  Weidman is betting on coal-based ethanol after building
plants in Nanjing that convert coal into acetic acid and related
acetyl chemicals used in coatings and polyester, boosting sales
in China to 20 percent of Celanese’s total. The company’s
proprietary coal-to-ethanol process builds on its acetyls
technology, Weidman said.  Celanese also plans to open a 40,000-ton facility in Clear
Lake, Texas, in late 2012 that will make ethanol from natural
gas for the company’s internal use and for sale to the
relatively small industrial-ethanol market in the U.S., Weidman
said. The location of the Chinese plants is being negotiated, he
said.  Industrial Uses  Ethanol is an ingredient in acetic acid and a half dozen
other chemicals such as ethyl esters and amines and butadiene.
It is used to make products such as paints, markers, deodorants,
perfumes and hand sanitizers, and is blended into gasoline.  Celanese is exploring opportunities to make ethanol for
fuel, the CEO said. Such a project would require a country with
cheap hydrocarbons, a desire to reduce dependence on foreign oil
and no requirement to make the gasoline additive from renewable
resources, such as sugar cane or corn, Weidman said.  China consumes about 3 billion tons of ethanol for
industrial purposes a year, Weidman said. The market, which is
growing 8 percent to 10 percent a year, may need another 1.5
billion tons of supply in five years, when Celanese expects to
have one and perhaps both coal-conversion plants running,
Weidman said. Celanese will be able to double output at each as
demand warrants, he said.  The China project will have a “meaningful impact” on
 earnings , Weidman said. He declined to be more specific.  Natural gas, which is widely used to power ethanol plants,
is not currently used as a raw material for ethanol production,
said  Matt Hartwig , a spokesman for the  Renewable Fuels
Association , a U.S. trade group. The U.S. has  204 biofuel  plants
with combined annual capacity of 13.8 billion gallons, and none
use a fossil fuel as a raw material.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 