-- Eminem Watch Out, Here Comes Cee Lo Green's Four-Letter Soul: CD Reviews
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2010-11-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/censored-soul-boosts-cee-lo-more-elvises-pillaging-the-80s-cd-review.html
The voice is as soulful as  Al Green ’s, as smooth as  Marvin Gaye ’s.  Cee Lo Green’s  CD out
today, “The Lady Killer,” stakes an aggressive claim to take
the title of the King of Soul away from the late  Otis Redding .  Green , 36, came to prominence with his velvety vocal
“Crazy” for Gnarls Barkley. Now he’s known for his riposte to
a former girlfriend, titled for radio “Forget You.” It’s on
the new Elektra album in the original four-letter-word form
along with a dozen more, mixing imagined Bond themes with synth
pop such as “Bright Lights Bigger City.” Rating: ***½.  Elvis Presley ’s even more distinctive tones grace “Viva
Elvis,” also out today. The CD is a radical remix of his hits.
Purists who hate the idea of anyone messing with the King should
note that this was done with the blessing of Elvis Presley
Enterprises. For starters, crowd sounds, sound bites and “Also
Sprach Zarathustra” begin the countdown to “Blue Suede
Shoes.” Rating: ****.  The Presley record is based on a show for  Cirque du Soleil ,
which also remixed the Beatles for “Love” and is planning
something similar for  Michael Jackson . The late King of Pop has
“ Vision ,” a three-DVD set of most of his videos and a new
album “ Michael ,” both due before Christmas.  Elton John  has linked up with one of his inspirations,  Leon
Russell , to make “ The Union ” (Decca/Mercury). On tracks such
as “When Love Is Dying” the CD recalls the glories of John’s
1970 “Tumbleweed Connection,” though this time with a choral
arrangement by  Brian Wilson  and production by  T-Bone Burnett .
Rating: ***.  T Bone also produces “ National Ransom ” (Universal), the
latest by  Elvis Costello , with Russell also chiming in. After
more than 30 albums, Costello’s still the king of the sharp
couplet: “My lovely Jezebel,/ she neglects and then ransacks
you so very well.” Rating: ***.  Artists predictably topping the Billboard charts include
rapper Eminem and acoustic rocker Jack Johnson, who broadens his
surfing imagery on “ To the Sea ” (Universal). Cover albums by
 Neil Diamond , 69, (“Dreams,” Sony) and  Rod Stewart , 65 (“Fly
Me to the Moon,” J Records) will leave many fans in despair.
Ratings: **.  “ The Age of Adz ” by Sufjan Stevens is the latest wayward
project by the 35-year-old on his own Asthmatic Kitty label
(named after a stray feline adopted by his family). The CD
schizophrenically shifts from quiet to loud and signs off with
the 25-minute “Impossible Soul.” Rating: ****.  Mark Ronson continues to prove he’s more than  Amy Winehouse ’s producer. His CD “ Record Collection ” (Columbia)
moves on from 1960s retro-pop to plunder the 1980s, with vocals
by  Boy George  and Simon Le Bon. Rating: ***½.  Jason Derulo’s  self-titled debut on Warner is a lean 31
minutes of R&B including the single “Ridin’ Solo.” Derulo’s
Jackson inspiration is clear. Rating: **½.  Two band leaders have made impressive solo CDS on the theme
of love:  Black Francis  of Pixies with “NonStopErotik” (Cooking
Vinyl) and Fyfe Dangerfield, of Guillemots, with “ Fly Yellow
Moon ” (Polydor). Also recommended:  Fionn Regan , “The Shadow of
an Empire” (Heavenly) and  Tom McRae’s  “Alphabet of
Hurricanes” (Cooking Vinyl). Rating for all ***.  The CDs are priced from $12.98, or 8.99 pounds in the U.K.
Download fees vary across services.  ( Mark Beech  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own. This is
the second of a series of three on 2010 music.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 