-- CEZ Third-Quarter Net Income Declines 4.1% on Lower Electricity Prices
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-11-09T07:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/cez-thirdrd-quarter-net-income-declines-4-1-on-lower-electricity-prices.html
CEZ AS , the Czech Republic’s largest
power producer, said third-quarter profit fell 4.1 percent as
global electricity prices remained below last year’s level.  Net income in the three months through Sept. 30 dropped to
11.45 billion koruna ($650 million) from 11.94 billion koruna a
year earlier, the Prague-based utility said today in a statement
posted on its website. That beat the 9.84 million-koruna median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Prague-based utility has curbed its expansion into
neighboring countries of central and eastern Europe and scaled
back investments for next year as market power prices continue
to decline. The prices remained lower than last year, squeezing
power producers’ profit margins.  “The numbers look quite good on all lines at the first
sight,” Ceska Sporitelna analyst Petr Bartek said in an e-
mailed note.  Earnings before interest,tax, depreciation and amortization
fell 5.4 percent to 67.17 billion koruna in the nine months
through September, beating the analysts’ estimates. Revenue rose
2.6 percent to 144.4 billion koruna during the period on new
acquisitions and a 4.4 percent increase in electricity
consumption during the nine-month period.  The company maintained its estimate for full-year EBITDA at
88.7 billion koruna and net profit of 46.7 billion koruna.  CEZ is an important source of revenue for the Czech
government because the state holds a 69 percent stake. The
utility operates two atomic plants in the country and plans to
add two more nuclear reactors to the Temelin plant in the next
decade.  Westinghouse Electric Co., Areva SA and a Russian-Czech
consortium led by ZAO Atomstroyexport are competing for the
Temelin contract. CEZ will choose the winning bid in 2013, it
said in the presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  