-- Charitable Donations by Wealthy Fall 35%, Bank of America Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2010-11-09T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/charitable-donations-by-wealthy-in-u-s-fall-35-bank-of-america-reports.html
Wealthy U.S. households made smaller
charitable donations last year, while the number of those giving
remained the same, according to a  Bank of America Corp.  study.  Average giving by survey respondents decreased 35 percent
to $54,016 last year compared with 2007, after adjusting for
inflation, the biennial report found. About 98 percent of the
801 households in the  survey  donated to philanthropies in 2009,
unchanged from two years earlier. Bank of America surveyed
households with an income greater than $200,000 or a net worth
of at least $1 million, excluding primary residences.  The percentage of income dedicated to giving fell to about
9 percent from 11 percent in 2007, today’s report said. High-
net-worth households account for about two-thirds of all
individual giving in the U.S., according to the  Center on
Philanthropy at Indiana University , which co-wrote the report.  “They’re still giving with the same kind of loyalty and
longevity and deliberateness,”  Claire Costello , private
philanthropy executive at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “They’re just doing so
with less money.”  A loss of assets and feelings of financial insecurity
resulted in smaller charitable gifts, Costello said. A separate
June report by the Giving USA Foundation in Glenview, Illinois,
said that total charitable giving, including by corporations,
declined 3.6 percent in 2009 to $303.6 billion.  For the 35 percent of households that stopped giving to at
least one organization, the majority said the reason was because
of too frequent solicitations or inappropriate amounts
requested, the Bank of America report said.  Risk Aversion  Donations to health organizations fell about 64 percent to
$4,511, the biggest decline among charity categories. The drop
may be the result of a decrease in capital campaigns, which
health organizations tend to use to raise money, and a switch in
giving to charities that support more basic needs such as food
and shelter, Costello said.  Donors gave more money to private foundations, donor-
advised funds and charitable trusts, with the average amount
increasing by 21 percent to $75,867. That’s because investors
are getting more sophisticated and structured with their giving,
Costello said.  They were also more risk averse when investing money that
would be used for charitable giving compared with their own
personal investments, the report said.  “Donors understand that their philanthropic assets are in
fact not their own, but rather are to be used for the common
good,” Costello said.  More Volunteers  The percentage of high-net-worth donors who volunteered
more than 200 hours a year increased to 39 percent from 27
percent as baby boomers reduced their working hours and had more
free time, according to the study. Volunteering was also a way
for wealthy individuals to give if they had financial
constraints.  Wealthy households were more sensitive to the effects of
tax policies on their giving, the report said. Sixty-seven
percent of respondents said they would somewhat or dramatically
decrease their contributions if they didn’t receive any tax
deductions for donations, compared with 47 percent in 2007. If
the estate tax were repealed, 43 percent of wealthy households
would increase the amount they leave to charity in an estate
plan, compared with 36 percent two years earlier.  The estate tax, repealed for this year only, will affect
estates exceeding $1 million and have a top rate of 55 percent
next year, unless Congress acts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 