-- English Soccer Champion Chelsea Taps Asia for Stadium Sponsor
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-09T16:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/chelsea-taps-asia-to-find-english-soccer-champion-s-first-stadium-sponsor.html
Chelsea, the English Premier League
soccer champion, is looking to Asia’s surging economy for its
first stadium sponsor.  The team owned by Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich  has
been marketing the 133-year-old Stamford Bridge, which seats
42,000, for a year. Ben Wells, the London club’s head of
marketing, says conditions in the global economy mean takers are
likely to come from the east.  “We are in Asia, absolutely,” Wells said in an interview.
“There are a lot of brands in these markets who eventually are
going to outstrip their domestic demand and look to launch
internationally. What better platform than the global footprint
the Premier League provides?”  Asia is proving increasingly important to Chelsea and its
rivals in English soccer’s top division.  The Blues’ principal sponsor is South Korean consumer goods
maker  Samsung Electronics Co. , while 18-time champions Liverpool
and Manchester United signed their biggest sponsorship contracts
with Standard Chartered Plc and Aon Corp., two companies looking
to expand in the region. Venky’s (India) Ltd., which runs
poultry farms, would become the first South Asian owner of a
Premier League team if it completes a 46 million-pound ($74
million) deal to buy 1995 champion Blackburn.  Stadium sponsors in England include Emirates airline and
Adidas AG’s Reebok brand at Arsenal and Bolton, respectively.  Colossal Market  Chelsea sponsors the Asian Football Confederation, an
organization responsible for soccer in 46 countries. The team
will play exhibition matches in Thailand, Malaysia and Hong Kong
in the 2011 offseason. In the past six months the major
exchanges in those three markets have grown by 33 percent, 18
percent and 25 percent respectively.  “The Asian market is colossal,” Wells said. “If you look
at the AFC, they represent two-thirds of the world’s
population.”  Current market conditions aren’t easy because sponsorship
is being passed through greater internal rigor in terms of
return on investment, according to Wells.  “The right partner will come along at the right time,” he
said.  The Blues’ commercial revenue of 52 million pounds in 2009
is less than six of its European rivals’, according to
accountant Deloitte LLP. It ranks third in the Premier League
behind United and Liverpool.  United’s Deals  Chelsea is in talks to leave Stamford Bridge and build a
60,000-seat stadium about half a mile away in west London, the
Guardian reported late yesterday, citing a person close to the
negotiations it didn’t identify. A new stadium wouldn’t be ready
until 2015, the newspaper added.  Manchester United’s commercial team has signed deals with
companies from across the globe as part a worldwide sales plan
adopted two years ago. The club’s appeal to Asian fans is an
attraction to sponsors that aren’t based in the region.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA’s  watch brand Hublot,
which last year signed up as United’s “official timekeeping
partner,” said it’s enjoyed sales growth in China because of
its relationship with the Old Trafford-based team.  Hublot Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Claude Biver  said the
relationship compared favorably with the association between
supermodel  Cindy Crawford  and  Swatch Group  AG’s Omega brand.  “I used to go to Asia with Cindy Crawford when I was on
the board of Omega,” he said. “We didn’t have more people
shouting around us when I was with Cindy than when I was with
 Wayne Rooney . So suddenly I realized that Manchester United is a
phenomenal ambassador for the Chinese.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 