-- Chevron to Buy Shale-Gas Owner Atlas for $3.2 Billion
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-09T21:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/chevron-agrees-to-buy-appalachian-explorer-atlas-energy-for-3-2-billion.html
  Chevron Corp ., the second-largest
U.S. oil company, agreed to buy  Atlas Energy Inc . for $3.2
billion, giving it access to the natural gas-rich Marcellus
Shale formation in Pennsylvania.  Shareholders will get $38.25 in cash plus units of an Atlas
pipeline affiliate, for a total of $43.34 a share, a 37 percent
premium to yesterday’s closing price, Atlas said in a statement
today. The company, based in Moon Township, Pennsylvania, had
its largest one-day share gain since it began trading in 2004.  The deal is worth $4.3 billion including assumed debt, the
companies said. If completed, the purchase would be the third-
largest for San Ramon, California-based Chevron and its biggest
since the 2005 acquisition of Unocal Corp.  Atlas “has one of the premier acreage positions in the
prolific Marcellus,” George L. Kirkland, Chevron vice chairman,
said in a statement. “The high quality resource, competitive
cost structure in the Marcellus, strong growth potential of the
asset base and its proximity to premier natural-gas markets make
this targeted acquisition a compelling investment for Chevron.”  The Marcellus Shale stretches from Pennsylvania into New
York,  West Virginia  and Ohio and may hold 262 trillion cubic
feet of natural gas, making it the largest known U.S. gas field,
according to Energy Department estimates. Marcellus gas has
averaged 11 percent more than the benchmark price over the past
year, because wells are closer to East Coast population centers.  Atlas rose $10.78, or 34 percent, to $42.50 at 4 p.m. on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. Chevron fell $1.24, or 1.5 percent, to
$83.56 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Shale Production  The planned purchase follows the June 28 acquisition of
shale-gas producer XTO Energy Inc. by Exxon Mobil Corp., the
largest U.S. energy company, for $34.9 billion. BP Plc, Total
SA, Statoil ASA and Royal Dutch Shell Plc also have purchased
U.S. shale assets to increase reserves and output, betting that
gas prices will rise as economic recovery boosts energy demand.  In addition to acreage, companies are adding expertise in
shale production, which involves drilling horizontally for
thousands of feet, then fracturing the shale-rock formations
with injections of water, sand and chemicals. The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency is studying the effects
 hydraulic fracturing  may have on water supplies and the
environment.  Producers expect so-called tight formations on other
continents to be exploited for oil and gas. Chevron said the
Atlas purchase complements its recent shale-gas deals in  Poland ,  Romania  and  Canada .  Reliance Agreement  Atlas reported more than 1 trillion cubic feet of natural
gas reserves at the end of last year and controls 622,000 acres
in the Marcellus Shale, according to its  website . The company
reported today that daily output for the third quarter rose 18
percent from a year earlier to the equivalent of 118.3 million
cubic feet.  Chevron said it will assume Atlas Energy’s role in a $1.7
billion agreement announced in April with  India ’s  Reliance
Industries Ltd . to produce gas from the Marcellus Shale. In that
agreement, Reliance paid $340 million upfront and agreed to pay
up to $1.36 billion of its partner’s drilling cost, in addition
to its own.  The premium for today’s deal is more than the 13 percent
average for the 253 U.S. oil and gas acquisitions announced this
year, according to Bloomberg data. Chevron is paying 14 times
profit before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for
Atlas, compared with an average of 11 times for the four largest
oil and gas deals announced this year.  Other Buyers?  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see another buyer emerge,”
said  Scott Hanold , a Houston-based analyst for  RBC Capital
Markets . “This values the company at about $9,000 an acre for a
Marcellus position. Reliance paid about $14,000 an acre for the
joint venture in Atlas’s core holdings. Investors are going to
want some more.”  Hanold rates Atlas Energy a buy and doesn’t own the shares.    Atlas Pipeline Holdings LP  will buy producing oil and gas
assets from Atlas Energy for $30 million in cash and $220
million in newly issued units, the partnership said in a
separate statement. After the transaction, Atlas Energy will no
longer control the partnership.  Atlas Energy will buy a 49 percent stake in Laurel Mountain
Midstream LLC, a pipeline system in western Pennsylvania, for
$403 million in cash from another affiliate,  Atlas Pipeline
Partners LP , according to a statement.  Williams Partners LP , the
pipeline owner controlled by Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Williams
Cos., is the majority owner and operator of the Laurel Mountain
system.  Jefferies Group Inc. is acting as lead financial adviser
and Deutsche Bank AG is serving as co-financial adviser to Atlas
Energy. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is legal adviser to Atlas
Energy.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is serving as financial adviser to
Chevron and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is its legal
adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jim Polson  in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 