-- China Purchases $3.1 Billion of Japanese Bonds as Yen Beats Dollar, Euro
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2010-12-08T02:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/china-is-net-seller-of-japanese-debt-for-second-month-as-yen-nears-record.html
China bought a net 262.5 billion yen
($3.1 billion) of Japanese bonds in October, the first time in
three months the nation increased holdings of yen-denominated
assets as that currency outperformed the dollar and euro.  China purchased a net 231.9 billion yen in short-term
Japanese debt and 30.6 billion yen in long-term bonds, Japan’s
Ministry of Finance said in a statement today. China increased
holdings of South Korean government bonds in November by the
most in six months, taking advantage of a retreat in the won,
according to data released two days ago by South Korea’s
Financial Supervisory Service.  “With a risk of the dollar’s depreciation and the current
instability in the financial market and the euro, China is
likely to be diversifying its portfolio steadily,” said  Satoru Ogasawara , vice president of economics research in Tokyo at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “The dollar probably makes up 90
percent of China’s foreign-exchange reserves.”  The yen was the biggest gainer versus the dollar and euro
this year among the world’s most-traded major currencies.
Chinese central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said last month in an
interview with a state broadcaster that his nation can consider
selling Treasuries as a way to seek compensation for losses
caused to its foreign exchange investments by the U.S.’s
decision to undertake so-called quantitative easing.  Currency Diversification  Treasuries handed investors a 0.7 percent loss last month,
the steepest decline since March, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. The dollar has fallen 1.2 percent and the
euro has slid 9.3 percent this year in a measure of the
currencies of 10 developed nations, Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes show.  China is considering allocating more of its $2.65 trillion
foreign-exchange reserves to emerging-market currencies to boost
returns, central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in October.
The nation’s holdings of U.S. Treasuries fell 1.3 percent in the
first nine months of this year to $883.5 billion.  China’s net purchases of Korean Treasury bonds amounted to
556 billion won ($487 million), 27 percent more than in October,
according to data released Dec. 6 by South Korea’s Financial
Supervisory Service. Total holdings increased 9.9 percent to
6.14 trillion won, more than triple the level at the start of
2010. The won’s slide of about 3 percent versus the dollar in
November marked its biggest decline since May.  ‘Gains From Currencies’  “China probably aims for gains from currencies, not from
returns from debt,” said  Ayako Sera , who helps oversee about
$310 billion in Tokyo as a strategist at Sumitomo Trust &
Banking Co. “It seems China bought Japanese debt just for now
because the dollar and euro are weak.”  The yen climbed to 80.22 per dollar on Nov. 1, the highest
since April 1995. It traded at 83.65 as of 11:08 a.m. in Tokyo.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yields sank to a seven-year low
of 0.82 percent on Oct. 6, a day after the Bank of Japan cut its
key interest rate to a range of zero to 0.1 percent and
announced the creation of a 5 trillion-yen fund to buy domestic
debt. The yield was at 1.205 percent today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 