-- China's Tudou Files to Raise $120 Million in U.S. IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-11-09T20:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/china-s-online-video-website-tudou-files-to-raise-120-million-in-u-s-ipo.html
Tudou Holdings Ltd. , the operator of
China’s second-largest online video website, will seek to raise
as much as $120 million in a U.S. initial public offering, a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission showed.  The video broadcaster didn’t disclose a price range or a
date for the IPO. Shanghai-based Tudou will use the proceeds to
expand its Internet bandwidth and upgrade its technology as it
competes with larger rival  Youku.com  in the world’s biggest
Internet market, the  filing  showed.  Tudou will offer shares after the number of Internet users
in China surpassed the entire U.S. population. Chinese companies
have accounted for five of the ten best performing U.S. IPOs
this year, with the biggest first-day rally coming from Beijing-
based  ChinaCache International Holdings Ltd. , which provides
content for business websites.  “You’re taking the two hottest things -- China and the
Internet -- and putting them in one issue,” said  Walter Todd ,
co-chief investment officer at Greenwood, South Carolina-based
Greenwood Capital, which oversees about $900 million.
“Internet-related businesses seem to be performing very well
this year, so that’s another benefit.”  Credit Suisse Group AG  of Zurich and Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank AG will arrange Tudou’s IPO, the filing showed.  Coach Potato  Tudou means potato in Chinese and is a playful reference to
couch potato, Chief Executive Officer Gary Wang said in an
interview in September. The company started its website in 2005
and has raised at least $135 million through five rounds of
funding from investors including Crescent Point, IDG China, GGV
Capital, General Catalyst and Singapore’s state investment
company Temasek Holdings Pte.  The number of registered users on Tudou’s site more than
quadrupled to 71.7 million through September of this year from
16.3 million at the end of 2007, the company said in its filing.  Youku of Beijing held about 18 percent of China’s online-
video market in the first quarter of this year, while Tudou had
about 13 percent, according to a Sept. 9  survey  published by
Analysys International, a Beijing-based research firm.  China had an estimated 420 million Internet users at the
end of June, an increase of 36 million from six months earlier,
according to  data  from the government-sponsored China Internet
Network Information Center. The U.S. population is about 311
million, according to the Census Bureau’s website.  Chinese IPOs  Chinese companies have accounted for 13 percent of the
$19.2 billion raised through U.S. initial offerings this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg excluding closed-end
funds and investment companies.  ChinaCache rallied 95 percent on its first day of trading
Oct. 1, the biggest first-day gain for a U.S. IPO in three
years.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. , the Beijing-based operator of
China’s biggest real-estate website, has gained 97 percent since
its September IPO in New York.  Tudou’s American depositary receipts representing Class B
ordinary shares will be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
the ticker TUDO, today’s filing said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 