-- Yuan Approaches Highest Level Since 1993 Before G-20 Meeting
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-09T16:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/china-yuan-climbs-most-in-a-week-after-pboc-set-rate-stronger-before-g-20.html
China’s yuan is approaching the
strongest level against the dollar since 1993 on speculation the
country’s central bank will permit faster appreciation before
Group of 20 leaders meet this week in Seoul.  The yuan gained 0.51 percent to 6.6440 per dollar yesterday
in its biggest daily advance since China abandoned a peg against
the greenback in July 2005. It touched 6.6420 earlier, compared
with 6.6404 on Oct. 15, the highest level since the central bank
unified official and market exchange rates 17 years ago.  The appreciation came two days before the summit of the G-
20 leaders who are seeking to avert a worldwide “currency war”
and address global imbalances in consumption and exports. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Nov. 8 that it is
“overwhelmingly” in China’s interest to let the yuan rise, as
the House of Representatives attempts to impose punitive duties
on Chinese imports.  “There is a lot of catch-up to do,” said  Jens Nordvig , a
managing director of currency research in New York at Nomura
Securities International Inc., referring to yuan appreciation.
“It makes so much fundamental and political sense.”  The People’s Bank of China raised the yuan’s daily
reference rate by 0.17 percent to 6.6580 yesterday, the biggest
gain in more than three weeks. China’s currency has strengthened
2.8 percent this year, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.5
percent to 6.4458 per dollar yesterday, reflecting bets the
currency will strengthen 3.1 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  International Events  China tends to allow the yuan to rise more before political
events where international criticism of Beijing’s currency
policy may intensify, according to  Chang Jian , Hong Kong-based
chief China economist at Barclays Capital.  The yuan advanced 1.7 percent in September, the most since
2005, when Geithner told lawmakers that the U.S. was not
satisfied with the pace of the Chinese currency’s appreciation.  “The PBOC may prefer to give some room for an accelerated
pace in appreciation during the period of the G-20 meeting, the
same as we saw in the week of Sept. 15 during the U.S. Congress
hearings,” said Chang.  The G-20 includes the largest developed and emerging
nations, from the U.S. and Germany to Japan, China, India and
Brazil.  The yuan’s gain yesterday bucked the broad strength of the
greenback, leaving the Chinese currency up 0.9 percent versus
the euro. Europe is China’s largest trading partner.  Markets Surprised  “China surprised markets by fixing the yuan higher despite
the move of a lower euro,” said  Brad Bechtel , a currency trader
at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros Trading LLC.  Speaking at an event in New Delhi on Nov. 8, Geithner said
China needs to continue to allow the yuan to gain, adding that
the world’s second-largest economy is “very supportive” of the
Group of 20 nations’ framework on reducing global imbalances.  The State  Administration of Foreign Exchange  said yesterday
it will force banks to hold more foreign exchange and strengthen
auditing of overseas fundraising as part of efforts to crack
down on hot-money inflows, according to a  statement  on its
website.  The regulator said it will introduce new rules on currency
provisioning and tighten management of banks’ foreign-debt
quotas. The government will also regulate Chinese special-
purpose vehicles overseas and tighten controls on equity
investments by foreign companies in China, it said.  Controls Don’t Stop Trend  “The strengthened controls on hot money can’t change the
yuan’s trend of appreciation,” said  Isaac Meng , a senior
economist at BNP Paribas SA in Beijing. “The yuan will continue
to appreciate as the Fed easing prompts more capital inflows and
China’s economy grows faster than the U.S.”  China’s trade surplus probably increased to $25 billion in
October, the second biggest this year, from $16.9 billion in
September, according to the median forecast of 27 economists in
a Bloomberg survey before a government report today. A failure
by China, the No. 1 exporter, to alter its growth model would be
a “serious” medium-term risk to the domestic and global
economies, the World Bank said last week.  -- Judy Chen  and  Ye Xie . Editors:  Josh Fellman ,  Glenn Kalinoski   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .
 Ye Xie  in New York at +1-212-617-2768 or
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  