-- China's Dagong Lowers U.S. Credit Rating on Fed Monetary Policy
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-11-10T02:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/china-s-dagong-downgrades-u-s-to-a-on-quantitative-easing-xinhua-says.html
China’s Dagong Global Credit Rating
Co. reduced its credit rating for the U.S. to A+ from AA, citing
a deteriorating intent and ability to repay debt obligations
after the Federal Reserve announced more monetary easing.  The credit outlook for the U.S. is “negative,” as the
Fed’s plan to buy government debt will erode the value of the
 dollar  and “entirely encroaches” on the interests of
creditors, analysts at Dagong, one of China’s three largest
ratings companies, said in a  statement . The U.S. is rated Aaa
and AAA by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard Poor’s Corp.,
the highest credit ratings of the New York-based companies.  The downgrade came before a meeting of leaders of the Group
of 20 nations this week in Seoul and as the U.S. steps up
pressure for China to let the yuan strengthen to help reduce the
U.S. trade deficit. China countered the criticism by saying U.S.
economic policies threaten the stability of developing nations.  “The general market perception is that there’s a risk that
the Chinese rating agency is playing a bit more political game
than providing independent analysis,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist in Stamford, Connecticut, at CRT
Capital Group LLC, in a telephone interview. “I don’t think it
has the same ramification as a downgrade by mainstream rating
agencies such as S&P and Moody’s. That said, the reasons that
the credit rating of the U.S. may come under pressure are
obvious to most people.”  ‘Some Justification’  The privately owned Dagong, founded in Beijing in 1994, is 
the only one of China’s three largest ratings companies that 
doesn’t have a foreign partner. The company, seeking to become 
an alternative to S&P, Moody’s and Fitch Ratings, gave China’s 
debt a higher rating than that of the U.S. and Japan in the 
nation’s first sovereign ranking in July, citing widening 
deficits in the developed world.  “Sovereign ratings have become Dagong’s business focus as
its market share in corporate ratings is much smaller than its
peers with foreign partners,” said Shi Lei, the head of fixed-
income research in Shenzhen at Ping An Securities Co., a
subsidiary of China’s second-largest insurer. “Its downgrading
of the U.S. rating has some justification as printing money to
help with the fiscal deficit is even worse than keeping a high
deficit.”  Yields  on benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury notes rose 11
basis points yesterday as bidding declined at a $24 billion sale
of new securities. The yield on the 2.625 percent Treasury due
in August 2020 fell four basis points today to 2.62 percent. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Serious Defects’  The downgrade for the U.S. “reflects its deteriorating
debt repayment capability and drastic decline of the
government’s intention of debt repayment,” analysts Lu Sinan
and Du Mingyan wrote in the statement. “The serious defects in
the U.S. economic development and management model will lead to
the long-term recession of its national economy, fundamentally
lowering the national solvency.”  Chinese central bank adviser  Xia Bin  said Nov. 4 that the
Fed’s $600 billion of planned Treasury debt purchases is
“uncontrolled” money printing, and Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said yesterday that the program could “shock”
emerging markets by flooding them with capital.  “Many countries are worried about the impact of the policy
on their economies,” Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said at
a press briefing in Beijing Nov. 5. “It would be appropriate
for someone to step forward and give us an explanation,
otherwise international confidence in the recovery and growth of
the global economy might be hurt.”  Global ratings methodology is “irrational,” Dagong
Chairman  Guan Jianzhong  said in July, and “cannot truly reflect
repayment ability.”  In September, the Securities and Exchange Commission turned
down Dagong’s application to become a Nationally Recognized
Statistical Rating Organization in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Fellman  in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  