-- China, Brazil Helped by Fed Policy They Criticize: Chart of the Day
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-09T21:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/china-brazil-helped-by-fed-policy-they-criticize-chart-of-the-day.html
The economies of China, Brazil and
other emerging markets stand to benefit from the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s decision to increase asset purchases, even as world
policy makers raise concerns about the effects of the move on
exchange rates.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows emerging countries are more
reliant on U.S. growth than a decade ago, with their share of
U.S. imports more than doubling since 2001 to 21 percent,
according to calculations using data from the U.S. Commerce
Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis.  The Fed announced on Nov. 3 it would buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June in a second round of unconventional
monetary stimulus. China, the largest overseas holder of U.S.
government debt, said on Nov. 5 the move risks hurting the
global recovery.  “They want their cake and they want to eat it too,” said
 Doug Porter , deputy chief economist with BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, adding that countries like China stand to be “big
beneficiaries” of the Fed’s policy. “I definitely view the
weaker dollar as being a secondary byproduct of quantitative
easing. I don’t believe that was in any way the main target of
quantitative easing.”  The Brazilian real has gained about 3 percent against its
U.S. counterpart since Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said on Aug. 27
the central bank was ready to extend monetary stimulus through
unconventional measures. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last week Bernanke is throwing “money from a
helicopter.”  Chinese Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said on Nov. 8
the Fed may “shock” emerging markets by flooding them with
“hot money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilan Kolet  in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 