-- Shanghai Stocks Drop From Seven-Month High on Policy Concern; Banks Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-09T08:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/china-s-stocks-decline-from-seven-month-high-as-commodity-prices-retreat.html
China stocks  fell, with the benchmark
index dropping from a seven-month high, as banks, developers and
energy producers declined after the government signaled new
measures to limit capital flows.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. lost 2.1 percent after
regulators pledged increased controls on foreign fund inflows
and the planning chief said the country may miss its inflation
target.  Poly Real Estate Group Co.  slid 4.1 percent as the
Securities Times said the government is drafting rules to allow
authorities to control gains in home prices.  PetroChina Co.  sank
the most since June as oil retreated. October economic data from
inflation to property are due for release tomorrow.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  fell 24.51, or 0.8 percent, to
3,134.99 at the 3 p.m. close, after closing at the highest since
April 15 yesterday. The  CSI 300 Index  lost 0.7 percent to
3,523.95.  “There’re still a lot of uncertainties surrounding how
much the authorities will tighten given inflation pressures and
inflows of hot money,” said Li Jun, a Shanghai-based strategist
at Central China Securities Co. “The most severe of measures
for the property industry are yet to come.”  The Shanghai Composite rose 5.1 percent last week,
extending an 18 percent quarterly rally, as the U.S. Federal
Reserve unveiled plans to buy an extra $600 billion of
Treasuries.  The index remains down 4.3 percent this year after the
government raised bank reserve requirements and curbed lending
growth to cool the economy. The measure trades at 20.1 times
reported  earnings , compared with 26.4 times profit at the
beginning of the year, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Financial Stocks  A  gauge  tracking financial companies slumped 2.1 percent,
the most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups. Agricultural
Bank lost 2.1 percent to 2.83 yuan.  Bank of Communications Co. 
dropped 1.7 percent to 6.26 yuan.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange will tighten
management of banks’ foreign-debt quotas and introduce new rules
on their currency provisioning, the regulator said in a
statement on its website. The government will also regulate
Chinese special-purpose vehicles overseas and tighten controls
on equity investments by foreign companies in China, it said.  Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said the Fed’s decision
to pump $600 billion into the economy might “shock” emerging
markets by flooding them with capital.  Inflation Goal  China may miss the government’s goal of limiting full-year
inflation to 3 percent,  Zhang Ping , the head of the National
Development and Reform Commission, said today. The trend in
prices this quarter is worse than the government expected, Zhang
said, citing “imported inflation” as excessive global
liquidity and a weaker dollar push up commodity prices.  The central bank unexpectedly raised benchmark lending and
deposit  rates  on Oct. 19, two days before official data showed
inflation had accelerated to the fastest pace in 23 months.  The pace of policy tightening by China over the next few
quarters may “surprise” the market as inflation accelerates,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts led by  David Cui  wrote in
a report.  “The inflation anecdotes are deafening,” the report said.
“We heard from various beer, milk, instant noodle makers and
restaurant chain operators that thay have either raised prices
in the recent month or two or are planning to do so shortly.”  A measure of property stocks fell 1.5 percent, the most
among the five industry groups on the  Shanghai Composite . Poly
Real Estate, the nation’s second-largest publicly traded
developer by market value, slid 4.1 percent to 14.47 yuan. China
Vanke Co. dropped 4 percent to 9.5 yuan.  Property Curbs  Provincial regulators may be allowed to limit the selling
prices of homes and cap profits for developers if prices gain
sharply, the Shenzhen-based Securities Times said, citing people
it didn’t name.  The report came ahead of the release of October’s housing
data scheduled for this week. China has tightened down-payment
requirements this year and suspended loans for third-home
purchases to curb increases in property prices.  Chinese policy makers will boost  benchmark interest rates 
four times in the next 12 months, more than most of the world’s
biggest economies, as they tackle the fastest inflation in two
years, trading in swaps shows.  Two-year interest-rate swaps that exchange the one-year
official savings rate for a fixed payment rose 50 basis points
to 2.98 percent since the People’s Bank of China raised its key
deposit rate on Oct. 19 by 25 basis points to 2.5 percent.
Traders are betting on another 100 basis points of increases to
3.5 percent in a year, said  Liu Linan , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG.  Energy Producers  PetroChina fell 2.6 percent to 11.82 yuan, the most since
June 29 and the first decline in seven days. China Shenhua
Energy Co. slid 1 percent to 29.07 yuan. Oil fell as much as 0.7
percent to $86.44 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  China may report its second-largest monthly trade surplus
of the year, indicating little lasting shift so far in
addressing the imbalances in global spending and capital flows
set to dominate a summit of the Group of 20.  The $25 billion median forecast of 27 economists for
October compares with a $16.9 billion excess of exports over
imports in September. The release is due tomorrow, before G-20
leaders meet in Seoul Nov. 11-12 to discuss ways to avert
sustained current-account surpluses or deficits.  Among stocks that gained, Hainan-related stocks surged
after the Shanghai Securities News reported the southern
province may start duty-free shopping from Jan. 1.  Hainan Airlines Co.  gained by the maximum 10 percent to
10.23 yuan. Hainan Expressway Co. also surged by the daily limit
to 7.11 yuan, as did Hainan Zhenghe Industrial Group Co. to 6.55
yuan.  The duty-free zones will include Sanya and Haikou,
according to the report, which cited an unidentified person.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  