-- China’s Home Prices Grow at Slowest Pace in 10 Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T07:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/china-october-property-prices-grow-at-slower-8-6-pace-on-government-curbs.html
  China ’s property prices rose at the
slowest pace in 10 months in October after the government raised
interest rates and expanded measures to limit the risk of asset
bubbles in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Home prices in 70 cities climbed 8.6 percent from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said in a statement posted on its
website today. That’s slower than the 9.1 percent increase in
September and the 8.9 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of six economists. Price gains also slowed to 0.2
percent from September after increasing 0.5 percent last month.  Property shares led declines in Chinese stocks today as the
data showed government measures, including suspending mortgages
for third-home purchases and a pledge to speed up trials of
property taxes, may not be enough to ease gains in home prices.
The central bank also raised  interest rates  last month for the
first time in three years.  The “rate hike in October has had a quick impact on the
Chinese  property market ,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Royal Bank of  Canada . “House price inflation is
moving in the right direction over the last few months, but
officials will likely want to see more progress, suggesting that
the policy bias remains in favor of more rate hikes.”  The  Shanghai  Composite Index measure tracking real estate
stocks dropped 2.8 percent at the 3 p.m. close, the most in
three weeks. China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer,
dropped 3.7 percent to 9.15 yuan in Shenzhen, and rival Poly
Real Estate Group Co. declined 4.6 percent to 13.80 yuan.  Rising Investment  Sales volume fell 11 percent in October from the previous
month, while the value of transactions dropped 7.7 percent.
China’s property investment rose 37 percent to 455.8 billion
yuan ($69 billion) in October from a year earlier, and increased
37 percent to 3.81 trillion yuan in the first 10 months.  Beijing’s property prices rose 0.1 percent from the
previous month and those in Lanzhou in northwest China climbed
2.4 percent. Only eight out of the 70 major cities monitored by
the government posted a drop in property prices, including a 0.1
percent decline in Shanghai from September, the data showed.  “In China, a residential property is now the preferred
savings vehicle, because it provides a better hedge against
inflation,”  Michael Kurtz , head of Asian strategy at Macquarie
Group Ltd., said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Hong Kong. “As long as nominal interest rates remain as low as
they are, Chinese households are going to continue to favor
property over  bank deposits  as a form of savings.”  Further Strength  Private sales data indicated further strength in October
sales. In Shanghai, home prices rose 3.1 percent from September,
according to UWin Real Estate Information Services Co.    Shimao Property Holdings Ltd ., a Shanghai-based developer,
reported a 15 percent increase in sales value in October from
the previous month, while China Vanke said October contracted
sales more than doubled.  “Demand for properties remains strong despite many
tightening measures,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
“Looking ahead, we expect China’s property prices to soften
further on rising funding costs, increasing supply of
economically affordable housing, and the strong government
resolve to cool the sector next year.”  More Restrictions  China ordered some lenders including Bank of Communications
Co. to increase their reserve ratios by 50 basis points,
effective on Nov. 15, said a person with direct knowledge of the
situation. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. People’s Bank
of China declined to comment.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange will introduce
new rules on currency provisioning and tighten management of
banks’ foreign-debt quotas, the regulator said in a  statement 
yesterday, forcing banks to hold more foreign exchange and
strengthen auditing of overseas fund raising to curb hot-money
inflows that may inflate asset bubbles.  “The rising tendency of housing prices has been curbed,”
said  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-based senior economist at
Industrial Bank Co. “If the government is simply content with
curbing rising  home prices , it has achieved its goal. But it’s
certainly far from satisfactory for buyers.”  Policy makers may introduce more measures in the fourth
quarter amid signs of a price recovery, according to Nomura
Securities Co. The likely policies include a property tax and
the enforcement of the so-called land added-value levy in the
“overheated cities,” the brokerage said in a Nov. 4 report.  The introduction of a property tax may cause housing prices
to drop between 15 percent and 20 percent, Citic Securities Co.
said Nov. 3. The tax may affect economic growth by 0.48 to 0.64
percentage points by slowing real-estate investment, the
brokerage said.  --Bonnie Cao, Huang Zhe,  John Liu . With assistance from Li
Yanping in Beijing and Susan Li in  Hong Kong . Editors:
Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Huang Zhe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7552 or
 zhuang37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  