-- China Yuan Undervalued by 20% Versus Dollar, Peterson Institute Study Says
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-11-09T11:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/china-yuan-undervalued-by-20-versus-dollar-peterson-institute-study-says.html
China’s exchange rate is undervalued
by 20 percent against the dollar and Singapore, Switzerland and
Taiwan should also be censured for intervening in foreign-
exchange markets, according to an  analysis  by the Peterson
Institute for International Economics.  China’s yuan is 17 percent undervalued on a trade-weighted
basis, while Singapore’s is 29 percent below its “fundamental
equilibrium exchange rate” on the same basis, says the study by
the Washington-based research group. While the Swiss franc is
fairly valued against the dollar, it’s 5 percent undervalued on
trade-weighted terms, it said.  The topic of misaligned currencies is set to take center
stage at this week’s Seoul summit of leaders from the Group of
20 amid concern some nations are devaluing their way to
prosperity even as they deny that’s the case. Asia-Pacific
finance ministers on Nov. 6 backed the G-20’s commitment to
avoid competitive exchange-rate devaluations.  Some countries are justifiably intervening because their
currencies are overvalued, the institute said in the report
yesterday. The Brazilian real is 9 percent and 8 percent
overvalued against the dollar and on trade-weighted terms
respectively, while the Japanese yen is 3 percent above its fair
value versus the dollar, according to the report. The exchange
rates of South Korea, Israel and the Philippines are 2 percent
overvalued on a trade-weighted basis, the institute said.  “It is quite wrong to condemn countries for resisting
appreciation irrespective of their situation,”  William Cline 
and  John Williamson , economists at the Peterson Institute, said
in the report. “Any agreement at Seoul to prevent an exchange-
rate war should be based on a distinction between countries with
overvalued and undervalued currencies, and should be designed to
seek appreciation of the latter but not to debar the former from
actions to prevent a further magnification of disequilibrium.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  