-- China Day Ahead: Energy Demand to Surge; Wen Seeks Change in Growth Model
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-09T22:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/china-day-ahead-energy-demand-to-surge-wen-seeks-change-in-growth-model.html
China will drive a surge in world
energy demand over the next quarter century, as straining supply
enhances OPEC’s oil market share and growing coal use undermines
efforts to contain global warming, according to a report.  Chinese demand will jump 75 percent, accounting for more
than a third of an increase in energy use that will bring global
consumption to 16.7 billion metric tons of oil equivalent by
2035, the  International Energy Agency  forecasts in its annual
 World Energy Outlook . Oil supplies will be pushed near their
peak, thwarting government pledges to limit the rise in global
temperature to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).  China will become the world’s biggest user of electricity
in 2012, overtaking the U.S., the agency said. China, already
the world’s biggest energy user, will add generation equivalent
to the installed capacity of the U.S. in the next 15 years as
consumption is expected to triple between 2008 and 2035.  Wen on Growth Model  China will strive to transform its economic growth model
between 2011 and 2015, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said, calling
on the U.K. to invest more in the country and step up
cooperation on advanced technology.  China needs to “make sure our economic development is
balanced, coordinated and sustainable,” said Wen, who was
speaking with business leaders from the U.K. visiting the nation
with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  Tudou Listing  Tudou Holdings Ltd., the operator of China’s second-largest
online video website, will seek to raise as much as $120 million
in a U.S. initial public offering, a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission showed.  The video broadcaster didn’t disclose a price range or a
date for the IPO. Shanghai-based Tudou will use the proceeds to
expand its Internet bandwidth and upgrade its technology as it
competes with larger rival Youku.com in the world’s biggest
Internet market, the filing showed.  Exchange Rate Undervalued  China’s exchange rate is undervalued by 20 percent against
the dollar and Singapore, Switzerland and Taiwan should also be
censured for intervening in foreign-exchange markets, according
to an  analysis  by the Peterson Institute for International
Economics.  China’s yuan is 17 percent undervalued on a trade-weighted
basis, while Singapore’s is 29 percent below its “fundamental
equilibrium exchange rate” on the same basis, says the study by
the Washington-based research group. While the Swiss franc is
fairly valued against the dollar, it’s 5 percent undervalued on
trade-weighted terms, it said.  Volcker’s Concern  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who is also
chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s Economic Recovery Advisory
Board, said he continues to be concerned by global economic
imbalances.  Developing economies such as China still have a “heavy
dependence” on the U.S. as a market for their exports and the
U.S. still has an “inability to produce savings,” Volcker said
at a financial forum in Beijing.  MARKETS  U.S. stocks fell as financial and raw raw-materials
companies dragged benchmark gauges to the biggest decline in
three weeks, wiping out an early advance led by energy producers.  Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co. and Morgan Stanley
lost at least 2.6 percent, pacing a drop in financial shares.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. slid 2.5 percent. Dean Foods
Co. plunged 18 percent after reporting earnings that missed
estimates and its chief financial officer quit. Atlas Energy
Inc. soared 34 percent after agreeing to be bought by Chevron
Corp.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.8 percent to
1,213.40 at 4 p.m. in New York, the most since Oct. 19. The Dow
declined 60.09 points, or 0.5 percent, to 11,346.75. U.S. stocks
rallied last week as the Federal Reserve announced a $600
billion bond-purchase plan to boost economic growth, a tactic
known as quantitative easing.  THE FOLLOWING STOCKS MAY BE ACTIVE TODAY:  Automakers: China’s passenger-car sales in October rose at
the fastest pace in six months. Wholesale deliveries of cars,
sport-utility vehicles and multipurpose vehicles increased 27
percent from a year earlier to 1.2 million last month, the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers said yesterday in a
statement.  SAIC Motor Corp.  (600104 CH), China’s largest carmaker,
lost 3.4 percent to 20.28 yuan. Tianjin FAW Xiali Automobile Co.
(000927 CH) gained 2.1 percent to 10.40 yuan. Separately, the
company said shareholder Tianjin Automotive Industry (Group) Co.
sold a 1 percent stake in FAW Xiali between Dec. 9, 2009, and
Nov. 8.  Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co.  (600418 CH), a unit of
China’s biggest light-truck exporter, dropped 1.7 percent to
13.89 yuan. The company said October vehicle sales increased 30
percent from a year earlier.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  (601600 CH): The listed unit
of the nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal called
Chalco will invest about 537 million yuan ($80.8 million) to set
up a coal company in Shanxi, China Land and Resources News
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.
The stock added 0.8 percent to 12.62 yuan.  China Construction Bank Corp.  (601939 CH): The country’s
second-largest bank said it signed an agreement with China
Galaxy Securities Co. yesterday to expand cooperation to asset
management, investment banking, banking card and annuity
businesses. The stock rose 1.1 percent to 5.24 yuan on Nov. 4
before suspension.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at   bruceg@bloomberg.net . 