-- China to Tighten Control on Inflows of Overseas Funds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-09T11:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/china-to-tighten-control-on-capital-inflows-with-audits-position-limits.html
China will force banks to hold more
foreign exchange and strengthen auditing of overseas fund
raising, stepping up efforts to curb hot-money inflows that may
inflate asset bubbles and add pressure for a stronger yuan.  The  State Administration of Foreign Exchange  will introduce
new rules on currency provisioning and tighten management of
banks’ foreign-debt quotas, the regulator said in a  statement  on
its website today. The government will also regulate Chinese
special-purpose vehicles overseas and tighten controls on equity
investments by foreign companies in China, it said.  The measures underscore concern around the world that the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s expanded monetary stimulus will cause
capital to flood into emerging markets. The yuan rose today by
the most since the end of a dollar peg in 2005 as global leaders
prepare to discuss currency tensions and the impact of the Fed’s
easing at the Group of 20 summit this week in Seoul.  “Some international funds will flee from dollar assets
because of the Fed’s easing, and China’s  SAFE  is trying all
means to plug loopholes in possible channels for hot-money
inflows,” said  Zhao Qingming , a senior analyst at  China
Construction Bank Corp . in Beijing, the country’s second-largest
lender.  The yuan jumped 0.51 percent to 6.6440 per dollar as of
6:08 p.m. in Shanghai, bringing gains this year to 2.7 percent,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. Twelve-
month non-deliverable forwards were at 6.4463, reflecting bets
the currency will strengthen 3 percent in one year.  Ease Pressure  Also today, Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission said
it will restore curbs on foreign investments in fixed-income
securities to include government debt due in more than a year.
Capital inflows from overseas helped pushed the Taiwan dollar up
the most in more than a decade yesterday.  China’s regulator said that a bank’s daily net dollar
positions, in expired forward contracts and spot greenback
holdings, should not be less than yesterday’s levels. Forcing
banks to keep hold of U.S. currency will limit their ability to
meet orders for yuan purchases, restricting the amount that can
flow into local-currency assets.  “This is to ask banks to hold more foreign currency to
help ease pressure on the growing size of China’s foreign-
exchange reserves,” Zhao said. “To some extent, it can help
limit yuan gains in the short term.”  The People’s Bank of China reported a record $100 billion
jump in its foreign-exchange reserves to $2.65 trillion for
September. China’s foreign debt totaled $513.8 billion at the
end of June, including $343.8 billion of short-term debt,
according to SAFE data.  Financial Security  Officials from China to Germany have criticized the Federal
Reserve’s plan to pump $600 billion into the economy by buying
Treasuries, saying the plan will weaken the dollar and risks
escalating flows of speculative capital to emerging markets.  The world needs a stable dollar,  Dai Xianglong , chairman of
China’s National Council for Social Security Fund and a former
head of the nation’s central bank, said today at a forum in
Beijing. The Fed is “risking the fragile global recovery by
following its own track for economic revival,” the state-run
Xinhua News Agency said in a commentary.  The Fed’s plan may “shock” emerging markets by flooding
them with capital, Chinese Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao 
said yesterday.  Yuan Trend  The rules are aimed at “further curbing inflows and
settlement of non-compliant funds,” the foreign exchange
regulator said today. They are designed to “maintain China’s
economic and financial security,” it said.  China’s capital controls can block abnormal inflows of
money, central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said at a forum in
Beijing last week.  “The strengthened controls on hot money can’t change the
yuan’s trend of appreciation,” said  Isaac Meng , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in Beijing. “The yuan will continue to
appreciate as the Fed easing prompts more capital inflows and
China’s economy grows faster than the U.S.”  -- Belinda Cao ,  Huang Zhe ,  Judy Chen . Editor:  John Liu , Sandy Hendry , Matthew Brooker.  To contact the Bloomberg news staff on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net 
Huang Zhe in Beijing at 
 zhuang37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  