-- Christie's U.S. Attorney Expenses Questioned in Inspector General Report
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-09T12:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/christie-s-travel-expenses-as-u-s-attorney-questioned-in-federal-report.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
while serving as U.S. attorney, billed taxpayers for hotel costs
that exceeded the federal government’s lodging rates by as much
as $242 a night, according to a  report  by the Justice
Department’s inspector general.  The report highlights travel spending by five unidentified
prosecutors among 208 who served as U.S. attorneys 
during 2007-2009. One, identified as U.S. Attorney C, 
was Christie, his spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , acknowledged. 
Christie explained the expenses when they were questioned 
during the 2009 campaign, he said.  Attorney C exceeded the government room rate on 15 of 23
vouchers submitted during the years studied, spending a total of
$2,176 more than the prescribed rate, the report said.  “The U.S. attorney provided insufficient, inaccurate, or
no justification for 14 of 23 trips (61 percent) that exceeded
the government rate,” the largest share of any attorney, the
report said.  Christie, 48, is the first Republican elected governor in
New Jersey, a Democratic stronghold, since 1997. During the 2009
campaign, he said he always attempted to get lodging at the
government rate.  “There are only a few rooms at each hotel that are
reserved for government rate,” Christie said in an interview
with the Asbury Park Press last year. “If you got them, you got
them. If you didn’t, you didn’t. I wouldn’t have slept in the
park.”  Four Seasons  In one case, Christie stayed at the Four Seasons Hotel in
Washington, D.C., for $475 a night, “more than double the
government rate of $233 per night,” the inspector general’s
report said. The report also called Attorney C’s decision to
spend $798 on car service to and from airports in Boston and
London “excessive.”  The analysis was reported earlier by the Associated Press
and the Star-Ledger of Newark, New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 