-- Christie Retains 51% Approval Rating in New Jersey After Cuts, Poll Shows
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-09T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/christie-retains-51-approval-rating-in-new-jersey-after-cuts-poll-shows.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
kept his 51 percent job-approval rating among voters polled in
the state, even after he cut $1.3 billion in local aid, clashed
with unions and ended a commuter-rail expansion,  Quinnipiac
University  said.  Taken about a week after Christie decided to kill a planned
$8.7 billion commuter-rail tunnel under the Hudson River to New
York City, the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute survey
indicated no change in the governor’s approval marks from one
conducted in August. Christie stopped the tunnel because of the
potential for $5 billion in cost overruns.  The conduit was projected to double rush-hour commuter-rail
capacity into Manhattan. Christie put the state on the hook to
repay as much as $350 million in U.S. transportation aid by
halting it. In August, more than 4-of-5 education officials in
the state said their school year would begin with fewer teachers
to cope with cuts in state aid that totaled $820 million.  Voters “like Christie and they like his style,”  Maurice Carroll , the institute’s director, said yesterday in a telephone
interview from the school’s Hamden, Connecticut, campus. “He’s
a guy that doesn’t hesitate to pick a fight and so far that
hasn’t hurt him.”  Christie’s first year was successful, according to 52
percent of Quinnipiac poll respondents. He did better than
expected by 32 percent, the poll said. It gave the governor a
higher job-approval rating than President  Barack Obama , who was
at 46 percent. Christie’s disapproval level rose two percentage
points from August to 38 percent, compared with Obama’s 50
percent, up from 47 percent in the earlier poll.  Presidential ‘Political Gossip’  More than half the respondents in the latest survey didn’t
think Christie would run for president in 2012, with 67 percent
dismissing  suggestions  that he will as “political gossip,”
Quinnipiac said in a statement with the results. The poll said
that 61 percent didn’t think Christie would make a good
president, a view shared by 36 percent of  Republicans  surveyed.  Christie retained his job-approval rating from Quinnipiac’s
 poll  taken in August, even though since then government unions
have fought his plans to cut pension benefits and raise worker
health-care contributions. In the interim, the state also lost a
bid for $400 million in federal education funds because of a
clerical error in its 1,000-page application.  ‘Confrontational’ Leader  Half of the respondents to the latest poll, taken by
telephone Nov. 3-8, said Christie is more of a leader than a
bully. The governor is “confrontational,” according to 48
percent of those surveyed, compared with 43 percent who said he
is “honest and refreshing.” Christie received a grade of A or
B from 48 percent, and a C from another 20 percent, while 15
percent gave him an F for job performance.  “This is a good poll for the governor,” Carroll said.  Democrat  Jon Corzine , the former governor beaten by
Christie in 2009, had a job-approval  rating  of 49 percent in a
December 2006 Quinnipiac poll, near the end of his first year.
By the time Corzine  left  office, that figure had fallen to 34
percent, while 56 percent disapproved of his performance.  The latest survey of 1,362 voters has a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.7 percentage points, Quinnipiac said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 