-- CIA Officers Won't Be Charged in Destroying Tapes
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-11-09T20:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/cia-officers-won-t-be-charged-in-destruction-of-interrogation-videotapes.html
The Justice Department isn’t bringing
criminal charges against Central Intelligence Agency officers
involved in destroying videotapes of harsh interrogation
techniques used on terrorism suspects.  John Durham , the prosecutor appointed to handle the case,
aided by a team of attorneys and FBI agents, conducted an
“exhaustive investigation” and decided not to pursue a
criminal case, according to a statement issued today by  Matthew Miller , a Justice Department spokesman.  The videotapes recorded the 2002 interrogations of two
detainees, al-Qaeda leader  Abu Zubaydah  and Abd al-Rahim al-
Nashiri, a suspected al-Qaeda leader behind the USS Cole bombing
in 2000. The tapes were destroyed in 2005 and the CIA disclosed
what happened in 2007. Interrogation methods included simulated
drowning, or waterboarding, which became a contentious political
issue.  A Justice Department criminal investigation into the
treatment of detainees by CIA officers remains open, Miller said
in an e-mail. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said last year that
Durham was investigating interrogations of specific detainees.  The CIA withheld disclosure of the tapes’ destruction from
Congress, the courts and a commission that investigated the
Sept. 11 attacks, lawmakers said. Then-CIA Director  Michael Hayden  said the tapes were destroyed to protect interrogators’
safety.  Jose Rodriguez, head of the CIA’s clandestine service at
the time, approved the tapes’ destruction.  ‘An American Hero’  His lawyer,  Robert S. Bennett  of  Hogan Lovells  in
Washington, said in a statement: “This is the right decision
because of the facts and the law. Jose Rodriguez is an American
hero, a true patriot who only wanted to protect his people and
his country.”  The Justice Department’s decision is “a huge
disappointment,” said Christopher Anders, senior legislative
counsel in Washington for the  American Civil Liberties Union . He
said the tapes should have been preserved and provided to the
ACLU in response to a Freedom of Information Act request from
the organization.  “There’s a lot of evidence that top government officials
during the Bush administration ignored orders from federal
courts to not destroy evidence related to torture,” Anders said
in an interview.  Former Attorney General  Michael B. Mukasey  appointed
Durham, a prosecutor in Connecticut, in 2008 after a preliminary
inquiry by the CIA’s inspector general and the Justice
Department’s national security division found a basis for
starting a criminal probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  