-- Comac Sees First C919 Order as China Challenges Airbus, Boeing
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-11-09T03:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/comac-sees-first-c919-order-as-china-challenges-airbus-boeing.html
China’s challenger to Boeing Co. and
Airbus SAS expects to announce the first order for its single-
aisle passenger plane next week, breaking into a market that may
be worth $1.68 trillion over 20 years.  Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China  plans to announce the
C919 deal at Airshow China, held in the southern city of Zhuhai,
Yuan Wenfeng, deputy general manager at its program management
department, said by phone last week. He declined to say how
large the order will be or who the customer is.  The C919 increases competition for Boeing’s 737 and
Airbus’s A320 in the narrowbody segment that will be the largest
part of the global plane market through 2029, according to
 Boeing . The  Zhuhai exhibition , which starts Nov. 16, will also
feature debuts for a dozen locally developed planes and the
first show flight for Comac’s ARJ21 regional jet, as China
showcases efforts to develop its aerospace industry.  “This is a big breakthrough for China, which will
eventually become a player in the global aircraft market,” said
 Bai Bingyang , an analyst at Capital Securities Corp in Shanghai.
“Boeing and Airbus’s duopoly will be under threat.”  Government-controlled Comac may sell more than 2,000 C919s
worldwide over 20 years, Yuan said in February. The company aims
to announce orders for 100 this year, he said then. Air China
Ltd., China Southern Airlines Co. and China Eastern Airlines
Corp., the nation’s big three state-controlled carriers, have
all said they will support local planemakers.  “The C919 is a project that China is determined to make a
mark with,” said Armand Cao, a Shanghai-based analyst at Frost
& Sullivan China. The first orders will likely come from
domestic carriers, he said.  Narrowbody Competition  The 168-seater C919 is due to enter service in 2014. The
ARJ21, which is running at least a year behind schedule, can
carry about 70 passengers. Comac signed an order for as many as
25 ARJ21s with GE’s plane-leasing arm at the 2008 Zhuhai show,
its first overseas deal.  State-controlled Comac will have a 1,500 square-meter stand
at this year’s Zhuhai show, which runs from Nov. 16 to Nov. 21.
The event will feature about 600 exhibitors, including Boeing,
Airbus, Rolls-Royce Group Plc and  Honeywell International Inc. ,
according to the  organizers . China’s J-10 fighter jet,
 Bombardier Inc.  business jets and Airbus’s A380 will be among
the roughly 70 planes on display.  “We’re expecting strong interest and a large turnout,”
Yuan said. “China’s aviation industry has been growing very
rapidly and this momentum will continue.”  GE, Honeywell  Comac is working with overseas suppliers on the C919,
including CFM International Inc., a venture between  General
Electric Co.  and Safran SA that has won a $10 billion contract
to make the plane’s engines. Other suppliers include Honeywell,
 United Technologies Corp.  and Parker Hannifin Corp.  Chinese airlines have continued to buy Boeing and Airbus
planes even as China develops its own aircraft. Last week,
Toulouse, France-based  Airbus  won orders for 102 planes from
China, including 50 A320s. The planemaker will assemble half of
the single-aisle planes at a plant in Tianjin, China, its only
production line outside of Europe. Boeing has won 737 orders
from Air China and Okay Airways Co. this year.  China will likely need 4,330 new planes, worth $480 billion,
by 2029, according to Chicago-based  Boeing , as economic growth
spurs leisure and business travel. Nationwide airline passenger
numbers jumped 18 percent from a year earlier in the first nine
months to 200.7 million, according to the Civil Aviation
Administration of China.  The growth in China and other markets means that the global
narrowbody fleet will likely more than double by 2029 to 25,000
planes, according to Boeing’s  forecast . Such expansion may be
enough to sustain an increasing number of suppliers, said  Randy Tinseth , the planemaker’s marketing vice president.  “That’s clearly room for us to grow, that’s room for
Airbus to grow and that’s probably room for one or more
competitors,” he said last week in Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  