-- Commodities Advance to 25-Month High on Demand for Crops, Precious Metals
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-09T19:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/commodities-rise-to-two-year-high-on-gold-cotton-records-corn-s-advance.html
Commodities extended a rally to a 25-
month high as the global appetite for crops outpaced dwindling
supplies, and precious metals surged on demand for a haven from
slumping currencies.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19  raw materials 
rose as much as 1.6 percent to 320.38, the highest level since
Oct. 6, 2008. As of Nov. 5, the gauge climbed for 11 straight
weeks, the longest rally since 1977. It has jumped 21 percent
since Aug. 31, led by cotton, sugar and silver.  Last week, the dollar slumped to the lowest level since
December against a basket of major currencies on plans by the
Federal Reserve to expand a U.S. stimulus program by buying more
debt. The euro fell today amid debt woes in the region, sending
gold to a record high. Corn, soybeans and cotton climbed as U.S.
data showed adverse weather eroded supplies further.  “The fundamentals for most commodities are very strong,
and the global currency situation, not just the dollar but also
the yen and sterling and euro, are like pouring gasoline on a
fire,” said  James Dailey , who manages $145 million at TEAM
Financial Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  The CRB index rose 3.65, or 1.2 percent, to 318.9 at 2:05
p.m. New York. Silver surged as much as 7 percent, while gold
climbed to a record for the fourth straight session. Soybeans
rose the most allowed by the Chicago Board of Trade after the
U.S. said domestic inventories will tumble.  ‘Best Hedge’  “The bull market is on in commodities,” said  Michael K. Smith , the president of T&K Futures & Options in Port St. Lucie,
Florida. With “this last quantitative easing, there’s no doubt
in anyone’s mind now that we’re going to have inflation. The
best hedge for inflation is dollar-denominated commodities.”  Copper topped $4 a pound, extending a rally to a 28-month
high. Lead and zinc also climbed in London.  In base metals and other commodities, “in addition to the
demand, there’s an inability to really ramp up production
quickly,” said  Bill O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in
Upper Saddle River, New Jersey. “We aren’t seeing significant
increases in production to offset the consumption side of the
equation. This disparity is likely to get worse before it gets
better.”  The CRB reached a record 473.97 in July 2008, led by energy
prices. Crude oil rose to an all-time high of $147.27 a barrel
on July 11, 2008. Today, the price dropped 41 cents to $86.65.  This year, cotton has soared more than 90 percent, the
biggest gain among CRB components. Today, sugar rose to a 29-
year high and coffee climbed to the highest level since June
1997  “The pace of gains in commodities will largely be driven
by genuine demand that is coming mostly from Asia and Latin
America,” said  Vikas Pershad , the chief executive officer at
Chicago-based Veda Investments LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 