-- Conan O'Brien Posts `Strong' Rating in TBS Debut
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-11-09T21:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/conan-o-brien-posts-strong-rating-in-late-night-debut-on-tbs.html
Conan O’Brien , who left NBC’s “The
Tonight Show” in January, attracted 4.16 million viewers in his
return to late-night television on TBS, beating  Jay Leno  on NBC
and  David Letterman  on CBS.  “That’s a strong number,”  Brad Adgate , senior vice
president of research at the advertising company Horizon Media,
said in an e-mail.  “The Tonight Show with Jay Leno” was seen by 3.47 million
viewers and “Late Show with David Letterman” attracted 3.39
million, Atlanta-based TBS said today in an e-mailed statement,
citing preliminary Nielsen Co. data.  O’Brien is returning at a time when late-night TV
leadership may be up for grabs. Last month, Comedy Central’s
“The Daily Show With  Jon Stewart ” led in the advertiser-sought
18-to-49 age group, a first for a cable show. The time period
has historically been dominated by “The Tonight Show With  Jay Leno ” and “The Late Show With  David Letterman .”  O’Brien, who telecast the show from a newly built studio in
Burbank, California, opened with a monologue that included
references to his exit from NBC.  “Welcome to my second annual first show,” O’Brien said.
“People asked why I named the show ‘Conan.’ It’s so I’d be
harder to replace.”  Late-Night TV Battle  TBS used its September coverage of Major League baseball
playoffs to promote O’Brien, 47. The network ran TV commercials
featuring the John Waite song “Missing You” and floated an
orange Conan-TBS-branded blimp during the games. The network
created a Facebook page, a YouTube Channel and 24-hour Coco Cam
that provided live video of O’Brien’s preparations.  To make room for “Conan,” TBS moved its 11 p.m. show
“Lopez Tonight”, starring  George Lopez ,” to midnight.
O’Brien’s first guests were actor Seth Rogan and musician  Jack White .  Time Warner rose 30 cents, or 1 percent, to $31.82 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading. The shares have
gained 9.2 percent this year.  Last month, Stewart averaged 1.3 million 18-to-49-year-old
viewers for  Viacom Inc. ’s Comedy Central. Leno, on NBC, averaged
1.2 million viewers, as did CBS’s Letterman.  O’Brien also led among 18-to-49-year-old viewers. He
attracted 3.29 million viewers in that demographic, compared
with 1.34 million for Letterman and 952,000 for Leno. “The
Daily Show” drew 687,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  