-- Chief Executives in U.S. More Confident on Sales, Survey Says
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/confidence-among-u-s-chief-executive-officers-increases-on-stronger-sales.html
Confidence among U.S. chief executive
officers improved at the start of the fourth quarter as more
forecast stronger sales and spending on equipment, a survey
showed.  The  Young Presidents’ Organization  gauge of sentiment rose
to 59.9 in October from 57.5 in July, according to the Dallas-
based group. A reading greater than 50 shows the executives’
outlook was more positive than negative.  Forty-nine percent of CEOs said they expect economic
conditions to be better in six months, while 60 percent said
sales will be higher in the coming year. The outlook for
corporate investment also improved, with 38 percent expecting to
spend more in the next 12 months.  The survey by the nonprofit service organization indicates
the world’s largest economy may be poised to strengthen after
cooling in the second half of 2010 as the lack of jobs
constrained consumer spending. Last week Federal Reserve policy
makers announced a second round of large-scale asset purchases
in a bid to boost growth.  “Particularly encouraging was the improvement in hiring
expectations, the brightest outlook yet for fixed investment,
and the first signs of improvement we’ve seen in the
construction sector since YPO began the survey.”  David Maney ,
spokesman for the survey and chairman and co-founder of
Headwaters MB, an investment bank in Denver, said in a
statement.  Staff Levels  Thirty-six percent of leaders surveyed said they plan to
expand hiring, compared with 30 percent in the last survey.
Companies hired more workers than forecast in October, a Labor
Department report showed last week.  The proportion of CEOs indicating they’ll keep staff levels
at about the same a year from now decreased to 56 percent in the
October survey from 62 percent in the July poll. About 8 percent
plan to reduce payrolls.  The percentage of respondents in October projecting
stronger sales in the coming year rose from 57 percent in July,
the survey showed.  The capital spending index climbed to 58.2, the highest
level since the group began keeping records last year.  CEO confidence in the economic outlook was most upbeat in
 production and services  and turned positive in the construction
industry for the first time since April.  The quarterly survey was based on responses from 1,167 U.S.
CEOs and conducted during the first two weeks of October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  at   akowalski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  