-- Small-Business Index in U.S. Rises to Highest in Five Months
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-11-09T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/confidence-at-small-u-s-businesses-rises-to-highest-level-in-five-months.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses rose in October to the highest level in five months
as more companies projected sales gains and an improving
economy, a private survey found.  The National Federation of Independent Business’s optimism
 index  increased to 91.7 from a September reading of 89. Seven of
the index’s 10 components rose and three declined. The measure,
which averaged 100.6 in the five years before the recession
began, has been below 93 since January 2008.  To help broaden the recovery, smaller firms need to
increase hiring. A measure of job creation was little changed
and capital spending plans declined, signaling a pickup in the
world’s largest economy will be slow to develop.  “The private sector will continue to slog ahead,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said in a statement.
October’s gain in optimism is “not a huge move, but at least a
decent jump, perhaps anticipating an acceleration in economic
activity or a change in the ‘management team’ after the
election,” he said.  The gauge of expectations for better business conditions
six months from now jumped 11 percentage points to 8 percent in
October, the report showed.  Hiring Plans  The measure of respondents planning to hire over the next
three months rose four points to a net 1 percent, according to
the report. Eight percent of businesses said they plan to hire,
unchanged from the prior month. Fewer indicated they plan cut
staff, with 13 percent anticipating workforce reductions, down 3
points from September.  Average  employment  growth was unchanged in October, after
falling in all but two quarters since April 2007, which “raises
the odds that Main Street may contribute to private sector job
growth for the first time in over a year,” Dunkelberg said.  A gauge of whether firms think this is a good time to
expand increased by one point to 7 percent, while 73 percent
said it is not, the survey said.  Plans for capital investment over the next few months fell
one point to 18 percent. A net minus 4 percent plan to add to
inventories, down one point from September.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
giving a positive response and adjusting the results for
seasonal variations.  Rising Sales Expectations  The net share of owners projecting higher sales, adjusted
for inflation, increased four points to 1 from minus 3 the
previous month. The index of earnings trends also increased, by
seven points, to minus 26 percent.  Limited demand continued to keep inflation at bay, the
survey showed. October was the 23rd straight month that showed
more small business owners cutting average selling prices than
raising them.  Private payrolls jumped by 159,000 workers in October, more
than forecast and the most since April, while the  jobless  rate
held at 9.6 percent, Labor Department figures showed last week.
The report showed total payrolls, including government agencies,
increased by 151,000 following a revised 41,000 drop the prior
month that was smaller than initially estimated.  The NFIB report was based on 1,910 small-business owner
respondents through Oct. 31. Small businesses represent more
than 99 percent of all U.S. employers and have created 65
percent of all new jobs in the past 17 years, according to the
 U.S. Small Business Administration . A small business is defined
as an independent enterprise employing up to 500 people.  To contact the report on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  