-- Convertible Bonds Leading Market Amid Gains in Yuan, Stocks: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T08:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/convertible-bonds-leading-market-amid-gains-in-yuan-stocks-china-credit.html
China’s convertible debt is
outperforming the rest of the bond market, rising 11 percent
this quarter, as stocks rally and the yuan strengthens.  The  S&P China Convertible Bond Index  gained 2.9 percent
this month and 8.3 percent in October, the most in a year.
Benchmark measures tracking conventional  corporate  and
 government  notes declined since the end of September, while the
 Shanghai Composite Index  of shares surged 17 percent. The yuan
jumped yesterday the most since a dollar peg ended in July 2005
on speculation faster appreciation will be tolerated before
Group of 20 leaders meet this week in Seoul.  The fastest growth among the world’s major economies is
helping attract funds, with the Shanghai index posting the
biggest gain in Asia the past month and the yuan advancing.
Fullgoal Fund Management Co. is among investment firms setting
up funds for convertible bonds, debt that can be exchanged for
shares, even as the government steps up efforts to limit the
amount of speculative capital entering the country.  “If I was an overseas fund manager, I would find all
possible ways to put money into yuan assets,”  Yang Guibin , a
portfolio manager at Fullgoal, which has 58.6 billion yuan ($8.8
billion) of assets under management, said in a Nov. 8 interview
in Shanghai. “There is huge pressure for yuan appreciation.
With such a severe crackdown in the property market, the inflows
will have no choice but to go to the stock market, benefiting
convertible debt.”  Debt Quotas  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange will tighten
management of banks’ foreign-debt quotas and introduce new rules
on their currency provisioning, the regulator said yesterday in
a statement on its website. The government tightened down-
payment requirements this year for real-estate buyers, suspended
loans for third-home purchases and pledged to speed trials of a
property tax that may be rolled out nationwide.  The  S&P China Convertible Bond Index  advanced 6 percent in
the third quarter, beating gains of 1.6 percent for corporate
debt and 0.8 percent for government notes. Shanghai’s benchmark
stock index rose 11 percent and the yuan appreciated 1.4 percent.  The nation’s convertible bonds returned 3.57 percent last
month, compared to a total return of 2.17 percent offered by
Indian convertible bonds, according to indexes compiled by UBS
AG. This was the first time since May that China’s monthly
returns for these securities have beaten India’s, the data show.  The yuan climbed 0.06 percent to 6.6403 per dollar as of
2:25 p.m. in Shanghai, following yesterday’s gain of 0.51
percent, after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
Nov. 8 in New Delhi that it’s “overwhelmingly” in China’s
interest to allow appreciation. Non-deliverable forwards reflect
bets the currency will strengthen 3 percent in the coming 12
months.  Higher Rates  The central bank boosted the yield of its one-year bills
yesterday for the second time since raising benchmark interest
rates last month, furthering efforts to stem price increases by
draining funds from the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China raised its benchmark one-year
lending and deposit rates for the first time since 2007 on Oct.
19. Government data will show inflation accelerated to a two-
year high of 4 percent in October, according to the median
estimate of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on China’s 3.28 percent bond due in August 2020
was little changed at 3.65 percent, according to the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold China’s 10-year
bonds rather than similar-maturity U.S. government debt narrowed
2 basis points to 1.17 percentage points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit-Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swap contracts for top-rated yuan-
denominated bonds slid 4 basis points yesterday to 86. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Demand for convertibles is proving robust amid record
issuance. The amount of the securities sold in China should
reach 100 billion yuan this year, up from 5.4 billion yuan in
2009, according to Citic Securities Co., China’s largest
brokerage.  China’s two largest banks,  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  and  Bank of China Ltd. , issued 65 billion yuan of
convertibles to shore up equity on their balance sheets.
Investors placed a record total of 2.6 trillion yuan in bids for
ICBC’s 25 billion yuan offering in September. Bank of China’s 40
billion yuan sale took place in June.  Fullgoal will open a convertible bond fund to investors on
Nov. 18. Bosera Fund Management Co., the nation’s fourth-largest
asset-management firm which oversees around 190 billion yuan in
assets, opened its Bosera Enhanced Convertible Bond Fund on Oct.
28.  Bright Outlook  “Based on the outlook for money supply and the economic
recovery, we think convertible bonds are worth investing in,”
 Guo Jun , a fixed-income fund manager at Bosera, said. He favors
convertibles with “relatively low” valuations, such as those
sold by banks.  China’s first fund for convertible debt, Xingye Convertible
Bond Fund, has returned 10 percent this year, outperforming a 5
percent drop in the Shanghai Composite Index.  “The performance of convertible bonds this year has been
phenomenal,” said  Tan Weisi , who oversees about 400 million
yuan as head of Fortune SGAM Fund Management Co.’s fixed-income
department in Shanghai. Valuations are at “a historically low
level,” he said.  -- Henry Sanderson ,  Judy Chen . With assistance from  David Yong 
in Singapore. Editors:  Garfield Reynolds ,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net 
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net 
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 