-- Copper Stockpiles Double in Shanghai Bonded Warehouses on Advancing Price
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-11-09T05:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/copper-stockpiles-double-in-shanghai-bonded-warehouses-on-advancing-prices.html
Copper inventories in Shanghai bonded
warehouses, where traders store shipments before duties are paid,
have at least doubled in the past three months as rising prices
deterred purchases by Chinese users, traders and analysts said.  Stockpiles in Shanghai bonded warehouses have climbed to as
much as 300,000 metric tons, up from about 150,000 tons in late
July,  Na Liu , Scotia Capital’s China Strategy Advisor, said in
an e-mail to Bloomberg News today. This is “conservative”,
according to Guosen Futures Co. trader Lu Shaohan, who estimates
the inventory level to be closer to 500,000 tons.  “We hear some warehouses are full and can no longer accept
more metal,” said Fu Bin, an analyst at Jinrui Futures Co., a
unit of Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer. “Given
the negative arbitrage recently, importers will lose money if
they bring the metal into China.”  Copper in London traded at a premium to futures in China,
rising 18 percent in the past three months compared with a 17
percent gain in Shanghai. Shanghai prices include a 17 percent
value-added tax and import fees.  Three-month delivery metal on the London Metal Exchange
gained as much as 1.6 percent to a 28-month high of $8,800 a ton
today, trading within 1.6 percent of its record $8,940 reached
in July 2008. Copper for February-delivery on the Shanghai
Futures Exchange climbed to 68,520 yuan ($10,276) a ton, the
highest price since March 2008.  Exchange Warehouses  “Domestic stockpiles in warehouses have been increasing as
the rally in prices caused buyers to stay away and run down
inventories,” said Wen Jinghai, an analyst at Bohai Futures Co.
“It hasn’t been profitable to import copper so even metal that
has been shipped as part of long-term orders may be sitting in
bonded warehouses waiting for the arbitrage window to open.”  Copper inventories  tallied by the Shanghai Futures Exchange
stood last week at 106,851 tons, the highest level in two months,
according to data provided by the bourse. Arbitrage traders and
importers profit by buying metal in London and selling it in
Shanghai, exploiting the gap in prices.  “There’s investment demand and physical demand and copper
is now being driven almost solely by investment demand as
consumers don’t want to buy at these prices,” said Hoohy
Futures Co. analyst Gao Jingsong.  Falling premiums and rising treatment fees suggest supplies
are enough to meet the current demand, according  Ren Gang , an
analyst at Maike Futures Co.  Copper premiums paid by Chinese importers over the London
Metal Exchange cash price have dropped to around $80 a ton on a
cost, insurance and freight basis to Shanghai, from around $120
at the beginning of October, according to traders and analysts.
At the same time, spot fees paid to copper smelters in China by
mining companies for turning ore into refined metal have nearly
tripled to $80 a metric ton and 8 cents a pound.  “This situation will only be temporary as China remains a
net copper importer,” said Maike’s Ren. “Physical buyers will
have to return to the market once their inventories are
depleted.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  