-- Coronation Fund Manager Koekemoer Investigated by JSE Over Sale of Shares
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-09T12:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/coronation-fund-manager-koekemoer-investigated-by-jse-over-sale-of-shares.html
Coronation Fund Managers Ltd.’s  Head
of Personal Investments,  Pieter Koekemoer , is being investigated
by  JSE Ltd.  over a share sale that was disclosed almost two
months late, the South African stock exchange operator said.  “We’re in communication with the company, via its sponsor,
to establish all the facts and decide how best to deal with the
matter in terms of the Listings Requirements,” Andre Visser,
general manager of issuer services at the bourse, said in an e-
mailed response to questions today.  Koekemoer sold 125,000 ordinary shares in Cape Town-based
Coronation for 1.56 million rand ($228,290), the South African
money manager said in a statement on Oct. 27.  The transaction took place on Aug. 31, according to the
statement, one month before the company went into a so-called
closed period. Under the JSE’s rules, directors’ share dealings
should be reported within 48 hours.  It was an “unfortunate oversight,” Koekemoer said by
mobile phone today. “There was no intent to not disclose.”  Coronation’s dealing room sold the shares while he was on
“extended leave” and didn’t inform the compliance officers,
Koekemoer said. Coronation’s sponsor,  Deutsche Securities , is
now in talks with the JSE over a “process breakdown,” he said.  “If it’s established that there has in fact been a breach
then we must assess how serious the breach is and the reason”
before deciding on “appropriate action,” Visser wrote. “It
doesn’t have a specific penalty attached.”  Earlier, the money manager said annual earnings per share
excluding one-time items jumped 112 percent to 128 cents while
assets under management rose 28 percent to 198 billion rand.  Shares  in Coronation gained 49 cents, or 3 percent, to
16.79 rand at 1:45 p.m. in Johannesburg trading, extending the
advance so far this year to 92 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  