-- Credit Union Overseer Advances $5.5 Billion Sale of Mortgage-Backed Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-09T16:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/credit-union-regulator-sets-guidance-on-5-5-billion-mortgage-bond-sale.html
The U.S. federal agency that
regulates credit unions set price guidance on its offering of
$5.5 billion of guaranteed bonds tied to residential-mortgage
securities, according to a person familiar with the transaction.  The largest, $2.86 billion-portion of the debt with a
projected average life of 5.77 years may yield about 45 basis
points more than the one-month London interbank offered rate,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t public. That’s the same spread as the National Credit
Union Administration’s Oct. 18 sale of $3.28 billion of similar
bonds with projected lives of 4.21 years.  NCUA is cleaning up after failures including U.S. Central
Federal Credit Union in Lenexa, Kansas, and Members United
Corporate Federal Credit Union of Warrenville, Illinois. The
regulator is packaging $50 billion in distressed securities for
sale as $35 billion in bonds with government backing, it said
Sept. 24. Barclays Capital Inc. has managed the sales.  The credit union administrator will “fight fire with fire
and, with the help of Barclays, pool and re-securitize” bonds
that helped bring down its institutions, said Jeffrey Wheeler, a
bond manager at Durham, North Carolina-based Smith Breeden
Associates Inc.  “The securitizations will likely find favor with many
investors looking for spread, and tolerant of moderate
illiquidity,” Wheeler wrote in commentary e-mailed Oct. 14.  Additional Securities  An additional $2.62 billion of the securities being
marketed now, with expected average lives of 3.34 years, may pay
a spread of 37 basis points to 40 basis points more than one-
month Libor, a borrowing benchmark, the person said. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The regulator has sold $3.85 billion of debt backed by
home-loan securities held by failed credit unions, and $3.6
billion of bonds tied to commercial property debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. About $800 million of the bonds
without guarantees were sold in September in the secondary
market.  The repackaging of so-called  non-agency mortgage
securities , meaning those without guarantees from government-
supported Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or the federal agency Ginnie
Mae, is diminishing supply potentially available to investors,
“which should help to keep market technicals strong,”  Scott Buchta , head of investment strategy at New York-based broker
Braver Stern Securities LLC, said in an e-mail last month.  FDIC Sales  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which regulates and
insures accounts at banks and thrifts, has also been selling
bonds it guarantees tied to assets from failed lenders. The
FDIC’s sales this year totaled more than $4.15 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  Proceeds from selling assets that belonged to credit unions
now in conservatorship will help repay $10 billion in U.S.
Treasury loans used to prop up the institutions, Larry Fazio,
NCUA’s deputy executive director, said in a September telephone
interview.  The NCUA, which according to its website insures accounts
of 80 million credit union account holders, estimated ultimate
industry losses of $7 billion to $9.2 billion based on expected
writedowns from the securities portfolio and other costs. To
recoup those costs over the next 10 years, it will levy a
special assessment on the credit union industry.  The larger portion of the bonds being marketed now will
return buyers’ entire principal investment no later than
November, 2020, while the smaller portion will mature by
November 2017, the person said. The “extension protection”
being offered in the NCUA’s sales will help make them attractive
to investors, Wheeler wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  