-- Crucell Reports Loss on Quinvaxem Plant Contamination
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2010-11-09T17:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/crucell-records-a-third-quarter-loss-on-quinvaxem-writedowns.html
Crucell NV  reported a third-quarter
loss after writing down the value of inventories of the
Quinvaxem vaccine because of contamination at a plant in South
Korea.  The Dutch vaccine maker confirmed for the first time that a
microbiological contamination occurred at the Shingal plant, and
said it’s still looking for the cause. The company previously
said sterile operations “may have been compromised.” Products
already shipped from the plant are safe, the company said today
in a statement.  Crucell, which has agreed to be taken over by Johnson &
Johnson, expects to resume manufacturing at the plant “in the
coming weeks,” according to today’s statement. The company said
Oct. 28 that it had halted shipments of Quinvaxem, which
protects against five childhood diseases, and Hepavax-Gene for
hepatitis B because of possible contamination.  “The stuff they’ve made since then can’t be sold, so we
knew there would be a charge,”  Peter Welford , an analyst with
Jefferies International Ltd. who has a hold rating on the stock,
said. “The question is: How much more can we expect?”  Crucell reported a 22.8 million-euro ($31.6 million)
writedown on inventory of the vaccine during the quarter. That
resulted in a net loss of 27 million euros, or 33 cents a share,
for the third quarter compared with a profit of 10 million euros
a year earlier, Crucell said.  ‘Progressing Well’  “Current analysis indicates that a microbiological
contamination has occurred,” Leiden, Netherlands-based Crucell
said in the statement. “The investigation into the root cause
of the contamination is progressing well.”  Quinvaxem is distributed to developing countries by non-
profits and non-governmental organizations such as Unicef. The
World Health Organization issued a statement yesterday saying
Quinvaxem remains on its list of prequalified vaccines.  Crucell shares closed up 8 cents, or 0.3 percent, to 23.09
euros at 5:30 p.m. in Amsterdam trading, giving it a market
value of 1.89 billion euros.  Sales in the quarter fell to 89.5 million euros from 94.3
million euros. The company cut its forecast for 2010 to reflect
the manufacturing delays, and expects sales to be on par with
the previous year’s level, compared with higher than last year’s
level. Crucell also expects to post an operating loss of between
20 million euros and 25 million euros for 2010 compared with an
operating profit of 39 million euros in 2009.  Crucell said on Oct. 6 that it agreed to be acquired by
Johnson & Johnson, the world’s largest health-care products
company, for 1.75 billion euros. The deal represents 24.75 euros
per share for all outstanding shares that New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based Johnson & Johnson doesn’t already own.  Crucell said today the companies still plan to initiate the
share offer before the end of November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Connolly  in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Phil Serafino  at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  