-- Crude Oil Stockpiles Increase in Survey, Threatening Rally: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-09T21:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/crude-oil-stockpiles-increase-in-survey-threatening-rally-energy-markets.html
U.S. crude-oil  inventories  probably
increased to the highest level in 18 months, threatening a rally
in futures prices, as refineries idled units because of lower
profit margins, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Supplies rose 1.5 million barrels, or 0.4 percent, in the
seven days ended Nov. 5 from 368.2 million a week earlier,
according to the median of 15 analyst estimates before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. That would leave stockpiles at the
most since May 8, 2009. Thirteen respondents forecast a gain and
two a decline.  Crude demand has slumped as refiners reduced operating
rates to the lowest level in eight months, according to the
Energy Department. The profit from making crude into fuel, or
the crack spread, has  decreased  41 percent in the past six
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The lack of physical tightness is leaving the market
vulnerable to another downdraft like we saw in May,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “Prices climb, climb, climb and then ultimately find it
impossible to stay there.”  Oil tumbled this year after reaching a 19-month high of
$87.15 on May 3. Futures dropped as much as 26 percent by May
20, when crude touched $64.24, the lowest level since July 2009.  Crude oil for December delivery declined 34 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $86.72 a barrel today on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Futures ended yesterday at $87.06 a barrel,
the highest settlement since Oct. 8, 2008.  Dollar’s Drop  Futures have surged as the dollar weakened against the euro
and yen, bolstering the appeal of commodities as a store of
value. The U.S. currency slipped as low as $1.4282 per euro on
Nov. 4, the lowest level since Jan. 20.  Oil also climbed after the Federal Reserve said on Nov. 3
that it will buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries to
spur job growth in a second round of bond purchases known as
quantitative easing.  “Quantitative easing and the dollar’s weakness have been
major drivers of this market,” said  Jason Schenker , the
president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based
energy consultant. “Given how oil has become integrated with
the financial markets, it’s unlikely that the fundamentals of
supply and demand will ever be the only drivers of the market.”  Refineries  operated  at 81.8 percent of capacity in the week
ended Oct. 29, the lowest level since March, last week’s Energy
Department report showed. Refinery runs, or the amount of crude
oil input to processing units,  dropped  1.7 percent to 13.9
million barrels a day during the period, the lowest level since
February. Companies shut units for maintenance in autumn, when
gasoline use falls and winter heating-oil demand has yet to
increase.  Refinery Utilization  Refineries probably  made no change in operating rates last
week, according to the Bloomberg survey.  “Last week’s report showed a huge drop in refinery
utilization,” Evans said. “There’s no doubt that quantitative
easing is what’s holding prices at this level.”  Gasoline stockpiles  decreased 1 million barrels, or 0.5
percent, from 212.3 million, the survey showed. The drop would
leave supplies at the lowest level since the week ended Nov. 20,
2009. Thirteen of the analysts projected a decline, one forecast
a gain and one said there was no change.  Supplies of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably declined 2 million barrels, or
1.2 percent, from 164.9 million, the survey showed. All of the
analysts anticipated a slide.  Inventories in the week ended Aug. 20 were the highest
since 1983. Stockpiles were 19 percent above the five-year
average in last week’s report.  Surplus Inventories  “Distillate supplies are still really high even after the
recent drop,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy, a Stamford, Connecticut-based
broker. “There’s no shortage.”  Distillate fuel inventories in the week ended Oct. 29
slipped 3.57 million barrels, the biggest decline since
September 2008, when hurricanes Gustav and Ike struck the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico coast.  “Crude supplies are very high,” Schenker said. “The big
surprise in last week’s report was the big draw in the products.
Eventually this will increase the crack enough to incentivize
refineries to increase output.”  The crack spread for processing three barrels of oil into
two of gasoline and one of heating oil was up 9.8 percent at
$8.244 a barrel at 3:53 p.m., based on New York futures prices.
The  margin  reached $16.909 on May 13, the high of the year.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 