-- Cuomo Pledges New York Budget Policies Mirroring Governor Paterson's
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-09T21:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/cuomo-pledges-new-york-budget-policy-that-mirrors-paterson-s-with-tax-caps.html
New York  Governor-elect  Andrew Cuomo 
emerged from a private meeting with  David Paterson , the state’s
current chief executive, vowing to pursue caps on taxes and
spending that Paterson advocated.  Cuomo, 52, a Democrat and son of three-term Governor  Mario Cuomo , won 62 percent of the vote in the Nov. 2 election with a
promise to reduce state spending.  “No new taxes, no new taxes, no new taxes,” Cuomo said at
a news conference with Paterson today. “That would be
counterproductive for the state. You will force an increase in
New Yorkers who are fleeing the state because they don’t want to
pay the tax rate.”  Paterson, 56, a Democrat who dropped out of the governor’s
race, said he would close a shortfall in the current budget by
the time Cuomo takes office Jan. 1.  “I feel very assured being replaced by someone I think is
going to do an excellent job,” Paterson said.  “If he had walked in with a baseball bat, I might have
thought a little differently," he added, referring to Republican
candidate  Carl Paladino ’s threat to bring one to Albany if
elected governor.  As governor, Cuomo will confront a $9 billion deficit in
the state’s projected $144 billion budget for next year. He’ll
need to propose a spending plan within weeks to meet the April 1
start of the fiscal year for the nation’s third most-populous
state.  Tax Collections  Tax collections for this fiscal year are now forecast at
$61.4 billion, down $343 million from August estimates, the
Division of Budget said in a  report  Nov. 1. The budget,
including decreased federal aid, is now estimated at $135.3
billion. The state’s deficit is up from $8.2 billion previously
estimated, according to the report.  Cuomo campaigned on a promise of no personal or corporate
tax increases, and a pledge to cap property-tax increases at 2
percent a year or the rate of inflation, whichever is lower.
Local voters could override the limits with a 60 percent vote
favoring higher taxes. Paterson advocated similar restraints
that were rejected by teachers, public-employee and health care
unions that spent more than $1 million on television  commercials 
opposing his policies last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  