-- Danone Rises to Two-Year High After Report of Water-Unit Talks
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-11-09T14:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/danone-gains-to-highest-for-two-years-after-wsj-report-of-water-unit-talks.html
Danone , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, rose to the highest in more than in two years in Paris
trading after the Wall Street Journal reported that Japanese
companies are interested in the company’s bottled-water unit.  Danone and  Kirin Holdings Co.  are in initial talks through
representatives, the newspaper said, citing people close to the
situation whom it didn’t identify. Suntory Holdings and Asahi
Breweries Ltd. may be interested in buying part or all of the
division, which includes the Evian brand, the Journal said.  “These Japanese companies are desperately looking to
acquire something to diversify from their home market,” said
 Carl Short , an equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s in London who
has a “hold” rating on Danone. “I’m a bit surprised about
Danone. If you’d get rid of bottled water, essentially you’d
just have dairy and nutrition, and I’d wonder if that’s broad
enough for an international food company.”  The bottled-water business could be sold for $5 billion to
$7 billion, the Journal said. A sale of the unit would lead to
speculation about what Danone might buy next, Short said. Mead
Johnson Nutrition Co., the Glenview, Illinois-based maker of
Enfamil baby formula, may be a takeover target, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analysts said in an Oct. 19 report. Mead Johnson has
a stock market value of about $12.1 billion.  Sabrina Schneider, a spokeswoman for Paris-based Danone,
declined to comment on the article.  Bottled water  remains a
strategic business for the company, she said. Danone Chief
Executive Officer  Franck Riboud  rebuffed speculation the French
company would buy Mead Johnson on Feb. 11.  Danone  rose  as much as 1.48 euros, or 3.2 percent, to 47.95
euros, the highest  intraday  price since Oct. 2, 2008, and was up
1.3 percent as of 3:02 p.m. in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 