-- Danone Rises to Two-Year High After Journal Report of Water-Unit Talks
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-11-09T16:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/danone-rises-to-two-year-high-after-journal-report-of-water-unit-talks.html
Danone , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, rose to the highest in more than two years in Paris
trading after the Wall Street Journal reported that Japanese
companies are interested in the company’s bottled-water unit.  Danone and  Kirin Holdings Co.  are in initial talks through
representatives, the newspaper said, citing people close to the
situation whom it didn’t identify. Suntory Holdings and Asahi
Breweries Ltd. may be interested in buying part or all of the
division, which includes the Evian brand, the Journal said. The
shares rose 1.5 percent to the highest since Oct. 1, 2008.  “These Japanese companies are desperately looking to
acquire something to diversify from their home market,” said
 Carl Short , an equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s in London who
has a “hold” rating on Danone. “I’m a bit surprised about
Danone. If you’d get rid of bottled water, essentially you’d
just have dairy and nutrition, and I’d wonder if that’s broad
enough for an international food company.”  The bottled-water business could be sold for $5 billion to
$7 billion, the Journal said. A sale would lead to speculation
about what Danone might buy next, Short said. Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co., the Glenview, Illinois-based maker of Enfamil
baby formula, may be a takeover target, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts said in an Oct. 19 report. Mead Johnson has a stock
market value of about $12.1 billion.  Shares Gain  Sabrina Schneider, a spokeswoman for Paris-based Danone,
declined to comment on the Journal report. Kirin spokesman  Jun Sato , Asahi Breweries spokesman  Takayuki Tanaka  and Suntory
spokeswoman Midori Takahashi also declined to comment.  Danone  rose  69 cents to 47.16 euros in Paris. Mead Johnson
gained as much as 2.4 percent to $60.63 in New York, the highest
price since it was spun off in February 2009. Spokeswoman
 Kathryn Chieger  declined to comment.  Danone Chief Executive Officer  Franck Riboud  said on Feb.
11 the French company wouldn’t make big acquisitions when asked
about speculation that it might buy Mead Johnson.  The maker of Activia probably would only be interested in
parts of Mead Johnson, such as its Latin American business,
wrote  Alex Molloy , an analyst at Credit Suisse in London.  Danone got 2.58 billion euros ($3.6 billion) of revenue
from its bottled-water unit last year, almost a fifth of its
total. Dairy revenue was 8.56 billion euros, and baby and
medical nutrition businesses had sales of 3.85 billion euros.  ‘Difficult to Replace’  Sales growth at the water unit rose to 5.4 percent
excluding acquisitions and currency swings in the first nine
months of this year from 1 percent in the full year 2009. That
lagged behind the 8.6 percent growth of the baby nutrition unit
and the medical nutrition division’s 9.5 percent increase.  “It’s probably the last asset Danone would like to sell,”
said  Jean-Marie L’Home , an analyst at Aurel BGC in Paris who has
covered the food industry since 1987. “Evian is really
precious, and would be very difficult to replace. You can’t find
a spring like that with such renown anymore. It’s probably the
best-known brand of mineral water worldwide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 