-- Danone Said to Talk With Kirin, Asahi on Sale of Water Business
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-11-10T13:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/danone-is-said-to-talk-with-kirin-asahi-on-sale-of-bottled-water-business.html
Danone SA , owner of the Evian and
Volvic bottled-water brands, is talking with Japanese beverage
makers about the sale of part or all of its water business, said
three people with knowledge of the matter.  Danone  officials met with  Kirin Holdings Co. , Asahi
Breweries Ltd. and  Suntory Holdings Ltd.  in Asia this week to
gauge their interest in the unit, which may fetch $5 billion to
$7 billion, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. The talks are at an
early stage and a deal may not be reached, they said.  Kirin, Asahi and closely held Suntory are expanding abroad
as Japan’s  population  shrinks. Kirin, which sells Volvic in its
home market, has spent more than $8 billion on  acquisitions  in
the past three years, and Asahi has said it can spend as much as
400 billion yen ($4.9 billion) on takeovers.  “It might work out long term” for the buyer even though
the price may be expensive, said  Edwin Merner , president of
Tokyo-based Atlantis Investment Research Corp., which manages $3
billion. “The water business worldwide should continue to grow,
and the good brands should continue to do well, as people are
willing to pay up for safe water.”  Danone might get as much as 7 billion euros ($9.6 billion)
in a sale,  David Hayes , an analyst at Nomura in London,
estimated, while  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at Liberum Capital,
estimated the division is worth 5.4 billion euros. Evian alone
is worth 1.2 billion euros, Zuanic said, putting the value of
other brands in developed markets at 652 million euros and its
emerging-market business at 3.54 billion euros.  Joint Venture  Paris-based Danone could raise about 700 million euros
through a joint venture in which it retains ownership of its
brands in Europe and allows a partner to market and distribute
them, Hayes said. Contracts to operate springs are politically
“sensitive” and might not be transferred in case of asset
sales, he said. Danone probably won’t sell its emerging-market
water business because of the higher growth potential, he said.  Kirin  rose 5.7 percent, the biggest  gain  in almost 16
months, to close at 1,145 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Asahi 
climbed 0.6 percent to 1,618 yen.  Danone , the world’s biggest yogurt maker, rose to the
highest in more than two years in Paris  trading  yesterday. The
stock fell 1.5 percent to 46.44 euros at 2:24 p.m. in Paris
today, giving the company a market value of 30.1 billion euros.
MF Global analyst  Andy Smith  raised Danone to “tactical buy”
from “sell” today on the prospect that there could be a
bidding war for the assets.  Sabrina Schneider, a spokeswoman for  Danone , and Cecilia de
Pierrebourg, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Danone Asia Pacific,
declined to comment.  Jun Sato , a spokesman for Kirin;  Takayuki Tanaka , a spokesman for Asahi; and Midori Takahashi, a
spokeswoman for Suntory, also declined to comment.  Mead Johnson  Kirin  is the most interested of the potential Japanese
bidders, one of the people familiar with the matter said.
 Suntory  told banks this week it was seeking a financial adviser
and funding for a deal with  Danone , another person said. Danone
plans to limit how many buyers it approaches in a sale process,
the people said.  “It may be good for Japanese companies to buy  Danone ’s
water business just in Asia, instead of the whole thing,” said
 Hiroshi Saji , an analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. He
has an “outperform”  rating  on  Kirin  and  Asahi  shares.  Sales at Danone’s water division totaled 2.6 billion euros
last year. A deal involving the assets may increase speculation
about acquisitions by the company, according to  Carl Short , an
equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s in London.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co., the Glenview, Illinois-based
maker of Enfamil baby formula, would draw interest from Danone
and Nestle SA, the world’s largest food company, the people
said.  ‘Spare Parts’  “Danone has been very clear about wanting to acquire
‘spare parts’ of Mead, but that it has no interest in owning the
U.S. baby food business,” Nomura’s Hayes wrote. Danone and H.J.
Heinz Co. could make a joint bid for Mead Johnson, he added.  Kathryn Chieger , a spokeswoman at Mead Johnson, declined to
comment.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that Kirin and
Asahi are interested in the water unit. Suntory may also be a
suitor for some of the business, the newspaper said.  “These Japanese companies are desperately looking to
acquire something to diversify from their home market,” said
Carl Short at Standard & Poor’s, who has a “hold” rating on
 Danone .  Ito En Ltd. , a Tokyo-based beverage maker, sells Evian
bottled water in Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  