-- Dean Foods Falls Most in Six Months as Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-11-09T21:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/dean-foods-profit-falls-short-on-butterfat-costs-cfo-callahan-to-resign.html
Dean Foods Co. , the biggest U.S.
dairy processor, fell the most in six months after reporting
third-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates as
profitability dwindled at the company’s largest unit.  Dean  dropped  $1.86, or 18 percent, to $8.50 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest one-day
decline since May 10. The price earlier reached $8.47, the
lowest since April 8, 1999. The company also said its chief
financial officer will resign.  Net income  slid 51 percent to $24.3 million, or 13 cents a
share, from $49.7 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier, the
Dallas-based company said today in a statement. That trailed the
 average estimate  for per-share profit of 21 cents from 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Dean said its Fresh Dairy Direct-Morningstar unit saw
operating income, or sales minus operating costs and expenses,
fall 33 percent in the quarter. The price of class II butterfat,
used in creamer and ice cream products, rose 70 percent.  “In the near term we expect our Fresh Dairy Direct-
Morningstar business to remain challenged as the retail
environment continues to be very competitive,” Chief Executive
Officer  Gregg Engles  said in the statement.  Sales rose 11 percent to $3.05 billion from $2.76 billion,
Dean said. The company  forecast  fourth-quarter earnings of 13 to
18 cents a share, compared with a 27-cent average projection of
14 analysts in the survey.  “Relative to our numbers, the company was light in almost
all aspects,”  Terry Bivens , a New York-based analyst for
JPMorgan Chase & Co. who has a “neutral” rating on the shares,
said in a report.  ‘Major Problems’  “The company pointed to soft volumes, high butterfat
prices and a continued gap between its branded milks and
private-label milks,” Bivens said. “Fourth-quarter guidance
also indicated ongoing major problems.”  Dean’s WhiteWave-Alpro business posted an increase in sales
of 7.8 percent to $478.3 million with operating income climbing
16 percent to $37.1 million. The unit produces and sells branded
dairy, soy and plant-based beverages and foods.  “For the long-term benefit of our current shareholders,
owning WhiteWave-Alpro is a value-creating mechanism,” Engles
said when asked about potential asset sales during a conference
call with analysts.  “For the time being, WhiteWave-Alpro is an important
value-creating asset within the portfolio of Dean,” Engles
said. “It is managed quite separately and is separable and we
are keenly aware of the valuation issues.”  Jack Callahan , 52, will resign as executive vice president
and chief financial officer to accept a similar position at
another publicly traded company, Dean said in a separate
statement.  Shaun Mara , a senior vice president and chief
accounting officer, will succeed Callahan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey   scasey4@bloomberg.net  