-- Democrats Consoled by Latino Vote in Republican `Game Changer'
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-11-09T05:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/democrats-consoled-by-latino-support-in-republican-game-changer-election.html
Along with sweeping Republican gains
in the U.S. House, two political realities emerged in this
year’s midterm elections with longer-term repercussions for both
parties -- one positive, one negative for each.  For Republicans, the wave of support extended to state
capitals. The party won control of 25 state legislatures --
powered by pickups of about 700 state legislative slots -- and
29 governor’s offices. Next year, states will use data from the
2010 Census to determine the boundaries for House seats, a
redistricting process that now is likely to benefit Republicans
for the next 10 years.  “It’s a game changer,” said  Benjamin Ginsberg , a partner
at Patton Boggs LLP in Washington and former counsel to
President  George W. Bush ’s 2000 and 2004 campaigns. “If you are
thinking about redistricting, this is the election to have a
wave.”  For Democrats, exit polling of voters in the Nov. 2
elections confirmed this positive trend for the party: For the
third straight election, Latinos picked Democrats over
Republicans by a ratio of about 2-to-1, strengthening the
party’s hold on this increasingly important voting bloc.  Nationwide, Hispanics are the biggest -- and the fastest-
growing -- minority group. The  Census Bureau estimates  their
numbers have more than doubled in the U.S. since 1990, to about
48 million. They comprise about 10 percent of the national
electorate, double from 20 years ago, and that figure should
double again in 20 years, said Fernand Amandi, a Miami-based
political consultant and pollster who specializes in the
Hispanic vote, citing Census data.  Reid Win  In Nevada, exit polling shows that Hispanic voters helped
Senate Democratic leader  Harry Reid  hold on to his seat. They
also proved crucial to wins by Democratic Senators  Barbara Boxer 
in California,  Michael Bennet  in Colorado and  Patty Murray  in
Washington, Amandi said.  “I wouldn’t have been surprised if Harry Reid gave his
victory speech in Spanish,” he said. “The Democrats today owe
their majority in the Senate to the Hispanic vote.”  Hispanic voters veered from that trend in Florida, where
Republican Senator-elect  Marco Rubio , the son of working-class
Cuban immigrants, won 55 percent of the Latino vote. The
Hispanic vote in Florida has traditionally tilted Republican
because of the political leanings of the Cuban-American
community there, according to the Washington-based Pew Hispanic
Center.  Republicans gained six U.S. Senate seats, short of the 10
they needed for the majority. In the new Senate, Democrats will
control 53 seats, Republicans 47.  House Gains  Republicans picked up at least 60 seats in the new House,
with the outcomes of eight races pending. The party needed a
gain of 39 seats to take control of the chamber from Democrats.  Hispanics chose Democrats over Republican candidates, 64
percent to 34 percent nationwide, according to figures from the
 Pew Hispanic Center .  Polling by Pew shows that about half of registered Latino
voters say Democrats care more about their concerns, compared
with 6 percent who say Republicans care more. The remainder
finds no difference between the parties on that question.  Opposition to comprehensive immigration legislation by many
Republicans is among the issues motivating Latino voters,  Frank Sharry , executive director of America’s Voice, a Washington-
based group that favors an immigration overhaul, said in a
statement after the election.  William Frey , a demographer at the Brookings Institution in
Washington, said Hispanic voters are becoming increasingly
important in such states as California, Colorado and Nevada.  Voter Percentages  While Hispanics made up 8 percent of the national
electorate, they constituted 22 percent in California, 15
percent in Nevada and 13 percent in Colorado, according to exit
polls.  “The fastest-growing parts of our population are young
people and Hispanics,” Frey said. “Republicans still didn’t do
as well among those groups.”  Democrats will be counting on support from Hispanics to
blunt the effects of the Republican-led redistricting in many
states. Republican National Committee Chairman  Michael Steele ,
though, said the party’s power at the state level will leave it
well-positioned to improve its chances of taking over more House
seats from Democrats in future elections.  ‘Solidifying’ Gains  “You’re looking at solidifying the gains we made on
Tuesday and probably adding potentially another 10, 15 or so
seats,” he said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  The gains at the state level will help Republicans in other
ways, said Republican strategist  Scott Reed , who managed  Bob Dole ’s 1996 presidential campaign.  New control of the governor’s office in states including
Pennsylvania, Michigan, Ohio, Wisconsin and Iowa will help give
an edge to the Republican presidential candidate in 2012, he
said.  President  Barack Obama  carried each of these states in the
2008 presidential election. They accounted for 75 of the 365
electoral votes he won, with 270 needed for election.  In the 2012 race, the Republican nominee “will have a
governor who knows the states and knows the issues and can
help” the candidate, Reed said.  “The electoral map looks totally different for President
Obama and his re-election team,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
 Traci McMillan  in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  