-- Denzel Washington, Wife Honored at Grace Kelly Foundation Gala
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/denzel-washington-wife-honored-for-careers-charity-by-grace-kelly-group.html
Pauletta Washington, a television and
film actress and wife of actor Denzel, recalls the time last
year she encountered a beautiful young homeless woman outside
the door of her Los Angeles gym. She subsequently gave her $200
and a backpack containing drinking water, toothpaste and
underwear.  “The sight of that woman still burns my heart,” Pauletta
said by phone.  The couple will be honored for their contributions to the
arts and acts of charity large and small Wednesday night at the
 Princess Grace Foundation-USA ’s gala at Cipriani 42nd Street in
Manhattan.  In the past 25 years the foundation dedicated to the memory
of actress  Grace Kelly  has given about 700 awards totaling more
than $8 million to emerging theater, dance and film artists in
the U.S.  The nonprofit, which aids emerging artists, will give the
Washingtons the Prince Rainier III Award, named after Kelly’s
husband, the former ruling monarch of the  Principality of
Monaco , who died in 2005.  “Denzel and Pauletta have two extraordinary qualities in
that they are outstanding artists in their own right and their
charitable support is also outstanding,” Toby Boshak, the
Princess Grace Foundation’s executive director, said in a phone
interview.  Denzel Washington  has had leading roles in the biopic
“Malcolm X” (1992) and “ American Gangster ” (2007). He won an
Academy Award for Best Actor as the ruthless detective Alonzo
Harris in the 2001 film “Training Day.” This year, he received
a  Tony Award  for his lead role as the sanitation worker Troy in
 August Wilson ’s “Fences.”  Scholarships  Pauletta, a native of Newton, North Carolina, who appeared
in the film “Beloved,” oversees the Pauletta and Denzel
Washington Family  Gifted Scholars Program  in Neuroscience at
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. It gives awards of
as much as $2,500 a month for undergraduates, graduates or
medical-school students to study under Dr. Keith Black, the
chairman of Cedars-Sinai’s neurosurgery department.  “We are so blessed, and we are blessed to be a blessing to
others,” she said. “That’s our family mantra about giving.
“The main thing is to have an appreciation for what we have,
and we teach that to our children.” They have four children in
their late teens and early 20s. Denzel Washington declined to be
interviewed.  The Princess Grace Foundation gala, a highlight of New
York’s fall gala season, attracts royalty and leaders from the
worlds of finance, entertainment, luxury goods and real estate.
The foundation’s chairman is  Princess Caroline of Monaco .  Actors and Equity  Expected attendees include  Lorraine Bracco  (“The
Sopranos”);  Viola Davis , who played opposite Denzel Washington
in “Fences” and will present the Prince Rainier III Award;
television producer Dick Wolf (“Law & Order” franchise); and
actors  David Schwimmer  (“Friends”) and  Matthew Settle  (“Gossip
Girl”). Former U.S. Secretary of the Navy  John F. Lehman  ,
founder of the private equity firm of J.F. Lehman & Co., is the
foundation’s board chairman.  Pauletta Washington said that as a young actress, she had
always admired Grace Kelly, who died in 1982 in a car accident
while driving daughter Stephanie.  “This honor is very, very special to me and Denzel because
of its giving and what the organization stands for,” she said.  Denzel, who joined the  Boys & Girls Clubs of America  as a
child, received its highest honor six years ago for his longtime
support as a donor and as a spokesman since 1992.  Veterans Housing  He also can be inspired to write a check on the spot, his
wife said. In 2004, after visiting hospitalized U.S. Army
personnel at the Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio, he
decided to donate an undisclosed amount on the spot to the
 Fisher House Foundation Inc ., which provides housing for
families of those recovering in military and U.S.  Department of
Veterans Affairs  medical centers.  The following year, the couple joined the nonprofit’s
board, Fisher House spokeswoman Cindy Campbell said by phone.  “He looked at me during that visit, and he had that look
in his eye, and he said, ‘we’re going to build a house,’”
Pauletta Washington said.  The Princess Grace Foundation gala is Wednesday at Cipriani
42nd Street, 110 E. 42nd Street in Manhattan. Tickets begin at
$1,000. Information: +1-212-245-6570.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 