-- Deutsche Post Reports Third Consecutive Quarterly Profit on Freight Demand
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-09T09:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/deutsche-post-reports-third-consecutive-quarterly-profit-on-freight-demand.html
Deutsche Post AG , Europe’s largest
postal service, reported a third straight quarterly  profit  and
raised the lower end of its forecast on a surge in shipments of
cross-border freight and packages in Germany.  Third-quarter  net income  was 226 million euros ($313
million), compared with a loss of 83 million euros a year
earlier, the Bonn-based company said today. Profit topped the
215 million-euro average estimate of five analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue gained 14 percent to 12.8 billion euros.  The world’s biggest carrier of air and sea freight by
volume benefited from economic growth and rising trade in Asia
and limited a decline at the mail unit after additional German
taxes forced Deutsche Post to offer rebates to customers.  “The market was too pessimistic regarding the decline of
the mail division and the supply chain business showed it can
sustainably generate earnings again,” said  Per-Ola Hellgren , an
analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, Germany,
who recommends buying the shares.  Deutsche Post rose as much as 2.9 percent and climbed 2.7
percent to 13.61 euros as of 10:38 a.m. in Frankfurt, valuing
the company at 16.5 billion euros. Before today, the stock had
gained 11 percent in the past 12 months.  United Parcel Service
Inc.  jumped 27 percent in the period.  Refinancing Debt  Deutsche Post aims to take out a syndicated loan of more
than 1 billion euros by the end of the year to refinance debt
 that is due  in 2012 and 2014, Chief Financial Officer  Lawrence Rosen  told a conference call, without identifying the lenders.
Deutsche Post has 1.6 billion euros in outstanding bonds through
2014, according to Bloomberg data.  Full-year earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gain
and losses will be in a range of 2 billion euros to 2.1 billion
euros, compared with an earlier projection of as little as 1.9
billion euros, Deutsche Post said today. Earnings on that basis
for the mail unit will be 1.1 billion euros to 1.2 billion
euros, the company said, raising the lower end of its  forecast 
by 100 million euros.  Atlanta-based UPS, the world’s biggest package-deliverer,
raised its profit forecast Oct. 21, citing shipments from Europe
and Asia that outpaced gains in the U.S.  Mail Unit  Chief Executive Officer  Frank Appel  has shed unprofitable
domestic express businesses in the  U.S., France and the U.K.  and
is trying to stem Deutsche Post’s declining mail revenue with a
secure electronic-letter service. The service, started in July,
has more than 1 million registered users.  Revenue at the  division  fell 2.7 percent to 3.2 billion
euros in the quarter. Ebit excluding one-time items dropped 21
percent to 259 million euros. In July, Deutsche Post lost its
exemption from a German value-added tax on some mail products.  Sales from parcel delivery in Germany, the biggest
component of the unit, gained 5.5 percent to 628 million euros.  “The mail division held up really well in a market with
tough competition and framework conditions,” CFO Rosen said.
“It is the DHL units which are increasingly driving profit
growth.”  The  Global Forwarding and Freight  division profited from a
rebound in global trade with higher volumes and prices, with
Ebit excluding one-time items gaining 34 percent to 102 million
euros in the quarter. The supply chain unit returned to a profit
on the same basis after business was lost last year with the
insolvency of Arcandor AG and its Quelle mail-order business.  The restructuring of the unit is “largely” complete and
the company doesn’t plan to exit major markets, Rosen said,
adding that he is confident of stronger growth in the U.S. in
the coming years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  