-- Drillers May Face Added Oversight Costs After BP Spill
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-11-09T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/drillers-may-face-added-u-s-oversight-costs-after-bp-spill.html
Oil and gas companies may be asked to
pay for a new agency that would regulate offshore drilling to
prevent a repeat of the blast that sank a  rig  leased by  BP Plc ,
the co-chairman of a panel investigating the explosion said.  The government is unlikely to give regulators sufficient
funding to effectively police drillers as they hunt in deeper
waters with more sophisticated technology,  William K. Reilly ,
co-chairman of the  National Commission on the BP Deepwater
Horizon Oil Spill , told reporters today.  The panel in preliminary findings has cited instances of
poor decisions made by BP and contractors  Halliburton Co . and
Transocean Ltd. prior to the blast, which killed 11 workers,
spewed crude into the Gulf of Mexico for 87 days and shut
thousands of square miles to fishing.  “We do need a co-regulator, as it’s been called, to
supplement the regulation in the Gulf,” Reilly said at a news
conference in Washington. “There’s going to have to be another
institution and the industry is going to have to form it and to
pay for it.”  London-based BP faulted its engineers for the fatal
drilling-rig blast in an internal investigation of the April 20
explosion, and said Transocean and Halliburton share the blame.  All three companies are “implicated in this disaster,”
Reilly said. “BP, Halliburton and Transocean are major
respected companies operating throughout the Gulf and the
evidence is they are in need of top-to-bottom reform.”  Concrete Seal  Last month, the commission named by President  Barack Obama 
said cement recommended by Halliburton, the world’s second-
largest oilfield-services provider, to seal the well was
unstable and may have led to the largest U.S. offshore oil
spill.  The Obama administration is seeking funds from Congress to
help close a technology gap between the industry and government
watchdogs, said  Michael Bromwich , director of the  Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management , the Interior Department unit that
oversees offshore drilling. Regulators also need training, he
said.  Bromwich balked at Reilly’s idea of an industry group to
help government inspectors enforce safety and environmental
rules.  “I don’t think it can be an immediate substitute for the
current system we have,” Bromwich told the commission. “But is
there a possibility, a potential, for a self-regulating
mechanism to exist that would enhance the regulatory system that
we currently have and to increase oversight? There is that
possibility.”  ‘Help In Training’  It’s difficult for government to compete with companies
such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. , which are trying to hire the “very
best and brightest people out there,”  Rex Tillerson , Exxon
chief executive officer, said at the commission’s hearing.  “It is realistic, though, to provide some help in training
people with the regulatory agency,” Tillerson said. “This is
going to require engineers and geoscientists so that they, at
least, recognize when there is a risk of exposure and are at
least able to ask the question: how is that risk being
addressed?”  Among the panel’s preliminary findings, released yesterday,
were that tools to detect cementing failures weren’t used and
workers moved ahead to seal the well 5,000 feet below the
surface even after tests showed that the cement was faulty.  Reilly said it’s unlikely the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management will have enough funding to “have the increased
number of inspectors that would seem to be required, pay them
more, equip them technologically to understand cementing and
centralizers and all of the specialties that industry has in
spades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 