-- Dudley as Avatar of Quantitative Ease Predicts Credit Creation
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/dudley-as-avatar-of-quantitative-ease-anticipating-gradual-credit-creation.html
Among dozens of public appearances by
Federal Reserve officials between their last two meetings, one
stands out: New York Fed President  William Dudley ’s Oct. 1
speech that more monetary stimulus likely was needed to combat
“unacceptable” inflation and unemployment.  The message from Dudley, vice chairman of the policy-
setting Federal Open Market Committee, was echoed three days
later by the New York Fed markets-group chief,  Brian Sack , who
said further expansion of the central bank’s balance sheet would
foster growth. They telegraphed to the market that more easing
was coming, even as five other Fed officials articulated their
opposition. On Nov. 3, the FOMC announced it would buy $600
billion in Treasuries in an unprecedented second round of
unconventional easing.  “The speeches by President Dudley and Brian Sack were the
first clear indications from the Fed that this was quite likely
to happen,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York. “Those speeches came out shortly
after the September meeting and made it sound like it was
unlikely the data would change the Fed’s mind.”  Dudley’s remarks provided a road map for the FOMC’s
ultimate decision, underscoring the importance of paying
attention to what he says, according to  John Silvia , chief
economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North
Carolina.  “I’ve known Bill for 25 years, and he’s a very responsible
person who’s not going to go willy-nilly,” Silvia said.
“Dudley pretty much reflects the philosophical view” of Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , and “in today’s environment, the head
of the New York Fed is not going to go out there and throw out
arbitrary statements that are not going to happen.”  Increase Expectations  Dudley, arguably the most dovish policy maker on the FOMC,
used this and other speeches to increase market expectations for
quantitative easing and accelerate its impact, said  Dino Kos ,
managing director at Portales Partners LLC in New York and a
former executive vice president and markets-group head at the
New York Fed.  Bernanke opened the door for further monetary easing in a
speech at the Kansas City Fed’s annual symposium in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, on Aug. 27, saying the central bank would “do
all that it can” to ensure a continuation of the economic
recovery, and more securities purchases might be warranted if
growth were to slow. On Oct. 15, he said “there would appear,
all else being equal, to be a case for further action” because
inflation was too low and  unemployment , which has stalled at or
above 9.5 percent since August 2009, was too high.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  and Chicago’s  Charles Evans  were among other policy makers who also advocated further
monetary stimulus last month.  ‘Drown Out’ Hawks  The presentations were made “to drown out the hawks” and
“achieve an easing of financial conditions immediately, before
the first security was purchased, indeed even before the
announcement was made,” Kos said.  Krishna Guha , spokesman for
the New York Fed, declined to comment.  The average rate on a typical U.S. fixed-rate 30-year
mortgage  dropped  to 4.2 percent on Nov. 8 from 4.47 percent
Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bankrate.com. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks  returned  7.4 percent
through Nov. 8.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists last week increased their
current-quarter growth forecasts for both the U.S. and Europe by
0.5 percentage point to 2.5 percent and 1.5 percent,
respectively, partly because the “strong policy-commitment
signal coming from the Federal Reserve” has improved financial
conditions, according to a Nov. 4 report.  Unconventional Tools  The New York Fed president is the only regional reserve
bank chief with a permanent vote on the FOMC, and thus the
position has always carried more power than its counterparts.
Dudley’s view may be particularly important now, as the central
bank turns to unconventional tools after leaving its benchmark
rate  near zero  since 2008, entering what Cleveland Fed President
 Sandra Pianalto  called “uncharted waters” and sparking
disagreements about the course of action.  The Fed’s communications “could have been better, but they
didn’t really have any framework or roadwork” to rely on, said
 John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in
New York. “Another characteristic of the Bernanke Fed is that
it tends to be largely based on consensus” and debate is
encouraged, he said. “That may hinder the Fed’s ability to act
swiftly and communicate its intentions clearly.”  Top U.S. Economist  Dudley, 57, who succeeded  Timothy Geithner  as president of
the New York Fed in 2009, holds an economics doctorate from the
University of California at Berkeley and worked as a Fed
economist from 1981 to 1983. He joined  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
in 1986 and became the top U.S. economist there, then moved to
the New York Fed in 2007.  His Oct. 1 speech set market expectations for the central
bank to buy at least $500 billion of bonds because he said
purchases totaling about that amount would add as much stimulus
as lowering the Fed’s benchmark rate between 0.5 percentage
point and 0.75 percentage point. Sack three days later explained
that a second round would merit a different strategy and more
“flexibility” than the central bank’s earlier purchases of
$1.7 trillion in securities at the height of the credit crisis.  The Fed said last week it will buy about $75 billion of
Treasuries a month through June. The central bank will
“regularly review” the pace and total amount of purchases and
“will adjust the program as needed,” according to the FOMC’s
statement.  Exit Strategy  The new stimulus is the opposite of the exit strategy
investors were predicting after the U.S. economy grew 5 percent
in the fourth quarter and another 3.7 percent in the first three
months of 2010. Meanwhile, Dudley hinted he wasn’t satisfied
with the pace of the recovery.  On May 21, about two weeks after the Fed restarted
emergency currency-swap lines with foreign central banks to help
stabilize the European debt crisis, Dudley spoke at his alma
mater, the New College of Florida in Sarasota. U.S. growth was
likely to be “more sluggish” than desired, because consumers
were cutting debt, banks remained under “significant stress”
and temporary sources of growth, including President  Barack Obama ’s $787 billion fiscal-stimulus programs, were expiring, he
said.  Two months later, on July 22, Dudley said in New York that
the “road to recovery is turning out to be a bit bumpy”
because of weak consumer spending and financial-market
“problems.”  Source of Growth  He also flagged that the economy may lose inventory
restocking as a source of growth, after the Commerce Department
reported July 14 that stockpiles rose 0.1 percent in May, a sign
companies were preparing for weaker sales.  In August, the central bank surprised investors by
announcing it would keep its holdings of domestic securities
unchanged at about $2.05 trillion by reinvesting proceeds from
mortgage debt into Treasuries, putting the exit on hold. At its
next meeting, on Sept. 21, the FOMC said it was prepared to ease
policy “if needed” to spur growth and achieve its dual mandate
of stable prices and full employment.  Ten days after that policy session, Dudley said “further
action is likely to be warranted unless the economic outlook
evolves in a way that makes me more confident.” Restarting
purchases of Treasury securities would reduce borrowing costs
and support the value of homes and stocks, making housing and
the cost of capital for businesses more affordable, he said in
New York in the Oct. 1 speech.  ‘Threshold for Action’  “What Dudley said was, ‘We should do more even if nothing
changes,’” Kos said. “The threshold for action had changed.
Deterioration wasn’t necessary. Lack of improvement was enough
to trigger action.”  It was “highly unlikely” Dudley would have been so
explicit without Bernanke’s backing, Goldman Sachs economists
said in a report at the time.  Dudley reiterated his view that action was probably needed
on four other occasions last month, including during a trip
through upstate New York. He said that the levels of
unemployment and inflation were “unacceptable” on Oct. 25 in
Ithaca, New York, after a  guest lecture  at Cornell University
and a visit to Kionix Inc., which makes high-performance
inertial sensors. He repeated that message on Oct. 26 in
Rochester and on Oct. 27 in Buffalo after touring a General
Motors Co. engine plant.  The speeches overshadowed opposition from Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher , the Philadelphia Fed’s  Charles Plosser ,  Narayana Kocherlakota  of Minneapolis, the Richmond
Fed’s  Jeffrey Lacker  and Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig . Only Hoenig has a vote this year on the FOMC, and he has
dissented seven consecutive times.  Dudley “broadcast the Fed’s intentions loud and clear,”
said Moody’s Lonski. “They’re basically pouring a little bit of
lighter fluid on an economy that is beginning to perhaps catch
fire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  