-- The Man Who Blacked Out World Series Blames Politicians
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-09T21:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/the-man-who-blacked-out-news-corp-world-series-says-politicians-to-blame.html
News Corp.’s  Chase Carey , the man who
oversaw Fox’s talks with  Cablevision Systems Corp.  during a two-
week blackout, has advice for government officials who want to
keep more TV channels from going dark: Stop meddling.  News Corp.  last month cut off World Series games and shows
including “Glee” to Cablevision’s 3 million customers after
the two sides couldn’t agree on how much Cablevision should pay
Fox. One problem, Carey said, was that the government wasn’t
clear about whether it would intervene, leading Cablevision to
think it might get better terms if it held out until the U.S.
weighed in.  “This process would have been resolved more easily, more
quickly,” said Carey, chief operating officer and second-in-
command to  Rupert Murdoch . “I would actually contend we
wouldn’t have gone off the air at all.”  Clashes between media and cable companies are on the rise
as broadcasters such as Fox and  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC ask to be
paid for programming that used to be free. The number of TV
blackouts this year is the most in at least a decade, triggering
consumer wrath and lawmaker scrutiny.  Carey, 56, spoke during an interview at  News Corp. ’s New
York headquarters, in a wood-paneled, windowless room barely
large enough for an oversized conference table. He said he was
eager to clear up what he thinks are misperceptions about the
longest blackout for such a large customer group in at least a
decade.  “This wasn’t a good experience,” Carey said. “Everybody
here found this really painful.”  Kerry’s New Bill  News Corp. , controlled by Chairman and CEO Murdoch, fell 5
cents to $14.28 on the Nasdaq Stock Market at 4 p.m. New York
time. Cablevision rose 1 cent to $29.33 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. News Corp. has gained 4.3 percent
this year, while  Cablevision  added 38 percent.  Cablevision, based in Bethpage, New York, declined to make
anyone available for comment. A spokesman referred to a
conference call last week, when Chief Operating Officer  Tom Rutledge  said the U.S. Federal Communications Commission should
prevent broadcasters from cutting off programming to obtain
negotiating leverage.  Senator  John Kerry  says he plans to introduce a bill when
Congress reconvenes next week to keep companies from pulling
signals before regulators check for good-faith negotiations. The
Massachusetts Democrat is chairman of the communications,
Internet and technology subcommittee of the Senate Commerce
Committee, which plans to hold a hearing on the issue.  “They’re very high-profile battles because it can turn
into the politicians’ constituents losing their TV service,”
 David Joyce , an analyst with Miller, Tabak & Co. in New York,
said in an interview.  ‘Not a Nonprofit’  Carey has said Fox needs fees from cable companies, in
addition to advertising revenue, to afford marquee events
including professional football and baseball games. He’s made
subscriber fees a top priority since becoming COO last year, as
he strives to return the broadcast network to profitability
instead of losing a “few hundred million dollars” each year.  “We’re not running a nonprofit,” Carey said.  Fox and Cablevision reached an agreement Oct. 30 without
direct government intervention. Though terms weren’t disclosed,
Cablevision called it an “unfair price.”  Michael Nathanson , an
analyst at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York,
estimates Cablevision will pay Fox about $1 per subscriber a
month after a few years.  Carey said he visited politicians in Washington to explain
that Fox needs a dual-revenue stream, and to argue that giving
Cablevision hope of government intervention encouraged the cable
operator to drag out the process.  ‘Unfortunate Stalemate’  “As long as they feel they have in places a somewhat
receptive audience, it incents them to not resolve this as a
business matter but to politicize it,” he said.  At least 50 elected officials sided with Cablevision during
the dispute and called for arbitration, the company says.
Distributors say they resist paying broadcasters the new fees
because they have to pass the costs on to consumers.  “Just because deals are getting signed doesn’t mean that’s
going to be the end of the story,” analyst Joyce said.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said in an Oct. 29 letter
to Kerry the agency doesn’t have the authority to prevent
service disruptions. Congress should revisit current law and
examine whether mandatory mediation and binding arbitration
could prevent impasses like the “unfortunate stalemate”
between Fox and Cablevision, Genachowski wrote.  Kerry’s bill isn’t likely to pass during the post-election
session,  Andrew D. Lipman , a Washington-based partner with the
law firm Bingham McCutchen LLP, said in an interview.  Republican Reluctance  Newly elected Republicans “are going to be less willing to
insert government into disputes between cable providers and
broadcasters,” Lipman said.  Carey used to be on the other side of the negotiating
table. Before returning to News Corp. in mid-2009, he was chief
executive of  DirecTV , the largest U.S. satellite-television
provider. He said broadcasters were “delinquent” in the 2000s
for not addressing their faltering business models and not
seeking payments from pay-TV operators.  Now that Fox has deals locked up with its four largest
distributors, the network is on the path to profitability, Carey
said.  Carey said he understands that politicians want to reassure
their constituents and show they’re taking action. The problem
is that such actions are often counterproductive, he said.  “You’re going to bastardize every negotiation because
you’re going to have this specter of arbitration,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  