-- Billionaire Lebedev Asks Putin to Intervene After Police Raid
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-11-09T10:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/lebedev-vows-to-stay-in-russia-asks-putin-to-intervene-after-police-raid.html
Russian billionaire  Alexander Lebedev , owner of the U.K.’s  Evening Standard  and  Independent 
newspapers, is asking Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to intervene
after Moscow police raided his  National Reserve Bank  last week.  Lebedev said he was targeted because he and  Novaya Gazeta ,
the Moscow weekly newspaper he owns, have focused on
investigating corruption. He said he plans to send 25 letters to
Russian leaders and agencies, including Putin, President  Dmitry Medvedev , the Prosecutor General’s Office and courts, asking
them to stop police from interfering with his businesses.  “Somebody might be thinking there are ways to push me out
of the country because if I am out there will be fewer
headaches,” Lebedev, 50, said yesterday in an interview. “It
could be anybody. All my enemies are self-inflicted.”  Lebedev said he won’t leave Russia or stop doing business
in the country. Russia is the world’s most corrupt major
economy, according to Berlin-based Transparency International’s
2010 Corruption Perceptions Index released Oct. 26. The country
was ranked 154th among 178 countries, alongside Tajikistan.  Dozens of armed police surrounded the Moscow offices of
National Reserve Bank on Nov. 2, while three men in civilian
clothes, their faces covered by balaclavas, entered the building
and demanded a meeting with Lebedev, Novaya Gazeta said on its
website. The search was part of an “ongoing criminal
investigation,” police spokesman  Viktor Biryukov  told the state-
run RIA Novosti news service.  Foreign Investor  Lebedev said he owns 85 percent of National Reserve Corp.,
a Cyprus-based fund that has invested about $4 billion in
Russia. NRC has investments in banking, construction, property,
agriculture, airlines, aircraft manufacturing and media, which
include a 13.7 percent stake in national carrier OAO  Aeroflot .  “I am complaining as a foreign investor,” Lebedev said.
Russia is seeking international investment to help diversify the
economy, including plans to build a technology center outside
Moscow and turn the capital into a global financial hub.  Lebedev said that while he doesn’t believe the
investigation is politically motivated, he may change his mind
if the government fails to support him.  “If there is no reaction from government offices within
two to three weeks to my complaints, it means there are more
grounds to consider there is higher level of powers behind it,”
he said. “But at the moment I don’t believe in this.”  A former KGB spy who once worked undercover as an economic
attaché in London, Lebedev bought into Novaya Gazeta in 2006
with the support of former Soviet President and Nobel Peace
Prize winner  Mikhail Gorbachev . Forbes magazine estimated
Lebedev’s net worth at $2 billion this year.  Crusading Journalists  Lebedev said he encouraged Novaya Gazeta journalists to
uncover graft, citing a recent investigation into fraud
surrounding the import of radiology equipment. He said he
personally pursued allegations that officials at a state-
controlled corporation embezzled millions of dollars.  While he didn’t name any person or organization he thinks
is behind the National Reserve Bank raid, Lebedev said he has
many adversaries and has been the target of dozens of similar
probes in recent years because of his fight against corruption.  Lebedev compared the raids to the assault on Oleg Kashin, a
political correspondent for Kommersant, who was beaten by two
men wielding a metal bar wrapped in flowers outside his
apartment building Nov. 6, according to the Moscow-based
newspaper. Doctors induced a coma to help Kashin recover from
his injuries, which included a fractured jaw, skull and fingers.  “I am publishing a newspaper, he is a journalist,”
Lebedev said. “From this point of view there is no difference.
It is more or less the same forces, same attitude, but different
methods.”  ‘Gambling Mafia’  The U.S. government today called on Russia to find and
punish the people responsible for the attack on Kashin, saying
“journalists around the world must feel free to do their jobs
without fear of intimidation or physical violence.”  Lebedev suggested that the “gambling mafia” may be behind
the raid against National Reserve Bank because he campaigned for
a ban on gambling in Russia.  Lebedev said the London-based Mail on Sunday misinterpreted
comments that made a comparison to  Anna Politkovskaya , a Novaya
Gazeta journalist who was shot dead in 2006.  “If you are a journalist who is investigating the mafia,
it is clear there are lot of people who can send you a rotten
fish,” Lebedev said, referring to a warning sometimes used by
organized crime figures. “This is exactly the joke I made,” he
said, but I never said “I would be the next Politkovskaya. This
is absolutely absurd.”  Lebedev said at least one officer in the  Federal Security
Service , the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB, threatened to
open a criminal investigation against him unless he left the
country. The last threat was made a year ago, he said, while
declining to accuse the security agency targeting him.  Politicians have no reason to be concerned, Lebedev said.  “I’m not a politician, I am not running for president, I’m
not running for mayor,” he said. “There is nothing one should
be afraid of as far as my political ambition is concerned.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  