-- Ecopetrol May Sell $543 Million of Domestic Bonds as Soon as This Month
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-11-09T20:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/ecopetrol-may-sell-544-million-of-bonds-in-week-of-nov-22-correval-says.html
Ecopetrol SA  may sell as much as 1
trillion pesos ($542.9 million) of bonds in the Colombian market
as early as the week of Nov. 22, according to Correval SA.  Ecopetrol, based in Bogota, may offer to sell inflation-
linked, DTF interbank rate-linked or fixed-rate peso debt
maturing in between three and 30 years,  Laura Ramirez , a member
of the sales group at Correval who is involved in managing
Ecopetrol’s debt sale, said in a phone interview. Correval and
Valores Bancolombia SA are the lead underwriters, she said.  “Ecopetrol has all the authorizations -- the only thing
pending is for the company to set an exact date,” Ramirez said.
Ecopetrol is considering offering the securities in either the
week of Nov. 22 or Nov. 29, she said. Ecopetrol declined to
comment on the bond sale plans, according to a company official
who asked not to be identified citing company policy.  The state oil company is tapping the local debt market for
the first time since 1998 to help fund record investment amid
rising oil demand in China, Chief Executive Officer  Javier Gutierrez  said in an interview last month. The company is also
taking advantage of record-low interest rates in Colombia and
increased liquidity to issue debt at a low cost, according to
 Francisco Chaves , a fixed-income analyst at brokerage Corredores
Asociados in Bogota.  ‘Low Rates’  “Not only can Ecopetrol sell bonds at historically low
rates, but the local market is probably willing to buy bonds at
longer maturities than if it issues the debt abroad,” said
Chaves. Corredores Asociados is also helping manage the
Ecopetrol sale, he said.  Grupo de Inversiones Suramericana SA last year sold
Colombia’s first 40-year corporate peso bonds.  Ecopetrol plans to invest more than $80 billion through
2020 to finance exploration projects in Colombia and expansion
in neighboring Peru and Brazil, Gutierrez has said. The
company’s planned 2011 investments are set to top this year’s
record $6.9 billion in spending, according to Gutierrez.  Colombia’s central bank lowered the  overnight lending rate 
in April to a record low 3 percent to buoy growth in South
America’s fourth-largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  