-- Ecuador's Monthly Inflation Slows, Led Lower by Health, Education Costs
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-11-09T18:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/ecuador-s-monthly-inflation-slows-led-lower-by-health-education-costs.html
Ecuador’s monthly inflation last
month slowed to its lowest level since August, led lower by
heath care and education costs.  Consumer prices rose 0.25 percent last month from the
previous  month , when prices rose 0.26 percent, National
Statistics & Census Institute said today. From the same month a
 year  earlier, prices rose 3.46 percent in October, the
statistics agency said today in a report on its  website .  Ecuador’s  economy , which the government forecasts will
expand 3.7 percent in 2010, is trailing regional peers as a
decline in oil output, the nation’s biggest source of revenue,
crimps a recovery from the worst economic slump in a decade.
Slow growth and the Andean nation’s adoption of the U.S.  dollar 
as its official currency have restrained inflation this year,
 Erich Arispe , an analyst at Fitch Ratings Ltd. said.  “A relatively slow pickup in economic activity has not
created inflationary pressures,” Arispe said yesterday in a
telephone interview before the data’s release. “Since the 2000
dollarization, Ecuador’s inflation has been relatively low in
comparison to the region, so dollarization in that respect has
been positive for monetary stability.”  Weak Growth  Ecuador’s economy expanded 2.7 percent in the second
quarter from the previous year, the weakest among major Latin
American economies after Venezuela, which is in recession.  Gross domestic product increased 0.4 percent last year, the
worst performance since 1999, when a 5.3 percent contraction and
61 percent annual inflation fueled protests that led to the
overthrow of former President  Jamil Mahuad .  The central bank, which was stripped of its autonomy in a
2008 constitutional referendum, forecasts inflation will reach
3.35 percent this year, which would be the lowest since 2007,
according to this year’s budget. Consumer prices rose 4.3
percent last year.  On the month, health care prices fell 0.04 percent, while
education costs moderated to a 0.12 percent gain after rising
3.05 percent last month.  Prices in October rose the most in Guayaquil, the nation’s
biggest city, where increases in the cost of food, including
chicken, potatoes and bread, helped push monthly inflation to
0.55 percent, more than double the increase for the nation, the
agency said.  That compares with the 0.29 percent monthly inflation rate
reported in the capital city of Quito.  Producer prices also rose, increasing 0.54 percent in
October from a month earlier and 9.5 percent from the same month
last year, according to the report.  Fed, QE2  Ecuadorean inflation may quicken if a U.S. Federal Reserve
decision to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June weakens
the dollar, driving up the cost of imports from regional trading
partners, Fitch’s Arispe said.  The Fed’s decision “will feed into the Ecuadorean economy
through imports,” Arispe said. “Trading partners like Peru and
Colombia will have a more appreciated currency vis-a-vis the
dollar so import prices will increase for Ecuador.”  The policy-making Federal Open Market Committee last week
embarked on a second round of unconventional monetary stimulus
after a reduction in its main rate to near zero and purchases of
$1.7 trillion in securities failed to bring down an unemployment
rate that’s stuck near a 26-year high.  Imports, Currencies, Oil  Ecuadorean imports rose 30 percent to $10.1 billion in the
seven months ending in July from $7.74 billion in the same
period a year earlier, according to the most recent data on the
central bank’s website.  Imports from Colombia and Peru, Ecuador’s second- and
third-biggest import markets respectively, rose 38 percent to a
total of $1.61 billion in the same time period, according to the
bank. The U.S. is Ecuador’s biggest trade partner.  Colombia’s peso has strengthened 11.6 percent against the
U.S. dollar in the year through yesterday, while the Peruvian
sol has gained 3.3 percent.  Ecuador’s Finance Ministry forecasts GDP will rise 5.1
percent next year with oil output climbing 1.3 percent to 181
million barrels, according to data on the ministry’s website.  Output of Ecuadorean oil, which trades at a discount to
 West Texas Intermediate  crude, has tumbled 7 percent to 465,000
barrels a day as of Oct. 31 from a 2008 high of 500,000 barrels
a day, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Ecuador, which gets about 23 percent of its revenue from
oil, is the smallest member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  Ecuadorean  unemployment  fell to two-year low of 7.4 percent
in the third quarter from 7.7 percent in the three months ending
in June, the statistics agency said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  