-- Hedge Funds Reach Highest Assets Since October 2008 as Global Markets Rise
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2010-11-09T08:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/hedge-funds-assets-reach-highest-since-october-2008-as-global-markets-rise.html
Hedge-funds assets exceeded
$1.6 trillion, reaching the highest in more than two years, as
managers returned 2.3 percent last month helped by gains in
global markets, according to  Eurekahedge Pte .  Hedge funds posted positive returns for the fourth
consecutive month in October, with the Eurekahedge Hedge Fund
Index, which tracks more than 2,500 funds worldwide, increasing
7.3 percent in the first 10 months, the Singapore-based data
provider said in an e-mailed  report . Assets last month were the
highest since October 2008.  Managers who invest in commodities and equities led last
month’s gains, benefiting from rising prices in their respective
markets, Eurekahedge said.  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index 
advanced 4.8 percent in October, while the MSCI World Index
climbed 3.7 percent.  All nine indexes tracking different strategies advanced,
the preliminary report showed. The  index  tracking hedge funds
investing in so-called commodity trading advisers or managed
futures funds, was the best performer, advancing 3.1 percent,
while managers of long-short funds, betting on rising and
falling stock prices, were the second-best, the report showed.  By region, the index tracking Asia ex-Japan funds was the
best performer, returning 3.1 percent, followed by Eurekahedge
Eastern Europe & Russia Hedge Fund Index, which returned 2.7
percent, the firm said.  The hedge-fund benchmark returned 20 percent last year, its
best performance since 2003, after a decline of 11 percent in
2008. More than 600 funds have started in 2010, the report said,
without elaborating further.  Eurekahedge’s preliminary report is based on 37 percent of
funds reporting returns for October. The research firm plans to
release a full report later this month.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  