-- Mediaset Shares Tumble After It Posts Wider-Than-Expected Loss
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-11-10T16:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/mediaset-posts-quarterly-loss-on-writedowns-repeats-higher-2010-net-goal.html
Mediaset SpA , the broadcaster
controlled by Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , fell
the most in more than 17 months in Milan trading after
reporting a bigger-than-expected net loss in the third quarter.  The  stock fell  35 cents, or 6.5 percent, to 5.055 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading, the biggest decline since May
18, 2009, giving the company a market value of 5.97 billion
euros ($8.19 billion). The stock was the worst performer today
on the  FTSE MIB Index .  “Mediaset is the only European free-TV company which has
not beaten consensus expectations materially in the third
quarter,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including  Richard Jones  wrote in a report late yesterday.  Mediaset posted a bigger third-quarter  net  loss than
analysts had predicted on charges related to investments. It
had a net loss of 49 million euros compared with a profit of
3.4 million euros a year earlier. The average estimate of six
analysts was a net loss of 35 million euros, according to
Bloomberg data.  “The core channel audience was under pressure,” Nomura
Holdings Inc. analysts including  Matthew Walker  wrote in a note
today. “Mediaset surprised us by indicating additional free TV
investment (new channels and a better summer schedule) when it
has established a reputation for keeping cost growth very
modest in a market with little competition.”  TV Advertising  Mediaset, based near Milan, reiterated its forecast of an
increase in full-year 2010  net income . TV advertising sales at
Mediaset’s domestic unit, Publitalia, gained 5 percent to 1.91
billion euros in the first nine months. Revenue at the pay-TV
unit, which has about 3.6 million active customers, rose 61
percent to 342.5 million euros in the period.  Mediaset expects Italian advertising sales to rise about 5
percent this year,  Luigi Colombo , Publitalia’s managing
director, said on a conference call.  There isn’t “enough visibility” for a forecast for 2011,
he said, adding that a growth rate of between 2 percent and 4
percent in the Italian TV ad market next year is “reliable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 