-- Medvedev Pursues Energy Deals, Foreign Investment During Korea, Japan Trip
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-11-09T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/medvedev-pursues-energy-deals-foreign-investment-during-korea-japan-trip.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  will
lead a delegation pursuing deals ranging from gas supply
agreements to foreign investment when he travels to Japan and
South Korea this week for meetings with world leaders as Russia
seeks to increase its presence on Asian markets.  OAO Gazprom and Korea Gas Corp. will sign a “road map” to
export Russian gas to South Korea,  Sergei Prikhodko , Medvedev’s
foreign policy aide, told reporters in Moscow ahead of the Group
of 20 meeting Nov. 11-12 in Seoul and the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation summit Nov. 13-14 in Yokohama, Japan. South Korean
steelmaker Posco and OAO Mechel, Russia’s largest producer of
coal for steelmakers, will sign a cooperation accord.  “Russia has shifted its investment, trade and energy focus
toward Asia over the past year,” said  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at Moscow-based UralSib Financial Corp. “It has now
established a much better relationship with the EU and is
looking to extend that with an improved position in Asia.”  Medvedev traveled to China in September and Vietnam last
month as Russia seeks to benefit from faster growth in Asian
markets compared with the European Union, which currently
accounts for half the country’s foreign trade. Gazprom, Russia’s
largest company, is increasingly looking to Asian customers, as
it faces competition in Europe.  Gazprom warned the EU last month that its move away from
long-term contracts may lead to a drop in supply for European
customers and an increase in exports to Asia. Sakhalin Energy, a
Gazprom-led venture, began shipping liquefied natural gas to
Japan and South Korea last year and aims to sign a contract next
year to supply China National Petroleum Corp. with 30 billion
cubic meters of gas annually for 30 years.  Japanese Investment  Gazprom Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  and Mechel
owner  Igor Zyuzin  will accompany Medvedev to South Korea, along
with United Co. Rusal CEO  Oleg Deripaska  and  Andrei Kostin , head
of VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest bank.  The delegation plans to meet with 10 leading Japanese
investment companies to discuss joint projects in areas such as
energy efficiency, telecommunications and nuclear energy, key to
Medvedev’s plan to modernize the Russian economy,  Arkady Dvorkovich , the president’s chief economy aide, said yesterday.  “Each will bring concrete proposals for concrete
projects,” he told reporters in Moscow. “These will not be
just talks on the need to activate something, expand or
deepen.”  A group comprised of Japan’s Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd., China National Chemical Corp. and Russia’s OAO Ammoniy
will agree to build $1 billion chemical plant in the Russian
republic of Tatartstan, Prikhodko said.  Korean Links  Medvedev plans to meet with South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  while he’s in Seoul for the G-20 summit. Topics will
include North Korea’s nuclear program and infrastructure links
between the three countries, Prikhodko said.  The two presidents will give an “impetus” to long-term
proposal to connect South Korea to Europe via the Trans-Siberian
railway and plans to build a power grid across North Korea so
Russia can supply electricity to the south, Prikhodko said.  At the APEC meeting in Yokohama, Medvedev will push
Russia’s integration agenda even further.  “We are interested in expanding our participation in
economic, humanitarian and political cooperation in the Asia-
Pacific region,” Dvorkovich said. “We hope at the summit we
will manage to discuss concrete instruments of that
cooperation.”  Kuril Dispute  Medvedev may also meet Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ,
following a recent spat over Russian president’s visit to the
Kuril islands this month, Prikhodko said.  Kan said yesterday that he would assert Japan’s claim to
the four islands, called the Southern Kurils in Russia and
Northern Territories in Japan, that the Soviet Union occupied at
the end of World War II. The dispute over the islands has
prevented the two countries from signing a formal peace treaty.  Russia is open to discussing all issues during the meeting,
Prikhodko said, without elaborating.  “Even though the dispute has not affected major investment
by Japan’s automobile industry or by Japanese companies in
Sakhalin, the Kremlin seems very keen to end all legacy disputes
in order to improve the country’s investment credentials,”
Weafer said.  Medvedev’s visit to the Kurils was “deliberate in order to
start the end game with this dispute” and move to a more
pragmatic foreign policy Russia unveiled earlier this year with
“no friends and enemies, but only interests,” Weafer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  