-- Legal & General ‘Well Placed’ to Boost Payout, CFO Wilson Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-11-09T08:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/legal-general-s-cash-flow-rises-on-sales-of-savings-update1-.html
Legal & General Group Plc , the U.K.’s
fourth-largest insurer by market value, is “well placed” to
increase its dividend after boosting cash flow in the third
quarter, Chief Financial Officer  Nigel Wilson  said.  Cash generation rose 5.7 percent to 168 million pounds
($271 million) in the three months to Sept. 30, the London-based
insurer said today in a statement. Legal & General is “on
track” to meet its full-year target of 600 million pounds, the
company said.  “Without cash you cannot cover and grow the dividend,
fund new business growth or if required add to your capital
strength,” Wilson said on a call with reporters. “Our last
two dividend increases have been 33 percent at the year-end and
20 percent at the interims, so I’d say we’re very well placed to
continue to grow the dividend.”  Legal & General, like U.K. rivals  Standard Life Plc  and
Aviva Plc, is seeking to boost cash flow by selling more retail
savings products that transfer the investment risk to the
customer rather than annuities and income protection, which
require more capital to be set aside. Insurers typically use
their cash to pay dividends or to reinvest in the business.  Legal & General has raised its payout to investors
twice in the past year after reducing the dividend 45 percent to
1.11 pence in August 2009. The insurer’s half-year dividend was
1.33 pence a share.  The stock  declined  0.3 pence, or 0.3 percent, to 102.9
pence, valuing the insurer at about 6 billion pounds.  Sales Increase  Sales of savings products climbed 43 percent to 961 million
pounds in the first nine months of the year, Legal & General
said today. That helped boost worldwide sales 27 percent to 1.35
billion pounds, a figure that was reported on Oct. 22 after the
company accidentally sent the information to analysts.  Legal & General plans to play a part in the National
Employment Savings Trust, the U.K. government’s compulsory
workplace pension plan due to be implemented in 2016, Wilson
said. “We’re very excited about the developments around NEST
and we do intend to gather some assets under the government
scheme,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 