-- Einhorn's Greenlight Says Fed's Quantitative Easing Won't Benefit Economy
-- B y   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2010-11-09T20:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/einhorn-s-greenlight-says-fed-s-quantitative-easing-won-t-work.html
David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital
Inc. said the Federal Reserve’s plan to buy an additional $600
billion of U.S. Treasuries through June won’t stimulate the
economy, and helps explain the rally in gold to record levels.  The Fed’s so-called quantitative easing announced Nov. 3
will probably result in rising prices of basic goods for
consumers and businesses, curtailing economic growth, the New
York-based hedge-fund firm said in a Nov. 1 letter to clients, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  “It is quite likely that QE2 will slow the economy by
raising food and energy prices, which would act as a tax on
consumers and business,” the firm said in the letter. “Other
than satisfying the political need to ‘do something,’ we believe
it is doubtful that QE2 will be successful.”  The prospect of price increases is one reason Greenlight
owns gold, the firm said. The precious metal has surged “in
response to the Fed’s new tack,” according to Greenlight. Gold
futures for December delivery touched $1,424.30 an ounce in New
York trading today, a fourth straight all-time high.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter. Inflation, as shown by the so-called core
personal consumption expenditures price  index  that is watched by
the Fed, cooled to a 0.8 percent pace from 1 percent in the
prior quarter.  “Unfortunately, the inflation may not come in the areas
the Fed hopes,” Greenlight said. “QE2 is much more likely to
be successful in creating inflation and speculation in financial
instruments.”  Top Holdings  Signs of higher inflation or a declining willingness of
third parties to finance government debt may go unnoticed,
Greenlight said, as the Fed becomes a bigger participant in the
government bond market.  The hedge-fund firm recommended a “modest net long
position,” while advising against owning too many stocks should
an asset bubble form as prices keep rising. Greenlight was 98
percent long and 63 percent short with stock and bonds at the
end of the quarter. Its largest holdings were Arkema SA,  CIT
Group Inc. , Ensco Plc, gold,  Pfizer Inc.  and Vodafone Group PLC.  A spokesman for the firm declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;  Nathaniel Baker  in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  