-- Telefonica `Overpaying' for Vivo Leads to Record Net
-- B y   P a u l   T o b i n
-- 2010-11-10T08:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/telefonica-overpaying-for-brazil-s-vivo-set-to-result-in-record-earnings.html
Telefonica SA ’s 7.5 billion-euro
($10.4 billion) purchase of control of Brazil’s  Vivo
Participacoes SA , its biggest deal in four years, will result in
a record profit.  Telefonica, Europe’s second-largest phone company, may
tomorrow post net income of 5.5 billion euros for the third
quarter, the biggest quarterly profit in its history, thanks to
new accounting rules that are triggering a gain of about 3.5
billion euros related to the transaction.  “The higher the profit, the more it is perhaps a
reflection of how much they overpaid,” said  John Keith , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in London.  Chairman  Cesar Alierta  raised his bid three times before
convincing former partner  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  in July to
sell its part of their 50-50 venture that controlled Vivo,
Brazil’s largest wireless operator. The Spanish executive added
1.8 billion euros to his original offer to secure control of
Vivo as he sought to combine it with Telefonica’s fixed-line
unit in the Latin American country.  Telefonica shares slipped 0.3 percent to 18.495 euros as of
9:42 a.m. in Madrid. Excluding today, the shares have lost 5
percent since the start of the year.  Under the accounting rules, based on International
Financial Reporting Standards, Madrid-based Telefonica’s
previously held stake in the venture will be revalued based on
the price it paid to buy out Portugal Telecom. The difference
between the values is recorded as a profit.  Consequently, third-quarter net income will probably rise
to 5.5 billion euros from 1.99 billion euros a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analyst estimates. Telefonica
put the value difference in October at about 3.5 billion euros.  Spanish Performance  “They have probably taken on a large amount of goodwill so
potentially down the road, if Brazil deteriorates, it increases
the likelihood of having to take a writedown,” said Keith.  Sales probably rose to 15.1 billion euros from 14.1 billion
euros. Results will also reflect Telefonica’s plan to cut about
1,100 jobs in Germany.  Investors will be closely monitoring Telefonica’s
performance in its domestic market, where the  economy  stalled in
the third quarter, according to Bank of Spain estimates, as the
deepest austerity measures in three decades undermined the
recovery. The economy grew 0.2 percent from April to June.  “With Spain, the trends have been less negative and have
been moving in the right direction, and you want to see that
continue,” said  Roger Appleyard , head of global credit research
at RBC Capital Markets in London. “If that happens, confidence
will remain. Results from rivals such as Telecom Italia have
created doubts.”  Telecom Italia  Telecom Italia SpA  said last week that nine-month domestic
sales fell 7.4 percent to 15 billion euros and that Italian
mobile revenue dropped more than 10 percent. Telefonica
indirectly owns a stake in Italy’s biggest phone company.  Spanish sales probably slipped 3.4 percent to 4.73 billion
euros in the third quarter, according to the average of six
analysts’ estimates. Revenue in Latin America may have climbed
13 percent to 6.4 billion euros while European sales outside
Spain may have risen 11 percent to 3.88 billion euros, the
survey showed.  Telefonica needs Vivo to revive  Telecomunicacoes de Sao
Paulo SA , or Telesp, as the fixed-line unit in Brazil is known.
The Brazilian company’s earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization  peaked  in 2006 and are expected to
fall again this year, according to Bloomberg  estimates .  The Vivo stake acquisition is Telefonica’s biggest since
2006, when it bought Slough, England-based O2 Plc, the U.K.
mobile-phone operator, for 17.7 billion pounds ($28.6 billion),
the largest in its history.  Vivo Valuation  Excluding the Vivo deal, Telefonica has made or agreed to
86 other acquisitions worth $95 billion since 1996, according to
Bloomberg data.  Telefonica’s final offer for Portugal Telecom’s stake in
Brasilcel NV, their venture that owned 60 percent of Vivo, was
greater than the Portuguese company’s market value of 7.44
billion euros on July 27, the last trading day before the
improved bid was disclosed.  Telefonica’s bid valued Vivo at more than 10 times this
year’s  Ebitda . Telefonica trades at 3.6 times estimated Ebitda.  Vivo ended June with 56 million clients. The carrier
controls 30 percent of Brazil’s mobile-phone market, according
to Anatel, the country’s phone regulator.  Telefonica said a combined Vivo-Telesp group would have 69
million clients, based on March figures. Brazil’s economy may
expand 7.6 percent this year, the fastest pace since 1985,
according to a central bank survey of about 100 economists
published Nov. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  