-- Emerging Stocks Climb to Two-Year High as Oil, Metals Gain; Yuan Jumps
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-11-09T15:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/emerging-stocks-climb-to-two-year-high-as-oil-metals-gain-yuan-jumps.html
Developing-nation stocks rose,
sending the benchmark gauge to the highest level in two years,
as higher oil and metals prices lifted producers. China’s yuan
rallied the most since at least 2005 after the central bank
raised a reference rate for trading the currency.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained 0.4 percent to 1,159
as of 9:56 a.m. in New York. Benchmark indexes in Russia, the
world’s largest energy supplier, Poland, Hungary, Dubai and
Indonesia climbed at least 0.7 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa added
0.1 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  of 24 commodities
advanced for a seventh day, the longest streak of gains since
July 2009.  The MSCI gauge of 21 developing economies has rallied 19
percent since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled
Aug. 27 that the central bank was ready to inject more cash into
the economy. The Fed said last week it would buy an additional
$600 billion of U.S. debt to sustain the recovery.  “We will keep on going up so long as that turns into
profits and economic activity,” said  Todd Martin , equity
strategist in Asia for Societe Generale SA, speaking to  Rishaad Salamat  in “On the Move Asia” on Bloomberg Television.  The price of gold in New York hit a record, silver reached
a 30-year high of more than $28 an ounce and copper jumped 2
percent. Oil gained 0.4 percent to $87.39 a barrel.  OAO NovaTek , Russia’s second-largest natural-gas producer,
gained 5.4 percent, the most since May. OAO Rosneft, the biggest
oil company, added 1.5 percent. The  Micex stock index  rallied
1.4 percent, while the ruble appreciated 0.6 percent to 30.6106
per dollar.  Warsaw Bourse Debut  KGHM Polska Miedz SA, Poland’s only copper producer,
rallied 5.2 percent, the most since May. Shares of the  Warsaw
Stock Exchange  jumped 23 percent on their first day of trading.
Mol Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest oil company, added 1.6 percent.  The Chinese yuan appreciated 0.6 percent, the most since a
dollar peg was scrapped in July 2005, after the People’s Bank of
China raised a reference rate for trading the currency.  In Brazil, railroad operator  ALL America Latina Logistica
SA  climbed 3 percent after saying net income increased 20
percent.  Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, rose
for a second day.  The  Shanghai Composite  stock index retreated 0.8 percent,
falling from a seven-month high, as banks, property developers
and energy producers declined following a move by the regulator
to force banks to hold more foreign exchange and strengthen
auditing of overseas fund flows.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange will
“strictly” manage banks’ short-term foreign debt quota and
introduce new rules on covering their exposure to currency risk,
the  regulator  said. The government will also regulate Chinese
special-purpose vehicles overseas and tighten controls on equity
investments made by foreign companies in China, it said.  The difference between the return investors require from
emerging market bonds and from U.S. Treasuries narrowed 3 basis
point to 2.34 percent, according to the  JPMorgan Chase & Co.
EMBI+ index.   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 