-- Emerging Market Stocks Decline on Concern That China Will Tighten Policy
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2010-11-09T07:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/emerging-market-stocks-decline-on-concern-that-china-will-tighten-policy.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, led by
declines in China, on concerns the country’s government will
tighten its monetary policy to avert asset bubbles.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and Poly Real Estate Group
Co. lost more than 2 percent in Shanghai after regulators said
they will increase controls on overseas fund inflows. State Bank
of India slumped 4.5 percent after its second-quarter profit
missed analysts’ estimates.  PT Bank Internasional Indonesia 
surged to a 10-year high after a Kontan report said its
financing unit may sell bonds for expansion.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slipped 0.1 percent to
1,153.41 as of 3:44 p.m. in Hong Kong, extending yesterday’s 0.2
percent. It settled at a 29-month high on Nov. 5. China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index  declined 0.8 percent. The Jakarta
Composite Index rose 0.7 percent, set to close at a record.  “Concerns that China’s move to step on the brakes will
spill over into other markets are inducing some investors to
take profit,” said Jonathan Ravelas, a Manila-based strategist
at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. “Policy tightening will raise
financing costs, hurt earnings and slow economic growth.”  MSCI’s gauge of emerging markets has climbed 17 percent
this year, more than the 7.8 percent gain in the  MSCI World
Index  of shares in developed markets, as investors bet on
developing economies’ higher growth rates to yield better
returns. Stocks in the emerging-markets index trade at an
average 13.5 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 13.9 times.  State Bank  Agricultural Bank lost 2.1 percent, while China Merchants
Bank fell 2.5 percent, the sharpest loss in three weeks.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange will
“strictly” manage banks’ short-term foreign debt quota and
introduce new rules on covering their exposure to currency risk,
the  regulator  said. The government will also regulate Chinese
special-purpose vehicles overseas and tighten controls on equity
investments made by foreign companies in China, it said.  The pace of policy tightening by China over the next few
quarters may “surprise” the market as inflation accelerates,
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch said in a report.  Poly Real Estate, China’s second-biggest developer, sank
4.1 percent as the Securities Times newspaper reported the
government is drafting rules to control gains in home prices.
China Vanke Co. dropped 4 percent to 9.50 yuan.  India’s Sensitive Index decreased 0.2 percent, trimming
this year’s gain to 19 percent.  State Bank of India , the
nation’s No. 1 lender, sank 4.5 percent after posting a second-
quarter profit of 25 billion rupees ($563 million), missing the
29.4 billion rupee average of 31 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Stake Sale  KT Corp. , South Korea’s largest phone company, jumped 3.4
percent after reporting 350.6 billion won ($315 million) in
third-quarter profit. That beat the 342 billion won average of
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  OCI Co., a South Korean polysilicon maker, slumped 8.1
percent, the biggest percentage loss in the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index . An investor sold 2.1 million OCI shares at a
discount, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Jakarta-based Bank Internasional climbed 24 percent, set
for the highest close since October 2000, after Kontan reported
the company’s financing unit PT Wahana Otomitra Multiartha may
sell 1.5 trillion rupiah of bonds to fund expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 