-- Tencent's Fake Guns Mean Real Money for Global Acquisitions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-09T00:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/tencent-s-fake-weapons-fund-2-billion-war-chest-for-overseas-acquisitions.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. , the world’s
biggest online games company by market value, earns real money
selling fake weapons in games such as “CrossFire.” That’s led
to a $2 billion war chest that can help fund takeovers outside
its home of China.  Tencent may seek to buy U.S. or South Korean studios to
develop online games for China, said  Andrey Glukhov , a New York-
based analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. It could also target
dominant Internet companies in emerging markets for expansion,
according to  Justin Weiss  and Galant Ng, analysts at JI Asia in
Tokyo and at Taifook Securities in Hong Kong.  Founded by billionaire  Ma Huateng , Tencent boasts more
users than Facebook Inc. It may lead Chinese game companies in
an acquisition spree to recruit overseas talent after foreign
titles such as “CrossFire,” developed by South Korea’s Neowiz
Games Corp., replaced local blockbusters such as “QQ Fantasy”
as the most popular games in a market forecast to double to $10
billion by 2014.  “The international market is an area where you should
continue to see Tencent put more assets and cash to work,”
Brean Murray’s Glukhov said. “They have been pretty aggressive
looking for studios they can be an investor in, or outright
acquire.”  Cash Pile  The company’s  cash, equivalents  and investments may rise to
36.9 billion yuan ($5.5 billion) by the end of next year, from
13.9 billion yuan at the end of June, according to estimates by
 Eric Wen , an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in Hong Kong.  Tencent, based in Shenzhen, has already started investing.
In April, Tencent paid $300 million for a 10 percent stake in
 Mail.ru Group Ltd. , the Russian internet portal that holds a
stake in Facebook and was then known as Digital Sky Technologies
Ltd.  Tencent bought half of Thai Web portal Sanook for $10.5
million in August, adding to investments in India’s  Ibibo.com 
and San Francisco-based software publisher Outspark. The company
also set up a studio in Boston that’s making a fantasy-based
multiplayer game.  “Cash-rich Chinese online game operators have used their
money wisely and tried to acquire studios outside China,” said
 Lisa Cosmas Hanson , managing partner of Niko Partners, a San
Jose, California-based researcher focused on China. “Can they
be great, world-class companies? In some markets like Southeast
Asia, they can be great.”  International Strategy  Going international “gradually” is part of Tencent’s
strategy, President  Martin Lau  said on a conference call in May.
Jane Yip, a Tencent spokeswoman, declined to elaborate or make
executives available for comment.  Shanda Games Ltd. , China’s second biggest online games
operator, is also pursuing acquisitions. It bought Eyedentity
Games, a Korean studio, and San Francisco-based Mochi Media this
year. Shanda is looking at Southeast Asia for future  growth ,
said Ellen Chiu, director of investor relations at Shanda Games.  Tencent’s  profit surged  more than 10-fold in the past five
years and its shares have jumped more than 20 times, giving it a
market value of HK$328 billion ($42 billion) as of yesterday.  That dwarfs the $5.51 billion value of Zynga Game Network
Inc. -- the maker of the “FarmVille” game on Facebook -- as
estimated by SharesPost Inc. last month. Nasdaq-listed Shanda is
valued at $1.8 billion and NetEase.com Inc. $5.6 billion, based
on their closing prices yesterday.  Tencent, which discloses  earnings  tomorrow, will likely
report third-quarter profit rose 51 percent, according to the
average of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Wen
estimates half of sales came from online games as its largest
source of revenue.  Body Armor  Tencent’s profitability increasingly stems from selling
items in free games, a strategy imported from Korea, said
Mirae’s Wen.  In “CrossFire,” which Tencent licenses from Seoul-based
Neowiz, players buy items such as body armor and assault rifles,
similar to the way Zynga charges “FarmVille” players cash to
buy gas or other items.  Sales  of virtual weapons helped give Tencent a profit
margin of 41 percent last year, compared with Google’s 28
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Founded in 1998 by Chief Executive Officer  Ma , Chief
Technology Officer  Zhang Zhidong  and fellow 1993 graduates of
Shenzhen University’s computer science program, Tencent was
built around its QQ Instant Messaging service. That service had
612.5 million active user accounts at the end of June, according
to the company’s Web site. Facebook said it passed 500 million
in July.  Ma’s Stake  Ma’s 11 percent stake, worth $4.6 billion at current
prices, makes him the second largest shareholder in Tencent
after South Africa’s Naspers Ltd. He ranks 11th overall on the
Hurun Report’s  latest list  of the nation’s richest people.  Tencent launched its QQ Game Portal in 2003 and went public
on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2004. In 2005, it started the
QZone multimedia social networking service, where users can post
photos and listen to music.  In the third quarter, Tencent accounted for 29 percent of
China’s online games market, compared with Shanda’s 18 percent,
according to estimates at Analysys International in Beijing.  Expansion abroad is the next logical step, JI Asia’s Weiss.  “I see no reason for a social networking company that
dominates its home market to be content with growth at home,”
Weiss said. “If you don’t expand overseas, you are ceding that
market to someone else.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 