-- Enel Says Drop in Third-Quarter Profit Won't Prevent It Meeting 2010 Goals
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2010-11-09T18:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/enel-quarterly-profit-declines-as-revenue-from-producing-electricity-drops.html
Enel SpA  said a 17 percent drop in
third-quarter profit and lower than expected income from the
sale of a stake in its renewable energy unit won’t keep Italy’s
biggest utility from meeting 2010 debt and earnings targets.  Net income fell to 1.02 billion euros ($1.4 billion) from
1.23 billion euros a year earlier on lower revenue from
producing and selling power, the Rome-based company said today
in a statement. Revenue from marketing fell 6 percent to 4.5
billion euros, while sales at the generation division declined 4
percent to 4.2 billion euros.  “Enel’s positive cash flows and planned non-strategic
asset sales will help us meet our goals, particularly with
regard to debt reduction,” Chief Financial Officer  Luigi Ferraris  told analysts during a conference call. He confirmed
the company will cut debt to about 45 billion euros by year end,
will post 2010 net ordinary income above 4 billion euros and
2010 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of about 17 billion euros.  Enel is trying to reassure analysts and investors after
raising less than forecast from last week’s initial public
offering of unit Enel Green Power. The company sold 2.26 billion
euros-worth of Green Power shares last week, plus a further 336
million euros from a so-called greenshoe option. That was less
than the minimum 3 billion euros Chief Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  had forecast only a month before the sale.  Debt Reduction  “It’s good that they will keep targets for Ebitda and debt
but with the weaker results it will probably be more of a
strain,” said  Edoardo Liuni , an analyst at IlNuovoMercato.it in
Rome. “I think the market will continue to focus on debt
reduction.”  The company’s  shares  advanced 0.9 percent to 4.09 euros in
Rome. They’ve risen 1.2 percent this year.  To reduce debt, Enel has also sold its Spanish gas-
distribution assets and is in talks to sell a coal-fired power
plant in Bulgaria. Conti said last week no further sales are
planned.  Overall revenue for the third-quarter rose 4.8 percent to
18.2 billion euros. Net financial debt in the first nine months
of the year was unchanged at 50.9 billion euros. Ferraris said
today the average cost of debt next year will be 5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 