-- Merck Seeks 25% of Sales From Emerging Markets by 2013
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-09T11:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/merck-seeks-25-of-annual-revenue-from-emerging-markets-by-2013.html
Merck & Co. , the world’s second-
largest drugmaker, aims to generate a quarter of annual revenue
from emerging markets by 2013 as surging economic growth spurs
disease diagnosis and demand for treatments, an executive said.  Merck gets 18 percent of its sales from emerging markets at
present,  Ramesh Subrahmanian , the drugmaker’s president of Asia-
Pacific, said in an interview in Singapore today.  The Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based company, which is
currently ranked fifth in emerging markets, aims to become No. 1
or 2 in seven key countries within the next five to seven years,
according to Subrahmanian. The countries are China, India, South
Korea, Russia, Brazil, Mexico and Turkey.  “The reality is that we are playing catch-up,”
Subrahmanian said. “We really have quite a lot of work to do be
able to not only keep up with the very fast growth that’s
happening in these markets in general, but to be able to grow
our market share.”  Sales of pharmaceuticals in emerging markets are expected
to expand as much as 17 percent in the five years through 2014,
compared with growth of as much as 6 percent in developed
markets, according to  IMS Health Inc. , a Norwalk, Connecticut-
based market research company.  Drug sales in China, the world’s third-biggest
pharmaceutical market, may surge as much as 27 percent to more
than $50 billion next year, IMS said in October.  Little Treatment  “Beyond the sheer numbers of people, it’s disease burden”
that drives growth in emerging markets, Subrahmanian said.
“What they all have in common is that basic diagnosis and
treatment rates are abysmally low. Even if there were no more
diabetics ever found in Asia, if we just raised the level of
treatment, these are vast numbers of people who are either not
treated or under-treated.”  Merck expects to outpace market growth in Asia-Pacific with
sales of new drugs including Januvia, which has become the top-
selling diabetes pill in the region since it was introduced in
2007, Subrahmanian said. Older treatments such as the
cholesterol drug Zocor, which lost patent protection in the U.S.
in 2006, are seeing sales grow in Asia, he said.  The U.S. drugmaker also expects to benefit from sales of
contraception and fertility treatments it gained through its
$49.6 billion acquisition of Schering-Plough Corp. last
November, Subrahmanian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 