-- Merkel's Atomic `Provocation' Encouraged Gorleben Protests, Kuenast Says
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2010-11-09T11:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/merkel-s-atomic-provocation-encouraged-gorleben-protests-kuenast-says.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s policy of
prolonging the use of nuclear-power plants is responsible for an
upsurge in public protests against a shipment of radioactive
waste entering Germany from France, the opposition Greens said.  Merkel’s “political provocation” ensured the “biggest
protests that Gorleben has ever seen,” Renate Kuenast, Greens
parliamentary co-leader, said today on ZDF television.  Gorleben, the site in Lower Saxony state designated by the
government as Germany’s only nuclear-waste depository, witnessed
as many as  50,000  demonstrators on Oct. 6 against the train and
its cargo of 11 so-called Castor containers of reprocessed
waste.  Live television pictures showed the containers arriving at
Gorleben by truck today after the train was held up for about 19
hours by protesters, some of whom were involved in violent
clashes with police in woods near Dannenberg, about 20
kilometers (12 miles) from the depository site.  Demonstrators “are in Gorleben not just because of the
actual transport, but because of the whole compromise made by
this government over extending the lifespan of nuclear plants by
an average of 12 years,” Kuenast said.  The Greens, riding at all-time highs in opinion polls, are
seeking to capitalize on anti-nuclear sentiment after Merkel’s
government pushed plans to extend the operating lifespan of
Germany’s 17 nuclear power plants through parliament on Oct. 28.  “Castor Battle,” was the front-page headline on the
biggest-selling Bild newspaper today. About 20,000 police were
involved in the security operation, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  