-- Merkel Defends Germany's Trade Surplus in Challenge to G-20's Seoul Summit
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-09T16:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/merkel-defends-germany-s-trade-surplus-in-challenge-to-g-20-s-seoul-summit.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  defended
Germany’s trade surplus and said that currency distortions put
the global recovery at risk, raising the prospect of conflict
with fellow Group of 20 leaders at this week’s summit.  Germany’s  trade balance  is a product of market forces and
evidence of superior German products, Merkel told Die Welt
newspaper in an interview to be published in tomorrow’s edition,
the day she leaves for the G-20 summit in Seoul. A government
spokesman confirmed the comments.  “Our export success proves how competitive German products
are,” Merkel said in an advance copy of the interview sent by
e-mail. “Trade balances are also indicators of performance;
they’re the results of global market processes.”  Merkel ceded no ground to critics in the U.S. and France
who have accused Europe’s largest economy of exporting its way
out of recession at the expense of countries with deficits. She
added her voice to that of Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ,
who last week called the U.S. Federal Reserve’s cash injection
“clueless” and compared it with China’s currency restrictions.  The euro should not bear the brunt of a “one-sided
adjustment burden” because other nations push for a devaluation
of their currency, Merkel said. The single currency has gained
15 percent against the U.S. in the last five months.  “A policy that aims for an artificially devalued currency
and the associated export advantages is shortsighted and in the
end hurts everybody,” Merkel said. “It can’t be that such
developments lead to a stable currency such as the euro bearing
the adjustment burden.”  Merkel will join G-20 leaders at the Nov. 11-12 summit in
Seoul to discuss a pledge to avoid “competitive devaluation”
of their currencies. They have already made pledges to eschew
weakening currencies as a way of lifting exports.  Officials worldwide have warned that the Fed’s decision to
pump $600 billion into the U.S. economy will depress the dollar
and spark flows of capital to emerging markets that threaten
asset-price bubbles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  