-- Hermes Raises Full-Year Forecast as Third-Quarter Sales Surge
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-11-09T19:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/hermes-raises-full-year-sales-forecast-after-third-quarter-revenue-jumps.html
Hermes International SCA , the French
luxury-goods maker in which LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA
holds a stake, raised its full-year revenue forecast after
third-quarter sales surged 31 percent.  Revenue may climb about 15 percent in 2010, excluding
currency swings, assuming that “solid” sales growth continues
in the fourth quarter, Hermes said today in a statement,
revising an Aug. 31 forecast of 12 percent growth. Sales
increased to 590.1 million euros ($818.4 million) from 452.1
million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said.  Hermes’s sales of leather goods rose 32 percent as more
shoppers in  Asia  picked up handbags such as the company’s Birkin
model. Sales of luxury goods may climb this year to the highest
level since 2007 after the worst year on record, consulting firm
Bain & Co. estimates. Revenue at  PPR SA’s  Gucci Group increased
27 percent in the third quarter and sales of fashion and leather
goods at  LVMH  rose 26 percent.  Hermes’s third-quarter sales growth “was well ahead of our
forecasts, confirming the strong sales momentum recently
reported by peers,”  Rogerio Fujimori , an  analyst  at Credit
Suisse Group AG in London, wrote today in a note. He rates
Hermes “underperform.”  The shares advanced 11.70 euros, or 7.6 percent, to 166.05
euros in Paris trading. They have gained 78 percent this year,
giving the 173-year-old company a market value of 17.5 billion
euros.  LVMH Stake  LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, announced
Oct. 23 it held a 14.2 percent stake in  Hermes  and derivative
instruments for another 2.9 percent that it has since exercised.
LVMH later said it may increase its holding, depending on the
circumstances. The company has said it doesn’t intend to seek a
board seat or control.  LVMH’s investment “changes nothing,” Hermes Chief
Executive Officer  Patrick Thomas  said today on a conference
call. Hermes’s founding family, which controlled about 73
percent of the bag maker as of Oct. 28, is “serene, unified and
vigilant” and is considering its options, the CEO said.  Hermes’s controlling shareholders want LVMH to withdraw
from its capital, Le Figaro reported Nov. 3, citing family
member Bertrand Puech. The Hermes family doesn’t need a poison
pill defense, Thomas said today.  No Buybacks  Hermes had no LVMH shareholders as of three weeks ago,
Thomas said. The company is confident the Autorite des Marches
Financiers will determine the legality of LVMH’s stake, he said.  The AMF, France’s stock market regulator, is investigating
how LVMH built up its investment in Hermes to determine if
securities rules were breached, AMF Chairman  Jean-Pierre Jouyet 
said Nov. 5. LVMH said at the time it “scrupulously respected
the applicable rules.”  The Hermes Group did not buy back any shares during the
first nine months of 2010, other than shares traded under the
liquidity contract, the company said.  The quarterly sales increase was driven by higher sales at
the company’s own stores, Hermes said. Wholesale revenue
continued to improve and all Hermes business sectors delivered
growth, the company said.  Over the full year, the underlying  operating margin  will
improve by “one or two” percentage points, depending on
currency trends, Hermes predicted. The bag maker will introduce
“moderate” price increases from 2011, Thomas said. Hermes
doesn’t need to grow by acquisition and has no plans to make a
major purchase at the moment, he added.  Revenue  from silk ties and scarves climbed 38 percent in
the quarter. Apparel and fashion accessories sales jumped 25
percent. Revenue from watches rose 47 percent, perfume sales
grew 25 percent and tableware sales gained 12 percent.  Revenue increased 24 percent in Europe, led by France, and
31 percent in the Americas. Sales jumped 21 percent in Japan and
surged 52 percent in the rest of the Asia Pacific region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 