-- Australian Bank Lending May Slow as Companies Turn to Bonds, Merrill Says
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-09T05:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/merrill-sees-corporate-bond-sale-surge-curbing-australian-bank-loan-growth.html
Surging bond sales from Australian
companies seeking cheaper debt may curb bank loan growth amid
higher funding costs for the nation’s lenders, according to Bank
of America’s Merrill Lynch unit.  The price of wholesale funding means banks will struggle to
lend to large companies at attractive rates while maintaining
margins, analysts led by  Matthew Davison  at Merrill Lynch wrote
in a research note yesterday.  “Major funding constraints and re-regulation have deeply
hindered the most compelling argument for bank credit -- simply
a cheaper source of debt,” they wrote. Firms seeking to
diversify funding by turning to the bond market are “a threat
to volume growth” of lending, they said.  Australia’s biggest banks are seeking more sources of
financing after the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression made debt more expensive.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia blamed higher funding costs
when it raised its standard mortgage rate by 45 basis points
compared with the Reserve Bank of Australia’s 25 basis-point
increase last week.  Westpac Banking Corp.  last week said its
second-half net interest margin, or the difference between what
it earns from loans and pays to depositors, narrowed to 2.17
percent from 2.39 percent a year earlier.  Rising Bond Sales  Non-financial corporate bond sales in Australia this year
total A$4.8 billion ($4.9 billion), the highest since 2006, with
companies including Mirvac Group and APA Group selling notes,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Australian companies
are also selling bonds overseas to take advantage of record-low
interest rates in the U.S.  Woolworths Ltd. , Australia’s biggest retailer, on Sept. 14
sold $500 million of five-year U.S. dollar-denominated notes
that yield 115 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National Australia Bank Ltd. paid a higher margin on Sept.
20 when the lender issued $1 billion of five-year notes priced
to yield 137 basis points more than Treasuries, Bloomberg data
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Historically, corporates could access cheaper funding
through bank credit in lieu of the bond market, due to cheap
deposits and lower short-term funding,” the Merrill Lynch
analysts wrote. “Improvements in external debt spreads should
provide larger businesses with a reliable pricing benchmark and
firepower to receive a ‘market margin’.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 