-- EU's Van Rompuy Vows to Listen to Concerns Over Merkel's Euro-Crisis Plan
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-11-09T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/eu-s-van-rompuy-vows-to-listen-to-concerns-over-merkel-s-euro-crisis-plan.html
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said he would heed concerns about a German-French push to
make bondholders help pay for future sovereign bailouts when
crafting a “robust” debt-crisis mechanism due in 2013.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  last
week signaled worries that forcing investors to foot part of
post-2012 rescue bills could hurt the bonds of peripheral euro
nations by scaring off investors.  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said yesterday that he
shares Trichet’s reservations.  “The Franco-German friendship is for the euro zone a
necessary condition for success, but not a sufficient one,” Van
Rompuy said in the text of a speech today in Berlin. “The
concerns of all should be taken on board. It is my role to make
sure that this happens.”  The comments highlight the diplomatic balancing act of Van
Rompuy as he works out the details of European plans aimed at
limiting the risk of another Greece-style debt crisis. He and
the European Commission -- the 27-nation bloc’s executive arm --
are preparing concrete proposals for December.  Bonds in Ireland, Portugal and Greece have slumped since EU
leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to consider German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s call for private holders of sovereign debt to help pay
for future euro-area financial crises. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  backed Merkel’s plan, which in a first step would extend
the maturity period of bonds in indebted states forced to apply
austerity measures and, if necessary, would then involve a
restructuring with losses for private investors.  German-French Proposal  The German-French proposal feeds into a decision by EU
government heads to create a permanent debt-crisis mechanism as
of 2013 after being forced six months ago to come up with 860
billion euros ($1.2 trillion) in emergency support. Those
taxpayer-financed measures include a 110 billion-euro loan
package for Greece and a temporary 750 billion-euro backstop for
the euro area as a whole.  Merkel persuaded fellow EU government heads to seek a fast-
track amendment of the bloc’s governing treaty to anchor the
planned permanent debt-crisis mechanism, saying the goal is “to
guarantee the lasting stability of the euro.”  “We all want a robust and credible system to be in place
in 2013,” Van Rompuy said today. “It is our duty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  