-- Euro Falls Versus Most Major Currencies on European Sovereign Debt Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-09T18:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/euro-falls-versus-most-major-currencies-on-european-sovereign-debt-concern.html
The euro fell versus most major
currencies amid concern some governments in Europe may struggle
to pay their debt, curbing demand for the region’s assets.  The Swiss franc rose against most of its major peers as
investors sought refuge from risk. The extra yield, or spread,
investors demand to hold 10-year notes of Portugal and Ireland,
among the region’s most indebted countries, rather than
comparable German bunds climbed to records. The Canadian dollar
climbed as commodities rose.  “Given the flare-up in sovereign debt worries in Europe,
that seems to have shifted investor focus on the debt issues
over there,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in Washington
at Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange
network. “The market is looking a bit past U.S. issues and now
trying to look for a new theme to trade off.”  The euro fell 0.5 percent to 112.40 yen at 1:11 p.m. in New
York, from 113.01 yesterday. It touched 111.73, the weakest
level since Oct. 29. The shared currency fell 0.5 percent to
$1.3857 after earlier gaining as much as 0.4 percent. The
Japanese currency gained 0.1 percent to 81.11 yen per dollar.  “In terms of euro-dollar, we have the story of the
periphery, and the market is trying to figure out just how bad
it is,”  Sebastien Galy , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in New York.  The euro has dropped 1.3 percent this month among 10
developed-nation currencies, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes show. The dollar has fallen 07 percent.  Bond Spreads  The yield difference, or spread, on Portugal’s 10-year
bonds over comparable German debt widened to as much as 452
basis points, or 4.52 percentage points. The spread on  Irish  10-
year securities over bunds reached 554 basis points.  The yen gained versus the dollar and euro after China said
it will curb capital flows into its economy.  China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange said today
it would crack down on speculative “hot money” flowing into
the country, according to a statement on the regulator’s
website. The agency will “strictly” punish banks that violate
its currency rules, the statement said.  “The Japanese yen has got some strength, and some of it is
attributed to comments made out of China with respect to
investments abroad,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada in Toronto.  Crude oil increased, with December futures touching $87.63
a barrel in New York, the highest price in more than two years.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 0.4 percent.  Loonie Climbs  The currency of Canada, an exporter of oil, strengthened.
The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie, gained to parity with
its U.S. counterpart before trading at $1.0008, up 0.3 percent.  Sterling fell against all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts, erasing earlier gains, before the Bank of England
publishes its quarterly inflation report tomorrow. A U.K.
housing-market gauge dropped to an 18-month low in October as
homebuyers became “cautious” on prospects for prices, data from
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors showed today.  The pound weakened 0.6 percent to $1.6041, from $1.6139
yesterday, and slipped 0.1 percent versus the euro to 86.35
pence. Earlier it touched 85.90 pence, the strongest level since
Sept. 30.  China’s Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. cut its credit
rating for the U.S. to A+ from AA because of a Federal Reserve
plan to purchase bonds to spur growth and inflation, according
to Xinhua News Agency.  Negative Outlook  The credit outlook for the U.S. is negative amid
deteriorating debt repayment capability and a “drastic” drop
in the government’s intention to repay debt, Dagong said, as
cited by the state-controlled news agency. The Fed’s
quantitative-easing policy will erode the value of the dollar
and is against the interests of creditors, the company said.  The Fed said last week it would buy $600 billion in
Treasuries through June to pump more money into the U.S.
financial system.  Asian economies may need to use capital controls as the
quantitative easing threatens to spur asset bubbles in the
region’s stock, currency and property markets, according to the
World Bank. Such curbs should be “targeted,” temporary and
tailored to address specific problems,  Sri Mulyani Indrawati , a
World Bank managing director, said in an interview. This may
include countries tying up funds for as long as a year to help
limit hot-money flows, she said.  The yuan gained after the People’s Bank of China raised the
currency’s reference rate by 0.17 percent to 6.6580 today, the
biggest increase in three weeks. The yuan appreciated as much as
0.6 percent to touch 6.6427 per dollar, the strongest level
since Oct. 21.  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations will avoid setting
specific targets for current-account surpluses and deficits at
their Nov. 11-12 summit in Seoul, an aide to South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  