-- Europe's Home Bias for Bonds May Persist After Spreads Narrow: Euro Credit
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-11-09T00:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/europe-s-home-bias-for-bonds-may-persist-after-spreads-narrow-euro-credit.html
European governments are finding
there’s no place like home for selling bonds, a shift that’s
likely to persist even when the region’s sovereign-debt crisis
wanes, according to Citigroup Inc.  With euro-area investors marking down the assets of so-
called peripheral countries such as Portugal and Ireland, the
debt-plagued nations are increasingly reliant on domestic banks
and pension funds to buy their bonds, said  Giada Giani , a
Citigroup economist in London.  What Giani dubs a strengthening “home bias” follows a
decade in which investors attached similar risks to the debt of
euro-area countries, at one point demanding just 8 basis points
more to lend to  Greece  than to Germany, compared with almost 900
today. The skepticism means that in coming years, peripheral
governments will depend more on local investors for credit and
borrowing costs will vary across the bloc, Giani said.  “There is a reassessment of sovereign risks among European
investors who before were assessing each country the same,”
Giada said in an interview. “We will see in the future
permanently wider spreads across the euro zone.”  Greece isn’t alone in witnessing a jump in spreads from
where they were during the euro’s first decade when European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  hailed the
convergence.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold  Irish 
10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity benchmark German debt
reached a record 548 basis points yesterday, compared with a
euro-era median average of 20. In  Portugal , the gap reached 444
basis points, also a record, up from a median of 26 since the
euro was introduced in 1999.  International Ownership  With the exception of Italy, foreign holdings of government
debt fell in all the peripheral economies in the second quarter.
Foreign holdings as a percentage of total public debt reached a
seven-year low in Spain and dropped to the lowest level in four
years in Portugal, Ireland and Greece, Citigroup reported. By
contrast, outside ownership of German and French debt increased.  Before the crisis, foreign ownership of government bonds in
Portugal, Ireland and Greece equaled 70 percent to 80 percent of
the total. That degree of reliance exposes a country to more
volatile investors, who may retrench when risks increase.  Giani said it’s interesting that the portfolio changes
occurred mainly within the euro area. The amount of debt held
outside the region actually increased to 30 percent of the total
in the second quarter from 28 percent in the final quarter of
2009, she said.  Core Paper  “This confirms anecdotal evidence which suggests portfolio
reallocations involved mainly euro-area investors reducing their
exposure toward peripheral sovereigns and at the same time
increasing their holdings of sovereign core paper,” she said.  With less external demand, domestic investors are absorbing
more of the bonds. Portuguese banks increased holdings of their
government’s bonds by 88 percent in the past year. Banks in
Greece,  Italy  and Ireland raised their local investments by 20
percent, and those in Spain increased theirs by 13 percent.  The analysis is backed up by bank balance sheets, Giani
said. While Spanish banks increased holdings of  Spanish bonds  by
17 billion euros ($24 billion) in the year ended Aug. 10, their
stakes in other euro-area sovereign paper fell by 15.5 billion
euros.  At the same time, local creditors such as insurance
companies and pension funds are likely to have increased their
purchases of local assets, said Giani. While data on non-bank
investors is less available, subtracting foreign and bank
holdings from overall debt suggests the amount of local debt
they hold “must have significantly increased too,” she said.  Portugal’s Response  Officials may not be completely happy with the trend.
 Alberto Soares , president of Portugal’s government debt agency,
said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” with  Andrea Catherwood  that his country is trying to
diversify its “investor base.”  There are practical and political reasons for banks to
think locally, Giani said. Banks are concerned about political
backlash when they are perceived as helping support a government
and it’s better to hold local assets than be exposed to the
risks of another peripheral nation, she said. Governments also
benefit because domestic investors are less prone to pulling
back when markets turn volatile, she said.  One area of doubt is how banks will respond if the ECB
removes non-conventional liquidity measures from which they have
drawn support, said Giani. Greek, Irish and Spanish banks took
61 percent of loans supplied by the ECB at the end of September,
up from 51 percent the previous month, according to data from
their respective central banks.  Giani is nevertheless betting the shift will endure.  “We reckon the reversal toward a structurally stronger
home bias is likely to persist in coming years,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  