-- Deutsche Bank, Macquarie Strategists See European Equity Gains in 2011
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-11-09T14:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/europe-stocks-to-rise-16-in-2011-on-profits-deutsche-bank-says.html
European stocks will post gains next
year as cheap borrowing spurs a rebound in economic growth and
drives  earnings  higher, Deutsche Bank AG and Macquarie Group
Ltd. strategists said.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  will climb 16 percent in 2011
from yesterday’s close as demand for credit tops estimates,
Deutsche Bank strategists including  Gareth Evans  wrote in a
report today. The  Stoxx 50 , another European benchmark, may
advance about 10 percent as concern about sovereign-debt
defaults eases, according to Macquarie.  “In a mid-cycle accelerating phase, we should have decent
returns and that is likely to occur in the second half,”
 Matthias Joerss , Macquarie’s Frankfurt-based equity strategist,
said at a presentation in London today. “Going into the first
quarter, you want to decrease equities but then you want to
increase them as it will end up being an up year.”  The Stoxx 600 has climbed 7.8 percent so far this year even
as concern that countries from Spain to Greece will struggle to
rein in their budget deficits weighed on investor sentiment. The
gauge rose to a two-year high today after the Federal Reserve
last week pledged to buy $600 billion in Treasury bonds
to spur the ailing recovery in the world’s largest economy.  ‘Biggest Threat’  “The biggest threat to our bullish equity forecast is a
dislocation in the financial markets,” London-based Evans at
Deutsche Bank wrote in the report. “Bank lending surveys do not
suggest that such a dislocation is imminent. Stronger GDP growth
could trigger the rally in equity markets that we anticipate.”
Including dividends, the region’s equities will return 20
percent, he forecast.  Investors should favor stocks in “core Europe,” and
gradually move to countries such as Ireland, Greece, Spain and
Portugal as the year passes, Joerss said. Banks and companies
most geared to economic growth should give the best returns in
the second half, Macquarie forecast.  While there is a “distinct possibility of some debt
restructuring at some point” in the smaller economies, larger
nations such as Spain are not at risk of default,  Daniel McCormack , economist at Macquarie, said at the presentation.  Deutsche Bank strategists in December last year forecast
the Stoxx 600 would finish 2010 at 250, which is 8.1 percent
below yesterday’s close. A poll of 16 equity strategists last
year had estimated an average 11 percent rally for 2010.  This is the first annual forecast for European equities
from the Macquarie team.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 