-- Euro Crisis Enters New Phase With Credit Squeeze: Daniel Gros
-- B y   D a n i e l   G r o s
-- 2010-11-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/euro-crisis-enters-new-phase-with-credit-pinch-commentary-by-daniel-gros.html
The life-support system for Greece,
Ireland, Portugal and Spain is now under threat. The highly
indebted nations of the euro area can’t survive the deficit
crisis without access to central-bank credit.  Last month’s  Franco-German agreement  at Deauville, France,
and the statement of European leaders on Oct. 29 have changed
the ground rules for euro-area debt.  All 27 member states have now signed up to the need for a
revision of the  Lisbon Treaty  in exchange for a permanent
crisis-resolution mechanism. The key new element is that
Europe’s leaders have specifically said that future rescues
might involve private creditors. Nothing is known about the
magnitude of their required contribution, but it’s now certain
that they might be asked to participate.  The agreement by  European leaders  is reinforced by two
additional recent developments.  First, the German resolve to “bail in” private creditors
is much more credible now because the government-owned or
controlled banks, which held much of the euro-area periphery
debt owed to German financial institutions, have now transferred
these assets to bad-bank programs. This means that these
politically well-connected lenders no longer lobby the German
government for a full bailout of highly indebted nations such as
Greece, Ireland and Portugal; and that Germany is no longer
hobbled by the knowledge that the stability of its own banking
system would be jeopardized by a default in the euro area.  Renewed Meltdown  Second, the EU’s Oct. 29 statement speaks about “the role
of the private sector.” Taken literally, this implies that all
official creditors on the 110 billion-euro ($153 billion) Greek
rescue package and any funds disbursed from the European
Financial Stability Facility would be protected from losses.  This concentration of the risk to narrowly defined
“private” creditors would represent a change in policy. The
loan agreements concluded earlier this year with Greece didn’t
give the government-to-government credits any preferred status.  This raises the question of whether the ECB should be
considered part of the “private sector.” The problem is that
the ECB’s Greek bond holdings are so large that there may be
little left for private creditors if a restructuring is needed.  The ECB, the International Monetary Fund and other official
creditors probably account for more than half of all Greek
public debt. And this proportion is increasing. This implies
that an overall “haircut” of 20 percent may translate into one
of more than 40 percent for private creditors.  Increasing Spreads  The spreads on the outstanding longer-term bonds of Greece,
and other peripheral countries, may increase even further if the
preferred-creditor status of the European Financial Stability
Facility and the ECB were to be confirmed.  After the Oct. 29 statement by EU leaders, the ECB will now
have difficulty continuing its purchase program of Southern
European government bonds, even though the perceived need has
increased as spreads have widened. Even more importantly, the
ECB will also have to become more prudent in its collateral
requirements on lending from peripheral countries as the
prospect of a restructuring with losses for private creditors
has now become official policy.  This threatens the periphery’s life-support mechanism. The
importance of the availability of credit from the ECB is seen in
the sizeable current-account deficits that Greece, Ireland and
Portugal continue to run, implying that they need new capital
from abroad (and a rollover of credit lines that expire).  Huge Transfers  The banking systems of Greece and Ireland have each
received about 100 billion euros in external funding via the
ordinary monetary-policy operations of the ECB over the past two
years. Without these huge transfers -- which amounted to about
40 percent of  gross domestic product for Greece  and 75 percent
for Ireland -- the economies of these two countries would have
been subject to the same type of “sudden stop” of capital
inflows as happened in Central and Eastern European nations such
as Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, whose banking
systems don’t have access to the refinancing windows of the ECB.  Banks and enterprises in Greece and Ireland are practically
shut out of the international capital market. If access to the
ECB’s windows became much more difficult, residents of Greece or
Ireland would no longer be able to finance their current level
of spending, and these economies would collapse.  It is clear that incomes and consumption would plummet in
debt-ridden countries if the euro-area periphery were to be
forced to the same external adjustment as countries in Central
and Eastern Europe. Government revenue would then also plunge,
making the fiscal adjustment even more difficult.  The political systems of Greece, Ireland and Portugal, in
particular, need to muster the same resolve as those countries
in Central and Eastern Europe that have so far continued to
service their debt regularly. Without a life-support mechanism
in the euro area, the task before them will be daunting.  ( Daniel Gros  is the director of the Centre for European
Policy Studies in Brussels. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Daniel Gros at  danielg@ceps.eu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  