-- Stocks Drop as Cotton, Gold Lead Commodities Higher; Bonds Fall
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-10T00:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/euro-drops-for-third-day-on-debt-concerns-bond-risk-rises-futures-fall.html
U.S. stocks fell for a second day and
Treasuries slid, sending the 30-year yield to a five-month high,
while the dollar rose as investors questioned the potential
effects of the Federal Reserve’s plan to stimulate growth.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.8 percent, the most
in three weeks, to 1,213.4 at 4 p.m. in New York. The 30-year
yield rose 4.25 percent after a government sale of 10-year debt.
The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index surged
to the highest since October 2008 as cotton rallied to a record.
After the close of U.S. markets, futures on the S&P 500 added
0.1 percent and stock gauges climbed in Japan and Australia.  U.S. benchmark stock indexes climbed last week to the
highest levels since the month of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy after the Fed announced plans to pump as
much as $600 billion into the economy through a series of bond
purchases. The CRB commodities index has rallied for 11 straight
weeks, its longest streak since 1977, since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated in August that he was considering another
round of quantitative easing.  “We’ve had backlash against quantitative easing, and maybe
that means less of a likelihood for more QE, which is obviously
helpful for the dollar and negative for stocks,” said  Jason Brady , a managing director at Thornburg Investment Management in
Santa Fe, New Mexico, which oversees more than $65 billion.
“Materials, financials -- the groups that didn’t do very well
are really more cyclical sectors, so these stocks are going to
go down more.”  Wholesale Inventories  The S&P 500 rose earlier today after inventories at U.S.
wholesalers climbed twice as much as forecast in September as
suppliers stocked up ahead of the holiday sales season.  Financial companies slid 2.2 percent and materials
producers retreated 1.6 percent for the two biggest declines
among 10 groups. Wells Fargo & Co. and Citigroup Inc. lost more
than 3 percent. Bank of America Corp. and Kraft Foods Inc. led
losses in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Priceline.com Inc. climbed 8.3 percent as its fourth-
quarter forecast topped estimates, reflecting stronger demand
for hotel bookings and international flights. Atlas Energy Inc.
rallied 34 percent after saying it agreed to be acquired by
Chevron Corp. in a transaction valuing the company at $4.3
billion including debt. Atlas  shareholders  will get $43.34 a
share, a 37 percent premium to yesterday’s closing price.  European Stocks  More than five companies rose for every two that fell in
the  Stoxx Europe 600  Index, which climbed to the highest since
September 2008. Banks and commodity producers led the advance.
Barclays Plc rose 4 percent in London after Britain’s third-
biggest bank said its capital ratio remained “strong.” BHP
Billiton Ltd., the biggest mining company, rallied 1.6 percent.  Carlsberg A/S, the maker of Tuborg and Baltika beer, fell 5
percent in Copenhagen after third-quarter profit missed
estimates and the company said it will raise prices because of
rising costs.  Yields on  30-year bonds  climbed for a fifth day on
speculation tomorrow’s sale of $16 billion of the securities may
receive tepid demand since the Fed is focusing its purchases of
Treasuries among shorter-maturity debt. The two-year Treasury
yield climbed four basis points to 0.44 percent, while the 10-
year yield increased 11 basis points to 2.66 percent.  Treasury Auction  The 10-year note offering drew a yield of 2.636 percent,
compared with the average forecast of 2.644 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine of the Federal Reserve’s 18
primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
2.8, compared with an average of 3.14 for the past 10 sales. The
Fed will announce tomorrow the amount of debt it will purchase
during the next few weeks.  China’s Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. reduced its rating
for U.S. debt to A+ from AA, citing a deteriorating intent and
ability to repay debt obligations after the Fed announced more
monetary easing. The credit outlook for the U.S. is
“negative,” as the Fed’s plan to buy government debt will
erode the value of the dollar and “entirely encroaches” on the
interests of creditors, analysts at Dagong said in a statement.  “The palpable anger -- mixed with gloating -- that is
present in this release is demonstrative of the current
dismissal by many international investors of the U.S. capital
markets as an attractive destination,”  Michael Shaoul , chief
executive officer of Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York, said in
a note to clients. “We also wonder whether this wave of
indignation over QE2 marks the end of the period of cooperation
and coordination between global central banks.”  U.S. Credit Rating  The U.S. is rated Aaa and AAA by Moody’s Investors Service
and Standard & Poor’s, the highest credit ratings of the New
York-based companies.  The downgrade from the Chinese ratings provider came before
a meeting of Group of 20 leaders this week in Seoul and as the
U.S. steps up pressure for China to let the yuan strengthen to
help reduce the U.S. trade deficit. China has countered the
criticism by saying U.S. economic policies threaten the
stability of developing nations.  China’s yuan is approaching the strongest level against the
dollar since 1993 on speculation the country’s central bank will
permit faster appreciation before G-20 leaders meet this week.  The yuan gained 0.51 percent to 6.6440 per dollar in its
biggest daily advance since China abandoned a peg against the
greenback in July 2005. It touched 6.6420 earlier, compared with
6.6404 on Oct. 15, the highest level since the central bank
unified official and market exchange rates 17 years ago.  China’s Controls  China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange said it
will strengthen the auditing of overseas fundraising and force
banks to hold more foreign exchange, joining countries from
Brazil to Thailand that have sought to curb currency
fluctuations. The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.8 percent.  The Dollar Index , which gauges the currency against six
major peers, climbed 1 percent in its third straight gain and
its biggest advance in three weeks on a closing basis.  Cotton helped lead gains in commodities today, rising the
exchange limit 5 cents to a record $1.4711 a pound in New York
after the U.S. Department of Agriculture reduced its estimates
for domestic production and inventories. Gold futures for
December delivery retreated in after-hours trading after rising
0.5 percent to settle at $1,410.10 an ounce and touching
$1,424.30, an all-time high for the fourth straight session. The
price for immediate delivery reached a record $1,424.60.  ‘Commodities Make Sense’  Raw sugar rose for a 10th straight session, reaching a 29-
year high, amid concern that India may cap exports to boost
domestic supplies after a smaller-than-expected cane harvest.
Cocoa, coffee and orange juice gained.  “People don’t feel like they’re losing out by holding
commodities,” said  David Goerz , who oversees $17 billion at
Highmark Capital Management Inc. in San Francisco. “If you’ve
lost confidence that stocks can deliver returns, then
commodities make sense on a long-term basis.”  The euro slumped against 14 of 16 major currencies, losing
at least 1 percent versus the Taiwanese currency, U.S. dollar,
South Korean won and Brazilian real.  Irish 10-year bonds slumped,  driving  the yield premium to
German bunds to a record 554 basis points even as European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
Ireland hasn’t asked for aid. Credit-default swaps insuring
Ireland’s debt increased to a record.  The extra yield investors demand from Irish and Portuguese
bonds instead of German bunds may widen further amid greater
prospects for debt defaults, according to WestLB AG.  “At times, you feel the spreads offer fundamental value,”
 John Davies , an interest-rate strategist at the bank in London,
said in an interview today. “Then you start to realize that the
longer the spreads and higher yield levels hold in place, the
greater the default risk has become because they simply cannot
afford to finance the interest burden, and then you’re in a
vicious spiral situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 