-- Ex-Societe Generale Trader Stole Code, Jury Told
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-09T22:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/ex-societe-generale-employee-stole-trading-code-jury-told-as-trial-starts.html
A former  Societe Generale SA  trader
stole computer code for high-frequency trading from the company,
a federal prosecutor told jurors at the start of a trial in New
York.  “You will see that  Samarth Agrawal  was a thief,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Thomas G.A. Brown  said in his opening statement
today. “He didn’t steal cash or gold or diamonds. He stole
something much more valuable. He stole a powerful way to make
millions of dollars on the stock market.”  Brown told jurors they would see a surveillance video
showing Agrawal, 27, printing hundreds of pages of computer code
at the same time he was planning on leaving Societe Generale to
set up a similar computer trading system with a Manhattan hedge
fund, Tower Research Capital LLC.  Agrawal, who was denied bail in the case after his April 19
arrest, is charged with theft of trade secrets. He faces as much
as 10 years in prison if convicted.  “Mr. Agrawal is not guilty,” his lawyer, Ivan Fisher, said
in his opening statement. “He stole nothing.”  Fisher said Agrawal was working on the code at home as part
of his job. Fisher said his client will testify. He will also
present testimony from five people who have known Agrawal for
years, Fisher said.  Taped Conversations  In addition to the surveillance video, Brown said he will
play for jurors tapes of conversations between Agrawal and Tower
Research partners.  Prosecution witnesses will include Tower Research partners
and programmers, Agrawal’s former Societe Generale supervisor,
the federal agent who found the computer code in a search of
Agrawal’s New Jersey apartment and an expert in high-frequency
trading.  Last week, U.S. District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff , who is
presiding over the trial, rejected a request by prosecutors to
close portions of the trial to the public to protect the bank’s
trade secrets.  Agrawal was hired in 2007 in New York by the Paris-based
bank to be a quantitative analyst in the high-frequency trading
group, the government said. He was promoted to trader and given
access to the company’s high-frequency trading software in April
2009.  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-cr-417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 