-- Facebook Sues Lamebook Parody Site for Alleged U.S. Trademark Infringement
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-10T02:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/facebook-sues-lamebook-parody-site-for-alleged-u-s-trademark-infringement.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s biggest
social-networking website, filed a trademark-infringement
lawsuit against Lamebook LLC, a company that says it posts on
the web “the funniest and lamest of Facebook.”  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in federal court in San Jose,
California, follows a letter that Facebook’s lawyers wrote to
Lamebook in July describing their infringement claims. The
letter contended Lamebook isn’t a legally protected parody, as
the company claimed, because it doesn’t “provide any critique
or comment of Facebook itself.”  Lamebook says on its website that it posts “lame and funny
pictures, status updates, and other gems found on your favorite
social networking site.” On Nov. 4, Texas-based Lamebook sued
Facebook in federal court in Austin, seeking a judicial
declaration that it doesn’t infringe Facebook’s trademarks.  “We’re disappointed that after months of working with
Lamebook they have turned to litigation,” Facebook, based in
Palo Alto, California, said today in an e-mailed statement. “We
believe their website is an improper attempt to trade off of
Facebook’s popularity and fame and we will continue to protect
our brand and trademark.”  Jonathan Standefer and Matthew Genitempo of Austin began
lamebook.com in April 2009, according to their complaint.  ‘Clear Parody’  Lamebook is a “clear parody” and doesn’t infringe or
dilute Facebook’s trademark, they said in their complaint. The
site is “a protected form of expression under the First
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution,” they said.  On Lamebook’s website, the founders request donations to a
legal fund to support its lawsuit. The site represents their
livelihood, and an opportunity to “poke some fun at the world’s
most popular social network.”  “Problem is, Facebook didn’t get the joke,” Lamebook said
on its website. “They’ve decided to pick on the little guys:
small business owners who seem to be no match for a multibillion
dollar behemoth.”  Lamebook’s lawyer, Conor Civins, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  The case is Facebook v. Lamebook, 10-05048, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose). The Texas
case is Lamebook LLC v. Facebook Inc., 1:10-cv-00833, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 