-- Ferran Adria Spills the Beans on What Happens Next at El Bulli
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/ferran-adria-spills-the-beans-on-what-happens-next-at-el-bulli-interview.html
El Bulli has broken out from the
world of gastronomy to achieve the status of an exclusive brand.
If the restaurant in northern Spain were a watch, it would be a
Rolex, a luxury to which many aspire though few can enjoy.  I have no idea if it’s true that two million people apply
for 8,000 places each year: The odds are long -- this season is
full -- and they’re about to become almost impossible as chef
Ferran Adria will close El Bulli on July 30, 2011.  He plans to turn it into a foundation, where people come to
study food: How to cook it, examine the creative process and to
understand gastronomy in the context of the arts, the sciences
and economics, Adria said in an interview.  Fair enough. So how will we get a table?  “I might spontaneously call you and say, ‘Richard why
don’t you come over and bring six buddies from the U.K. because
I haven’t seen British people in a while?’” he said.  I liked the way this conversation was going.  “There will still be people coming to eat, but it won’t be
a restaurant any longer and it will be completely unfair, as it
is now,” he said, “because the people who manage to go are
happy and the people who don’t make it are unhappy.  “The difference is that we are going to create a
foundation, which means people’s reactions will be different:
You can hate a restaurant, but not a foundation. With regards to
reservations, there will be some differences, but it’s also true
that this will allow for many more people to come to visit El
Bulli. They will see the backstage.  Creative Food  “We are exchanging experience for knowledge, but the
mission behind the future center is not to feed people: It’s to
be creative,” said Adria, who was wearing a gray, striped
sweater under a dark jacket. “Now is probably a good time for
people to start understanding why and how things are created
rather than how you feel about eating.”  Adria , 48, has an almost boyish charm when you meet him. He
focuses on you intently as his interpreter translates from the
Spanish, making eye contact while nodding and smiling and
watching your reaction to his ideas. He’s a philosopher of food
as much as a chef -- taking considerable pride in achievements
such as being invited to lecture at Harvard. He appears more
interested in being understood than just respected.  He’s in London to promote “Reinventing Food, Ferran Adria:
The Man Who Changed the Way We Eat,” a biography of Adria by
the U.S. food writer Colman Andrews, who joined him for the
interview at the Kensington Hotel. Publicists sat in on the
interview, too, though when Adria is speaking, it’s a full-on
experience, even though he jokes and is in no way pompous. I
couldn’t tell you how many people were in the room.  Beachside Bar  Fortunately, the book is enjoyable and informative. El
Bulli was created by a German physician, Hans Schilling, who
bought a piece of land on the coast, north of Barcelona, and on
June 7, 1961, gained permission to open a mini-golf course. He
and his wife, stateless, Czech-born Marketta, added a beachside
bar and in 1964 built a grill room, the Bulli Bar, using a
French slang term for Marketta’s pet bulldogs.  Adria joined after his national service, cooking in the
Spanish navy, and his early days at El Bulli were followed by
nights out drinking in bars and discos. Adria is a chef whose
technique grew out of a mastery of French cooking combined with
a love of Catalan cuisine. His is a creativity born out of years
of hard work and experimentation, including spending half of
each year in his culinary workshop.  Airy Parmesan  (When I dined at El Bulli in 2007, I was served 40 courses,
starting with a gin-fizz aperitif where the froth on the icy
drink was hot and thick. The meat in a hare dish existed only as
gravy; parmesan came as “air” in a polystyrene box.)  The book has come under fire as being reverential, and I,
too, would question whether Adria has changed the way most
people eat. Still, Andrews knows food, understands Adria and,
most important, he can tell a story. It’s a good read.  Did Adria open up to Andrews? “Professionally,
certainly,” Andrews said before Adria chipped in.  “There was a comment saying that Colman hadn’t been to my
home,” Adria said, laughing. “Not even my father has been. I
don’t have the concept of a home. It’s a small studio apartment.
My home is my workshop. There’s nothing that I’m trying to hide.  “A lot of people think that I should be some kind of
extravagant figure but I’m a normal person.”  “Reinventing Food, Ferran Adria: The Man Who Changed the
Way We Eat” is published by Phaidon in the U.K. and by Gotha in
the U.S. under the title “Ferran, the Inside Story of El Bulli
and the Man Who Reinvented Food” (357 pages, 19.95 pounds,
$28). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 