-- Fidelity's Bolton Defies China Bears With 27% New Fund Return
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r
-- 2010-11-09T21:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/fidelity-s-bolton-defies-china-bears-with-27-new-fund-return.html
Three on the Bund is the perfect
venue for a speech by a fund manager who has just staked his
reputation on China.  The century-old, neoclassical architectural masterpiece on
the waterfront strip that was once Shanghai’s financial 
district now hosts seven floors of designer fashion and haute
cuisine, serving as a shrine to the prosperity of a nation that
this year overtook Japan to become the world’s second-biggest
economy, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its December 
issue.  In a packed function room one floor above an Armani
boutique and two below French chef  Jean-Georges Vongerichten ’s
restaurant, a well-dressed crowd is entertained by a slide show
of celebrities, including  Halle Berry  and  Morgan Freeman , who
have shopped and dined there.  Today’s guest radiates a different kind of fame:  Anthony Bolton , the slightly built, silver-haired president of
investments at London-based Fidelity Investment Managers, who
has been described in Chinese tabloids as the God of Stocks.
During the 28 years he managed as much as $12 billion running
the U.K.-focused Fidelity Special Situations fund, Bolton
delivered average annual returns of 19.5 percent -- transforming
a 10,000 pound ($16,154) investment in 1979 into 1,494,118
pounds in 2007, according to  Christopher Traulsen , director of
fund research for Europe and Asia at Morningstar Inc.  Stock-Picking Genius  In Britain, Bolton’s reputation as a stock-picking genius
was analogous to that of  Peter Lynch , the manager of Boston-
based Fidelity Investments’ Fidelity Magellan Fund from 1977 to
1990. Fidelity Investment Managers, formerly known as Fidelity
International, is an affiliate of Fidelity Investments.  Now, at age 60, Bolton is in China partly to explain to
clients why he has made a comeback to bet he can pick winners
for the 625 million-pound  Fidelity China Special Situations Fund 
that made its debut in April. Bolton says he’ll be able to find
winning stocks that other fund managers have ignored.  So far, that self-confidence has been justified. Anyone who
bought into the closed-end fund when it was introduced in April
and sold on Nov. 9 would have enjoyed a 27 percent  return  in
less than seven months. Two of his picks,  The United
Laboratories International Holdings Ltd . and  Brilliance China
Automotive Holdings Ltd , have almost quadrupled in value since
the beginning of the year. Now shares in Bolton’s fund have
become so sought-after that they are trading at almost a 10
percent  premium  to their net asset value, prompting Fidelity to
issue a statement on Nov. 9 saying it plans to sell new shares
next year, giving priority to existing shareholders.  Growth Run  Bolton’s bullishness on China flies in the face of a market
in Chinese shares that, even with a recent surge, has still
dragged the  Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index  down 4.3
percent in the year to Nov. 9. Meanwhile a chorus of doomsayers,
including fund manager  Marc Faber , have predicted on numerous
occasions this year that China’s 32-year run of uninterrupted
growth could come crashing down under the weight of a property
bubble.  For Bolton, a contrarian investor who specialized in
finding undervalued European stocks, such an atmosphere of
pessimism masks many investment opportunities.  “One of the things I like about China is that there are
some great skeptics out there,” he says just before a July
signing session for a Chinese edition of his second book, titled
“Investing Against the Tide,” (Pearson Education, 2009). “If
we were sitting here and China was everyone’s favorite and
valuations were high, I would have to temper my optimism.”  Personal Stake  Bolton has much riding on China, where he has plans to
manage money until at least 2012. He has staked 2.5 million
pounds of his own savings on the fund -- more, he says, than he
has ever put into any other Fidelity investment he has managed.  Bolton has also bought a HK$72.8 million ($9.38 million),
2,900-square-foot (270-square-meter) apartment in Hong Kong
overlooking Victoria Harbor -- joining a property market that
some analysts believe is as overheated as the mainland-Chinese
economy. Real-estate prices in the former British colony have
soared 50 percent since the start of 2009, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is the most expensive thing I have bought in my life,”
Bolton says.  Even so, Bolton’s biggest bet may be his reputation.  “People have said to me: ‘Anthony, if it is a success, so
what? But if it is a failure, you are going to ruin your
record,’” he says. “But in terms of what’s important to me, my
reputation is not at the top of my list. I think this is one of
the most interesting things I have done in my whole career in
investment. You don’t want to get to the end of your life and
say, ‘Why did I not have a go at that?’”  Low-Growth World  The fund manager says he doesn’t dispute that China’s
economy will slow from the  10 percent  annual expansion it has
averaged since the late 1970s; it’s just that the global economy
will perform even worse.  “In a low-growth world, China’s relative growth will be
even more attractive,” he says.  Bolton says China’s economy will be driven in the future
more by domestic consumption and services than the exports that
made it the workshop of the world. Consequently, he’s buying
retailers, auto companies, drug makers and, in defiance of
concerns about a potential credit crisis, financial services
companies.  Bolton’s confidence stems partly from the conviction that
small and medium-sized Chinese companies are less well
researched than their Western counterparts and offer big growth
opportunities.  Top Ten  In a country that’s now home to some of the world’s largest
companies, Bolton has dug out such little-known stocks as
 CNinsure Inc. , an insurance agent and broker in the southern
Chinese city of Guangzhou that trades on the Nasdaq Stock Market
and has a market value of $1.2 billion.  The stock, which has risen 20 percent this year, has
featured among Bolton’s  top 10 monthly holdings  alongside more-
predictable bets such as China Mobile Ltd. and Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s biggest phone company
and bank, respectively. (So far, Fidelity has disclosed only its
10 biggest holdings in the China Special Situations fund in a
monthly fact sheet. CNinsure was among the top 10 in July and
dropped out of the list in August and September. ICBC also
dropped out in September.)  Bolton says he’s excited about CNinsure partly because it
reminds him of MLP AG, a German insurance company that he
successfully bet on in the 1980s and 1990s.  “History never repeats itself,” he says, using a  Mark Twain 
bromide that’s become a favorite Boltonism. “But it sometimes
rhymes.”  Stellar Performer  More dramatic has been the performance of another smaller
company featured in Bolton’s top 10 in August and September:
United Laboratories, a Hong Kong-listed maker of generic
antibiotics and insulin for diabetes sufferers with a market cap
of HK$21 billion. Its shares soared 290 percent this year to
Nov. 9, making it the  best-performing  company in the 320-member
Hang Seng Composite Index.  “I’m lucky,” Bolton says. “I did not get the whole move,
but I got a decent slice of it.”  Bolton’s fourth-biggest holding as of Sept. 30 was carmaker
Brilliance China, which manufactures BMW 3 and 5 series sedans
in a joint venture with Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and
minibuses in partnership with Toyota Motor Corp. Its shares have
shot up 267 percent this year to make it the  second-best
performing  Hong Kong composite index stock after United
Laboratories.  ‘Quiet Assassin’  In the U.K. capital, Bolton was dubbed the Quiet Assassin
by London newspapers after leading a 2003 revolt by minority
shareholders to successfully block the appointment of  Michael Green  as chairman of ITV Plc following a 4 billion-pound merger
deal that combined the U.K.’s two biggest commercial television
broadcasters. Bolton joined with several shareholders in
demanding that ITV appoint an outsider as chairman.  “He still has a huge following,” says  Colin McLean , chief
executive officer of Edinburgh-based investment firm SVM Asset
Management Ltd. “China wasn’t the natural place for him, but
financial advisers still threw money at him.”  Haig Bathgate  wasn’t one of them, even though he had
previously invested in Bolton’s U.K. fund.  “Anthony is a great manager of medium- and small-cap stocks
in the U.K., but it is a very different discipline to be running
a portfolio in China,” says Bathgate, who oversees 600 million
pounds as chief investment officer at Edinburgh-based money
manager Turcan Connell. “We do not think the performance record
is transferable; it is an apple-and-pears comparison.”  London Power  One thing Bolton won’t be able to replicate in China is the
power he wielded in the City of London, according to  David Webb ,
a shareholder activist and former director of the Hong Kong
exchange.  Now, in the case of half the top 10 companies in his fund,
Bolton will be up against a controlling shareholder who wields
nearly unlimited power: the government of the People’s Republic
of China.  “If they have 51 percent, you can’t win,” says Webb, who
runs  Webb-site.com , a Hong Kong-based portal that promotes
corporate transparency.  Bolton shrugs off that burden, saying it’s the price of
investing in China.  “My general bias is to private companies, but in the bigger
stocks, you have to buy some state-owned enterprises,” he says.  As he hunts for tomorrow’s winners, Bolton carries two
potential handicaps: He doesn’t speak Chinese, and he first
visited China beyond Hong Kong only in 2003.  Slow Response  Even with Bolton’s stellar reputation, investor enthusiasm
for his China venture took time to materialize. Originally
Fidelity said it wanted to raise up to 650 million pounds for
the closed-end fund, which listed on the London Stock Exchange
in April. The fund attracted only about two-thirds of that
amount before the listing, although the market value has since
grown to 625 million pounds.  The initial disappointing market response may also be due
to the relatively high cost of investing with Bolton. In
addition to a total expense ratio of 1.81 percent of net asset
value, Fidelity charges a 15 percent performance fee on any
returns that exceed a 2 percentage point outperformance of
Bolton’s MSCI China Index benchmark.  In contrast, Edinburgh-based Martin Currie Investment
Management Ltd.’s $800 million China Fund Inc., which trades on
the New York Stock Exchange, charges no performance levy,
carries a TER of 1.16 percent and trades at a  discount  to its
net asset value. The Currie fund also  discloses to investors  all
of the stocks it owns and has returned an average of 12 percent
a year since it was created in 1992.  ‘Big Challenge’  On Nov. 9, Bolton’s fund was trading at 128.7 pence, close
to a 10 percent premium to its net asset value. Martin Currie’s
China Fund, meanwhile, had risen 24 percent in the year to Nov.
8 and traded at a 3.85 percent discount to its net asset value.  Chris Ruffle , who manages China Fund Inc., says he welcomes
the competition and that neither Bolton’s lack of language
skills nor late appearance in China should be held against him.  “He’d be the first to say it’s a big challenge, as it is
for all of us, but he’s got a big team supporting him,” says
Ruffle, a Mandarin speaker who has lived in Shanghai for the
past eight years. “Speaking the language is certainly helpful,
but it’s not insurmountable. I don’t think he’s coming too
late.”  Volatility Shield  Bolton is insulating his fund from mainland China’s stock
market volatility by investing two-thirds of his funds in stocks
listed in Hong Kong, where the benchmark Hang Seng Index was up
13 percent in the year to Nov. 9 compared with the 4.3 percent
fall in Shanghai. Another 15 percent are Chinese stocks listed
in the U.S., and 6.5 percent are listed in Japan, Singapore,
South Korea, Taiwan and the U.K.  That leaves less than 10 percent of his fund in so-called A
shares -- those listed on the Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses.  “I don’t see any need to rush into the A shares,” Bolton
says. “Valuations are higher, and quality of information and
disclosure is less good.”  Although Bolton says he focuses on small and medium-sized
enterprises, he’s also invested in some of the world’s corporate
giants. Almost nine percent of the fund has been used to buy
shares in the world’s third and sixth biggest banks, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Bank of China Ltd. Another 4.5 percent is
riding on China Mobile, the planet’s biggest phone carrier.  Single Market Debate  While Bolton made the right call in leaving the U.K., he’s
making the wrong one focusing exclusively on China, says Hong
Kong-based investor Marc Faber. As the Shanghai stock market
dipped, neighboring bourses soared. Stocks in  Indonesia  jumped
47 percent;  Thailand , 43 percent; the  Philippines , 40 percent;
and Malaysia, 20 percent, this year to Nov. 9.  “I would have chosen a mandate to manage money in Asia, not
just China,” says Faber, who oversees $300 million worth of
Asian stocks and publishes the  Gloom, Boom & Doom Report.   Bolton says he only wants to concentrate on one market --
the one most important to the West. “I would rather be at the
center than at the periphery,” he says.  That fascination with China drew Bolton away from the beach
in front of his vacation villa on the Caribbean island of
Antigua that he shares with his wife, Sarah. Bolton’s status in
the U.K. fund world was such that when he announced his
impending exit from money management in June 2006, his Special
Situations Fund was split in two between its U.K. and global
assets.  China Bug  Bolton also stayed on for a yearlong hand-over period for
the two managers who succeeded him. With his three children
grown up, Bolton then switched to a mentoring role at Fidelity,
spending more of his time indulging his passion for classical
music, which he composes with the help of a computer program
named Sibelius.  Two years after giving up running money full time, Bolton
caught the China bug during a three-month stint in Hong Kong in
2009 guiding the Fidelity team there.  “I just thought, this is so exciting,” he says. “I think I
can bring something to the China story through my experience.”  Of more concern to investors may be how long Bolton stays.
He has committed to managing the fund for at least two years but
probably won’t still be around for its five-year performance
anniversary because he has promised Sarah that their retirement
has been postponed, not canceled.  “The most interesting question I have been asked is,
‘Anthony, if the first two years are really bad, will it tempt
you to stay on?’” Bolton says. “And I just don’t know the answer
to that.”  If the first six months are anything to go by, Bolton will
be able to head back to the beach with his reputation enhanced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Mellor  in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 