-- Fonciere des Regions Nine-Month Rental Income Lower on Property Disposals
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-11-09T07:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/fonciere-des-regions-nine-month-rental-income-lower-on-property-disposals.html
Fonciere des Regions SA , France’s
second-largest publicly traded office landlord, said rental
income fell 1.1 percent in the first nine months because of
property disposals.  Rental income  totaled 391 million euros ($542 million)
compared with 395 million euros a year earlier, the Metz,
France-based company said today in a statement. The company
generated an additional 22 million in fees, taking total revenue
for the period to 413.1 million euros, 2.9 percent less than a
year ago.  Disposals raised 366 million euros in the first nine months
as Chief Executive Officer  Christophe Kullmann  sought to cut
 debt  to 50 percent of the value of the FDR’s properties.
Excluding the effects of the sales, rental income rose 1.2
percent, the company said.  For properties held throughout the period, gains in rental
growth were led by Italy, where the company owns a 50.9 percent
stake in office landlord  Beni Stabili SpA . In France, which
makes up more than half of FDR’s assets, rents were little
changed in the period.  Beni Stabili will take up real estate investment trust
status in Italy at the start of 2011, the company said.  FDR didn’t update its July forecast that both the value of
its properties and earnings, excluding disposals and property
values, would rise this year.  FDR controls properties in France, Italy and Germany
through holdings in other real estate investment trusts.  The company’s assets include stakes in Fonciere des Murs
SA, a REIT specialized in sale and leasebacks; warehouse owner
Fonciere Europe Logistique SCA and Fonciere Developpement
Logements SA, a residential investment trust. FDR also has a 15
percent holding in Altarea SA, France’s biggest retail-park
developer, and controls parking lot owner Parcs GFR.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  