-- Gartmore Investors Pull $5.3 Billion as Star Managers Resign, Returns Lag
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-11-09T10:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/gartmore-investors-pull-5-3-billion-as-star-managers-resign-returns-lag.html
Roger Guy  and  Guillaume Rambourg ,
 Gartmore Group Ltd. ’s two star managers, won European fund of
the year at a black-tie gala at London’s Grosvenor House Hotel
on Jan. 21. Ten months later, both have quit and the company is
considering putting itself up for sale.  Rambourg left in July and Guy, 44, said yesterday he will
retire at the end of the year, leaving investors in Gartmore’s
December initial public offering nursing a 51 percent  loss .
Gartmore’s announcement that it’s weighing a sale underscores
the vulnerability of money managers that rely on individual
“star traders,” analysts said.  “When we buy into Roger Guy’s funds, we do so because of
his talent, not because of who he works for,” said  Meera Patel ,
an analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc, the U.K.’s biggest retail
broker. “Gartmore is facing a real uphill struggle to restore
confidence among investors.”  Rambourg and Guy together managed about a third of the
company’s assets after its IPO. Three other managers have
departed, prompting the company to hire  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
to help find a buyer after investors including Skandia
Investment Management Ltd. pulled or planned to pull 3.3 billion
pounds ($5.3 billion), or about 14 percent of its assets under
management, since Rambourg was suspended in March. The
performance of their funds has lagged behind competitors this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Rise  Gartmore climbed 3 pence, or 2.8 percent, to 110 pence at
9:56 a.m. in London trading today, valuing the company at about
348 million pounds. The firm’s IPO price was 220 pence a share.  Henderson Group Plc , which bought New Star Asset Management
Group Plc in 2009, is among those that may be considering a bid
for Gartmore, said  Sarah Ing , a London-based analyst at Singer
Capital Markets Ltd.  Richard Acworth , a Henderson spokesman,
declined to comment.  Schroders Plc , Europe’s largest publicly traded fund
manager by market value, is “not looking” at Gartmore, Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Dobson  said in an interview today.  “When you buy a fund manager you’re buying people, so if
only one or two people are generating the majority of the
revenue then you potentially have a problem,” said  Benjamin Phillips , a Boston-based partner at investment management
consultant Casey Quirk & Associates LLC. “For any company with
key man risk, it’s imperative that they broaden out their
business and diversify.”  ‘Key Portfolio Managers’  Gartmore’s investors were warned about the risk of having
two key fund managers in its IPO  prospectus  published last year.
The company had “a concentration of assets under management
around one investment team,” citing Guy and Rambourg as “key
portfolio managers.”  The pair, who had worked together since 1996, made 23
million pounds combined in the share sale. Guy still holds 5.4
percent of Gartmore’s shares and Rambourg 3.7 percent, according
to a company filing in March.  Gartmore Chief Investment Officer  Dominic Rossi  is also
leaving as is  Darrell O’Dea , who joined the firm in April to
reduce its reliance on Guy and Rambourg. Fund manager  Gervais Williams  quit in September.  FSA Investigation  Rambourg, who was born in Ottawa, is being investigated by
the  Financial Services Authority  after he was suspended
following an internal probe that said he may have directed
orders to buy and sell shares to favored brokers. The son of a
United Nations’ diplomat and a marathon runner was fined 300,000
euros ($418,000) by Italy’s stock market regulator Consob for
abusing privileged information earlier this year in an unrelated
incident.  The FSA investigation is continuing and doesn’t involve
Gartmore, according to Rebecca Grundy, a spokeswoman for the
fund manager. An FSA official said the regulator never confirms
or denies whether it’s investigating a company or individual.  Guy, who joined Gartmore in 1993, said the company’s
“excessive” internal compliance rules were to blame for
Rambourg’s suspension, the Financial Times reported April 1,
citing a private conference call for investors.  “My view is that Gartmore management was overly zealous
about regulatory aspects,” said  Keith Baird , a London-based
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. who follows the industry.
“That was the poison in the well, and it’s all flowed from
that. The investment performance has not been spectacular
either. That would have added extra pressure.”  Rambourg and Guy collected the award for 2009’s best
European Equity Fund from  EuroHedge , an industry publication
that stages an annual awards dinner in Mayfair.  Performance Lags  Their $338 million  AlphaGen Tucana fund , which bets on
rising and falling European equities, returned 42 percent in
2009, putting it in the top 20 percent of its peer group,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This year it has lost
1.8 percent, putting it in the bottom third.  Rambourg and Guy’s other funds have also suffered weak
performance this year. Their  AlphaGen Capella  fund, AlphaGen
Acamar fund and European Absolute Return fund all lost money
this year and are in the bottom third of their peer group,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gartmore “has had a series of setbacks with the issues
concerning Guillaume Rambourg earlier this year which ultimately
resulted in him leaving the business,” Chief Executive Officer
 Jeff Meyer  told analysts on a conference call yesterday. “This
has been a challenging period for all of us. Some of the events
are slightly out of our control around Guillaume Rambourg, a
number of situations.”  In a statement, Guy said he will continue to invest in his
former fund after he leaves. He wouldn’t comment beyond his
statement. Rambourg couldn’t be reached for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  