-- General Growth Exits Biggest Real Estate Bankruptcy
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-11-10T01:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/general-growth-properties-exits-from-biggest-u-s-real-estate-bankruptcy.html
General Growth Properties Inc. , the
second-largest U.S. mall owner, exited from the biggest real
estate bankruptcy in the country’s history and split itself into
two companies.  The landlord has spun off Howard Hughes Corp., an owner of
master-planned communities and other properties, Chicago-based
General Growth said today in a statement. The shares of the
newly separate General Growth will begin trading tomorrow on the
New York Stock Exchange.  Howard Hughes also will start trading tomorrow on the NYSE,
under the ticker symbol HHC, the new company said.  General Growth filed for Chapter 11 protection in April
2009 after weighing itself down with $27 billion in debt that it
was unable to refinance because of the financial crisis and
collapse of the commercial mortgage-backed securities market.
The company’s restructuring plan provided a full recovery for
creditors and a recovery for shareholders, which is rare in a
bankruptcy reorganization.  General Growth last month hired  Sandeep Mathrani  of  Vornado
Realty Trust  as its new chief executive officer. Mathrani will
assume the position at the beginning of 2011 after serving for
more than eight years as executive vice president of retail real
estate at New York-based Vornado.  Adam Metz  has been General Growth’s CEO since October 2008,
when he replaced  John Bucksbaum , a member of the company’s
founding family. Metz and  Thomas Nolan , president and chief
operating officer, agreed to stay in their positions for as long
as a year after the restructuring while the company searched for
a new management team.  Takeover Fight  After filing for bankruptcy, General Growth first focused
on restructuring about $15 billion in mortgage debt tied to
about 140 properties, an effort it completed earlier this year.
It then turned to its corporate-level debt and became the
subject of a takeover battle between rival  Simon Property Group
Inc.  and an investor group. Indianapolis-based Simon is the
largest U.S. mall company.  The investor group -- Brookfield Asset Management Inc.,
 Bill Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP and  Bruce Berkowitz ’s Fairholme Capital Management LLC -- prevailed,
committing more than $8 billion to bring General Growth out of
Chapter 11.  General Growth began a public offering of 135 million
shares of the new company to replace some of the financing
commitments from the Brookfield, Fairholme and Pershing group,
as well as the Teacher Retirement System of Texas, the company
said in a separate statement.  The stock closed today at $17.39. Its closing price was 59
cents on April 16, 2009, the day the company filed for
bankruptcy.  General Growth owns and operates more than 183 retail
centers in 43 states. The company reported a loss in core funds
from operations on Oct. 29 of $29.3 million in the third
quarter, compared with a profit of $88.9 million, or 28 cents, a
year earlier because of restructuring costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 