-- General Electric Plans to Invest $2 Billion in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-09T05:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/general-electric-to-spend-2-billion-on-china-technology-finance-ventures.html
General Electric Co.  plans to invest
more than $2 billion in China in technology and financial
service ventures and research, adding 1,000 jobs in a country
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is targeting for growth.  GE intends to invest more than $1.5 billion in joint
ventures with Chinese state-owned companies in “key high-
technology sectors,” it said in a statement today. The
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company will spend $500 million on
product development and customer innovation centers through
2012, where the jobs will be added.  Immelt yesterday appointed Vice Chairman John Rice to
accelerate a push to bolster exports and expand partnerships in
countries building infrastructure to support economic growth,
such as China and India. GE expects to have $20 billion in
discretionary cash by year-end partly for investment to boost
sales, which missed analyst estimates in the third quarter.  “China and India will lead future growth in energy
demand,”  Zhang Shun , a Beijing-based analyst with Ping An
Securities Co., said by phone today. “They will need more
roads, more power plants and more railways to meet the needs of
their soaring economies, generating opportunities for equipment
manufacturers and technology providers like GE.”  Research Centers  The company will establish six new innovation centers and
named Chengdu, Shenyang and Xi’an as potential candidate
locations. GE’s statement didn’t provide details of the
financial and technology ventures it’s planning.  “The growth in the next decade or decades that’s going to
take place will be quite robust in places like China and
India,” Immelt said today in Beijing.  GE also announced four joint ventures in energy and
transport. It will start a venture with Wuhan NARI Co., owned by
China’s State Grid, to build electric transmission monitoring
and diagnostic equipment.  The company will make a joint acquisition with  Shanghai
Electric Power Co. , also owned by State Grid, for a controlling
stake in power-distribution parts maker Shanghai Tianling
Switchgear Co.  In rail, GE plans an agreement with Chengdu Locomotive &
Rolling Stock Works, a company owned by China South Locomotive
and Rolling Stock Corp., to form a 50-50 venture.  The company is planning to start a 50-50 joint venture with
the Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of
Signal & Communication to supply signaling systems.  India Growth  Immelt was in China days after traveling to India where he
met President Barack Obama, who was visiting the country to drum
up business for U.S. companies.  GE expects energy and health care to drive revenue in India
to a $10 billion goal in five years, Immelt said in interview in
Mumbai on Nov. 6. GE will seek to acquire companies worth about
$50 million, Immelt said.  GE got about $33 billion of its $157 billion in revenue
last year from emerging markets, with about $6 billion from
China. Sales in China should rise by at least 10 percent this
year, Immelt reiterated in July.  China and industrialized regions including Europe are
pulling ahead of the U.S. in the race to develop clean energy,
because policy makers in Washington have been caught up in
debates on issues such as the effects of climate change, Immelt
said in September.  China may spend about 5 trillion yuan ($750 billion) in the
next decade developing cleaner sources of energy, the government
said in July. GE is investing $10 billion during the next five
years in so-called clean-energy products and services.  GE in 2003 opened a research center in  Shanghai , the third
of what is now four globally. Immelt has pledged to increase
research and development in part to tap markets like China, and
use their engineering expertise.  GE shares fell 0.1 percent yesterday to $16.71 in New York.
They declined 5 percent on Oct. 15, the most since May, after
the company said third-quarter sales fell 5 percent to $35.9
billion, missing analyst estimates. Profit fell 18 percent to
$2.06 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 