-- GM Will Take on Suzuki in India With SAIC's China-Designed Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-10T15:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/general-motors-taking-on-suzuki-in-india-with-saic-s-china-designed-cars.html
General Motors Co. , the largest
overseas carmaker in China, has failed to replicate that success
in India. To crack the market, the Detroit-based carmaker is
enlisting its partner in China,  SAIC Motor Corp.   The alliance produces the best-selling vehicle in the
world’s biggest car market, where it has a 13 percent market
share. GM has struggled in India since entering in 1994, with
its Chevrolet models accounting for only about 5 percent of car
sales in Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy.  GM and Shanghai-based SAIC will start selling models in
India next year that are similar to those now sold in China,
 Kevin Wale , GM’s China president, said in an interview. The
alliance will challenge  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. , the nation’s
largest carmaker with a 41 percent market share, and  Tata Motors
Ltd ., maker of the world’s cheapest car, the Nano.  “The Indian market is very similar to the Chinese
market,” Wale, who is based in Shanghai, said last month.
“They also have a need for a lot of products that have already
or are being developed for the Chinese market.”  The partners may introduce as many as three light
commercial vehicles and two passenger cars in India by 2012. The
alliance also is targeting other developing markets. Last month,
it started exporting Chevrolet Sail compacts made in Shandong,
China, to Chile and Peru. The carmakers may ship elsewhere in
Latin America, Egypt and the Middle East, Wale said.  China Expertise  GM and SAIC said in December they would spend $650 million
forming a new venture to build and sell passenger cars and small
trucks in India. The automakers have not identified the first
vehicles to go on sale next year.  The two companies plan to use their expertise in China to
gain a competitive advantage in India, said Judy Zhu, a
Shanghai-based spokeswoman for SAIC. They’re confident the
partnership will be successful, she said.  Domestic passenger-vehicle sales in India rose 38 percent
in October from a year earlier to 231,957 units, the Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers said today in New Delhi.
Deliveries in China rose 27 percent to about 1.2 million units
in the same period.  India’s passenger-car sales were 1.95 million in the year
ended March 31. The government estimates sales may pass
3 million by 2015. During the past five years, India’s  economy
grew  by an average 8.5 percent annually, and per capita incomes
gained 70 percent.  Focus on India  “Our focus is on India,” said Wale, 56. “The ability to
take the product portfolios and the understanding of the growth-
market business model gives us the opportunity to grow much
faster than if we did it by ourselves.”  GM-SAIC will make cars and trucks weighing less than 1 ton
at GM’s Halol and Talegaon plants, which have a combined annual
capacity of 225,000 units, said Hua Foley, GM’s Shanghai-based
spokesman.  GM and its  partners  have 13 percent market share in China
this year, chief financial officer  Chris Liddell  said Nov. 4.
This is up from 3 percent in 2000, he said in a presentation for
investors.  Winning market share from  Maruti  and  Tata  will not be easy,
according to Deepesh Rathore, India managing director at
consulting company IHS Automotive in Gurgaon.  “These companies have very good brand names and widespread
service networks,” Rathore said. “I don’t think the Chevrolet
network is wide enough.”  Poor Perception  The joint venture also needs to change consumer perceptions
that Chinese products are of inferior quality, said  Bill Russo ,
a Beijing-based senior adviser at Booz & Co.  M.S. Thapa, 72, owns a security guard service in suburban
New Delhi that uses three  Maruti  minivans to transport workers.
He said he would choose an Indian  vehicle  over a Chinese one in
the same price bracket.  “General Motors is fine, but public opinion of Chinese
companies is very poor,” Thapa said. “People will think twice
to buy a product with a Chinese stamp.”  Manoj Sharma, 37, a senior executive with a New Delhi-based
consultant, said he won’t consider a GM-SAIC model when buying a
six- or seven-seat passenger vehicle. He said GM cheapened its
image by offering sales incentives such as a free 100,000-
kilometer warranty.  Target Audience  “Indians are an intelligent target audience that not only
looks at price, but also the quality and the technology,”
Sharma said.  The closer ties come as GM aims to raise as much as
$10.6 billion in an initial public offering, two people familiar
with the plan said Nov. 1. SAIC chairman  Hu Maoyuan  said his
company may participate in the offering.  GM entered China in 1997 with a $1.57 billion contract to
manufacture Buick Regal and Century sedans with SAIC.  It now owns 49 percent of passenger-car venture Shanghai GM
Motor Co. and 34 percent of minivan-maker SAIC-GM-Wuling
Automotive Co.  GM is increasing its stake in the Wuling venture to
44 percent, pending regulatory approval in China, the U.S.
automaker said in a  filing  related to its IPO. GM said it is
buying the stake from the Wuling Group for technical services
and $51 million in cash.  SAIC owns 51 percent of Shanghai GM and 50.1 percent of
SAIC-GM-Wuling.  SAIC-GM-Wuling’s  Sunshine minivan, which starts at about
30,000 yuan ($4,504), is China’s best-selling vehicle, with the
company delivering more than 702,600 units this year through
October.  Leadership Cemented  SAIC and GM cemented their market-leading position in China
this year, selling 1.97 million vehicles through October, a
36 percent increase from a year earlier. That compares with
second-ranked Volkswagen AG, which delivered 1.48 million cars
through September.  “The main challenge is to build up a supplier network and
produce the model at a similar cost level as China,” said
 Ashvin Chotai , London-based managing director of Intelligence
Automotive Asia, an industry consultant.  GM and SAIC need each other in order to succeed in India,
said  Zhang Xin , a Shanghai-based auto analyst at Guotai Junan
Securities. GM has a good brand image and dealer network, and
SAIC has experience in emerging markets.  Failed Partnerships  The success of their alliance contrasts with GM’s failed
tie-ups with Japanese automakers and SAIC’s acquisition of South
Korea’s  Ssangyong Motor Co. , which entered receivership in
February after the global recession squeezed auto sales. SAIC
paid $500 million in October 2004 for 49 percent of the
Pyeongtaek-based automaker.  GM sold a 20 percent stake in Suzuki back to the Japanese
company in two stages in 2007 and 2008. It also ended a joint
production arrangement with Toyota Motor Corp. in Fremont,
California, in June 2009 as part of its bankruptcy
reorganization.  “In China, we wouldn’t be in this market if we didn’t have
the partnership,” Wale said. “Where you don’t have a presence,
sometimes the best solution is to partner.”  -- Liza Lin  and  Subramaniam Sharma  with assistance from Tushar
Dhara in New Delhi. Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Michael Tighe ,  Jamie Butters .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Subramaniam Sharma in New Delhi at +91-11-4179-2035 or
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  