-- Finance Ministry Spokesman Quits Five Days After Schaeuble's Public Rebuke
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-11-09T11:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/german-finance-ministry-spokesman-offer-quits-after-schaeuble-s-rebuke.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s chief spokesman resigned five days after he was
rebuked by the minister in public, an incident that prompted a
media debate about Schaeuble’s leadership style.  Michael Offer , 51, asked to be relieved of his post and “I
granted his wish today,” Schaeuble said in a statement e-mailed
by the Finance Ministry in Berlin. “I thank Dr. Offer for his
tireless service and for his loyalty.”  Offer was reprimanded by Schaeuble in front of reporters in
Berlin on Oct. 4 for failing to hand out data on the latest
forecast for  tax revenues  to the press in time for a briefing.
Footage of the incident was carried on the main evening
television news programs and led to newspapers questioning
Offer’s treatment. A clip of Schaeuble’s outburst on  YouTube
Inc.  has more than 300,000 views.  The incident “fits into a larger picture of Schaeuble
being a bit short-tempered and having problems keeping
friends,”  Fredrik Erixon , director of the Brussels-based
European Centre for International Political Economy, said by
phone. It adds to the “problems” of having Schaeuble as the
chief advocate of German economic and financial policy “at a
time when Germany is under pressure -- and he’s not been a good
salesman.”  ‘Don’t Speak’  Schaeuble arrived at the press briefing in Berlin last week
to find that reporters still didn’t have the tax figures he was
due to explain.  “Mr. Offer, don’t speak, just make sure the numbers are
distributed,” Schaeuble snapped at his spokesman, then left the
room. He returned 20 minutes later to brief reporters.  “Considering the justified annoyance, perhaps I
overreacted,” Schaeuble, a member of Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democratic Union, told  Bild newspaper  over the
weekend.  The incident has drawn criticism from some senior CDU
members, who say it damaged the government, the  Berliner Zeitung 
reported today before Offer’s resignation was announced, without
identifying the politicians concerned.  “It says a lot for the former Finance Ministry spokesman
that he was prepared to take the consequences after Wolfgang
Schaeuble was unable to utter the word sorry,”  Gerhard Schick ,
parliamentary finance spokesman for the opposition Greens party,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Offer, a budget expert who has been employed at the Finance
Ministry for two decades, will transfer to another department,
ministry spokesman Bertrand Benoit said by phone.  Wheelchair-bound Schaeuble, 68, returned to work last month
after a four-week hospital stay for treatment related to his
being paralyzed from the chest down. Schaeuble, who was shot by
a deranged gunman in 1990, is a two-time former interior
minister who served under Chancellor  Helmut Kohl  and helped
negotiate German reunification after the fall of the Berlin Wall
on Nov. 9., 1989 -- 21 years ago today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  