-- Portuguese Bond-Yield Spread Widens to Record Before Tomorrow's Debt Sales
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-11-09T16:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/german-government-bonds-rise-on-safety-bid-irish-spread-over-bunds-widens.html
Portuguese 10-year bond yields rose
to a record relative to German bunds before a debt sale tomorrow
as concern grew that some euro-area peripheral nations will fail
to reduce their budget deficits.  The difference in yield, or spread, between 10-year Irish
bonds and similar-maturity bunds widened to a record 554 basis
points, or 5.54 percentage points, even after European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
Ireland hasn’t asked for aid. Greek bonds rose as the nation
sold 390 million euros of 26-week Treasury bills.  The Portuguese auctions “represent the tangible risk event
of the week for the peripherals,” according to  Peter Chatwell ,
a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in London. “I don’t envisage any buying going
on ahead of that event risk, so it’s natural to see some
concession building.”  The yield on the 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark
government security, rose three basis points to 2.42 percent at
4:47 p.m. in London. The 2.25 percent security due September
2020 fell 0.29, or 2.9 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,387) face
amount, to 98.54. The two-year yield was one basis point higher
at 0.93 percent.  The Portuguese-German yield spread narrowed seven basis
points to 432 basis points after earlier widening as much as 20
basis points to 4.52 percentage points, the most ever.  Irish bonds weakened for the 11th consecutive day, their
longest run of declines since January 2009. The yield on Irish
10-year bonds rose eight basis points to 8.11 percent, extending
yesterday’s 21 basis-point gain.  Portuguese Auction  Portuguese bonds weakened as market participants prepared
for tomorrow’s auction of as much as 1.25 billion euros of debt
maturing in 2016 and 2020. The 10-year yield reached 7.02
percent earlier today, the highest on record, according to
Bloomberg generic data.  Portugal has completed “more than 93 percent” of this
year’s funding requirements and this week’s auctions will be the
last in 2010,  Alberto Soares , president of the nation’s debt
agency, said yesterday. Soares was speaking from Lisbon with
 Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  Greek 10-year bond yields fell for a second day, sliding
eight basis points to 11.45 percent. Greece sold 390 million
euros of 26-week Treasury bills at a yield of 4.82 percent, the
country’s debt agency said today. Investors bid for 5.15 times
the securities offered.  ‘Financial Backstops’  “I can only say that Ireland has not requested the
activation of any European financial backstops,” Rehn said at a
press conference in Dublin late yesterday. He indicated that
Ireland may have to abandon the tax policies that helped foster
its decade-long economic boom, reiterating that the country
couldn’t continue as a “low-tax” economy.  Ireland is struggling to convince investors it can avoid a
rescue as the nation’s finances buckle under the weight of
saving  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
European Economist  Erik Nielsen  said yesterday there’s a “big
probability” that Ireland and Portugal, which is also trying to
cut its deficit, will turn to the EU and the International
Monetary Fund for help.  “These funding costs that you’re seeing right now are
clearly not sustainable for countries that are not going to grow
that fast for some years,” Nielsen said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Midday Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Spanish Premiums  Rehn said he backed the government’s plan to narrow the
deficit by 6 billion euros next year, and the state should be
given space to formulate its four-year plan to fix the
shortfall.  Investors should sell five-year  Spanish bonds , betting the
widening yield premiums demanded for Irish and Portuguese debt
will also spread to securities issued by the larger Iberian
nation, HSBC Holdings Plc said.  “At most risk to further contagion are the markets of
Spain, Italy and Belgium, because these countries are unlikely
to grow strongly enough to avoid the fiscal arithmetic becoming
more challenging,” Steven Major , global head of fixed-income
research in London, wrote in a research note dated yesterday.  Purchases by the ECB of government bonds issued by
peripheral nations are “puny” and “of little help” as bond-
yield premiums over German bunds increase, according to Societe
Generale SA.  ‘Cold Storage’  “We are heading towards putting some bond markets into a
prolonged period of cold storage,” as is already the case with
Greece,  Ciaran O’Hagan , a fixed-income strategist in Paris,
wrote in a note to investors today. “We maintain our
recommendation to avoid the riskier sovereigns.”  The ECB resumed government-bond buying last week,
completing 711 million euros of purchases after reporting no
settled transactions for the previous three weeks.  German bonds have returned 8.7 percent this year, compared
with an 8.9 percent gain for U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Austrian bonds returned 9.6
percent, while Greek debt lost 18 percent, the indexes show.
Irish securities declined 11 percent and Portuguese bonds fell
9.2 percent, according to the indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  