-- Germany's `Tough Talk' Helps to Widen Bond Spreads, Credit Agricole Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-11-09T14:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/germany-s-tough-talk-helps-to-widen-bond-spreads-credit-agricole-says.html
The yield difference between bonds
from Europe’s most indebted countries and German securities may
widen further unless Germany scales back its “tough talk,”
according to Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank.  The difference in yield, or spread, between 10-year Irish
bonds and similar-maturity bunds widened to a record 554 basis
points today. Portuguese 10-year bonds fell, pushing the yield
up 20 basis points to 7.02 percent, the highest on record,
according to Bloomberg generic data.  “The main reason why spreads have remained under pressure
is not further divergence in budget fundamentals,” wrote  Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-rate strategy at Credit
Agricole in London. “Rather, it stems from fresh evidence that
inter-government solidarity within the European monetary union
remains limited and possibly fragile.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  last month proposed a two-
step mechanism to make bondholders pay for any future euro-area
crisis. Her message clashes with European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , who says such talk risks exacerbating the
situation for indebted euro-area nations such as Ireland and
Greece as they try to narrow their budget gaps.  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said on Oct. 13 that the
ECB should terminate a peripheral-bond purchase program, which
was introduced to help restore order to financial market rattled
by Greece’s fiscal crisis.  Investors may sell risky assets as they arrange their
accounts for the end of the year, which “could further punish
the peripheral ‘midgets’ unless” Germany decides to “backtrack
on its tough talk,” wrote Jellinek.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  