-- Ghailani a `Child' and `Dupe' Unaware of Bomb Plot, His Lawyer Tells Jury
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-09T17:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/ghailani-a-child-and-dupe-unaware-of-bomb-plot-his-lawyer-tells-jury.html
Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani , the first
Guantanamo Bay detainee tried in a U.S. civilian court, was a
“child” who was duped into playing a role in the 1998 al-Qaeda
bombing of two U.S. embassies in Africa, his lawyer told a jury.  Ghailani, 36, is on trial in New York for the Aug. 7, 1998,
bombings of embassies in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi,
Kenya, which killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens. He
is accused of taking part in a terrorist conspiracy with  Osama bin Laden  to kill U.S. nationals and faces as long as life in
prison if convicted.  The U.S. says Ghailani knew of the plot and helped buy the
truck and metal tanks used in the Tanzanian attack. His lawyer,
Peter Quijano, today called Ghailani a “child” and said his
acts were “commercial transactions” by someone who was “duped
like the others, used by his friends.”  “Ahmed is that rarest of all accused; Ahmed is innocent,”
Quijano said. “We have no quarrel, we have no dispute that
these monsters plotted to blow up these two embassies, and
wiling killed hundreds of people. The question is, whether Ahmed
knew?”  Quijano called the government “desperate” and said
prosecutors failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that
Ghailani knew the terror cell’s goals was to bomb the embassy,
or that he knowingly and willfully joined in the plot.  ‘Fall Guy’  The lawyer acknowledged that Ghailani helped to purchase a
truck and seven large metal tanks used in the Tanzanian attack,
and said his client had no idea what they would be used for.
Quijano said such transactions were common for someone like
Ghailani, whom he called a “kid from Kariakoo,”  the Dar es
Salaam neighborhood that is home to a large open-air market and
where Ghailani sometimes worked.  “Call him a pawn, call him a fall guy, call him ‘set up
like a bowling pin’ in the immortal words of  Jerry Garcia , but
don’t call him guilty,” Quijano said. “It’s no substitute for
proof.”  Quijano has told U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan , who is
presiding over the trial, that he expects to conclude his
closing statements today. Prosecutors are then scheduled to
deliver a rebuttal summation. Kaplan has told jurors they may
begin their deliberations as early as tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 