-- Glaxo Failed to Warn About Paxil Risks, Lawyer Says at Philadelphia Trial
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-11-09T22:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/glaxo-failed-to-warn-about-paxil-risks-lawyer-says-at-philadelphia-trial.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, failed to properly warn consumers that its
antidepressant drug Paxil could cause birth defects, a lawyer
for the family of an injured teenager told jurors.  Glaxo had research from the 1980s showing Paxil caused
deaths among the offspring of animal test subjects and didn’t
provide clear warnings about the deaths, Kimberly Baden, a
lawyer for Anna Blyth and her family, told a Philadelphia jury
today. Baden said the drug caused a narrowing of the aorta
leading from the heart of Anna, now 14 years old.  “We believe the evidence will show Paxil caused Anna’s
birth defects,” Baden said in opening statements. “We believe
the warnings and instructions put out in 1995 weren’t
appropriate and reasonable.”  The Blyth family’s case is the first over Paxil’s birth-
defect risks to go to trial since the company agreed in July to
pay more than $1 billion to settle 800 cases alleging the
company failed to adequately warn consumers and their doctors
about the drug’s hazards. The Blyth case wasn’t part of the
settlement.  In the first Philadelphia trial, a jury ordered Glaxo in
October 2009 to pay $2.5 million to the family of a 3-year-old
boy born with heart defects that his mother blamed on the drug.  $11.7 Billion in Sales  Glaxo officials contend Paxil played no role in Anna’s
heart defects. They were most likely caused by genetics or the
fact that her mother became pregnant late in life,  Chilton Varner , a lawyer for the drugmaker, told jurors.  The deaths of Paxil animal test subjects had nothing “to
do with Anna Blyth’s heart defects,” Varner said.  Approved in 1992 for U.S. use, Paxil generated about $793
million in sales in 2009, or about 1.8 percent of Glaxo’s total
revenue. The company had $11.7 billion in U.S. Paxil  sales  over
nine years starting in 1997, according to documents made public
during the first Philadelphia trial last year.  Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  has moved to replace
 revenue  lost to generic versions of drugs such as Paxil. The
drugmaker said in May it plans to double revenue from India and
China by 2015 as it cuts prices to match competitors in  emerging
markets .  The company has paid more than $2 billion to resolve
litigation over Paxil, including claims the anti-depressant
caused suicides in some users and withdrawal symptoms. In July,
Glaxo set aside $2.4 billion to resolve litigation over Paxil
and its Avandia diabetes drug.  Second Wave  After announcing its settlement of Paxil suits, Glaxo faced
a second wave of cases over the drugs, said  Carl Tobias , a law
professor at the University of Richmond in Virginia who teaches
classes about mass-tort cases.  “You’ll have plaintiffs lawyers who hope to get in on a
settlement by going out and finding some new cases,” Tobias
said. “Glaxo probably feels it had to litigate this case to
send a signal that it’s not going to settle every one of these
birth-defect cases, especially if they are weak.”  Sarah Alspach , a Glaxo spokeswoman, declined to comment in
an e-mailed statement on how many Paxil birth-defect cases
remain outstanding in courts across the U.S. Fifteen cases
are scheduled for trial next year in Philadelphia, she said.  In Anna’s case, the Summerville, South Carolina, resident
had to undergo two rounds of open-heart surgery within nine
months of her birth, Baden told jurors.  Her mother, Marsha Blyth, took Paxil for a short time
during her pregnancy to deal with depression, Baden said.
Glaxo’s warning label didn’t make it clear that offspring from
animals on which the drug was tested had died, she said.  Volleyball Player  Varner countered that Glaxo included references to such
deaths on the drug’s label in 1995, the year Marsha Blyth got
pregnant. Blyth, who works in the lab of a South Carolina
university “testing pharmaceutical products,” read that
warning, Varner said.  Paxil’s label “contained all the knowledge it had as of
1995” about risks the drug posed to pregnant women, Varner
said.  Varner also said Anna, an honor student who plays
volleyball and takes tae kwon do lessons, has suffered no
lasting effects from her early heart problems.  “She is not on any heart medications and hasn’t suffered
any palpitations,” Varner said. “That’s the good news in the
case.”  Glaxo ’s American depositary receipts, each representing two
ordinary shares, fell 89 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $39.61 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Blyth v. GlaxoSmithKline, 07-3305, Court of
Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Philadelphia at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 