-- International Tourism Set to Slow Next Year, Euromonitor Report Shows
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-11-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/global-tourism-set-to-slow-in-2011-as-consumers-cut-back-euromonitor-says.html
Global tourism will probably grow at
a slower pace next year as consumers reduce spending because of
faltering economies,  Euromonitor International  research shows.  The volume of tourist arrivals worldwide may rise 4 percent
in 2011, compared with a 5 percent increase this year and a 5
percent decline in 2009, according to a presentation prepared
for the  World Travel Market  conference in London today.  Unemployment and government austerity measures will reduce
the amount consumers have to spend on holidays. About 10 million
fewer Britons will travel this year than in 2008, Caroline
Bremner, head of global travel and tourism at Euromonitor, said
by telephone. The U.K. is one of the world’s three biggest
countries for outbound departures with Germany and the U.S.  Euromonitor predicts the amount spent per arrival will
decline by 1 percent next year, after falling less than 1
percent this year and almost 5 percent in 2009.  The value of air travel may rise about 2 percent in 2011,
compared with 5 percent growth this year and a decline of more
than 15 percent in 2009, Euromonitor research shows.  The hotel industry may report growth of more than 2 percent
next year, after two years of declines, the researcher said.  Business travel, which started to recover this year, won’t
make up for declining leisure travel, which accounts for the
majority of the total spent on travel and tourism, Bremner said.  Companies in the travel and tourism industry are looking to
the middle classes in emerging markets for new customers to
compensate for fewer passengers travelling in Europe and the
U.S., Bremner said. Arrivals in Asia are likely to surpass pre-
recession levels next year, Euromonitor says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  