-- GM Financial Posts $51.3 Million Profit After Takeover
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-11-09T20:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/gm-financial-posts-51-3-million-profit-after-takeover.html
General Motors Co. ’s finance unit
said net income almost doubled in its first quarter after being
acquired by the largest U.S. automaker.  Net income in the three months through Sept. 30 rose to
$51.3 million from $25.8 million a year earlier, Fort Worth,
Texas-based  General Motors Financial Co.  said today in a
statement. The results included $30 million of after-tax
expenses related to GM’s acquisition of the subprime lender,
formerly known as AmeriCredit Corp.  GM Financial said originations climbed 5.8 percent to $959
million in the quarter from $906 million in the period ended
June 30. Originations surged more than fourfold from $229
million in the same period a year earlier.  GM Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  is preparing for an
initial public offering of as much as $10.6 billion to reduce
U.S. and Canadian government stakes in the Detroit-based
automaker. GM said in a presentation related to the IPO that
it’s weaker than competitors in leasing and in getting financing
for customers with lower credit scores.  “We saw a problem, considered our options, and made a
decision and acted swiftly and decisively,” Akerson said of the
GM Financial purchase in a presentation to potential investors
posted online last week.  Leasing income gained 39 percent to $15.9 million from
$11.5 million a year earlier, the company said in a regulatory
filing. GM Financial plans to introduce a regional lease pilot
program by March, the company said Sept. 29.  Delinquent Loans  Loans delinquent by a month or more as a percentage of
receivables fell to 8.7 percent from 11.4 percent a year
earlier.  GM Financial set aside $74.6 million to protect against
losses on bad loans, a 53 percent decline from $158 million a
year earlier.  The acquisition of GM Financial, completed last month, will
help the automaker make money by extending credit to more
customers,  Dan Ammann , GM’s vice president of finance, said in a
presentation to potential investors.  “By making these financing options available to our
customers during all business cycles and all credit cycles, we
expect to sell more vehicles and gain market share over the long
term,” Ammann said.  GM expects to maintain lease offerings through Ally
Financial Inc., previously known as GMAC Inc., and U.S. Bancorp,
according to the presentation by Ammann.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 