-- GM's $19 Billion Profit Said to Need Near-Record U.S. Car Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2010-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/gm-said-to-need-near-record-u-s-sales-to-meet-19-billion-profit-forecast.html
General Motors Co.  is telling
prospective investors that its peak $19 billion operating profit
forecast would require a near-record 17 million  level  for U.S.
auto sales, said two people familiar with the presentation.  In a mid-level market of about 15 million deliveries, the
automaker could post as much as $13 billion in earnings before
interest and taxes, Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell  said
in a meeting in New York Nov. 8, according to the people, who
asked not to be identified because the meetings to promote the
initial public offering are private.  Liddell gave the profit projections in an online
presentation last week without detailing the sales levels needed
to reach them. To attain the highest profit targets, the company
projected U.S. vehicle sales of about 17 million annually, he
said in the meetings. The U.S. light-vehicle sales record was
17.4 million in 2000.  “Selling 17 million cars is probably five to seven years
out,” said  Joe Phillippi , principal of AutoTrends Inc., a
consulting firm in Short Hills, New Jersey. “We’re still
looking at 10 percent  unemployment .”  U.S. sales last year fell to 10.4 million, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. based in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.
Annual deliveries had averaged 16.8 million from 2000 to 2007.
Industrywide light-vehicle sales rose to a 12.3 million
seasonally adjusted annual rate in October, the fastest pace of
the year, researcher Autodata Corp. said.  Liddell, Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  and several
other executives were in New York the past two days making the
case that the new GM has much larger profit potential than the
old GM, said the people.  Lower Break-Even  To break even, Detroit-based GM previously needed 25
percent of a U.S. market of 15.5 million vehicles a year, or
“around mid-cycle,” Liddell said in the video. It now can be
profitable at a 10.5 million rate and about an 18 percent share,
he said.  GM also said in a meeting at Guastavino’s, an event space
in Manhattan, that the mid-cycle profit projection includes
about $2 billion in profit from GM’s pension investments, two
people said.  Liddell didn’t say when he expects to see auto sales climb
to 15 million and higher. GM uses Lexington, Massachusetts-based
research firm IHS Automotive for forecasting. IHS predicts that
auto sales will reach 15 million vehicles in the U.S. in 2012
and 17 million in 2015.  Profit Potential  GM executives are trying to show that the company has
unforeseen profit potential as it tries to  sell  365 million
shares for $26 to $29 a share after a 3-for-1 split. A
successful offering would reduce the U.S. Treasury Department’s
stake to 43 percent from 61 percent, according to a  regulatory
filing  for the IPO.  The shares that are scheduled to be offered on Nov. 17
represent 24 percent of the equity in the company. The company
aims to raise as much as $10.6 billion for the U.S. Treasury and
other shareholders with the IPO.  The automaker is selling the shares to help return to
taxpayers their $49.5 billion investment in the company.
Including the repurchase of the Treasury’s preferred shares
after the IPO, taxpayers will have received $9.5 billion in
repayments, interest and dividends from GM since the automaker
emerged from bankruptcy in July 2009, according to the Treasury.  To break even, the Treasury needs to sell GM for an average
of almost $44 a share. The government is relying on secondary
offerings to fetch higher share prices to recoup the public’s
investment in GM.  Meetings to pitch the IPO also are scheduled for Boston,
Kansas City, Denver, Houston, Dallas, Los Angeles and San
Francisco, two people familiar with the matter have said.  Selim Bingol , a GM spokesman, declined to comment about the
IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  