-- Goldman, Citadel Alumni Will Start Tudor Pickering Fund Focused on Energy
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-11-09T23:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/goldman-citadel-alumni-will-start-tudor-pickering-fund-focused-on-energy.html
Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. hired
alumni from Citadel Investment Group LLC and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  to start a hedge fund focused on energy companies, the
Houston-based company said.  Paul Chambers , 41, former global sector head of energy and
utility equities at Citadel, and  Walker Moody , 31, previously in
the investment management division at Goldman Sachs, have joined
TPH Asset Management LLC, the new hedge fund unit of Tudor
Pickering Holt, an energy investment and merchant banker, the
company said in a statement.  “We’re bringing very much a bottom-up stock-picking
approach to the business,” said  Dan Pickering , 44, co-president
and head of research at Tudor Pickering, in an interview. “This
is not a fund that’s going to need oil to go to $120 to make
money. We’re going to find stocks that will perform in a good
environment or a bad environment.”  Chambers was brought on as portfolio manager and Moody as
head of asset management.  Pickering started Pickering Energy Partners in 2004 and
merged in 2007 with Tudor Capital, founded by  Bob Tudor , 50, a
former Goldman Sachs partner who now serves as chief executive
officer of Tudor Pickering.  The hedge fund is slated to begin trading in February, said
Pickering, who has invested $3 million of his own money. He
declined to say how much capital the company has raised.  “The industry norm is that critical mass for a hedge fund
or a fund complex today feels like it’s at least $100 million,”
Pickering said. “We would hope to be at critical mass at our
launch or shortly thereafter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net .
GS US <EQUITY> CN BN
 Z US <Equity> CN 