-- Goldman, Natixis in Talks to Settle U.K. Default Swaps Fight
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-09T12:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/goldman-natixis-fight-over-swaps-deal-goes-to-trial-in-london.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Natixis
SA are in settlement talks to resolve a lawsuit over the
termination of credit-default swaps that was scheduled to go to
trial today.  Judge  Elizabeth Gloster  of the High Court of Justice in
London agreed to postpone the start of trial until 2 p.m. today
after  Anthony Grabiner , a lawyer for Goldman Sachs, said the
parties were likely to resolve the dispute “around lunchtime.”  The U.S. bank’s London unit, Goldman Sachs International,
sued Natixis in July to stop the termination of three credit-
default swaps with a potential value of around $530 million.
Natixis, a unit of BPCE SA, France’s second-largest lender by
branches, said in July it would terminate the swaps because
Goldman didn’t comply with the contract.  Natixis countersued in September, seeking a declaration it
ended the deal lawfully, as well as breach of contract damages.
New York-based Goldman didn’t tell Natixis “as soon as
practicable” that the trustee for the securities determined in
April the deal was in default, Natixis said. Goldman didn’t
follow directions given by Natixis or provide information, the
French bank said in court papers.  Natixis “remains, ready, willing and able to pay to GSI
the sum of $198,351,893.24 which is due to GSI,” the French
bank said. “The credit-default swaps were lawfully and validly
terminated.”  Goldman, the most profitable firm in Wall Street history,
disputed Natixis’s calculation in court papers.  Dozens of Cases  The case is among dozens in the London courts over products
which fell in value during the financial crisis. Banks including
Barclays Plc, Bank of America Corp., and UBS AG are involved in
U.K. suits to end contracts or force counterparties to pay
because of losses tied to the declining economy. The trial stems
from the first lawsuit Goldman has filed in London in more than
a year, according to court records.  “Natixis was aware, by its own admission, of the
possibility of an event of default in respect of some of the
notes,” Goldman said in a court filing. It isn’t “entitled to
hold GSI accountable for Natixis’ failure, by its own inaction
and instructions, to achieve what it might have wanted.”  The swap deal between the banks included the three credit-
default swaps, and three corresponding swaps to offload the risk
between the French bank and a special-purpose vehicle
established by a bond insurer. When the insurer restructured in
2009, it left Natixis with the risk of the notes defaulting, the
bank said in court papers.  Goldman spokeswoman  Sophie Bullock  declined to comment. An
e-mail to Natixis’s press office didn’t receive an immediate
response after regular business hours.  The case is Goldman Sachs International v. Natixis, case
no. 10-880, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division
(London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 