-- Goldman, Natixis Settle U.K. Lawsuit Over Credit Default Swaps
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-11-09T15:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/goldman-natixis-settle-u-k-suit-over-termination-of-credit-default-swaps.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Natixis
SA settled a London lawsuit over terminated credit-default swaps
that might have been worth as much as $530 million after a delay
in the trial that was to begin today.  “Goldman Sachs and Natixis are pleased they’ve reached a
commercial settlement,” Goldman’s lawyer,  Anthony Grabiner ,
said in court. The terms are confidential and Grabiner said
neither side would make any further public statements on the
agreement.  The U.S. bank’s London unit, Goldman Sachs International,
sued Natixis in July to stop the termination of three credit-
default swaps. Natixis, a unit of BPCE SA, France’s second-
largest lender by branches, said in July it would terminate the
swaps because Goldman didn’t comply with the contract.  The French investment bank countersued in September,
seeking a ruling it ended the deal lawfully, as well as breach
of contract damages. Natixis said it was “ready willing and
able” to pay Goldman $198.4 million on the “lawfully and
validly terminated” credit-default swaps.  Goldman, the most profitable firm in Wall Street history,
disputed Natixis’s calculation in court papers. Judge  Elizabeth Gloster  of the High Court of Justice agreed to a request to
postpone the start of the trial to allow for settlement talks.  Dozens of Cases  The case is among dozens in the London courts over
structured products which fell in value during the financial
crisis. Banks including Barclays Plc, Bank of America Corp., and
UBS AG are involved in U.K. suits to end contracts or force
counterparties to pay because of losses tied to the declining
economy. The settlement stems from the first lawsuit Goldman has
filed in London in more than a year, according to court records.  The swap deal between the banks included the three credit-
default swaps, and three corresponding swaps to offload the risk
between the French bank and a special-purpose vehicle
established by a bond insurer. When the insurer restructured in
2009, it left Natixis with the risk of the notes defaulting, the
bank said in court papers.  Goldman said Natixis knew it “was at all times so exposed,
and remains exposed, under the credit derivative transactions,”
according to a court filing. It isn’t “entitled to hold GSI
accountable for Natixis’ failure, by its own inaction and
instructions, to achieve what it might have wanted.”  Natixis argued in court papers that Goldman didn’t tell it
“as soon as practicable” that the trustee for the securities
determined in April the deal was in default.  The case is Goldman Sachs International v. Natixis, case
no. 10-880, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division
(London).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 