-- Google User Sues Over Claim Toolbar Software Violates Privacy
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/google-sued-over-claims-toolbar-web-surfing-software-reveals-personal-data.html
Google Inc. , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, was accused in a lawsuit of
violating users’ privacy rights because its Toolbar software
allegedly transmits their Internet activity to the company.  The complaint, filed in federal court in San Jose,
California, claims Google has misled users who download the
software, used to search and browse the web, to believe they can
disable features that transmit personal data to the company. The
case, which seeks class-action, or group, status, was filed on
behalf of Jason Weber of Brooklyn, New York.  “With products such as Toolbar, Google acquires a great
deal of information about users’ Internet activities, adding to
the already substantial information it acquires by providing a
search engine, network advertising, and more,” according to the
complaint filed Nov. 5.  Users of  Google  Toolbar “transmit information about
themselves and their online activities to Google that they
intended to keep private,” according to the complaint.  Google , based in Mountain View, California, has said
automobiles equipped with cameras to collect photographs for its
Street View product captured personal data from unsecured
household wireless networks. The Federal Trade Commission last
month ended its investigation of the practice after the company
said it will improve privacy safeguards.  According to Google’s  website , Toolbar features can be used
without sharing personal information, except for features
designed to work with a Google account. It is possible for some
data, such as search queries or page addresses, to contain
personally identifying information, the company said on its
website.  A Google representative didn’t immediately return an e-mail
seeking comment yesterday.  The case is Weber v. Google, 10-05035, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 