-- Canadian Stocks Rise as RIM, Precious-Metals Producers Advance
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-11-10T21:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/great-west-sino-forest-softchoice-capstone-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks  rose as Research In
Motion Ltd. rallied on speculation the BlackBerry maker may try
to undercut Apple Inc.’s iPad, while precious-metals producers
gained amid renewed concern over European government debt.  RIM advanced 5.7 percent after saying it will sell its
PlayBook tablet computer for less than $500. Goldcorp Inc., the
world’s second-largest gold producer by market value, increased
1.7 percent as gold and silver rebounded from lows reached after
settlement yesterday. First Quantum Minerals Ltd., Canada’s
second-biggest publicly traded copper producer, declined 4.5
percent after reporting financial results that missed the
average analyst estimate for a third quarter.  “There’s nothing I would see in the markets that would
imply a significant reversal of the stealth bull market we’ve
been in for most of this year,” said  Thomas Caldwell , chief
executive officer of Caldwell Securities Ltd., which manages
about C$1 billion ($995 million) in Toronto. “There’s a lot of
uncertainty coupled with a lot of angst and fear and
polarization. All of that notwithstanding, the economy is
chugging away.”  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  climbed 26.01
points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,942.64.  The S&P/TSX surged 3 percent, led by raw-materials and
energy stocks, in the three sessions after the U.S. Federal
Reserve announced a $600 billion asset-purchasing program last
week. The Canadian benchmark retreated 1 percent yesterday as
international criticism of the Fed program, which may weaken the
U.S. dollar by increasing the money supply, intensified.  RIM Jumps  RIM jumped 5.7 percent to C$58.61 after the company said it
will sell the PlayBook for less than the average iPad. Shares of
the Waterloo, Ontario, company have soared 17 percent since Oct.
22, the trading day before it demonstrated a working PlayBook at
an Adobe Systems Inc. conference.  Precious-metals companies rose as gold gained more than 1
percent from where it stood at the close of TSX trading
yesterday.  London clearing house LCH Clearnet Ltd. increased margin
requirements for trading in Irish government bonds as concerns
over the size of the country’s budget deficit have weakened its
debt securities. Ten-year government bond yields rose in the
U.K., Spain, Greece, Portugal and Ireland.  Goldcorp Inc. gained 1.7 percent to C$47.43. Silver
reseller Silver Wheaton Corp. advanced 6.7 percent to C$34.71
after tumbling  8.1 percent  yesterday. Barrick Gold Corp., the
world’s biggest gold-mining company, increased 1.2 percent to
C$51.84.  Copper Producers  Copper producers First Quantum and Quadra FNX Mining Ltd.,
dropped after their quarterly profits trailed analyst forecasts.  First Quantum declined 4.5 percent to C$91 after missing
the average of 14 analyst estimates by 11 percent, excluding
certain items. Quadra FNX lost 7.6 percent to C$14.70 after
reporting third-quarter earnings  17 percent short  of the average
estimate, excluding certain items.  PetroBakken Energy Ltd. slumped 6.1 percent to C$20.60
after analysts at Royal Bank of Canada and Raymond James
Financial Inc. cut their  ratings  on the stock. The company,
which explores for oil and gas in Canada, reported earnings on
Nov. 8 that trailed analyst estimates.  Electronic-whiteboard maker Smart Technologies Inc. plunged
33 percent to a record low C$8.90 after cutting its 2011 revenue
forecast. The company had its initial public offering at $17 a
share in July.  Sino-Forest Rises  Sino-Forest Corp., Canada’s biggest forestry company by
market value, climbed 2.8 percent to C$21.83 after reporting
third-quarter earnings that  beat  the average of nine analyst
estimates by 11 percent, excluding certain items. Sino-Forest,
which produces lumber in China, has jumped  28 percent  since the
end of September.  Ivanhoe Energy Inc., which produces oil and gas in China,
sank 7.4 percent to C$2.50. China increased reserve requirements
for some of its banks in an attempt to cool its economy and
prevent inflation, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  Avala Resources Ltd., a gold and copper exploration company
spun off from Dundee Precious Metals Inc. in July, jumped 43
percent to C$1.43 after  announcing  what it called a
“significant new discovery” on its project in Serbia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 