-- Papaconstantinou Says EU Budget Cuts May `Choke Off Growth'
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-11-09T11:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/greece-s-papaconstantinou-says-tough-eu-budget-cuts-may-choke-off-growth-.html
Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said he’s concerned markets may force European
nations into too-severe budget cuts that could push economies
back into a slump.  “I am not one of those who thinks all the European
countries should press on the brakes and do deficit reduction in
the way that would choke off growth,” Papaconstantinou said at
an event in London late yesterday. “There is a story to be
told, whereby some countries have to do serious deficit belt-
tightening, others less so.”  European governments have stepped up deficit-cutting
measures in the wake of the Greek fiscal crisis this year that
prompted the European Union to set up a fund to aid indebted
nations. Coupled with a cooling global recovery and a
strengthening euro, the deeper fiscal squeezes may curb the
region’s economic growth.  “I worry very much if we simply all get into a situation
where we are forced by markets to reduce our deficits,” which
may “lead to a double-dip recession,” he said.  Greece was forced to seek an aid package from the EU and
International Monetary Fund after its borrowing costs soared and
it was shut out of debt markets. Papaconstantinou said Greece’s
situation still calls for aggressive fiscal steps.  “Implementing what we have already agreed to in the
timeframe we have agreed to is a task in itself,” he told
reporters after the event. “Obviously, the more and the faster
we do it, the better.”  ‘Concern’  The finance minister also said there is now “concern”
about other so-called peripheral nations in the euro region.  “There’s a more general issue around some of the
peripheral countries in the euro area, that’s what we’re seeing
at the moment,” Papaconstantinou said. “There is concern
around that.”  Irish bonds fell for an 11th day today, pushing the yield
premium on the country’s debt over German bunds to a record 554
basis points. The  premium  has more than doubled in the past
three months on investor worry Ireland’s government won’t be
able to reduce its deficit or cover the cost of bank bailouts
without outside help.  The spread on  Portuguese debt  widened to 446 basis points
from 439 basis points yesterday. It was at 248 basis points
three months ago. Greece’s spread was at 902 basis points today.  Papaconstantinou also said he is not discussing any
restructuring of Greek debt, and he expects economic growth to
resume as a result of the government’s structural reforms.  The EU-IMF package “shields us from the difficulties in
the market until early 2012” as long as “we continue with
implementation of the program,” he said. “This gives us the
time to be able to convince the market that we are on a
sustainable path.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  