-- Grocery, Oil Groups Sue EPA Over Ethanol Decision
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2010-11-09T20:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/grocery-oil-groups-sue-epa-over-ethanol-decision-update1-.html
The Grocery Manufacturers
Association, the American Petroleum Institute and other groups
filed a lawsuit challenging the EPA’s decision to allow more
corn-based ethanol in gasoline.  Lobbying organizations  representing companies  that include
 Tyson Foods Inc . and Coca-Cola Co. are part of the lawsuit filed
today in the  U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit . The groups, including the  American Meat Institute  and
the Snack Food Association, said the EPA lacked the authority to
make the decision and will result in higher food costs.  The EPA’s decision “will increase the amount of corn being
diverted to our gas tanks and away from meat and poultry
production,” J.  Patrick Boyle , the Meat Institute’s chief
executive officer, said in an-mailed statement. The AMI includes
Tyson, Smithfield Foods Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc. among its
members.  More Testing  The EPA last month granted a request from ethanol producers
to increase concentrations of the fuel in gasoline to as much as
15 percent from 10 percent for vehicles made for 2007 and later.
The agency may make a decision affecting model years 2001
through 2006 later this month, after further testing.  The American Petroleum Institute said government and
industry tests have shown “potential safety and performance
problems” and that the EPA should have waited for the
additional tests to be completed.  The EPA’s decision was “grounded firmly in science,”
Betsaida Alcantara, deputy press secretary for the agency, said
in an e-mailed statement. “This decision is sound, and the
agency is confident that it will withstand legal challenge.”  Archer Daniels Midland Co.  is among the ethanol producers
that pressed the EPA to raise the limit for an industry that’s
had at least a dozen companies seek bankruptcy protection since
2008. Oil companies, automakers and environmental groups say
adding more ethanol may damage engines, boost food prices and
worsen air quality, and refiners and convenience stores that
sell fuel may be reluctant to market the new blend.  Boosting Demand  Growth Energy , a lobbying group that includes Poet LLC of
Sioux Falls, South Dakota, the largest U.S. biofuels-maker, has
said raising the “blend ratio” would boost demand. By law, the
U.S. must use 12 billion gallons of renewable fuels such as
ethanol next year, up from 10.5 billion in 2009, and use 15
billion gallons by 2015.  “Having been unable to dispute the overwhelming science in
favor of E15, they are now turning to the legal process to slow
progress on renewable fuels,” Growth Energy Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Buis  said, referring to opponents of the EPA
decision. “E15 is a good fuel for American motorists,” he said
in an e-mailed statement.  The annual market value for ethanol in the U.S. has risen
to $27.1 billion since federal support began under President
 Jimmy Carter  during the 1970s energy crisis.  The case is Grocery Manufacturers Association v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 10-1380, U.S. Court of Appeals,
District of Columbia Circuit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net :  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 