-- IAC's Barry Diller Surrenders to Google, Ends Ask.com's Search Effort
-- B y   B r a d   S t o n e   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-11-09T21:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/iac-s-diller-surrenders-to-google-juggernaut-ends-ask-com-search-effort.html
Ask.com, the Internet search engine
that media mogul  Barry Diller  acquired for $1.85 billion to
compete with  Google Inc. , is cutting 130 engineering jobs and
conceding much of its search business to competitors.  Ask.com, a unit of Diller’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp , is
dismissing engineers based in Edison, New Jersey, and in
Hangzhou, China, and ceasing work on its algorithmic search
technology, according to Ask.com President  Doug Leeds .  The search unit will consolidate its engineering operations
at its headquarters in Oakland, California, and focus its
resources on developing its online question-and-answer service.
Twenty of the engineers currently working in New Jersey will be
asked to relocate to Oakland, the company said.  Leeds said that  Google  has become too powerful a competitor
to justify Ask.com’s continued pursuit of those search users.  “It’s become this huge juggernaut of a company that we
really thought we could compete against by innovating,” Leeds
said in an interview. “We did a great job of holding our market
share but it wasn’t enough to grow the way IAC had hoped we
would grow when it bought us.”  Google , the number one search provider, controls 65 percent
of all U.S. searches, according to Nielsen Co. Ask.com, ranked
sixth among search providers, has less than 2 percent.  Diller’s Surrender  Ask.com  says it will maintain the prominent search box on
its site and deliver search results provided by one of its
competitors. Leeds declined to specify which company, citing a
confidentiality agreement. Ask.com already has a partnership
with Google, which generates a portion of its search results as
part of a wide-ranging agreement between IAC and Google. That
agreement runs through 2012.  For Diller, the decision to pull out of direct competition
with Google marks a surrender. Diller bought the search engine
then known as Ask Jeeves in 2005, betting he could battle the
likes of Google and  Yahoo! Inc.  Renamed Ask.com, the search
engine struggled to increase its market share and in February
IAC took a $991 million impairment charge for its search and
media business, which includes Ask.com.  “We’ve realized in the last few years you can’t compete
head on with Google,” Diller said in an e-mailed statement.  Yahoo has also ceded much of its search business to
competitors, signing a 10-year agreement to use  Microsoft
Corp. ’s Bing search technology on its Web properties.  Though its traditional search business hasn’t grown, IAC is
increasing its “toolbar” business, which places various
clickable tools on the browsers of Internet users, and enables
IAC to collect a fee each time the toolbar is used.  Toolbar Growth  In the third quarter, IAC’s search revenue increased 20
percent over the previous year to $205.1 million, while
operating income in the search business was up 43 percent to
$28.9 million. The increase was a result of the growth in
toolbars, according to  Sandy Mehta , an analyst at Hong Kong-
based Value Investment Principals Ltd.  “Gradually, Ask.com is sort of fading away,” Mehta said
in an interview. The new focus on “Q&A is really not much
different than Ask.com currently,” he said. “But the toolbar
business is something that’s really growing.”  IAC does not break out revenue for Ask.com, and Leeds said
he doesn’t expect the switch to Q&A to change current revenue
forecasts.  The focus on answering questions is not a new approach. The
original Ask Jeeves was a site where users could pose questions
in natural language and receive relevant search results.  The new Ask.com Q&A platform also provides answers to
questions asked using natural language. The answers are provided
from links to relevant Web sites, and also from hand-crafted
answers from members of an Ask.com community.  Ask will face competition from Silicon Valley startups such
as  Quora ,  Formspring  and  ChaCha . Facebook Inc. recently began
its own Q&A feature, and earlier this year Google acquired
Aardvark, a Q&A service.  IAC fell 37 cents to $28.30 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has gained 38 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brad Stone  in San Francisco at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net ;
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom or  pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 