-- Iceland Government's Debt Delay Hampers Growth, Gudmundsson Says
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-11-09T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/iceland-central-bank-blames-government-for-impaired-debt-relief-efforts.html
Iceland’s central bank Governor  Mar Gudmundsson  said a string of government pledges to provide debt
relief to households is blocking a recovery as debtors delay
restructuring in the hope of a better package.  “The political discussion in Iceland is constantly
implicitly promising something more and therefore the incentive
of households to enter programs has been somewhat impaired,”
said Gudmundsson in an interview in Basel yesterday.  Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir  is striving to
introduce proposals aimed at assisting families reeling from
last year’s 20 percent drop in income and prevent the 39 percent
of households that are technically insolvent from losing their
homes. The ideas will be discussed at a meeting today with
opposition parties, pension funds, labor and employers’ unions
and a group representing homeowners.  The Social Democrat-led ruling coalition was forced to back
down from a previous proposal requiring lenders to forgive $2
billion in mortgage debt -- 15 percent of Iceland’s economic
output -- after pension funds blocked it.  A group calling itself Protestors in Iceland have called on
citizens to disrupt today’s meeting. About 9,000 people were
invited to participate in the demonstration, according to the
group’s webpage.  ‘Optimistic’  “It’s too early to say how this last attempt will turn
out,” said Gudmundsson, who was attending a meeting of central
bank governors in the Swiss city. “We’ll have to wait for
proposals. I’m cautiously optimistic.”  Sigurdardottir’s government is pushing a bill that will
allow bankrupts to walk away from their debts after two years.
Her administration on Oct. 22 also presented a foreign-lending
bill that will reduce each household’s debt burden by $13,500 on
average, leaving lenders liable for the impact of currency
losses.  She extended by five months a moratorium on foreclosures,
breaching the country’s agreement with the International
Monetary Fund, which led a $4.6 billion bailout for the island
two years ago.  The IMF won’t be “allowed” to block the efforts, even if
the government becomes more indebted, Sigurdardottir said on
Oct. 8.  The  fund  estimates 63 percent of the island’s loans to
households and businesses are non-performing. On Oct. 4, about
8,000 Icelanders took to the streets to voice their grievances
in the island’s biggest protests since it was engulfed by the
financial crisis.  Iceland’s economy, the world’s fifth-richest per capita as
recently as 2007, contracted 6.8 percent last year and shrank an
annual 8.4 percent in the second quarter.  ‘Somewhat Fragile’  “The recovery won’t be very strong and is somewhat fragile
with risks tilted to the downside,” said Gudmundsson, pointing
out that consumer confidence plunged from 67.7 points in
September to 32 points in October.  “Around the time when parliament reconvened in early
October and there were demonstrations taking place, confidence
took a hit,” said Gudmundsson. “We don’t know whether it will
be very short lived and has even recovered by now or not. But
this shows how fragile this recovery might be. For the recovery
to really take off we need a stronger level of investment and
there are still some question marks regarding that.”  Iceland’s government debt is ranked “junk” at Fitch
Ratings, while Moody’s Investors Service  and Standard & Poor’s
give the sovereign their lowest investment grade. Moody’s says
mortgage relief measures that swell government debt would hurt
Iceland’s rating.  Rising household debt burdens, deteriorating economic
indicators and a failure to reach settlement with Iceland’s
creditors have eroded some of Sigurdardottir’s goodwill with
voters.  Support for her Social Democrat, Left Green coalition
slipped to 30 percent in an October opinion poll by Capacent
Gallup, compared with the 51 percent of the vote it received in
the April 2009 general election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  