-- Michigan Economy Reaches `Convincing' 2-Year High Thanks to Manufacturing
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-09T20:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/michigan-economy-reaches-convincing-2-year-high-thanks-to-manufacturing.html
Michigan’s economic activity in
September reached its highest level since June 2008, driven by
resurgent manufacturing, according to a Comerica Bank report.  “It looks to me like a pretty convincing recovery,”  Dana Johnson , senior vice president and chief economist at Comerica,
said in a telephone interview today. “ Michigan  is still badly
depressed, and it has a huge amount of work to do, but it is
moving in the right direction.”  September marked the index’s seventh consecutive month of
year-over-year increases of at least 10 percent, according to
the Dallas-based bank’s Michigan Economic Activity Index.
Johnson said that while motor vehicle production fueled part of
the increase, “this is not a one-dimensional auto story.”  The bank’s index considers nine seasonally adjusted
indicators of economic activity, the report said. They include
activity in construction, manufacturing and the service sector,
as well as job growth and consumer spending.  Michigan reported a 13 percent unemployment rate in
September, the second-highest in the U.S. behind Nevada’s 14.4
percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  The U.S.  unemployment rate  held at 9.6 percent in October,
according to the BLS.  Picking Up Speed  Johnson said in the report that Michigan’s economy was
“re-accelerating along with the national economy as the summer
drew to a close.” He said he expects “modest gains” in the
last quarter of 2010.  “In a sense, what we’re seeing in Michigan is a replay of
past cyclical periods,” Johnson said in the interview. “The
state goes down and tends to come back faster than others.”  Economic data present a mixed picture. U.S. auto sales
increased in October over the previous year’s period, with
 General Motors Co.  reporting a 3.5 percent gain and  Ford Motor
Co.  a 19.3 percent increase.  At the same time, Michigan ranks among the top five states
in terms of home mortgage foreclosures, according to RealtyTrac.
Johnson said the state’s challenge is job growth.  “There’s a lot of heavy lifting to do,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  