-- High-Frequency Traders Lobby, Donate to Head Off U.S. Rules
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k ,   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2010-11-09T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/high-frequency-firms-accelerate-lobbying-donations-to-head-off-u-s-rules.html
The high-frequency trading industry
is stepping out of the shadows in Washington.  Closely held companies with undisclosed profits and obscure
names like Getco LLC, Hard Eight Futures LLC and Quantlab
Financial LLC, are beginning to act more like Wall Street banks,
cutting checks to politicians, forming trade groups and hiring
lobbyists and ex-regulators. They’re looking to fend off tighter
rules and appease lawmakers who say the firms disadvantage small
investors and contribute to wild swings in stock prices.  While the companies, which use high-powered computers to
execute thousands of trades in milliseconds, aren’t approaching
the big banks in Washington spending, they have more than
quadrupled their political giving over the last four years, a
Bloomberg News analysis shows. The top recipients include  Eric Cantor , set to become House majority leader, and several
incoming senators who won in last week’s Republican rout.  “They are under attack as an industry and they are
fighting back,” said  James Angel , a professor at Georgetown
University’s business school who is on the board of Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, which operates stock exchanges. “There is an old
saying in Washington that if you are not at the table, you are
on the table.”  In just over a decade, high-frequency trading has evolved
from a little-known investment strategy practiced by
mathematicians to a force that accounts for the majority of U.S.
stock trades. The companies, which prefer to be called automated
proprietary trading firms, say they benefit all investors by
keeping markets liquid and transaction fees low.  Periods of Stress  The  Securities and Exchange Commission  is less certain of
the benefits. The agency is considering a requirement that high-
frequency traders keep buying and selling shares during periods
of stress, instead of just abandoning the market. The SEC is
also evaluating whether it should slow down computers that
submit and cancel thousands of orders in milliseconds by
requiring bids to stand for a minimum amount of time.  While regulators may need to address some issues, any rules
shouldn’t get in the way of innovation, said  David Hirschmann ,
president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s  Center for Capital
Markets Competitiveness .  “There are those who really want to turn the clock back to
1980,” said Hirschmann, whose trade group’s members include
stock exchanges, financial firms and public companies.  Levin Warning  The SEC and members of Congress already were examining the
business when the May 6 market plunge temporarily wiped out $862
billion of share value in 20 minutes. Although an investigation
by regulators didn’t put direct blame on high-frequency firms,
the volatility of stock prices focused more attention in
Washington on their operations.  “Those with powerful computers are able to use them to
their own financial advantage,” Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, said Sept. 28 on the Senate floor. “Those who exploit
our markets to the detriment of long-term investors and the real
economy will not be able to do so without a battle from the
Senate.”  In addition to writing proposed rules, the SEC’s
enforcement division is investigating whether computer-driven
traders have manipulated prices. “You have to be concerned
every time there’s a lack of transparency into a market
practice, particularly one like high-frequency trading that is
so prevalent,”  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s enforcement chief,
said in an interview.  The scrutiny has spurred the industry to seek friends in
Washington. Managers and employees of 21 of the largest
computerized-trading firms, including Getco, Allston Trading LLC
and Infinium Capital Management LLC gave about $490,000 for this
year’s congressional elections, compared with just over $100,000
in 2006, according to federal election reports filed through
Oct. 15.  In 2000, when some of the firms didn’t yet exist,
contributions totaled about $10,000.  Schapiro’s Plans  Although high-frequency trading wasn’t addressed by
Congress in the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  in September 2009 began issuing proposals to
curtail market developments that cater to the industry.  After the May 6 stock plunge, she went even further by
saying the SEC will examine whether it should restrict a
practice by high-frequency firms of canceling most of the orders
they submit.  Last January, Representative Cantor of Virginia, the second
highest-ranking Republican in the House, sent Schapiro a letter
saying her agency’s ideas for regulating fragmented, electronic
markets, including a proposal that would prohibit exchanges from
giving high-frequency traders and other market participants a
split-second peek at stock orders, “appeared ad hoc in
nature.”  ‘Collect the Facts’  The SEC should “collect all the facts and develop coherent
and rational policy objectives before adopting any potentially
far-reaching rulemaking proposals,” Cantor wrote in the Jan. 27
note.  Cantor, who helped spearhead his party’s successful
campaign to win the House back from Democrats, has been among
the largest recipients of contributions from the industry, with
he and his political action committee taking in $23,000 since
last year, records show.  On Oct. 5, 2009, for example, eight top executives from
Chicago-based Getco, including the chief executive officer,
general counsel and chief financial officer, gave Cantor more
than $10,000, records show.  He collected $1,400 the same day from  James Simons , the
legendary founder of Renaissance Technologies Corp., a hedge
fund that engages in high-frequency trading. Other firms whose
employees have contributed money to Cantor include Tradelink LLC
and Traditum Group LLC.  No one at Getco has asked Cantor to discuss regulatory
policy with the SEC, spokeswoman Sophie Sohn said.  ‘Share Our Experience’  Getco supports some rules for high-frequency trading under
consideration by the SEC, Sohn said. She said the company
already faces obligations to buy and sell stock at the best
offer price, because it’s a designated market maker at the New
York Stock Exchange.  “As a major participant on many of the world’s leading
exchanges, we believe it is important to share our experience
with regulators, lawmakers, fellow industry participants and
members of the press who are seeking to improve their
understanding of market structure,” she said.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for Renaissance, declined
to comment on Simons’s political contributions.  Cantor also wrote to the SEC after the agency responded to
the May crash by urging stock exchanges to implement so-called
circuit breakers that halt trading of any stock with a 10
percent price-swing in less than five minutes.  ‘Holistic Review’  “I am concerned that this was done before conducting a
holistic review of the causes of the disruption,” Cantor wrote
in his second letter dated May 21. Cantor wasn’t available to
comment, said his spokesman John Murray.  Another advocate for electronic trading has been
Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican who sits on
the House Financial Services Committee.  Hensarling and Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama
Republican in line to become chairman of the financial services
panel, advised Schapiro in an Aug. 24 letter to get a better
understanding of what caused the crash before “assigning blame
to algorithmic or high-frequency trading firms.”  Hensarling received $4,800 last month from  Suhas Daftuar 
and Alexander Morcos, two managing directors of Hudson River
Trading LLC, a New York high-frequency trading firm. Hudson
River Trading didn’t respond to a request for comment.  In an interview, Hensarling said he’s concerned the SEC is
acting “precipitously” in singling out high-frequency trading.
“I’m not necessarily saying they are wrong, but the
accountability function of Congress is to ensure there is
justification for what you’re doing,” he said.  Donations to Democrats  Other politicians who were the biggest recipients of
donations from high-frequency traders include  Mark Kirk , a
Republican who won a U.S. Senate seat in Illinois, Senator
 Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, Representative  Melissa Bean , an Illinois Democrat, and  Robin Carnahan , a Democrat who
lost her race for a U.S. Senate seat from Missouri.  In June, about two dozen high-frequency trading firms
formed a trade association to respond to legislative and
regulatory proposals. Known as the Principal Traders Group, the
association said it plans to reach out to the media to improve
its understanding of electronic trading.  “They felt their voice was missing in the press,” said
 James Overdahl , a vice president at NERA Economic Consulting in
Washington who advises the group. The firms want to make sure
that any proposed rules are “data driven and responding to
actual evidence,” he said.  Lobbying  The Principal Traders Group is a part of the Futures
Industry Association, which advocates on behalf of financial
companies in Washington. The unit doesn’t lobby, said Overdahl,
a former chief economist at the SEC and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  Still, a number of high-frequency firms, including members
of the Principal Traders Group, have retained former aides to
lawmakers to push their interests in Washington.  Getco in April 2008 hired the Rich Feuer Group, which
represents financial titans such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Credit Suisse Group AG. Getco has paid Rich Feuer at least
$730,000 in the past two years to lobby Congress and the SEC on
rules affecting electronic trading and U.S. market structure,
according to federal disclosure records.  RGM Trading LLC, a high-frequency trader based in Austin,
Texas, hired Patton Boggs LLP’s  Micah Green  this year and has
paid his firm $180,000. Green, who was head of the Bond Market
Association, also lobbies on behalf of Quantlab, a computerized-
trading firm based in Houston.  RGM and Quantlab didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Former Dodd Aide  Alex Sternhell, a former aide to Senate Banking Committee
Chairman  Chris Dodd , has been paid $310,000 since last year to
lobby for Hudson River Trading, records show.  Some of the companies have also employed former regulators.
Getco hired SEC lawyer  Elizabeth King  in June, adding to a
roster of agency alumni that includes  John McCarthy , the
company’s general counsel, and former SEC Chairman  Arthur Levitt , who’s a consultant.  Cameron Smith , Quantlab’s general
counsel, worked at the SEC in the 1990s.  Levitt is a board member of Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News.  The high-frequency trading firms’ Washington education is
following a well-worn path, traveled by such companies as
Microsoft Corp. and Google Inc. that avoided the political
process until they grew too big to escape notice.  “Like so many other cutting edge technologies that have
run into the media and regulatory whipsaw, high-frequency
trading firms would be smart to engage in the Washington public
policy discussion,” said  Israel Klein , a lobbyist at the
Podesta Group who represents financial companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
 Frank Bass  in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  