-- Illinois Plans $1.5 Billion Tobacco Bond to Plug $2 Billion Budget Gap
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-11-09T20:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/illinois-plans-1-75-billion-tobacco-bond-to-close-2-billion-budget-gap.html
Illinois,  which shares the worst
state credit rating with California, plans $1.5 billion in
tobacco-bond sales as soon as this month to pay bills and 
balance its budget.  The bonds, to be backed by payments from a 1998 settlement
with tobacco companies, will be sold the week after
Thanksgiving, said  Kelly Kraft , spokeswoman for Governor  Pat Quinn’s  Office of Management and Budget in Chicago, in an e-
mail. Citigroup Inc. is leading the group of investment banks
underwriting the sale.  Comptroller  Dan Hynes  warned in a report last month that
failure to sell the bonds and collect other short-term revenue
may make it hard to meet a Dec. 31 deadline to eliminate $2
billion of leftover fiscal 2010 debt. The state’s 2011 fiscal
year began July 1 and Illinois has a “lapse” period to settle
outstanding liability.  Without the bonds, Illinois would face lawsuits by
creditors “to obtain payments in amounts unprecedented in the
state’s history,” Hynes wrote.  Pledging Payments  In the deal, Illinois would pledge its share of payments
from a settlement between U.S. states and tobacco companies to
the  Railsplitter Tobacco Settlement Authority , an entity
established to sell the bonds. Cigarette makers and 46 states in
November 1998 settled  lawsuits  for recovery of tobacco-related
health-care costs totaling an  estimated $206 billion over 25
years . Illinois expects to collect $324 million in fiscal 2011,
according to its  budget .  The state’s failure to address its budget gap has  boosted
Illinois’s borrowing costs  as much as $551 million a year,
according to an Aug. 30 report from the Civic Federation, a
Chicago government watchdog. Given its credit ratings, the state
will likely pay a premium to sell tobacco bonds, said  Richard Larkin , director of credit analysis at Herbert J. Sims & Co. in
Iselin, New Jersey, which manages $1 billion of bond
investments.  Illinois has an A1 rating from Moody’s Investors Service,
the same as California, and A+ from Standard & Poor’s, the
fifth-highest level from both. It has an A from Fitch, the
sixth-highest grade.  Not Interested  Larkin said in August that declining cigarette sales and
disputes over tobacco companies’ obligation to states may cause
more than $12 billion of defaults on settlement-backed bonds.  “We’ve got no appetite for tobacco bonds,” said Larkin.
“This is not a good time to sell tobacco bonds.”  The state is limiting to 45 percent the amount of cash from
the settlement needed for debt payments, to provide a good
“coverage ratio” for investors, said  John Sinsheimer ,
Illinois’s director of capital markets, in a phone interview
today. The final maturity will be in 17 years, he said.  “This is a very different tobacco bond,” said Sinsheimer.
“Coverage ratios are exceptionally strong.”  Illinois’ financial condition has continued to deteriorate,
Hynes said in last month’s report. He predicted that unpaid
obligations for fiscal 2011 may rise to $8 billion by June 30.
That number may increase if lawmakers fail to pay for the
state’s pension fund contributions.  Paying for Pensions  Quinn has said he wants to borrow $3.7 billion with bonds
to make contributions for fiscal 2011. He also wants to redesign
Illinois’s five public-worker retirement systems to cut costs.
The state borrowed $3.47 billion in January to make its 2010
contribution.  The state’s House of Representatives approved the pension
bonds but the Senate didn’t agree, even when called in for a
session Nov. 4 after the midterm election. Lawmakers’ inaction
may force the state to wait until January to sell pension bonds,
Kraft said.  Lawmakers  are to meet again Nov. 16 and could
consider the legislation again.  “Selling bonds around the holidays is not easy,” Kraft
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  