-- IMG, EBX Create Joint Venture to Invest in Brazilian Sports, Entertainment
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-11-09T16:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/img-ebx-create-venture-for-sports-and-entertainment-business-in-brazil.html
IMG Worldwide Inc., the global sports
promoter that manages  Tiger Woods ’s career, and Brazilian
investment company EBX Group Ltd. are forming a joint venture to
invest in sports and entertainment businesses in Brazil.  Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , whose mining, logistics
and energy companies end with the letter “x” for the
multiplication of wealth, and  Ted Forstmann , IMG’s chief
executive officer, named the new company IMGX, the companies
said in a statement today.  “Together we can take advantage of the great opportunities
Brazil will have in the sports and entertainment arenas,
especially considering the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympic
and Paralympics Games,” Batista said in the statement.  Batista, who tripled his wealth in the past year to $27
billion to be listed by Forbes as the world’s eighth-richest
man, is seeking to benefit from Brazil’s plan to invest 955
billion reais ($561.7 billion) on urban transport, sewage,
stadiums, electricity and water distribution among other
infrastructure projects between 2011 and 2014 as it prepares to
host the sports events.  For the 12 World Cup host stadiums alone, Brazil’s
development bank BNDES offered a 4.8 billion-real credit line to
finance construction and renovation. The budget for the Olympics
in Rio will be about $15 billion, with the government
contributing with about one third.  The Brazilian economy, Latin America’s largest, will grow
7.6 percent this year and 4.5 percent next year, according to
economists in a weekly central bank survey published yesterday.  Infrastructure Investment  Batista, a powerboat record holder with his 50-foot Spirit
of the Amazon, is investing $15 billion through 2012 in natural
resources and infrastructure in Brazil, Chile and Colombia,
through his five companies listed in Brazil.  “Eike’s focus on the infrastructure sectors, technology
and natural resources has made an enormous contribution to his
country, as Brazil advances to become the fifth largest economy
in the world by 2015,” Forstmann said, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 