-- Investors Pouring Into Malaysia Means Bonds Beating Bills: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-11-10T06:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/investors-pouring-into-malaysia-means-bonds-beating-bills-islamic-finance.html
Investors are favoring Malaysia’s
Islamic bonds over shorter-term bills as overseas funds increase
holdings in the world’s biggest sukuk market, showing confidence
that the central bank is curbing inflation.  The yield on the nation’s  five-year  ringgit bond fell 37
basis points to 3.47 percent this year, according to Bank Negara
Malaysia prices. Yields on  three-month  Islamic bills sold by the
central bank climbed 77 basis points in the period to 2.77
percent on Nov. 9. The yield  difference  narrowed 112 basis
points, or 1.12 percentage point, from 182 on March 4, when
policy makers carried out the first of the year’s three
interest-rate increases.  Inflation, which erodes the fixed payments on debt, cooled
in September, enabling Bank Negara to avoid raising borrowing
costs in the next few months, according to Kuala Lumpur-based
Areca Capital Sdn. and CIMB-Principal Islamic Asset Management
Bhd. Investors raised holdings of Malaysia’s Shariah-compliant
sukuk to 413 million ringgit ($136 million) this year as of the
end of September, from 146 million ringgit in December,
according to central bank data on Oct. 29.  “The longer end was a combination of the fact that the
global recovery hasn’t been as exciting as expected and the
realization that inflation isn’t going to be so much of a threat
with a slower growth outlook,”  Edward Iskandar Toh , who helps
manage 400 million ringgit at Areca Capital, said in an
interview yesterday.  Islamic Bills  Consumer prices  rose  1.8 percent in September from a year
earlier, the least in three months, the government reported on
Oct. 22. Slowing inflation provides investors with a real rate
of interest on the five-year Islamic bonds of 1.67 percent and
0.97 percent on the three-month bills.  International funds cut holdings of short-term bills that
comply with Islamic principles by 27 percent to 993 million
ringgit this year, according to central bank data. Ownership of
Islamic and non-Islamic government debt climbed to 68 billion
ringgit at the end of September, 66 percent more than at the end
of last year.  “The foreign fund inflows also encouraged local players to
go further up the yield curve, boosting both regular debt and
sukuk,” Toh said.  The central bank sold 1 billion ringgit of 91-day Islamic
bills today at a yield of 2.855 percent at its regular auctions
of the debt and will offer 10-year sukuk later in the month on a
date that’s yet to be announced. Malaysia accounts for more than
60 percent of the $130 billion of outstanding Islamic bonds. The
country has 337.6 billion ringgit of Shariah-compliant banking
assets, or 20 percent of the total, the Finance Ministry said in
its 2010-2011 economic report last month.  Global Sales  Global sales of Islamic bonds, which are backed by assets
or cash flows to comply with Shariah law’s ban on interest, fell
29 percent to $13.7 billion this year from the same period in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance of
ringgit-denominated sukuk dropped 31 percent to 21.3 billion
ringgit, the data show.  Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in June 2015 rose
today, driving the yield three basis points lower to 2.50,
according to prices provided by Royal Bank of Scotland Group.
The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s widened six basis points to 379
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Shariah-compliant bonds returned 13 percent this
year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index ,
compared with a 17 percent gain for bonds in developing markets,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate was little changed at 336 basis
points yesterday.  Interest Rates  Malaysia’s central bank kept the benchmark overnight policy
rate at 2.75 percent at the most recent meeting on Sept. 2 and
next meets on Nov. 12. Borrowing costs are likely to remain
unchanged until at least the second quarter, according to the
median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation will remain low even as it picks up in 2011 and
monetary policy rates are projected to rise “moderately” next
year, the World Bank said in its Malaysia Economic Monitor
report issued on Nov. 8. Inflation is expected to stay below 3
percent in 2011, the Finance Ministry said in a report Oct. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at   dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  