-- Iran, Saudi Arabia Seats on UN Women's Board Would Be a `Joke,' Ebadi Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-11-09T20:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/iran-saudi-arabia-seats-on-un-women-s-board-would-be-a-joke-ebadi-says.html
Iranian Nobel Peace Prize winner
 Shirin Ebadi  said the possible election tomorrow of Iran and
Saudi Arabia to the board of a new  United Nations  body to
promote women’s rights would be a “joke.”  Iran is one of 12 countries that are vying for 10 seats
designated for Asian nations on the board of the agency, called
UN Women. Saudi Arabia and five other nations, including the
U.S., have declared their candidacy for six seats set aside for
leading contributors to the agency.  “The membership of countries like Iran and Saudi Arabia on
this board is like a joke,” Ebadi told reporters in New York.
“This is a mocking situation for the board from the
commencement of its work. This board with the members we can see
will not get anywhere.”  The UN General Assembly voted in July to create the agency
by merging existing bodies. It will be formally established on
Jan. 1 with former Chilean President  Michelle Bachelet  at the
head of a 41-member board.  Ebadi, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003 for her
efforts to promote human rights in her home country, said the
situation in Iran is “deteriorating daily.”  Regarding the rights of women, she cited Iranian laws that
make it more difficult for a woman to obtain a divorce or a
passport, and that equate the court testimony of one man to that
of two women.  Women’s Rights  “A country with this kind of record and laws against
women, how can they speak about the rights of women in other
countries in the world?” Ebadi said. “Regarding Saudi Arabia,
the situation of women’s rights in that country is even worse.”  Rights groups including London-based  Amnesty International 
and New York-based  Human Rights Watch  have criticized the
candidacies of Iran and Saudi Arabia. Women aren’t allowed to
drive in Saudi Arabia and are barred from many public facilities
used by men.  The decision by an Iranian court to sentence a woman,
Sakineh Mohammadi-Ashtiani, to death by stoning after her 2006
conviction on charges of adultery and murder also has drawn
widespread criticism.  The U.S. mission to the UN also has said it opposes Iran’s
candidacy.  “The U.S. is opposed to Iran serving on the board of UN
Women because we believe it would send the wrong signal at the
beginning of this exciting initiative,”  Mark Kornblau ,
spokesman for the U.S. mission, said. “The situation for women
in Iran appears to have significantly deteriorated in recent
years.”  Iran’s mission to the UN and Saudi Arabia’s embassy in
Washington didn’t respond to requests to comment on Ebadi’s
statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  