-- Ireland Hasn't Asked for Bailout as Investors Dump Bonds, EU's Rehn Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-11-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/ireland-hasn-t-asked-for-bailout-as-investors-dump-bonds-eu-s-rehn-says.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said Ireland hasn’t asked for aid
as investors dump the government’s bonds on concern that the
cost of bailing out its banks may bankrupt the nation.  “I can only say that Ireland has not requested the
activation of any European financial backstops,” said Rehn at a
press conference in Dublin late yesterday. He indicated that
Ireland may have to abandon the tax policies that helped foster
its decade-long economic boom, reiterating that the country
couldn’t continue as a “low-tax” economy.  Ireland is struggling to convince investors it can avoid a
rescue as the nation’s finances buckle under the weight of
saving  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
European Economist  Erik Nielsen  said yesterday there’s a “big
probability” that Ireland and Portugal, which is also trying to
cut its deficit, will turn to the EU and the International
Monetary Fund for help.  While Ireland is fully funded until the middle of next year,
the yield on Irish 10-year government bonds nevertheless rose
above 8 percent yesterday for the first time since the country
joined the euro in 1999. That pushed the  premium  that investors
demand to hold Irish debt over German bunds to a record 547
basis points.  Rehn said he backed the government’s plan to narrow the
deficit by 6 billion euros ($8.4 billion) next year, and the
state should be given space to formulate its four-year plan to
fix the shortfall.  Further Action  “It is important at the same time that there is to some
extent flexibility to take further action if needed in case the
growth scenarios will not materialize as expected,” said Rehn.  Lenihan aims to narrow the budget gap to 3 percent of
gross domestic product, the limit for euro members, by 2014 from
about 12 percent this year. When the costs of the banking rescue
are included, this year’s deficit jumps to 32 percent of GDP,
the Finance Ministry said last week.  Credit-default swaps linked to Irish debt rose as high as
606 basis points yesterday, according to CMA prices. A basis
point on a credit-default swap protecting 10 million euros of
debt from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a
year.  Lenihan said a push for bond investors to help foot the
bill of future bailouts has contributed to a surge in Irish bond
yields in the past two weeks. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday private investors must be included in a
future crisis-resolution mechanism aimed at tackling sovereign
defaults. The current bailout package must be replaced with an
instrument that avoids the problem of “moral hazard,”
Schaeuble said in Berlin.  “Clearly our concerns in that regard have been
communicated to the French and to the German authorities and to
the commission,” Lenihan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  