-- IRS Challenges $8 Billion in Ambac Financial Refunds, Assets
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-09T17:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/irs-challenges-8-billion-in-ambac-financial-refunds-assets-filing-says.html
The Internal Revenue Service
challenged about $8 billion in tax refunds and other assets
claimed by  Ambac Financial Group Inc. , the bankrupt holding
company for a failed bond insurer, according to court filings.  Ambac Financial today sued the U.S. to try to protect $700
million in tax refunds, a day after seeking protection from
creditors in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  The company said the IRS asked for information about the
accounting method Ambac Financial used to obtain the tax refunds
from 2003 through 2008. The IRS also challenged the company’s
accounting on some $7.3 billion in net operating losses that may
be Ambac Financial’s biggest asset.  Without the refunds, the company’s “ability to reorganize
successfully will be jeopardized or destroyed,” Ambac Financial
said.  Separately, regulators handling Ambac Financial’s bond
insurer unit, Ambac Assurance Corp., said they need some of the
$700 million to pay policyholders and other claimants.  Ambac Financial filed for bankruptcy with  liabilities  of
about $1.68 billion after failing to fix terms of a court
restructuring with senior lenders. While state regulators handle
workouts of U.S. insurance companies, their holding companies
can go through federal bankruptcy courts.  Wisconsin regulators are restructuring about $57.6 billion
in policies written by Milwaukee-based Ambac Assurance to insure
credit derivatives and other financial products, according to
the company.  No Tax Liability  To maintain its tax refunds, Ambac Financial asked a judge
to rule that it isn’t liable for any taxes from 2003 to 2008.
The IRS should be barred from seizing the money and should be
forced to give Ambac Financial five days written notice before
taking any enforcement action, it said in the filing.  To help preserve the so-called NOLs, Ambac Financial said
yesterday it would ask for a court order to restrict transfers
of shares and claims.  Those so-called NOLs would lose their value under U.S. tax
law if investors holding 5 percent or more of Ambac shares began
to sell them, or if claims were sold by investors who might
receive 5 percent of the reorganized company’s stock under a
bankruptcy plan, Ambac Financial said.  Ambac Financial, its bondholders and Wisconsin regulators
have provisionally agreed to divide up the assets, with $3.5
billion going to the insurance unit and $2.5 billion to Ambac
Financial, according to a filing.  Unsecured Creditor  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  was listed as the largest
unsecured creditor, with claims totaling about $1.62 billion for
its role as trustee to seven different types of notes. The
Vanguard Group Inc. was listed as the  largest shareholder , with
5.46 percent of the company’s stock.  Ambac Assurance, the operating company, was the second-
biggest bond insurer before the credit crisis.  The  Ambac companies  were founded as a unit of MGIC
Investment Corp., the Milwaukee-based mortgage insurer, and
insured their first municipal bond in 1971.  The holding company case is In re Ambac Financial Group
Inc., 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 