-- IRS Challenges $8 Billion in Ambac Financial Refunds, Assets, Filing Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-09T22:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/irs-challenges-8-billion-in-ambac-financial-refunds-assets.html
Ambac Financial Group Inc. , the
bankrupt holding company for a failed bond insurer, is battling
a challenge from the Internal Revenue Service over about $8
billion in tax refunds and other assets, according to court
filings.  Ambac Financial today sued the U.S. to try to protect $700
million in tax refunds, a day after seeking protection from
creditors in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  The company said the IRS asked for information about the
accounting method Ambac Financial used to obtain some $7.3
billion in net operating losses, which it shares with its units.
The IRS also challenged the company’s accounting on the tax
refunds from 2003 through 2008 that derived from the so-called
NOLs.  Without the refunds, the company’s “ability to reorganize
successfully will be jeopardized or destroyed,” Ambac Financial
said. An affiliate has entered into interest rate swaps with
municipalities throughout the United States, all of which would
terminate automatically if the IRS demands a return of the
disputed funds, it said.  Separately, regulators handling Ambac Financial’s bond
insurer unit, Milwaukee-based Ambac Assurance Corp., said they
need some of the $700 million to pay policyholders and other
claimants.  End of Year  The Wisconsin regulators have agreed not to challenge Ambac
Financial until Dec. 31 over the sharing of so-called NOLs,
according to a court filing.  Today,  Anthony Princi , a lawyer for Ambac Financial
creditors, said his clients are concerned about how the NOLs
will be shared with the company’s units, supposing they survive
the restructuring.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley Chapman  said she would
temporarily allow Ambac Financial to restrict trading of its
shares and claims after the company said the measure would help
it to keep the NOLs.  Ambac Financial filed for bankruptcy with  liabilities  of
about $1.68 billion after losing dividends from its bond
insurance unit in 2007. While state regulators handle workouts
of U.S. insurance companies, their holding companies can go
through federal bankruptcy courts.  Wisconsin regulators are restructuring about $57.6 billion
in policies written by Milwaukee-based Ambac Assurance to insure
credit derivatives and other financial products, according to
the company.  Origin of NOLs  Ambac Financial said its NOLs, which allowed it to claim
tax refunds, came from a new method of accounting for losses on
credit default swaps, adopted in 2008.  The CDSs were entered into by one of its units, Ambac
Credit Products LLP, and insured by a second unit, Ambac
Assurance, the company said. When the IRS refunded money to
Ambac Financial, it shared the funds with Ambac Assurance, it
said. By Dec. 31, NOLs will have grown to $7.5 billion, from
$7.3 billion at Sept. 30, the company said.  To maintain its tax refunds, Ambac Financial asked a judge
to rule that it isn’t liable for any taxes from 2003 to 2008.
Today, the company said in court the IRS had agreed to give it
five days’ notice before taking any action on the tax issue.  Creditors of Ambac Financial won’t sue to recover any of
the tax refunds shared with units until Dec. 31, according to a
filing.  Ambac Financial, its bondholders and Wisconsin regulators
have provisionally agreed to divide up the NOLs, with $3.5
billion going to the insurance unit and $2.5 billion to Ambac
Financial, according to a filing.  Unsecured Creditor  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  was listed as the largest
unsecured creditor, with claims totaling about $1.62 billion for
its role as trustee to seven different types of notes. The
Vanguard Group Inc. was listed as the  largest shareholder , with
5.46 percent of the company’s stock.  Ambac Assurance, the operating company, was the second-
biggest bond insurer before the credit crisis.  The  Ambac companies  were founded as a unit of MGIC
Investment Corp., the Milwaukee-based mortgage insurer, and
insured their first municipal bond in 1971.  The holding company case is In re Ambac Financial Group
Inc., 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 