-- Israel's Fischer Says Foreign Reserves Are `Insurance' for Export Blockade
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-11-09T16:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/israel-s-fischer-says-foreign-reserves-are-insurance-if-exports-blocked.html
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said record foreign currency reserves are necessary to
insure against the risk that the country’s exports may be
disrupted for “geopolitical” reasons.  “This is a country with problems that other countries
don’t have,” Fischer said today at a meeting of parliament’s
Finance Committee in Jerusalem. Foreign currency reserves are
“insurance for the possibility that one day we will find
ourselves without the ability to export for a certain period and
the need to import essential items.”  Israel’s foreign exchange reserves rose to $69.6 billion in
October, the bank said on Nov. 7. Fischer began buying foreign
currency in March 2008 and has more than doubled reserves since
then in an attempt to limit gains in the shekel and help
exporters weather the global economic crisis.  “What does he mean by a geopolitical threat?”  Amir Kahanovich , an economist at Clal Finance Investment Management
Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said in a telephone interview. “He apparently
is hinting at Iran, but it doesn’t seem to me that he is
referring to anything concrete.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said yesterday
that the U.S. and other nations must convince Iran it risks
facing a military strike in order to prevent the Iranian
government from developing nuclear weapons. Iran denies claims
by Israel, as well as by the U.S. and many of its allies, that
the country’s nuclear program may be providing cover for the
development of weapons.  Support for Exporters  Kahanovich said there has never been a need for reserves
during a time of emergency.  “The main reason for the purchases is to support the
exporters,” Kahanovich said. “It could be that the Bank of
Israel is beginning to feel criticism and is looking for other
explanations.”  The purchases have been “buying time” for the country’s
 exporters , and won’t go on “forever,” Fischer said, declining
to say when they will stop. The policy, which has moderated
gains in the shekel, is intended to give exporters time to
become more efficient and to divert sales to markets with faster
growth, such as economies in Asia, he said.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
which Israel joined this year, called on Fischer in May to end
his “frequent” currency purchases, in light of the size of the
accumulated reserves.  Gold Doubts  Fischer also said today that the central bank doesn’t buy
gold and that he “doesn’t believe” in the metal, whose price
goes “up and down.”  Last week’s announcement by the Federal Reserve that it
will buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries will help the
U.S. economy, Fischer said.  “This is the only way they have to conduct an expansionary
policy,” Fischer said. “They are doing it in a sophisticated
way. In my opinion, this will bring about an improvement in the
economy.”  Israel’s benchmark  TA-25  stock index has gained more than
20 percent in the past 12 months, led by Avner Oil Exploration
LP and Delek Drilling-LP, two of the partners in gas fields off
Israel’s coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  