-- Italy's Bond Immunity Weathers Berlusconi Scandal: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2010-11-10T10:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/italy-s-bond-immunity-weathers-berlusconi-political-turmoil-euro-credit.html
Italy is perceived to be so immune
to the European debt crisis that even the potential fall of its
government isn’t driving up borrowing costs as much as in
Ireland, Portugal and Greece.  The extra yield investors demand to hold  Portuguese  and
Irish 10-year debt over German bunds of similar maturity jumped
to a euro-era high this week as investors bet they may be forced
to follow Greece in seeking emergency European Union financing.
 Italy’s spread  widened 15 basis points to 159 this month, less
than a sixth of the increase of Ireland and Portugal.  Italy’s budget deficit at 5.3 percent of  gross domestic
product  limited the need for the painful austerity measures
adopted by Greece, Spain and Ireland to reduce the euro-region’s
three largest deficits. Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is
pushing for passage of his 2011 deficit-cutting package in the
midst of a sex scandal that has resulted in  Gianfranco Fini , the
co-founder of his ruling party, calling for his resignation.  “In case the government falls, we may have a movement in
the spread, but not necessarily a significant one provided that
fiscal discipline is ensured,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior
fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “Should the
parliament fail to pass the budget, it would be negative news
and would scare investors.”  The cost of insuring Italian debt against default fell 1.6
basis points yesterday to 196. That compares with 257 basis
points for Spain, 457 for Portugal, 567 for Ireland and 866 for
Greece.  Fini’s Ultimatum  Berlusconi’s government moved closer to collapse after
Fini, the speaker of the chamber of deputies and co-founder of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, demanded the premier step
down. In a nationally televised Nov. 7 speech used to launch a
separate political party, Fini said he would pull his ministers
from the government unless Berlusconi resigned. Fini said he
would negotiate a new political program for the rest of the term
that ends in 2013.  Berlusconi has no intention of leaving and Fini must assume
responsibility for toppling the government by voting against the
prime minister in parliament,  Paolo Bonaiuti , the main
government spokesman, said yesterday. Fini has enough
legislative support to topple Berlusconi by opposing him in a
confidence vote.  Elections in early 2011 “look increasingly likely,”
 Lavinia Santovetti , an economist for Nomura International Plc in
London, wrote in a note to investors yesterday.  ‘Real Risk’  “That would be no bad thing if it were to draw a line
under the present political uncertainty,” she wrote. “However,
opinion polls currently suggest that there is a real risk of a
general election resulting in a hung parliament. If such an
outcome were to lead to a protracted period of political
wrangling it would not only be bad for Italy but, given Italy’s
importance, could just trigger a renewed outbreak of negative
sentiment in markets about the euro too.”  The crisis is coming to a head just as parliament prepares
to vote on the 2011 budget. The plan includes 11 billion euros
($15.2 billion) of spending cuts and savings without resorting
to the lower wages and tax increases implemented in Greece,
Spain, Ireland and Portugal.  Fini has said he backs the plan, so even if the government
collapses,  parliament  would likely be able to pass the budget
before new elections are held.  Financing Costs  “I have been impressed these last few years and months by
the level of cross-party consensus in favor of fiscal
orthodoxy,” said  Gilles Moec , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG
in London. “This will be the issue to watch if the political
crisis deepens.”  Widening bond spreads will have a more immediate impact on
increasing financing costs in Italy relative to the other so-
called euro peripherals. Ireland is fully funded into next year,
while Portugal has one more bond sale this year and Spain has
completed the bulk of its financing.  Italy, which has the euro-region’s biggest debt at 116
percent of GDP, needs to raise more than 20 billion euros this
year from bond sales.  In Italy, threats to the government’s survival have little
to do with backlash against austerity steps taken to lower the
bloated deficit. The country’s banks and real estate market
remain relatively healthy and the government shunned the
stimulus spending that inflated budget gaps and fueled Europe’s
debt crisis.  Italy’s deficit  last year was about 33 percent of
that in Ireland and Greece and less than half Spain’s.  The economy grew 0.4 percent in the three months through
September, the third straight quarterly expansion, according to
the median of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The GDP
report will be released Nov. 12  Debt ‘Legacy’  “The market has learned not to consider Italy as a
peripheral” as the country largely avoided “the post-1999 debt
binge, which has characterized Greece, Ireland, Portugal and
Spain,” Moec said. “Italy’s issue with public debt is the
result of poor legacy from the late 1980s-early 1990s compounded
by weak growth. Fiscal management has been fairly virtuous there
over the last few years.”  Fini, who joined forces with Berlusconi 17 years ago, broke
with the premier in July after criticizing him for stifling
debate in the party and tailoring legislation to his personnel
needs, such as a measure to protect the premier from criminal
prosecution.  A truce reached at the end of September, when Fini backed
Berlusconi’s governing plan in a Sept. 29 confidence vote,
unraveled last month when it was reported that Berlusconi helped
secure the release from police custody of a 17-year-old
nightclub dancer who had attended a party with other women at
one of his residences near Milan.  Big Heart  Berlusconi admitted helping the girl, sending his former
dental hygienist and now a local politician for his party, to
take custody of the girl upon her release. Berlusconi said in
Brussels after an Oct. 29 summit of European Union leaders that
he acted because he had a big heart and was moved by the girl’s
“tragic situation.”  “I didn’t influence anyone,” he said. “I know firsthand
that in Italy the prime minister has no real power.”  Fini called the episode embarrassing. “When you are a
public figure, you need to set the example,” he said in his
Nov. 7 speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  