-- Liverpool Goalkeeper Reina Drops Hint About Leaving, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-09T11:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/liverpool-goalkeeper-reina-drops-hint-about-leaving-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Reina Exit?  Goalkeeper  Jose Reina  hinted he could leave Liverpool after
the season in search of trophies, the  Daily Mail  said.  Reina said he would stay at Liverpool “at least until the
end of the season,” even though he has a six-year contract.
Liverpool’s last title was the 2006 F.A. Cup.  “I signed a six-year deal seven months ago and I’m happy
at the club, but every footballer wants to be competing for
trophies and winning things,” Reina was quoted as saying.  Ref Relegation  Stoke manager  Tony Pulis  wants to see three referees
dropped from the Premier League each season, just like the
bottom teams in the standings, the  Sun said .  Pulis believes Stoke has lost seven points this season
through refereeing decisions, the Sun said. He wants each club
to vote on the officials, with the three lowest-rated relegated
to the Championship and the top three from that league promoted,
the newspaper said.  City Boys  Carlos Tevez  says he’d love former Manchester United
teammate  Wayne Rooney  to join him at Manchester City, the  Daily
Mirror  said.  Rooney recently signed a five-year contract with United
after saying he wanted to leave. The striker is in the U.S. for
treatment on an ankle injury and will miss tomorrow’s Manchester
derby.  “For me he is the best English striker of recent years,”
Tevez was quoted as saying. “I would have liked him to come
here, of course. But it was complicated for him to leave
United.”  Villa Spat  John Carew  looks likely to leave Aston Villa in January
after a fallout with manager  Gerard Houllier ,  the Guardian  said.  Carew criticized Houllier in an interview with a Norwegian
newspaper last weekend and the manager responded by calling the
striker “stupid” and challenged Carew to prove he was worthy
of a new contract, the Guardian said. Carew’s contract ends
after this season, the newspaper added.  Young Interest  Fulham manager  Mark Hughes  has reignited his interest in
Aston Villa defender  Luke Young , the  Daily Mirror  said.  Hughes failed with a 2 million-pound ($3.2 million) bid for
Young in the summer and is ready to return in January with a new
offer, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 