-- Japan Weakness Invites Challenges by China, Russia as U.S. Backing Invoked
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 2010-11-10T03:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/japan-weakness-invites-challenges-by-china-russia-as-u-s-backing-invoked.html
Japanese border disputes with China
and Russia are thwarting the goals of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan’s 
ruling party to improve ties with its neighbors and reduce
dependence on the U.S. security umbrella.  The September collision of a Chinese fishing boat with two
Japanese Coast Guard vessels near islands claimed by both sides
increased friction between Asia’s biggest economies. Last week’s
visit by Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  to an island also
claimed by Japan hurt ties as well.  The incidents underscored Japan’s weakness relative to its
largest neighbors and its dependence on the U.S., said
Bhubhindar Singh, a professor at the S. Rajaratnam School of
International Studies in Singapore who specializes in Japanese
security policy. Former Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama  in
February 2009 called for a “more equal” relationship with
Japan’s biggest ally.  Japan’s economic and political vulnerability “definitely
played a part in terms of facilitating or motivating China and
Russia to play up these issues right now,” Singh said. “What
these territorial issues have shown is that the U.S. will
continue to be the primary security partner for Japan.”  The disputes have sent Kan’s popularity plunging while he
struggles to boost an economy threatened by more than a decade
of deflation and a surging yen.  Mending Fences  China and Japan are likely to gradually mend fences, given
the importance of trade ties and the fact that greater tensions
with Japan would increase U.S.-Chinese friction, said  Robert Dujarric , director of the Institute of Contemporary Asian
Studies at Temple University’s Tokyo campus.  “The fundamental strategic issue as far as China is
concerned is between China and the United States,” Dujarric
said.  Kan, 64, will attend the Nov. 11-12 Group of 20 summit in
Seoul, then host the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in
Yokohama, where he is seeking talks with Medvedev and Chinese
President  Hu Jintao . He said today in parliament that it is
still undecided whether either meeting will take place. Kan is
also set to meet with President  Barack Obama .  China is Japan’s biggest trading partner. Two-way trade
rose 31 percent in the first nine months of the year, to $216
billion, compared with the same period a year ago, according to
the  Japan External Trade Organization . Trade with Russia in the
same period was $17.3 billion.  Eight-Month Dispute  Japanese-U.S. relations soured during an eight-month
disagreement over whether to move a U.S. Marine base off the
island of Okinawa, which contributed to Hatoyama’s June
resignation.  Now, the Obama administration is supporting Japan regarding
the Sept. 7 maritime collision in the East China Sea near
uninhabited islands controlled by Japan and also claimed by
China. The U.S. is using a two-pronged approach that emphasizes
American security commitments without specifically backing the
territorial claim.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said at an Oct. 30
speech in Hanoi that while the U.S. doesn’t take a position on
the sovereignty of the islands, they fall under the U.S.-Japan
security alliance, protecting them from attack. She also said
she was willing to host the foreign ministers of China and  Japan 
to help resolve the situation.  Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  on
Nov. 2 rejected Clinton’s mediation offer and called her
position “extremely wrong.”  Rare Earth  China responded to the 17-day detention of the captain of
the fishing trawler by cutting ministerial ties and blocking
exports to Japan of rare-earth minerals used in hybrid cars and
batteries. Japanese prosecutors released the captain, citing the
need to improve relations with China.  The territorial dispute with Russia has prevented the two
countries from signing a World War II peace treaty. Kan recalled
his ambassador to Moscow after Medvedev on Nov. 1 became the
first Russian leader to visit one of four islands seized by the
Soviet Union after World War II.”  Kan in effect “threw down the gauntlet” to Medvedev,
perhaps motivated by recent Russian agreements with China to
cede territory claimed by both nations, said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an
analyst at the Council on Foreign Defense Policy in Moscow.  Russia is unlikely to make concessions to Japan, Lukyanov
said. While refusing to negotiate with China would have damaged
relations with the region’s dominant economy, “Japan doesn’t
have the same potential for growth,” he said.  Backing Japan  State Department spokesman  Philip Crowley  on Nov. 1 said
“we do back Japan” over the islands claimed by Russia, while
declining to say whether they also fall under U.S. obligations
to defend Japan from attack.  Since Kan took office four months ago, his  Democratic Party
of Japan  lost its majority in the upper house of parliament and
he had to fend off a leadership challenge. Government reports
last week showed  factory production  falling and deflation
deepening.  Equities have been largely unaffected by the diplomatic
rows, with the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  reaching its highest
level in more than three months.  Kan’s popularity dropped to 35 percent from 53 percent a
month ago, the Yomiuri newspaper said on Nov. 8. Four in five
respondents disapproved of his handling of the dispute with
China. The paper polled 1,052 people on Nov. 5-Nov. 7 and
provided no margin of error.  Japanese opposition politicians have criticized Kan for his
diplomatic moves and as many as 3,000 people rallied against
China last month in Tokyo.  “The Japanese government can’t blame anyone but
themselves,” said  Tsuneo Watanabe , director of foreign and
security policy research at the  Tokyo Foundation  policy
institute. “It points to a real lack of experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Brinsley  in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  