-- Jeter, Teixeira, Cano Win Gold Gloves as Ichiro Receives His 10th Straight
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-11-09T22:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/jeter-teixeira-cano-win-gold-gloves-as-ichiro-receives-his-10th-straight.html
New York Yankees’ infielders  Derek Jeter ,  Mark Teixeira  and  Robinson Cano  earned Gold Gloves, while
Seattle Mariners outfielder  Ichiro Suzuki  won for the 10th
straight time.  Tampa Bay Rays third baseman  Evan Longoria  and outfielder
 Carl Crawford  also were named the best American League defensive
players at their positions, Major League Baseball said on its
website.  National League Gold Glove winners will be announced
tomorrow. Recipients are chosen by major league managers and
coaches in voting before baseball’s postseason.  Suzuki, 37, is the only major league player to have claimed
a Gold Glove in each of his first 10 seasons. The mark also ties
 Ken Griffey Jr . and  Al Kaline  for the most career AL Gold Gloves
for an outfielder. The overall record for outfielders is held by
Willie Mays and Roberto Clemente, with 12 each.  Pitcher  Greg Maddux  holds the record for the Gold Glove
award, which began in 1957, with 17.  Jeter, a 36-year-old free agent, earned his fifth Gold
Glove. He made six errors in 2010, a career-low as a fulltime
player, and led all major league shortstops with a .989 fielding
percentage.  Other statistics , however, showed that his range was not as
great as many of his peers. His Ultimate Zone Rating, which
measures how many runs a player gave up or saved with his
defense, rated Jeter 4.7 runs below average last season, and
another metric, Defensive Runs Saved, rated him 13 runs below
average, according to  Fangraphs.com .  Teixeira, Cano  Yankees’ first baseman Teixeira, who won the award for the
second straight year and fourth time overall, had three errors
last season, the second-lowest among major league first basemen.  Teammate Cano claimed his first Gold Glove after leading
all AL second basemen with a .996 fielding percentage. The only
other Yankee second baseman to earn the honor was Bobby
Richardson, who won it from 1961-65.  Longoria defended his title as the league’s top third
baseman, turning 46 double plays while making 14 errors. His
teammate  Carl Crawford , who is now a free agent, had two errors
in 2010 to join the AL Gold Glove outfield for the first time.  Seattle’s  Franklin Gutierrez , 27, also earned his first
Gold Glove, setting a major league record this season by
becoming the first outfielder not to record an error with more
than 400 total chances.  Chicago White Sox’s  Mark Buehrle  repeated as the AL’s top
defensive pitcher and Minnesota Twins catcher  Joe Mauer  earned
the honor for the third-straight season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 