-- Jordanians Vote in Parliamentary Election as Islamists Boycott Citing Bias
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   B e n   H o l l a n d
-- 2010-11-09T07:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/jordanians-vote-in-parliamentary-election-as-islamists-boycott-citing-bias.html
Jordanians go to the polls today to
elect a new parliament that is likely to be dominated by the
monarchy’s tribal supporters, as the Islamists who form the
largest opposition movement boycott the vote.  Polling stations opened at 7 a.m. with 763 candidates, of
which 138 are women, contesting 120 parliamentary seats, and 2.4
million of the country’s 6 million population eligible to vote.
Polls close at 7 p.m. and preliminary results are scheduled to
start being released soon afterwards.  Candidates supported by Jordan’s main tribes, which have
mostly backed the country’s ruler,  King Abdullah , swept the 2007
election. They face less competition this time after the Islamic
Action Front, linked to the Muslim Brotherhood, refused to take
part, saying the assembly lacks power, the voting system favors
pro-administration candidates and past counts have been
fraudulent. The government denies interference and says the
count will be monitored by observers such as the Washington-
based National Democratic Institute.  “The fact that the Islamists are absent is a bad thing
because it diminishes the vitality of the debate,” though it
“doesn’t really have any impact on the government’s policies,”
said  Rami Khouri , director of the Issam Fares  Institute for
Public Policy  and International Affairs at the  American
University  of Beirut.  King Abdullah , who appoints the government, can dissolve
the legislature and rule by decree in its absence. He exercised
that power a year ago after lawmakers stalled legislation backed
by the Cabinet aimed at spurring foreign investment, including a
new corporate tax law.  Voting System  Abdullah appointed  Samir Rifai , a former court aide, as
premier with the task of changing the electoral system, and
boosting the economy. The government says it expects growth of 5
percent next year, from a projected 4 percent in 2010.  The boycott by the Islamists will probably lead to a lower
turnout than in the 2007 and 2003 elections, said Mohammad
Masri, a researcher at Jordan University’s Center for Strategic
Studies. He said that in 1997, the last time there was an
Islamic boycott, turnout dropped 15 percent.  Legislation passed in May increased the number of seats and
the quota set aside for women, though the IAF and other
opposition groups say it disproportionately favors rural areas
where tribal supporters of the monarchy are strongest.  Tribal Elders  Many of Jordan’s 30 to 40 tribes reach a consensus on
candidates and voters often follow the instructions of their
tribal elders. Around the capital, Amman, candidates linked to
tribal groups have erected tents to welcome constituents. While
the tribes typically support the monarchy’s domestic and foreign
policies, they have sought to block specific measures such as
the tax changes to attract investment.  The IAF, which opposes Jordan’s peace agreement with Israel
and its close ties with the U.S., won 6 seats in parliament in
the last election, down from 17 in 2003.  “We want a halt to the deterioration that our country is
witnessing in the reform process,” said Hamzah Mansour,
secretary general of the  Islamic Action Front , in a phone
interview. He cited “many incidents of fraud” in the last
election and said parliament “is no longer effective.”  Last week, the state-funded National Center for Human
Rights reported vote-buying during the campaign, according to
the government-run Petra news agency. The government arrested at
least 10 people on suspicion of vote buying, the Jordan Times
said yesterday.  The IAF’s main aim may be to persuade Jordanians and the
international community that “they are the leaders of the
campaign for reform,” said  Taher Masri , president of Jordan’s
senate and a former prime minister. “They want to change the
image that they are just about religion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Amman, Jordan at   mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Holland  in Istanbult .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  