-- JPMorgan Says U.K. Needs Two Inflation-Linked Debt Markets on Volatility
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-11-09T13:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/jpmorgan-says-u-k-needs-two-indexed-debt-markets-or-pensions-to-be-hurt.html
The U.K. may need two inflation-
linked bond markets as the government considers shifting
pension-fund indexing to another measure of price growth from
its existing benchmark, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Debt Management Office should develop an inflation-
protected bond market pegged to the consumer-price index, or
CPI, once a decision is made by Prime Minister David Cameron’s
government to proceed, said  Kari Hallgrimsson , head of European
inflation trading at JPMorgan in London. The existing retail-
price indexed market should be also be maintained, he said.  Costs for investors to protect themselves against
mismatched inflation liabilities risk becoming “very
expensive” should the debt agency keep issuing bonds, sometimes
called linkers, tied just to the retail price index, or RPI,
Hallgrimsson said. Unlike RPI, the CPI excludes items such as
local taxes and mortgage costs in its calculation.  “If the Debt Management Office chooses not to issue CPI
linkers, it would cause massive volatility in inflation markets,
which in turn could dramatically increase the volatility of
liabilities,” he said in an interview. “We see this shift as a
potential game changer. It’s perfectly possible for the U.K. to
have two inflation markets that complement one another.”  U.K. inflation-linked securities are all based on RPI. In
August, the coalition government said it will align state
benefits and public-service pensions to CPI, which was lower
than RPI on average for the past 20 years, and may ask some
private pensions to do the same. Hallgrimsson estimates private
pension liabilities at 1 trillion pounds ($1.6 billion).  100 Million Pounds  Demand for index-linked bonds may pick up as inflation has
stayed above the Bank of England’s upper limit of 3 percent for
seven months. Consumer prices, which anchor the central bank’s
target, rose at an annual rate of 3.1 percent in September.  Hallgrimsson estimates that a pension fund with 10 billion
pounds of CPI-linked liabilities may have to pay 100 million
pounds a year to buy hedging if RPI is one percentage point
below market expectations while CPI remains in line.  “If the fund is forced to hedge in a relatively small CPI
market, which reflects a structural demand-supply imbalance,”
hedging could end up costing even more, he said.  Robert Stheeman , who heads the DMO, repeated last month
that the agency will wait for clarity on the government’s plans
before asking investors whether CPI-linked bonds are needed. He
said on Sept. 7 that the debt agency is “keen” to avoid
fragmentation from issuing too many different products.  French Example  When investors buy inflation-protected bonds, they receive
so-called real yields, which tend to be lower than those of
nominal bonds. The advantage of index-linked bonds is that their
principal increases with inflation.  France is the only country that has two index-linked bonds.
It first issued bonds linked to domestic inflation in 1998,
before selling securities indexed to euro-region CPI in 2001.
Agence France Tresor maintains liquidity in both markets, which
each having outstanding debt of about 70 billion euros. Some
other nations waited until the euro’s introduction in 1999
before selling linkers, using the regional measure.  Hallgrimsson said he expects the government to settle on
changes next year. The Department of Work and Pensions finished
a consultation with the pension industry on Nov. 3, and the
result will be published in spring, a press officer said.  Liquidity ‘Misconception’  Hallgrimsson said the size of U.K. private pension
liabilities means there will be enough demand for two linker
securities. About 30 percent of those liabilities, or around 300
billion pounds, will already be in a situation where they need
to shift to CPI, he estimates. Hallgrimsson said the exact scale
of demand for CPI-linked bonds is difficult to gauge given that
pension plans’ rules on inflation linkage vary.  “It is a misconception that CPI issuance would undermine
the RPI liquidity,” he said. Investors may seek to arbitrage
between the two measures, increasing trading volume, he said.
“Liquidity in one market may compliment the other.”  U.K. index-linked bonds returned 6.6 percent this year,
compared with a gain of 10.1 percent from their U.S.
counterparts, according to data compiled by Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch unit.  The 10-year breakeven rate, a gauge of market expectations
of price growth derived from the  yield  gap between index-linked
and nominal bonds, has risen to 2.86 percentage points from 2.69
percentage points at the end of September.  Britain became the first industrialized nation to issue
index-linked securities in 1981. The bonds account for around 22
percent of the total gilts outstanding as of the end of
September, according to data from the DMO website.  Cameron’s government may save money with the pension shift
as CPI has shown inflation to be an average 0.7 percentage point
lower than RPI over the past 20 years, according to JPMorgan’s
own analysis.  JPMorgan starts trading U.K. CPI inflation swaps in August.
U.K. consumer price inflation, the Bank of England’s official
gauge, remained at 3.1 percent in September, compared with the
central bank’s 2 percent target. The retail price growth in the
same month was 4.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  