-- BofA, JPMorgan Reprise Perfect Trading Records
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2010-11-09T23:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/jpmorgan-reprises-perfect-trading-record-as-goldman-posts-two-losing-days.html
  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. , the two biggest U.S. banks by assets, racked up
perfect trading records for the second time this year, making
money every day last quarter after accomplishing the same feat
in the first three months of 2010.  Traders at Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
made more than $25 million on more than 55 days during the third
quarter, the bank said in a Nov. 5  regulatory filing . New York-
based JPMorgan, which doesn’t break out its results by quarter,
made more than $200 million on 12 days in the first nine months
and lost money on only eight, the company said today in a
filing.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., which makes the most revenue on
Wall Street trading stocks and bonds, had losses in that
business on two days in the third quarter while Morgan Stanley
reported 10 losing days. Citigroup Inc. also had two
unprofitable trading days in the period, a person briefed on the
matter said. Goldman Sachs and  Citigroup  had perfect trading
results during the first quarter.  Lower volatility and improving credit markets helped Wall
Street’s trading last quarter, said  Jim Mitchell , a senior vice
president at Buckingham Research Group in New York. “If you
don’t have a lot of volatility and markets are generally
positive, you don’t tend to have a lot of trading losses,”
Mitchell said.  Carry Trade  JPMorgan said its value at risk, a measure of the average
amount the bank could lose on any given day, fell to $109
million in the third quarter from $178 million during the same
period last year, driven primarily by a decline in market
volatility.  Chris Whalen , a former Federal Reserve Bank of New York
analyst and co-founder of Institutional Risk Analytics in
Torrance, California, said trading volume was also strong during
the third quarter and banks benefited from the “carry trade,”
the difference between their low cost of funds and the yield
they earned on investments.  Trading revenue at eight of the biggest Wall Street firms
declined an average of 12 percent through September from the
same period a year earlier.  Goldman Sachs  generated 69 percent
of revenue this year from trading, and said third-quarter
trading results declined 36 percent. The seven days that New
York-based Goldman Sachs made more than $100 million last
quarter were the fewest since the fourth quarter of 2006.  Morgan Stanley  said yesterday it made more than $100
million on one day last quarter, versus 18 days in the third
quarter of 2009.  Morgan Stanley, also based in New York, had $1.43 billion
in total sales and trading revenue for the third quarter, the
lowest since the first quarter of 2009. Excluding losses and
gains tied to its own credit spreads, Morgan Stanley generated
$1.31 billion from trading fixed-income products, down 24
percent from the second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 