-- JPMorgan's Coulter Vows Comeback in South African Equity Deals
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-10T13:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/jpmorgan-s-coulter-vows-come-back-in-south-african-equity-deals.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. , which has slid
down South Africa’s equity sales rankings for the past six
years, has hired bankers from  Morgan Stanley  and sent staff from
Geneva and London to Johannesburg to regain the top spot.  “We want to be in a top-tier position in any business,”
said  John Coulter , 49, chief executive officer of JPMorgan’s
Johannesburg-based sub-Saharan Africa unit. “We lost critical
mass with people leaving and the financial crisis” and “had
become too isolated from a local perspective.”  After leading equity league tables of Africa’s largest
economy between 2001 and 2004, JPMorgan slipped every year to
eighth this year. The decline began when Coulter, with six years
at the helm and 20 years at the company, left JPMorgan in 2005.
He spent 16 months as CEO of private-equity firm,  Brait SA , and
did a stint as head of Morgan Stanley’s South African unit from
January 2008, before returning to JPMorgan in May last year.  Morgan Stanley’s equity team in South Africa, boosted by
its tie-up with  FirstRand Ltd.’s  Rand Merchant Bank, has led the
country’s equity league table for the past three years. The
venture, called RMB Morgan Stanley, has participated in five
deals this year for a 40 percent share of the market, including
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.’s  September sale of $789 million of stock
and  Remgro Ltd.’s  sale of its stake in Nampak Ltd.  “It’s a class act,” Coulter said of RMB Morgan Stanley’s
success since it started in September 2006. “We’re aiming to do
it without partnering with a local company. But clearly things
can change.”  Adding Staff  JPMorgan in Johannesburg has been joined by  Ian Balfour ,
who moved from its private bank in Geneva to be head of markets,
sales and trading, and  Tom Briggs , who joined from JPMorgan in
London as treasurer, according to Coulter.  In July, JPMorgan hired  Damian Dolland  and  Sean Jagoe , both
previously from Morgan Stanley, as head of investment banking
for sub-Saharan Africa excluding South Africa, and senior
adviser and member of JPMorgan’s European Advisory Committee,
respectively. It also took over the investment banking team of
Fidelis Partners, a business started by Jagoe.  Coulter, born in Zambia, is rebuilding as rivals step up
efforts to benefit from economic growth in Africa, which,
according to the International Monetary Fund, will outpace that
of developed markets. This year, in its only equity underwriting
deal, JPMorgan shared in the listing of  Optimum Coal Holdings
Ltd.  on Johannesburg’s stock exchange in March with RMB Morgan
Stanley, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Over-Brokered’  “I would be sceptical of how much market share can be
taken in this environment,” said  Neville Chester , who helps
manage about $29 billion at Coronation Fund Managers Ltd.  With Citigroup Inc.,  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch ,
Deutsche Bank AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , South Africa’s five
largest banks and smaller advisers in the market, it feels
“over-brokered,” RMB  Morgan Stanley CEO Chris  Meyer said.  While most have a broader strategy in a continent with more
than 1 billion people, many “cut their teeth” in South Africa,
Meyer said. RMB Morgan Stanley will fight for what could be next
year’s largest initial public offering in South Africa, the
listing of Old Mutual Investment Group Property Investment’s
Triangle Core Real Estate Fund, which may raise 5 billion rand
($726 million) and have a market value of 12 billion rand.  “I don’t think competitors will beat us this year,” Meyer
said.  Credit Suisse AG  in September ended a venture with  Standard
Bank Group Ltd.  to start its own brokerage, while Renaissance
Capital bought Barnard Jacobs Mellet Holdings Ltd. in June.  ‘Further Squeeze’  “The changes with Credit Suisse Standard Securities may be
a hiring opportunity, but it’s also a further squeeze on already
tight resources in the local market because one institution
becomes two,” Coulter said.  Investment banks, including RMB Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan, are counting on the return of stocks removed from the
South African bourse after private equity buyouts.  Boston-based Bain Capital LLC bought Edgars Consolidated
Stores Ltd. for 25 billion rand in 2007 in the country’s biggest
leveraged buyout. Other companies delisted in the past five
years through buyouts include Alexander Forbes Ltd., Primedia
Ltd. and  Consol Ltd. , South Africa’s largest glassmaker.  There’ll be enough initial public offers and acquisitions
in South Africa to keep investment bankers happy as long as the
market keeps being “aided by more offshore interest,”  Stephen Meintjes , head of research at Imara SP Reid, said.  Up for Sale  Since July, Old Mutual Plc has indicated its  Nedbank Group
Ltd.  unit is up for sale, while Japan’s  Nippon Telegraph &
Telephone Corp.  bought technology company  Dimension Data Plc  and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  said it wants to buy a controlling stake in
retailer  Massmart Holdings Ltd.   Having suffered during the financial crisis and losing five
staff in 2006 to the now defunct Credit Suisse-Standard Bank
venture, JPMorgan employs about 450 people in South Africa,
including its money manager-administration company in Cape Town.  Standard Bank,  Gold Fields Ltd. , insurer Liberty Holdings
Ltd. and Africa’s largest fixed-line operator,  Telkom SA Ltd. ,
make up part of Coulter’s list of past clients in South Africa.  With the extra bankers, JPMorgan will be “well placed for
2011,” Coulter said. “This is a market set for increasing
investment both by existing players and a number of additional
new participants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  