-- K1 Group, M&T, BNY Mellon, MetLife, Oracle, Emarat, Atheros in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-09T11:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/k1-m-t-bny-mellon-metlife-oracle-atheros-in-court-news.html
When James Renfro had to stop making
payments on his two-story fixer-upper in Parma, Ohio, a suburb
of Cleveland, he triggered events that were supposed to result
in the forced sale of his home.  That Nov. 15 auction has been canceled because of defects
in documents submitted by his loan servicer,  Ally Financial 
Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit. Two affidavits about Renfro’s home
were signed by Jeffrey Stephan, a GMAC employee who said in
sworn depositions in Florida and Maine that he hadn’t read
thousands of affidavits he’d signed.  Renfro’s case has created a showdown between GMAC and
Ohio’s Attorney General Richard Cordray, Bloomberg News’s
Michael Riley reports. Cordray has asked Cuyahoga County Court
of Common Pleas Judge Nancy Russo not to let GMAC simply submit
new documents to cure defects without consequences. He’s taken
the same stand against  Wells Fargo  & Co., which has said it
found defects in 55,000 foreclosures.  “This is just the first,” said Cordray, who filed an
amicus, or friend-of-the-court, brief in the Renfro case. He
argued that Russo should punish GMAC, the fourth-largest U.S.
mortgage lender, for its conduct.  The judge in Cleveland set yesterday an accelerated
schedule for evidence-gathering in the case, leading up to a
Feb. 17 hearing on the integrity of the loan documents.
Cordray’s office plans to file a motion today asking to take
part in the case and participate in so-called discovery.  The precedent set by the case might hasten a settlement
between home lenders and the attorneys general of the 50 U.S.
states, who are investigating allegations of fraud in
foreclosure filings. Those being probed include San-Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, which has said it will re-file foreclosure
affidavits involving statements that “did not strictly adhere
to the required procedures.”  In potentially thousands of cases across the U.S., judges
have the power to impose “sanctions, penalties, fines and even
default,” as the banks try to submit substitute paperwork to
proceed with flawed foreclosures, Cordray said.  “The banks want to wish this away and pretend like it
doesn’t exist,” he said.  In September, Detroit-based Ally briefly suspended
foreclosures in 23 states where there is judicial review and
later announced an independent survey of foreclosure proceedings
that would extend nationwide. After a review, the company began
reinstating proceedings in cases it said didn’t involve errors.  “The underlying facts of default in this case are not in
dispute,” Jim Olecki, a spokesman for Ally, said of the
foreclosure of Renfro’s home. “We only pursued foreclosure
after all other home preservation options had been exhausted.”  Ally disputes assertions Cordray made in his amicus brief
in the Renfro case.  “To date, we have found no evidence of any inappropriate
foreclosures,” Olecki said.  Tom Goyda, a spokesman for Wells Fargo, said the lender
would go ahead with plans to re-submit thousands of affidavits
in cases nationwide, including Ohio. When judges seek
information on documents already filed, “we will work with them
to meet their concerns,” Goyda said.  The case is U.S. Bank National Association v. Renfro,
10-716322, Ohio Court of Common Pleas for Cuyahoga County
(Cleveland).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits  K1’s Kiener May Be Charged This Week, Prosecutor Says  K1 Group hedge fund founder Helmut Kiener may be charged
this week over what prosecutors say was a scheme that led to
hundreds of millions of dollars in losses at  Barclays Plc ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  BNP Paribas SA .  Charges may be filed this week or next after the formal
investigation is completed, said Dietrich Geuder, a spokesman
for prosecutors in Wuerzburg, Germany. Kiener and other suspects
have been investigated for fraud and breach of trust.  “The exact amount of damage the scheme caused will be
disclosed once we file the charges,” Geuder said in an
interview yesterday. “We will also say then whether other
suspects will be indicted.”  Kiener, 51, is the central figure in an international
criminal probe that led to his arrest in October 2009. Dieter
Frerichs, the former managing director of two K1 funds in the
British Virgin Islands, shot himself in July to avoid being
arrested by police on the Spanish island of Mallorca.  Kiener has denied the allegations. Kiener’s lawyer Lutz
Libbertz wouldn’t comment further, said Denise Raming, an
employee at Libbertz’s office in Munich.  Prosecutors said in April they expect the total damages
incurred as a result of the scheme, including harm done to
investors and banks, to be about 300 million euros ($418
million). Kiener may have used his business relationships with
the banks to channel their money to K1 Global and K1 Invest via
a net of funds and sham companies, according to investigators.  For more, click here.  Standard Chartered Wins Dismissal of Beauty Tycoon’s Claims  A Hong Kong court dismissed a local beauty tycoon’s claims
against  Standard Chartered Bank Ltd.  over investments related to
bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. because she didn’t suffer
any direct losses.  Joyce Tsang Yue, chairwoman and founder of  Modern Beauty
Salon Holdings Ltd. , can’t sue as a beneficiary of a trust that
incurred the investment losses, according to a ruling yesterday
by Judge Arjan Sakhrani of the Court of First Instance.  Tsang filed a $1.65 million (HK$12.8 million) claim against
Standard Chartered in December after she invested some of the
trust’s funds in a Lehman-linked principal protected note on the
recommendation of a of a bank employee, court documents show.  The trustee in Tsang’s claim against Standard Chartered is
Standard Chartered Trust (Cayman) Limited, which her lawyer
Edward Chan described as being “of the same group” as the
bank. The trustee declined Tsang’s request to sue the bank.  The judge agreed with Standard Chartered’s argument that
Tsang’s proper recourse is to ask a court in the Cayman Islands
to compel the trust to sue.  The case is  Tsang Yue Joyce  and Standard Chartered Bank
(Hong Kong) Ltd., Standard Chartered Trust (Cayman) Ltd.,
HCA2488/2009 in the High Court of Hong Kong.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Wilmington Trust Sued by Investor Over M&T Deal  Wilmington Trust Corp. , the century-old bank founded by a
member of the du Pont family, was sued by a stockholder claiming
directors violated their duties by agreeing to sell the firm to
 M&T Bank Corp.  at a cut-rate price.  The investor asked a judge to block the $351 million
takeover until Wilmington Trust implements a procedure to get
the best possible price for its shares, in a Nov. 5 complaint in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “The proposed transaction is the product of a flawed
process” and “has been engineered to take advantage of the
recent decline in the trading price of Wilmington Trust
shares,” investor Daniel Yi said in the complaint.  Wilmington Trust, based in Wilmington, said Nov. 1 it would
exchange each of its shares for 0.051 share of Buffalo, New
York-based M&T, a deal that valued the company at 46 percent
less than the previous closing price. The shares fell 41 percent
to $4.21 that day.  The case was assigned to Judge J. Travis Laster, according
to court electronic records.  “There is no comment we wish to make,” said Bill
Benintende, a Wilmington Trust spokesman, in an e-mailed message
yesterday.  Donald E. Foley, Wilmington Trust’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement that officials “continue to face
difficult financial realities associated  with the credit
quality of the loan portfolio in our banking business,” and the
M&T agreement was “the best available option” after
“discussions with several potential partners.”  The case is Yi v. Wilmington Trust, CA5959, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Swedish Fund Sues Bank of New York Mellon Over $35.5 Million  Forsta AP-Fonden, a Swedish state pension fund, filed a
lawsuit against  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  for losses
incurred in 2008.  Forsta, or the First National Pension Fund, says the bank
wrongfully deducted $35.5 million from a managed account after
investing in notes issued by Sigma Finance Inc., according to a
statement to Sweden’s stock exchange yesterday. Forsta says the
investments were negligent and constitute a breach of
guidelines.  “We have been trying to come to an agreement with BNY
Mellon for some time,” said the funds’ managing director, Johan
Magnusson, in the statement. “We believe that BNY Mellon have a
case to answer and we have confidence in the merits of our
position.”  Sigma, created by London-based Gordian Knot Ltd. in 1995,
collapsed in September 2008 after banks seized the collateral it
used to back loans. Forsta had net assets of 202.6 billion
kronor as of June 30.  Bank of New York Mellon spokesman Kevin Heine said the
company is still investigating the details of the case, in an e-
mailed reply to questions.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  SAP Might Have Taken Thousands of Oracle Clients, Ellison Says  SAP AG  might have won over almost a third of the 13,000
customers  Oracle Corp.  picked up with its  PeopleSoft Inc. 
acquisition at a cost of $4 billion to license Oracle software,
Chief Executive Officer Larry Ellison said.  “They would have picked up 30 percent,” the Oracle CEO
said yesterday during his hour-long testimony in federal court
in Oakland, California. The SAP software maintenance unit that
downloaded the software ended up gaining about 300 customers,
Ellison said under questioning by SAP attorney Greg Lanier, who
said the precise number was 358.  “That’s nowhere close to 20 to 30 percent of the
PeopleSoft customer base, is it?” Lanier said.  “No,” Ellison replied.  Oracle is seeking at least $2.3 billion in damages for what
the former SAP unit called TomorrowNow acknowledges were
fraudulent downloads that infringed Oracle  copyrights .  Lanier asked if Ellison could point to any internal e-mail
or document in which he said he was worried that SAP’s 2005
acquisition of TomorrowNow, which provided discounted
maintenance services for PeopleSoft customers, would cause
thousands of customers to leave Oracle for SAP.  “I had those discussions but I have a tendency not to
write those things down,” Ellison said.  Oracle, the  second-largest  maker of software for business
applications behind SAP, sued its competitor in 2007. Oracle
claims the unit of Walldorf, Germany-based SAP made hundreds of
thousands of downloads and several thousand copies of Oracle’s
software to avoid paying licensing fees and to steal customers.
Redwood City, California-based Oracle wants compensation for
lost customers, copyright infringement and for costs  SAP  avoided
by not having to develop its own software or pay license fees.  SAP , saying Oracle’s damage estimates are grossly
exaggerated, has said it owes about $40 million.  David Boies, a lawyer for Oracle, said that while Ellison
placed the value of a potential license for Oracle’s software at
$4 billion, experts testifying for the company have put damages
at $1.5 billion to $2 billion. It’s up to the jury to decide how
much Oracle should get, Bois said at a press conference after
yesterday’s testimony.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more, click here.  Potash Says Shareholders Need More Details on BHP Plan  Shareholders of  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , the
world’s biggest fertilizer company, need complete information
about  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s  plans to acquire the company or to
compete against it, a lawyer for Potash said.  Attorney Daniel Reidy, seeking to block the sale until BHP
provides more complete disclosure of its intentions, told U.S.
District Judge David Coar in Chicago yesterday that his client’s
shareholders weren’t being told about internal debate at the
Australian company.  “BHP is deliberately overstating its commitment” to
building a competing Saskatchewan potash mine that could be the
world’s biggest in an attempt to drive down the Potash share
price,’’ Reidy said.  BHP Billiton, the world’s biggest  mining  company, has said
it intends to acquire a controlling interest in the Canadian
company for $40 billion.  Coar heard about six hours of evidence and testimony from
the parties on Nov. 4 as Saskatoon-based Potash pressed for an
injunction. BHP has said the case has no merit.  “There is absolutely no evidence that their price was
affected by anything my client did,” BHP lawyer Thomas Moloney
told the judge yesterday. “They provided no empirical evidence
of that.”  Canada’s government on Nov. 3 said it wouldn’t approve the
takeover of Potash Corp. by Melbourne-based BHP. Industry
Minister Tony Clement said the proposal doesn’t confer a “net
benefit” on his country.  BHP has 30 days from the ruling date to lodge an appeal.
Reidy, Moloney and Coar yesterday acknowledged that any ruling
he renders may be moot unless the Canadian government reverses
its determination.  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. v. BHP
Billiton Ltd., 10cv6024, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  MetLife Defends Retained Asset Accounts at Appeal  MetLife Inc.  doesn’t owe a fiduciary duty to the owners of
retained asset accounts, a lawyer told an appeals court as a
judge overseeing the case showed support for the insurer’s
claim.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
York heard arguments yesterday in a case that may decide whether
some insurers can profit by retaining and investing the proceeds
of insurance policies issued under employee-benefit plans. A key
issue is whether New York-based MetLife, the bi ggest U.S. life
i nsurer, owes a fiduciary duty to beneficiaries of the accounts.  U.S. Circuit Court Judge Richard Wesley indicated that he
agreed with MetLife that the insurer doesn’t have a fiduciary
duty. Wesley said the relationship between MetLife and the
beneficiary of the retained asset accounts was closer to a
contractual guarantee, rather than a fiduciary one.  “It’s a contract, yes?” Wesley said in court.  Another appeals court judge, Barrington Parker, suggested
that a fiduciary duty may exist between MetLife and the
beneficiary. U.S. Circuit Court Judge Wilfred Feinberg was
silent.  “Fiduciaries are required to act solely in the interest of
beneficiaries, and all kind of self-dealing is prohibited,”
Parker said in court.  The panel didn’t issue a ruling.  MetLife  is among more than 100 insurance carriers that earn
investment income on a total $28 billion owed to life insurance
beneficiaries, Bloomberg Markets magazine reported in July. In
these so-called retained asset accounts, insurers keep the money
in their general account, paying only when the beneficiaries
write drafts, or “checks” on the account.  In lawsuits across the country, beneficiaries are arguing
that they are entitled to the full amount that insurers earn by
investing the retained assets. Insurers say beneficiaries are
entitled only to the amount they have been guaranteed under
contracts.  The case is Faber v. MetLife, 09-4901, 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (New York).  For more, click here.  Emarat to Appeal U.K. Contempt Ruling in Trafigura Oil Dispute  Emarat, the United Arab Emirates’ state-owned fuel
retailer, will appeal a U.K. order that its general manager must
spend a year in a jail for ignoring court rulings in a civil
lawsuit filed by Trafigura Beheer BV.  Britain doesn’t have jurisdiction in the dispute and
Trafigura “misled” the court that’s overseeing a parallel case
in the U.A.E. to shift the lawsuit to the U.K., Emarat’s lawyer,
Youssef Moftah, said in an e-mail Nov. 7.  Judge Nigel Teare in London ruled Nov. 4 that Emarat
General Manager Jamal Al Midfa was in contempt of court for
failing to supply financial data after Emarat lost a trial in
January over $83 million in unpaid gasoil shipments. Emarat
claims Trafigura inflated invoices by about $24 million and
shipped oil that didn’t meet quality requirements.  “Trafigura is trying by all means to avoid facing the
harsh reality of having fraudulently contracted and invoiced the
off-spec product,” Moftah said in an e-mail Nov. 7. “There is
no question” Trafigura “has accepted jurisdiction of the
U.A.E. courts.”  Al Midfa isn’t in custody and didn’t attend last week’s
hearing.  Mark Eadie, a spokesman for Trafigura in London, said
yesterday that Emarat’s allegations had been rejected during the
U.K. trial.  Trafigura, an Amsterdam-based commodities trader, sued
Emarat in 2009 after it refused to fully pay for two cargoes of
oil shipped the previous year. Trafigura initially gave Emarat
an extension on the payment while Emarat awaited an infusion of
cash from the government, according to a Jan. 26 ruling in the
case. Emarat eventually challenged the invoice.  The case is Trafigura Pte Ltd. v. Emirates General
Petroleum Corp., 2009 Folio 350, High Court of Justice (London).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Former Intel Executive Goel Fined, Barred by SEC  Rajiv Goel, a former  Intel Corp.  managing director, will
pay more than $250,000 to resolve U.S. regulatory claims that he
was part of an insider-trading ring involving Galleon Group co-
founder Raj Rajaratnam.  Goel, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud
in February, also agreed to be barred from acting as an officer
or director in a public company, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said yesterday in a  statement  citing a Nov. 5 filing
at federal court in Manhattan. He agreed to cooperate with the
SEC in the Galleon lawsuit and related probes, the agency said.  Rajaratnam is the central figure in two overlapping
prosecutions in which 21 people have been charged, with at least
12 of them pleading guilty. He was arrested in October 2009,
accused of earning millions of dollars from stock trades made
with inside information from corporate officials and hedge-fund
executives. Rajaratnam is fighting the charges.  Goel, who worked in Intel’s treasury unit, passed along
news about Clearwire Corp. that he learned from investments made
by the world’s biggest chipmaker, helping Rajaratnam earn about
$579,000 in profits, prosecutors said. In return, Rajaratnam
placed trades for Goel in a personal brokerage account
maintained by Goel, according to prosecutors.  David Zornow, an attorney for Goel, declined to comment.  The civil case is SEC v. Galleon, 09-cv-08811, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Atheros Executive Sentenced to 18 Months in Prison  Former Atheros Communications Inc.  Vice President Ali
Hariri was sentenced to 18 months in prison after pleading
guilty in the Galleon Group LLC insider-trading case.  Hariri pleaded guilty in March to one count of conspiracy
to commit securities fraud and one count of securities fraud
before U.S. Magistrate Judge James Francis in New York. Hariri,
who was arrested in November, was a manager at Atheros’s
broadband networking unit.  Hariri is among 21 people charged in two overlapping
insider trading cases. Raj Rajaratnam, Galleon Group’s founder,
was indicted for using confidential tips to earn millions of
dollars in illegal stock trades. He denies wrongdoing.  Atheros, based in Santa Clara, California, sells chips used
in Wi-Fi networks, which provide short-range wireless Internet
connections. It also makes semiconductors for Bluetooth wireless
networks and chips used in global-positioning system, or GPS,
equipment.  Hariri leaked information on Atheros’s downward guidance on
its financial performance for the fourth quarter of 2008 to
hedge-fund manager Ali Far, authorities said in a criminal
complaint and a related lawsuit filed by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Far and partner C.B. Lee are linked to
others in an insider-trading ring led by Rajaratnam, who got
tips from a network of corporate and financial executives, the
government says.  Far, an analyst and portfolio manager at Galleon and a co-
founder of Spherix Capital LLC, and Lee, a co-founder of
Spherix, have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with
prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Hariri, 09-02436, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 