-- KDB's Min Says New Capital Rules Spell `Great Opportunity' for Asian Banks
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-11-10T02:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/kdb-s-min-says-new-capital-rules-spell-great-opportunity-for-asian-banks.html
Min Euoo Sung , who in 2008 tried and
failed to buy Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., said Asian banks
will benefit at the expense of U.S. and European rivals from
stricter global capital regulations.  “Some countries that currently have a somewhat limited
competitive capability may think this is a great opportunity to
narrow the gap with U.S. and European institutions,” Min,
chairman of  KDB Financial Group Inc. , South Korea’s largest
state-owned banking group, said yesterday in an interview in
Seoul.  Capital requirements for global banks will more than double
over eight years under the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision accord aimed at curbing the risk-taking that helped
trigger a seizure of credit markets in 2008. The Basel III rules
will make it tougher for indebted Western banks to expand,
presenting less leveraged Asian competitors with an opportunity
to push into overseas markets, Min said.  KDB Financial’s leverage ratio is about eight, compared
with 20 to 30 at European banks and 15 to 20 at U.S. lenders,
according to Min.  The bank, which plans to sell stock in an initial public
offering as early as next year, had a Tier 1 capital ratio of
15.4 percent as of June 30, higher than an average 11.3 percent
among South Korean lenders.  Economy Drain  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Tier 1 ratio  stood at 11.9 percent
on Sept. 30, compared with 11.5 percent at  Deutsche Bank AG  and
12.5 percent for Citigroup Inc., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Stricter regulations may help Asian lenders like KDB
catch up with bigger rivals in Europe and the U.S.,” said  Kim Young June , who helps manage the equivalent of more than $12
billion at Woori Asset Management Co. “They need to make the
most out of it.”  Regulators are debating whether to impose additional
capital requirements on banks deemed too big to fail, a move
opposed by executives including Deutsche Bank Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann .  Basel III regulations may trim economic growth by spurring
banks to invest in U.S. Treasuries rather than extend more loans,
a committee of bond dealers and investors that advises Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said in a Nov. 2 report.  “In general, European and American banks may face a more
restrictive situation because of Basel III,” Min said.  Group of 20 leaders will approve the Basel capital rules
when they meet in Seoul tomorrow and Nov. 12.  Lehman Talks  Min, 56, took the helm at Korea Development Bank in June
2008 -- before KDB Financial was created -- after running
Lehman’s South Korean unit.  In August 2008, he abandoned talks to buy his former
employer. The Wall Street firm collapsed in the largest-ever U.S.
bankruptcy the following month, and Min was publicly chastised
by local lawmakers for having attempted to make the purchase.
 Nomura Holdings Inc.  bought Lehman’s European and Asian units,
and Barclays Plc bought the U.S. assets.  Min is now setting his sights on the market for lending for
infrastructure projects such as railroads and bridges. KDB
Financial aims to become Asia’s biggest provider of financing
for such projects by 2015, he said. The bank was fifth in the
Asia-Pacific region last year, according to Min.  “This is a big market we definitely need to look into,”
said Min, adding that demand for infrastructure project finance
may average about $800 billion annually in Asia over the next
two decades, and $2 trillion globally.  Acquisitions  KDB Financial’s expansion plan may prompt it to seek
acquisitions in Asia to secure local-currency funding, according
to Min. Even so, he ruled out a “one-shot, big-size” purchase.  Min will face competition from the likes of Japan’s
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., which is in talks to buy a
portfolio of project-finance assets valued at about 4 billion
pounds ($6.5 billion) from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  “Becoming the top player in the Asian project financing
market is a tough goal for KDB with its small scale and limited
global network,” said Kim of Woori Asset Management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  