-- Kiwifruit Disease May Affect As Many as 20 Orchards, New Zealand Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2010-11-10T05:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/kiwifruit-disease-may-affect-as-many-as-18-orchards-new-zealand-says.html
A vine  disease  threatening New
Zealand’s NZ$1.4 billion ($1.1 billion) kiwifruit industry may
have spread to as many as 20 orchards, the government said after
confirming a third outbreak.  A further two North Island orchards were quarantined
pending a “likely” outcome that they are also infected with
Pseudomonas syringae pv actinidiae,  David Carter , New Zealand’s
biosecurity minister, said today in a statement. Infected
orchards will be sprayed tomorrow, he said after visiting the
Bay of Plenty region in northern New Zealand.  “While the preferred option of dealing with PSA is
eradication, this decision can only be made once the spread of
the disease is determined,” Carter said. “We hope to know this
by Friday afternoon.”  The U.S. and Australia have stopped importing kiwifruit
plant material from New Zealand until reviews of the situation
are completed. The country is the third-biggest kiwifruit grower
after China and Italy, accounting for about 21 percent of global
production, and earned about NZ$1.4 billion from the fruit in
the year ending March 31, according to  Zespri  Group Ltd, the
world’s biggest marketer of the fruit.  The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is investigating
20 New Zealand kiwifruit orchards out of 75 that have potential
symptoms, Carter said. The infected orchards are in the Bay of
Plenty area, which produces 77 percent of New Zealand’s
kiwifruit crop, Zespri said.  New Zealand until now had remained free of the disease,
which was first found in Japan more than 25 years ago and spread
to Italy in the 1990s, causing millions of dollars in damages.  “It is still too early to say how PSA arrived in New
Zealand, or how long it has been here,” said Carter. The
disease, carried by airborne spores, appears to attack under
certain climatic conditions and may have always been in the
country, he said.  “We don’t know if it’s been here for 10 years or 10
days,” Peter Ombler, president of New Zealand Kiwifruit Growers
Inc. said in an interview. “The reality is we have got it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  