-- Korean Won Retreats as Europe Debt Concerns Curb Risk-Taking; Bonds Fall
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-09T01:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/korean-won-retreats-as-europe-debt-concerns-curb-risk-taking-bonds-fall.html
South Korea’s won fell to a one-week
low as heightened concern that some European governments will
struggle to pay debt bolstered demand for dollars. Bonds
declined.  The currency slid for a second day and the euro dropped to
its weakest level this month after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
there is a “big possibility” Ireland and Portugal will need to
seek aid from the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund. The won also declined on speculation local regulators will
tighten curbs on the use of derivatives to help damp exchange-
rate volatility.  “The market has refocused its attention on the financial
concerns of Ireland and, to some extent, Portugal,” said  Brad Bechtel , a currency trader at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros
Trading LLC. “This could lead to another round of nervousness
in markets, which could lead to the unwinding of risk positions
in the Korean won.”  The won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,118.30 per dollar as of
9:42 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
has advanced 8.3 percent since June, a performance second only
to the Thai baht among Asia’s 10 most-used currencies excluding
the yen. The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.3861 and earlier
touched $1.3847, its weakest level since Oct. 29.  The cost of insuring debt issued by Ireland and the
nation’s banks surged to a record yesterday, credit-default
swaps show. European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Olli Rehn said yesterday Ireland hasn’t asked for
aid.  Ireland, Portugal  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold  Irish 
10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity benchmark German debt
reached a record 548 basis points yesterday, compared with a
euro-era median average of 20. In  Portugal , the gap reached 444
basis points, also a record, up from a median of 26 since the
euro was introduced in 1999.  Asian economies may need to turn to capital controls as
quantitative easing by the U.S. threatens to spur asset bubbles
in the region’s stock, currency and property markets, World Bank
Managing Director Sri Mulyani Indrawati said in an interview
yesterday.  Financial Supervisory Service Governor  Kim Jong Chang  said
in Seoul yesterday the country may seek to strengthen rules that
limit foreign and domestic banks’ currency derivative positions
and that banks will be penalized if inappropriate trades are
found.  South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds declined. The
yield on the 3.75 percent notes due in June 2013 rose two basis
points to 3.57 percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange. The
rate ended last week at 3.61 percent, the highest level since
Sept. 8. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 