-- N.Z. Dollar May Fall Toward Eight-Week Low Versus Yen: Technical Analysis
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   K a z u m i   M i u r a
-- 2010-11-09T00:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/n-z-dollar-may-fall-toward-eight-week-low-versus-yen-technical-analysis.html
New Zealand’s dollar may fall toward
an eight-week low against the yen as technical indicators signal
its advance in the past three weeks has been too rapid, Ueda
Harlow Ltd. said, citing trading patterns.  The kiwi’s 14-day  relative strength index  against the yen
climbed as high as 75 last week, surpassing the level of 70 that
some traders see as an indication gains in an asset are overdone.
The gauge was at 66 today after the currency snapped a seven-day
gain yesterday.  “Correction is likely for the short term,” said  Toshiya Yamauchi , a senior currency analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd.,
Japan’s largest currency broker. “It’s sufficiently possible
New Zealand’s currency will fall to levels reached on Oct. 21.”  The New Zealand dollar traded at 63.76 yen as of 9:13 a.m.
in Tokyo, after appreciating from 60.44 yen on Oct. 21, the
lowest level since Sept. 14. The currency has strengthened
against all its 16 major counterparts over the past month.  A decline in the kiwi may be triggered by concern that
Ireland is struggling to cut its budget deficit, which in turn
may cause stocks to slide around the world, Yamauchi said.  New Zealand, the world’s third-largest kiwifruit producer,
said today tests have confirmed a bacterial vine disease never
before found in the country has infected a North Island orchard.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kazumi Miura  in Tokyo at 
 kmiura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  