-- Netanyahu Says Home Construction Is Essential to Israel's Economic Health
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P o w e r
-- 2010-11-09T17:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/netanyahu-says-israeli-home-building-is-key-to-country-s-economic-health.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said homebuilding is key to the country’s economic
health and that freeing up state land will promote growth.  “Just by making the availability of land and planning of
construction easier, we can get an additional 1 to 2 percent GDP
growth a year for the next 10 years,” Netanyahu said in an
interview in New York today. “And that’s independent of what
happens in the United States and China.”  The Bank of Israel raised its  benchmark interest rate  at
the end of September for a sixth time since the global economy
began to recover, citing the steep increase in housing prices
and rapid expansion of home loans. It has also issued new
directives for banks aimed at slowing the rise in housing prices
by raising capital provisions against some categories of home
loans.  Israel home purchase prices rose by 19 percent in the last
year, the central bank said in its quarterly inflation report on
Nov. 3. The housing component of the consumer price index, which
is based on rental prices, is expected to increase by 8 percent
in the next four quarters, after rising 6 percent in the 12
months to September, Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer 
said in a letter accompanying the report.  “It’s virtually impossible to build anything in Israel,”
Netanyahu said, referring to bureaucratic obstacles to new
building and expanding existing homes.  Netanyahu, 61, served as Finance Ministry from 2003 to
2005, during which he sold off state-owned companies, including
the flagship  El Al Israel Airlines Ltd. , deregulated markets and
cut the budget. He also recruited Fischer, an economist, banker
and former first deputy managing director at the International
Monetary Fund, as central bank governor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Power  in New York at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  