-- Netanyahu Says Israel Has Never Accepted Limits on Jerusalem Homebuilding
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n ,   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P o w e r
-- 2010-11-09T21:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/netanyahu-sees-no-connection-between-peace-talks-jerusalem-home-building.html
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
said Israel has never accepted restrictions on building in
Jerusalem after President  Barack Obama  expressed concern over
Israeli plans to build new homes in the disputed eastern part of
the city.  “Jerusalem is not a settlement,” Netanyahu said,
according to a text message today from his office. “Jerusalem
is the capital of the state of Israel. Israel never took upon
itself any limitations on construction in Jerusalem.”  In an interview, Netanyahu also called Iran’s nuclear
program a risk to the entire world and said stopping it requires
persuading the regime in Tehran that “all options are on the
table.”  Netanyahu’s text message on Jerusalem came in response to
Obama’s comment that Israel’s plans to build more than 1,000 new
homes in east Jerusalem, sought by the Palestinians as the
capital of their state, wasn’t helpful to the Mideast peace
process. Similar construction plans announced during a March
visit to Israel by Vice President  Joe Biden  strained ties
between Israel and its staunchest ally.  Netanyahu is in the U.S. to discuss reviving direct talks
with the Palestinians that started Sept. 2 in Washington and
stalled on Sept. 26 at the end of a partial 10-month freeze on
Israeli settlement construction in the West Bank. Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has said he won’t continue the
talks unless Israel stops settlement building.  ‘Minor Issue’  In an interview with Bloomberg Television, Netanyahu called
Palestinian complaints about Israeli settlement construction “a
minor issue” that has become “way overblown.” He said
previous settlement construction hadn’t prevented Egypt or
Jordan from concluding peace agreements with Israel.  “In many ways it’s a minor issue that has assumed center
stage for no objective reason,” Netanyahu said in the
interview.  U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told
reporters today that “these kind of announcements are
counterproductive to our efforts to get the parties into a
direct negotiation.” Both parties “are responsible for
creating conditions for a successful negotiation, so to suggest
that this kind of announcement would not have an impact on the
Palestinian side is incorrect.”  Israeli Interior Ministry spokesman Efrat Orbach said
yesterday that a district planning committee approved the
construction plans for east Jerusalem months ago and that their
recent publication was merely a “technical” measure.  ‘Never Helpful’  “This kind of activity is never helpful when it comes to
peace negotiations,” Obama said today at a news conference in
Jakarta with Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono .
“I’m concerned that we’re not seeing each side make the extra
effort involved to get a breakthrough that could finally create
a framework for a secure Israel living side by side in peace
with a sovereign Palestine.”  Building in Jerusalem “may derail the American and
international efforts to resume a peace process,” Palestinian
Authority spokesman  Ghassan Khatib  said yesterday. “Israel is
determined to demonstrate that settlement expansion is more of a
priority to it than peace talks.”  Israel captured east Jerusalem from Jordan in the 1967
Middle East war and later annexed it in a move never recognized
internationally.  Netanyahu is scheduled to hold talks with Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  in New York on Nov. 11.  ‘Differences of Opinion’  “The differences of opinion with the United States are
known, not new and have continued for 40 years,” the prime
minister said, according to the statement. “We hope to overcome
them and continue with diplomatic negotiations.”  Netanyahu has pushed the U.S. and other countries to
strengthen sanctions against Iran to stop it from producing
nuclear weapons and said yesterday that sanctions haven’t
accomplished that goal. Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
has described the Holocaust as a fabrication and has said Israel
is doomed to disappear.  “I think there’s a common desire and common understanding
that Iran should not get nuclear weapons,” Netanyahu, in New
York, said today. “If Iran is as determined as it is to get
such weapons, then the combination of economic sanctions and the
knowledge that all options are on the table is the only option
that is likely to deter them.”  Iran, which says its nuclear installations are aimed at
producing energy, is under a fourth round of UN sanctions
because it refuses to curtail its nuclear program.  ‘Global Risk’  “The rise of Iranian power and the possibility that Iran
will have nuclear weapons is a global risk, not an Israeli
risk,” Netanyahu said. “There’s a growing awareness in
Washington and the key European countries about the nature of
the threat of Iran’s nuclear program.”  Biden, speaking to a convention of Jewish groups in New
Orleans on Nov. 7 after meeting with Netanyahu, said he told the
Israeli leader that Obama won’t allow Iran to build a nuclear
arsenal.  “Governments, companies and most of the societies around
the world have a vested interest that Iran not have nuclear
weapons,” Netanyahu said.  Crowley, the State Department spokesman, said today that
Iran has agreed to hold talks on its nuclear program with the
five permanent United Nations Security Council members plus
Germany. The U.S. hopes the meeting “might occur as early as
the end of the month,” he said.  Turkish President  Abdullah Gul  said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV in London that Turkey expects to host the
negotiations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Power  in New York at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 