-- Netcare Unit Pleads Guilty to Illegal Organ Transplants in South Afrrica
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-11-09T15:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/netcare-unit-pleads-guilty-of-organ-transplant-offense-agrees-to-pay-fine.html
Netcare Ltd. , South Africa’s largest
private-hospital operator, said one of its provincial units
pleaded guilty to illegal organ transplants and was fined 4
million rand ($587,518) in the country’s Commercial Crime Court.  Some staff at Netcare’s St. Augustine’s Hospital in the
eastern KwaZulu-Natal province “must have been aware” that
certain kidney donors weren’t related to the organs’ recipients
and were paid for their donations, the Johannesburg-based
company said today in a statement.  The fine was also for participating in organized crime,
according to the statement. Netcare also agreed to pay the state
3.8 million rand of what it made from the scheme, which included
donors who were minors, it said.  “The employees concerned had not only contravened the law
but they had also disregarded Netcare’s own internal policies,
which expressly stipulated that ministerial permission in cases
of transplants between non-related persons was to be obtained
and that donations could only be done for altruistic purposes,”
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Friedland , who was cleared of
wrongdoing, said in the statement.  Netcare and its staff were involved in a scheme to give
transplants to wealthy Israeli citizens using organs donated by
poor Brazilians, Romanians and Israelis, Johannesburg-based  The
Times  said on Sept. 16, citing a charge sheet, which included
109 counts of fraud and serious assault and contravention of the
Organized Crime Act.  Employees involved in illegal operations, the last of which
took place at the end of 2003, are no longer at the company,
Netcare said.  Netcare’s stock fell 22 cents, or 1.4 percent, to 15.46
rand at the 5 p.m. close of Johannesburg trading, its first
decline in eight days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 