-- NYC Schools Chief Klein Steps Down, Replaced by Hearst's Black
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/new-york-city-schools-chancellor-joel-klein-plans-to-step-down-mayor-says.html
Cathie Black , the chairman of Hearst
Corp.’s magazine division, which produces Esquire and
Cosmopolitan, will take charge of the largest U.S. public school
system following the resignation of New York City schools
Chancellor  Joel Klein .  Black, 66, who’s spent 15 years at the closely held media
company, will be New York’s first female chancellor, overseeing
1.1 million students, 136,000 employees and a $21 billion
operating budget, reporting to Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .  “Cathie Black is a superstar manager who has succeeded
spectacularly in the private sector,” Bloomberg said yesterday.
“She is brilliant, she is innovative, she is driven -- and
there is virtually nobody who knows more about the needs of the
21st century workforce for which we need to prepare our kids.”  Klein, 64, a lawyer who has been chancellor since the mayor
won direct control of the schools in 2002, will join New York-
based  News Corp. , the owner of Fox News and the Wall Street
Journal, as executive vice president and adviser to Chairman
 Rupert Murdoch .  Black said she had “limited exposure to unions” other
than during her eight years as president and publisher at  USA
Today , the  Gannett Co.  newspaper. The United Federation of
Teachers acts as sole bargaining agent for about 90,000 New York
City school teachers, 18,000 classroom paraprofessionals and
hundreds of administrative and student-service workers.  “I have no illusions about this being an easy next three
years,” Black said at a City Hall  news  conference yesterday,
referring to the final three years of the mayor’s term. “What I
can promise is that I will listen to your expectations.”  Antitrust Division  Klein, who was paid $250,000 a year, had been chairman and
chief executive officer of  Bertelsmann Inc. , a U.S. subsidiary
of Germany’s largest media company, and assistant attorney
general in charge of the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust
division.  Under Klein, the schools ended “social promotion,” by
which students were advanced to the next grade even if they
hadn’t mastered reading and writing skills to perform at that
level. The city’s graduation rate increased for eight
consecutive years, reaching a high of 63 percent in 2009. The
Education Department created 474 new schools and 113,000 public
school seats to reduce overcrowding. Between 2001 and 2009,
violent crime in schools fell 32 percent, according to a news
release from the mayor’s office.  “The greatest school reform in the country over the past
eight years happened right here,” Klein said at the news
conference, with the mayor at his side. “We cannot continue to
fail to educate our children and hope to have the country we
want.”  ‘National Model’  Klein took “a program that was a case study in dysfunction
and turned it into one that the Obama administration has hailed
as a national model,” Bloomberg said. The mayor said he
conducted a “public search” before choosing Black.  Black, who lives in Manhattan, grew up in Chicago attending
parochial schools and graduated from Trinity College in
Washington, D.C., according to her Hearst biography. Her two
children attended private boarding schools in Connecticut, she
said.  “Since she is not an educator, there will be a steep
learning curve,” said Zakiyah Ansari, spokeswoman and organizer
for the  Alliance for Quality Education , a parents’ advocacy
group. “She can make her job easier and more successful by
learning from the mistakes of her predecessor and prioritizing
collaboration with parents, communities and their
organizations.”  Media Professional  Black began her publishing career in advertising sales for
Holiday magazine in 1966, according to her  biography  on the
Hearst website. One of the early publishers of USA Today, the
newspaper founded in 1982, Black is a “highly thought of”
media professional, said  John Morton , a Silver Spring, Maryland-
based industry consultant.  “She’s always been very good at what she does,” Morton
said. “But if anything can break her, it will be the New York
City schools.”  She is a director of  International Business Machines Corp. 
and  Coca-Cola Co . Her book, “Basic Black: The Essential
Guide for Getting Ahead at Work (and in Life),” made the
BusinessWeek best-seller list in January 2008.  The mayor, who took office in 2002 and has three years
remaining in what he has said will be his final term, is the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Henry Goldman  at New York City Hall 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 