-- New Zealand's Says Exports Face Headwinds Created By Weak U.S. Dollar
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-09T03:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/new-zealand-s-says-exports-face-headwinds-created-by-weak-u-s-dollar.html
New Zealand’s export recovery is
being hindered as the nation’s currency rises against a weak U.S.
dollar, Finance Minister  Bill English  said.  “Emerging economies are experiencing a strong recovery and
our trade with those economies is growing,” he said in response
to a question in parliament today. “Developed economies are
recovering more slowly, and economies such as the U.K. and the
U.S. are adopting policies that tend to devalue their exchange
rates and create a headwind for our export recovery.”  New Zealand’s currency has risen 4.3 percent against the
U.S. dollar the past month, the best performer of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The government is looking to
exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy, to boost
growth as consumer spending and the housing market remain
sluggish.  Gross domestic product  increased 0.2 percent in the three
months ended June 30 and a magnitude 7 earthquake that rocked
Christchurch city and surrounding districts on Sept. 4 likely
curbed growth in the third quarter.  The economy “is showing promising signs” of recovery,
English said today.  Prime Minister  John Key ’s political opponents have called
on the government to act to curb the currency, also known as the
kiwi, which reached a 30-month high of 79.76 U.S. cents on Nov.
5. It bought 78.77 cents at 3:05 p.m. in Wellington.  “We are concerned about the kiwi-U.S. exchange rate,” Key
told reporters in Wellington yesterday. “We think it is
overvalued but there’s very little we can do about that.”  Key said he isn’t convinced that central bank moving to
sell the currency would work because of the associated costs.
“When some politicians suggest we can intervene with no
economic consequences, then I think they are fooling
themselves,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  