-- New Jersey Must Repay $271 Million for Tunnel Christie Canceled
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-11-09T21:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/new-jersey-must-repay-u-s-271-million-for-rail-tunnel-christie-canceled.html
New Jersey  must repay the U.S.
government $271 million immediately for money spent on the
proposed Hudson River rail tunnel that Governor  Chris Christie 
canceled, a  Federal Transit Administration  official said.  The state also will owe “reasonable interest and penalty
charges that will be determined by FTA,”  Brigid Hynes-Cherin ,
the administration’s regional administrator in New York, wrote
in a letter yesterday to  James Weinstein , executive director of
New Jersey Transit. The state lost its claim on another $79
million earmarked for the project, she said.  “The final amount of funds obligated but not yet expended
will be determined through a complete audit of the project,”
said the letter, which Bloomberg obtained through two federal
government sources who asked for anonymity because it hasn’t
been released. “FTA expects the immediate reimbursement of the
amounts listed above even while this audit is ongoing.”  New Jersey is taking issue with the bill, said  Paul Wyckoff , a New Jersey Transit spokesman.  “We are reviewing the request and are assessing our
options,” he said in an e-mail statement this afternoon. “NJ
Transit does not agree that the issues are as clear-cut as
portrayed in the FTA letter.”  Wyckoff declined to elaborate on the statement when reached
by telephone this afternoon.  U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said after the
cancellation Oct. 27 that New Jersey would have to repay the
federal government as much as $350 million for initial work.  Kevin Roberts, a spokesman for Christie, said the request
is being evaluated.  The governor stopped work on the proposed 8.8-mile (14
kilometer) rail tunnel, saying New Jersey taxpayers couldn’t
afford as much as $5 billion in potential overruns on the $8.7
billion initial price of the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  