-- Nigeria to Buy $14.6 Billion of Toxic Debt, More Than Previously Forecast
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o   a n d   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2010-11-09T12:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/nigeria-to-buy-14-6-billion-of-toxic-debt-more-than-previously-forecast.html
Nigeria will buy 2.2 trillion naira
($14.6 billion) of bad debts from commercial  banks  by the end of
the year, the central bank said, raising its previous forecast.  The state-owned Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, or
Amcon, will value loans backed by shares in listed companies at
about 60 percent of the 60-day average price to Nov. 15, the
Abuja-based Central Bank of Nigeria said in an e-mailed
statement. Unsecured loans will be valued at 5 percent of the
principal value.  “It is expected that Amcon will reach agreements with the
selling institutions regarding pricing of non-performing loans
by Nov. 15 and aims to settle these transactions on or before
Dec. 30,” the company’s board said.  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said on July 1 that
Amcom would clear about $10 billion of toxic debts by year-end
at a cost of “roughly” $5 billion. Much of the bad debt stems
from loans to speculators in the local stock market and
operators in the oil and gas industry. The purchases aim to
revive lending by the banking industry.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country and biggest oil
producer, last year fired the chief executive officers of eight
lenders and bailed out the industry with $4.1 billion to avoid a
collapse of the industry. The Senate approved the appointment of
board members for Amcom on Nov. 3.  Methodology  For non-performing loans backed by collateral other than
shares, Amcon will accept the most current estimate of the loan
value supplied by the lender, according to today’s statement.  The announcement is a “simple top-down positive for the
Nigerian banking sector,”  David Nangle , an analyst at
Renaissance Capital, said in an e-mailed statement today. “The
process does seem generous in parts and effectively a state
subsidy.”  Lenders that failed the central bank’s audit include
 Afribank Nigeria Plc , Finbank Plc, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc,
Bank PHB Plc,  Oceanic Bank International Plc , whose shares have
surged 74 percent this year, Unity Bank Plc, Spring Bank Plc,
 Intercontinental Bank Plc , Equitorial Trust Bank Plc, and  Wema
Bank Plc , which has gained 63 percent over 2010.  “Failed banks which have rallied hard of late should
benefit especially from the clarity in the overall process,”
Nangle said. “With this process finally behind us we can start
once again to welcome credit growth, an improvement in non-
performing loan ratios and provisioning charges and the return
of the mergers and acquisitions trade.”  The  Nigerian Stock Exchange Banking Index , which tracks the
performance of the 10 biggest commercial banks, climbed 3.8
percent, the most since Oct. 13, to 381.63 by the 1 p.m. close
in Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net ;
 Ana Monteiro  in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 