-- Nigeria's MEND Rebel Group Claims Responsibility for Afren Oilfield Attack
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-11-09T10:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/nigeria-s-mend-rebel-group-claims-responsibility-for-afren-oilfield-attack.html
Nigeria’s main rebel group claimed
responsibility for an attack on Afren Plc’s Okoro field this
week in which seven foreigners were seized from an oil rig.  “All the abducted expatriates are well and in our safe
custody,” Jomo Gbomo, a spokesman for the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta, known as MEND, said in an e-
mailed statement today. “Within the next 24 hours, we will
release the names of all expatriates currently being held in our
different camps.”  Two French nationals, two Indonesians, two U.S. citizens
and one Canadian were abducted in the Nov. 7 attack, a spokesman
for Afren said by telephone from London today. Afren said in a
statement yesterday that five people were seized.  Attacks by armed groups in the delta region cut Nigeria’s
output by more than 28 percent between 2006 and 2009, according
to Bloomberg data. The attacks declined after thousands of
fighters accepted a government amnesty last year and disarmed.
MEND refused, saying its demands weren’t met.  The group says it’s fighting for a fairer share of
Nigeria’s oil wealth for people from the southern delta, home to
the country’s oil and gas industry. Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon
Mobil Corp.,  Chevron Corp. , Total SA and Eni SpA operate joint
ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that
pump most of the country’s oil.  MEND claimed responsibility Oct. 1 for twin car bombs that
killed at least 12 people in the Nigerian capital, Abuja.
Several people were arrested for the blasts, including Henry
Okah, a former MEND leader facing charges for the bombing in
South Africa and his brother Charles Okah, charged in Abuja.  The militant group said yesterday it also has custody of
three French nationals and a Thai seized off Nigeria’s coast on
Sept. 21. The men were taken in a raid on Bourbon Alexandre, an
anchor-handling tug-supply vessel belonging to  Bourbon SA  and
working for Addax Petroleum Corporation.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Lagos at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  