-- Nigeria Plans to Recapitalize Banks, Then Sell, Amcon CEO Chike-Obi Says
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-11-09T16:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/nigeria-plans-to-recapitalize-banks-then-sell-amcon-ceo-chike-obi-says.html
Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria,
the state-owned company set up to buy bad debts from banks,
plans to recapitalize rescued lenders before finding partners
for them, Chief Executive Officer  Mustafa Chike-Obi  said.  Amcon, as the company is known, will recapitalize the banks
“to wipe out the negative equity,” before matching them with
potential investors who will bring them to capital adequacy,
Chike-Obi said on Johannesburg-based CNBC Africa today.  Amcon will buy back 2.2 trillion naira ($14.6 billion) of
bad debts from lenders, more than a previous forecast of $10
billion by Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi. The
regulator took stakes in some of the nation’s lenders, spending
620 billion naira to recapitalize the industry following a debt
crisis last year caused by loans to stock speculators that
weren’t repaid. It also fired the chief executive officers of
eight of the country’s 24 lenders.  Amcon will “assume” the loans of the rescued lenders,
either as equity or preferred shares in the banks, Chike-Obi
said. The company will hold the assets it buys from the banks
for at least two years, and when it wants to sell, “it will be
announced and publicized so that nothing untoward happens,”
according to Chike-Obi.  Valuation  Amcon will value loans backed by shares in listed companies
at about 60 percent of the 60-day average price to Nov. 15, the
Abuja-based central bank said in an e-mailed statement.  “The assumption is that the market has determined where
these institutions should be trading,” he said.  The  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index  surged to the
highest in three months, adding 2.6 percent to 25,383.37 by the
1 p.m. close in Lagos, according to an e-mailed statement from
the exchange. The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index , which tracks the
performance of the 10 biggest banks by market value, climbed 3.8
percent, the most since Oct. 13, to 381.63. Bank stocks make up
42 percent of the West African nation’s market, according to
figures published by the bourse.  Zenith Bank Plc , Nigeria’s biggest lender by market value,
climbed 68 kobo, or 4.9 percent, to 14.67 naira, the highest
since May 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 