-- Noah Holdings Jumps After Chinese Wealth Manager's U.S. Initial Share Sale
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-11-10T21:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/noah-chinese-wealth-management-company-raises-101-million-in-u-s-ipo.html
Noah Holdings Ltd.  climbed 33
percent in its first day of trading after the provider of
wealth-management products in China raised $101 million in its
U.S. initial public offering.  The Shanghai-based company’s shares advanced $3.99 to
$15.99 in New York Stock Exchange trading today. Noah sold 8.4
million American depositary receipts for $12 each yesterday
after offering them at $9 to $11 apiece, its Securities and
Exchange Commission  filing  and data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The offering was the first of three scheduled for Chinese
companies in New York this week and comes after 56 IPOs were
postponed or withdrawn this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Mainland companies have accounted for five of the ten best
performing U.S. IPOs this year and 14 percent of the $19.3
billion raised on American bourses, excluding closed-end funds
and investment companies, the data show. Noah’s revenue more
than doubled in the first six months of the year.  “As investors, we like to see companies that can grow,”
said  Benjamin Kirby , a Santa Fe, New Mexico-based analyst at
Thornburg Investment Management, which has about $69 billion in
assets. “It’s clearly a good time for companies to be going
public. There’s a lot of investor demand.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in New York and Bank of America Corp.
of Charlotte, North Carolina, led the offering.  Clients, Profits  Noah , which had more than 12,000 clients as of June 30,
will use the proceeds to set up new offices, update its
information technology infrastructure and contribute capital to
its funds, the SEC filing showed.  The company’s  net revenue  more than doubled to $13.7
million in the first half of 2010 from the year earlier period,
according to the filing. Noah’s profits grew fivefold to $4.04
million in the six months ended June 30.  Noah’s  28 branch offices are located in regions with the
highest concentration of high net worth individuals, including
the Yangtze River Delta, the Pearl River Delta and the Bohai
Rim, the prospectus said. The company distributes fixed income
products, private equity funds and securities investment funds.  RDA Microelectronics Inc.  of Shanghai sold 7.5 million ADRs
at $9 each yesterday after offering them for $8.50 to $10.50
apiece, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The semiconductor maker
backed by New York-based Warburg Pincus LLC hired Morgan Stanley
and Credit Suisse Group AG of Zurich to manage the sale. The
shares gained 19 percent to $10.75.  JinkoSolar  JinkoSolar Holding Co. , the maker of silicon wafers in
China’s Jiangxi province, is the best performing IPO on U.S.
exchanges this year, surging 205 percent since its May listing.  China’s economy will expand 9.6 percent next year,
according to the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .
U.S. growth will slow to 2.3 percent, the estimates show.  Wave2Wave Communications Inc. , which sells wireless
networks that let people make telephone calls over the Internet,
postponed its $44 million initial sale scheduled for yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Hackensack, New
Jersey-based company had shelved a $91 million IPO in May.  Richmond Honan Medical Properties Inc. , the Atlanta-based
developer of medical office buildings, which had also scheduled
its $293 million IPO for yesterday, will now attempt to complete
its sale today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Complete Genomics Inc. , the Mountain View, California-based
biotechnology company, also delayed its initial offering to
today. The company cut the price of its 6 million-share offering
to $9 each from $12 to $14 in a filing today.  Ikaria, Inphi  Ikaria Inc. , the Clinton, New Jersey-based developer of
respiratory treatments, cut the price of its IPO scheduled for
today to $12 to $13 each from $15 to $17 and reduced the number
of shares it is offering to 8 million from 10 million, according
to an SEC filing. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley of
New York are managing the sale.  Inphi Corp. , a Santa Clara, California-based semiconductor
company, will sell 6.8 million shares at $10 to $12 each today.
Morgan Stanley, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG and Jefferies
Group Inc. in New York are arranging the IPO.  Lizhan Environmental Corp. , a manufacturer of synthetic
leather from recycled leather waste, may also sell stock this
week. The Tongxiang, China-based company is planning to offer
1.82 million shares at $5 to $6 each, an SEC filing showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 