-- Nokia to Add Swype, Wireless Payment Tools in Symbian Upgrades
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-09T14:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/nokia-to-add-swiping-wireless-payment-tools-in-symbian-to-take-on-google.html
Nokia Oyj , the world’s largest maker
of mobile phones, will add swiping and wireless identification
features in updates to its new line of Symbian smartphones to
compete with  Google Inc. ’s fast-developing Android platform.  “The biggest threat and biggest opportunity is our ability
to keep Symbian fresh and interesting,”  Jo Harlow , senior vice
president for smartphones at the Espoo, Finland-based company,
said in an interview. Near-field communication, which permits
users to use their phones as credit cards, transit passes and
hotel room keys, will come to “some existing devices” early
next year, she said.  Nokia  has been slow to incorporate all the desired features
into the first release of Symbian 3 because it took time to
shift to the Qt programmer toolset and adapt functions it
planned for a separate product family called Symbian 4, Harlow
said. Her division has increased the number of common features
in its smartphones this year and reduced fragmentation.  “In the past if you bought a device, you got one or two
software updates,” she said. “We will now begin to deliver
software updates more frequently and more of them. Visually,
you’ll see some significant upgrades coming, to keep the
experience of the device fresh and new for the consumer.”  New Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Elop  unveiled last
month plans to cut 1,800 jobs globally in areas including in
smartphones as it moves to a common Symbian development path and
shares some functions with the new high-end device platform
called MeeGo that it’s developing with  Intel Corp.   Symbian Foundation  The process is being further streamlined as Nokia absorbs
the activities that were formerly done externally at the
multivendor Symbian Foundation.  Nokia announced yesterday that the London-based foundation,
which had more than 150 vendors as members, will be converted to
a licensing body. Its other functions will become part of
developers’ work and it won’t have a separate paid staff.  Samsung Electronics Co.  and Sony Ericsson Mobile
Communications Ltd., which were board members of the Symbian
Foundation, shifted their new products to Android as that
platform took off, boosted by its vendor-independent application
store and regular software upgrades. That reduced their
commitment to take responsibility for more of the approximately
100 “packages” or functions in Symbian.  “The original vision was going to be that the package
owners would be spread among a number of companies so you would
have had 20 percent of them at Nokia, 20 percent at Sony
Ericsson, 20 percent at Samsung -- that didn’t happen,” said
 Tim Holbrow , executive director of the Symbian Foundation, in an
interview. “We had one or two outside Nokia but the main part
was still inside Nokia.”  Angry Birds  Nokia ’s Ovi Store, the only large Symbian-specific
application store, currently has 2.7 million downloads a day,
Harlow said. The faster, high-resolution touchscreens are
attracting “premium games” developers such as Rovio Mobile
Ltd., the maker of “Angry Birds,” she said.  Nokia  will upgrade its touchscreen text input on Symbian 3
to include split screen, a portrait mode keyboard, and the Swype
system for typing connected letter groups, Harlow said.  More than 50 modifications based on early user feedback are
planned to roll out to current users early next year.  The C7 model now on sale already has the hardware for NFC,
which allows customers to use their handsets for payments and
identification at points of sale and access, she said. She
wouldn’t comment on whether the other Symbian 3 models had the
NFC components.  “NFC is a portfolio play, not a single-device play,” she
said. “It works when everyone has it.”  Lower Prices  The new Symbian 3 devices, N8, C6 and C7 “are still in
ramp-up stage in a number of different countries,” Harlow said,
adding that the company had record preorders for the N8. The E7,
a business touchscreen with a slide-out keyboard, will ship by
the end of the year, she said, declining to give an exact date.  Nokia  plans to drive Symbian smartphone prices lower and
compete at 120 euros ($167) “and below,” Harlow said. She
cited the ability of Symbian handsets to store and navigate maps
offline and the ability to pay for apps by phone bill instead of
credit card as ways that Nokia is appealing to consumers with
less money to spend on smartphones.  Some other handset vendors are still working with Symbian.
Japan’s  NTT Docomo Inc.  this week announced 11 new smartphones
running a version of Symbian called Symbian 2, according to an
e-mailed statement from the Symbian Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  