-- Obama Says Trade, Currency Imbalances Hinder Global Growth
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-11-09T18:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/obama-says-trade-currency-imbalances-are-hindering-global-economic-growth.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said
imbalances in trade and currency markets are hindering global
economic growth, in a preview of the U.S. stance when leaders of
the Group of 20 nations meet this week in Seoul.  Obama is on a 10-day trip covering four nations in Asia
seeking to expand U.S.  exports  and keep up pressure on China to
let its currency rise. At a news conference in Jakarta
yesterday, Obama challenged the G-20 to do more on a framework
for more balanced growth.  “You’re seeing some countries run up very big surpluses
and intervening significantly in the currency markets to
maintain their advantage when it comes to their currency,”
Obama said at the news conference with President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , without singling out any nation.  A day before a scheduled address to a largely Muslim
audience at the University of Indonesia, the president also
criticized Israel for advancing plans for new homes in east
Jerusalem and expressed concern that Israelis and Palestinians
aren’t making the “extra effort” needed to reach a peace
agreement.  Obama arrived in Jakarta yesterday from India as part of a
tour of Asia focused on economic issues and boosting exports. As
China’s economic and diplomatic clout grows, Obama has made a
priority of engaging other Asian states, particularly the 10
countries that make up the  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations . With a population of about 600 million, Southeast Asia
was America’s fifth-largest trading partner and the fourth-
biggest market for U.S. goods last year.  Expanded Cooperation  Obama said Indonesia, a member of Asean and the G-20,
presents a dynamic marketplace to expand security cooperation
and trade, investment and commercial ties.  Indonesia’s benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index  has risen 46
percent this year compared with a 12.1 percent gain for the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index .  The two presidents initiated a five-year program today to
enhance a partnership on issues including climate change,
counterterrorism, combating Iran’s nuclear program and
territorial disputes in the South China Sea.  “From our prosperity, expanding partnerships between our
people and deepening political and security cooperation, these
are the pillars of our new partnership,” Obama said. “Our two
nations have only begun to forge the cooperation that’s
possible.”  Education  The administration announced a plan to provide $165 million
over five years for education and establishing partnerships with
25 U.S. institutions including Harvard University in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and Columbia University in New York. The U.S.
also plans to provide $136 million for a joint project that
would establish a climate-change center in Indonesia, an area
where the country has excelled, Obama said.  Obama leaves later today for Seoul, where imbalances in
global spending and capital flows are set to dominate the G-20
summit.  “Both surplus and deficit countries would benefit if there
was a more balanced program in which the surplus countries were
focused on internal demand, there was a more market-based
approach to the currencies,” Obama said. “This is going to be
something that we’re going to be discussing extensively in
Seoul.”  The U.S. is pressing China for faster gains for its
currency without triggering a descent into a trade war.
Companies including  Caterpillar Inc. , Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
Citigroup Inc. have warned U.S. lawmakers that legislation aimed
at forcing China to move could lead to retaliation.  China’s Currency  The yuan is approaching the strongest level against the
dollar since 1993 on speculation the country’s central bank will
permit faster appreciation before the G-20 meeting. China may
report its second-largest monthly  trade surplus  of $25 billion
in October, its second-largest monthly surplus of the year,
according to the  median forecast  of 27 economists.  Obama is scheduled to meet with Chinese President  Hu Jintao 
while in Seoul.  On the Middle East, Obama expressed concern about Israel’s
published construction plans for more than 1,000 new homes for
Jews in east Jerusalem, which Palestinians seek as the capital
of a future state.  “This kind of activity is never helpful when it comes to
peace negotiations,” Obama said in response to a question at
the news conference. “I’m concerned that we’re not seeing each
side make the extra effort involved to get a breakthrough that
could finally create a framework for a secure Israel living side
by side in peace with a sovereign Palestine.”  Settlements Issue  Israel’s Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is in the U.S.
to discuss reviving direct peace talks that started Sept. 2 in
Washington and have since stalled over Israeli settlements.  In a text message from his office, Netanyahu said Israel
has never accepted restrictions on building in Jerusalem.
“Jerusalem is the capital of the state of Israel,” the text
said. “Israel never took upon itself any limitations on
construction in Jerusalem.”  Later today, Obama is scheduled to deliver a speech to
6,000 people at the University of Indonesia. He’ll highlight the
coexistence of democracy and Islam in Indonesia and the
country’s ability to set a positive example in the world because
of its emerging economy and pluralism, said Deputy National
Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes .  Obama will depart Indonesia several hours earlier tomorrow
than previously scheduled to avoid volcanic ash spewing from
Mount Merapi, White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Jakarta at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Jakarta at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  