-- Obama Says Expanding Indonesia Trade Is Crucial to Creating Jobs in U.S.
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-11-09T14:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/obama-says-expanding-indonesia-trade-is-crucial-to-creating-jobs-in-u-s-.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  trumpeted
Indonesia’s growing economic and strategic clout, saying trade
between both nations is critical to creating jobs at home, just
hours after the White House announced he’ll cut short the trip
to his boyhood home to avoid volcanic ash from Mount Merapi.  In a press conference with President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , Obama also looked ahead to this week’s Group of 20
summit in South Korea, saying that while the forum has
stabilized the global economy, it hasn’t secured balanced growth
because some countries are intervening “very significantly in
the currency markets.” Obama didn’t single out China, which the
U.S. is pushing to allow its currency to rise, saying an
undervalued yuan gives China’s exports an unfair advantage.  Obama arrived in Jakarta today from India, where on Nov. 6
he began a four-country tour of Asia focused on economic issues
and boosting exports. As China’s economic and diplomatic clout
grows, Obama has made a priority of engaging other Asian states,
particularly the 10 countries that make up the  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations . With a population of about 600 million,
Southeast Asia was America’s fifth-largest trading partner and
the fourth-biggest market for U.S. goods last year.  Obama said Indonesia, a member of the G-20, the world’s
third-largest democracy, and the largest democracy in Southeast
Asia, presents a dynamic marketplace to expand security
cooperation and trade, investment and commercial ties.  Pillars of Partnership  “From our prosperity, expanding partnerships between our
people and deepening political and security cooperation, these
are the pillars of our new partnership,” Obama said. “Our two
nations have only begun to forge the cooperation that’s
possible.”  Indonesia’s benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index  has risen 46
percent this year compared with a 12.1 percent gain for the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index .  The two presidents initiated a five-year program today to
enhance a partnership on issues including climate change,
counterterrorism, combating Iran’s nuclear program and
territorial disputes in the South China Sea.  Obama said he would like to see the East Asia Summit -- a
forum of 16 nations -- become the “premier” structure to work
on security issues and “how various maritime issues, conflicts,
can get resolved in a peaceful fashion.”  East Asia Summit  The U.S. is preparing to formally join the  East Asia Summit 
as part of its strategy to assert leadership in the Asia-Pacific
region.  “Asia is the fastest growing part of the world. It’s the
fastest growing in terms of population, it’s the fastest growing
set of economies and so there’s enormous potential and enormous
promise,” Obama said.  The White House also announced a plan to provide $165
million over five years for education and establishing
partnerships with 25 U.S. institutions including Harvard
University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and Columbia University
in New York. The Obama administration also plans to provide $136
million for a joint project that would establish a climate-
change center in Indonesia.  Tomorrow in Jakarta, Obama is scheduled to deliver a speech
to 6,000 people at the University of Indonesia that highlights
the coexistence of democracy and Islam in Indonesia and the
country’s ability to set a positive example in the world because
of its emerging economy and pluralism, said Deputy National
Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes .  Boyhood in Indonesia  Obama will also reflect in his speech on the time he spent
in Indonesia as a young boy as well as the rapid development and
democratization that’s taken place since he left in 1971, Rhodes
said. Obama has said the time he spent there helped shape his
world view because of the intersecting streams of globalization
and sectarianism, poverty and wealth, modernity and antiquity.  Obama first arrived in Indonesia at a turning point for the
nation -- two years after a 1965 coup in which more than 500,000
people were killed, most accused of having ties to communists,
and as President Suharto came to power.  The former dictator, who died in 2008, left a legacy of
stability and economic growth. Indonesia’s economy expanded 6.1
percent annually in the 1980s, making it among the 10 fastest
growing states, according to the World Bank.  During the press conference, Obama said it was
“wonderful” to be back and noted that the “sights and the
sounds and the memories all feel very familiar.”  Development  While his last visit to Indonesia was in 1992, Obama said
he was still struck today by how different it is returning as
president. He took note of the urban development which stood in
stark contrast to the rickshaw-filled streets of 1967.  “Now as president I can’t even see any traffic because
they’ve blocked off all the streets,” Obama said.  Obama will depart Indonesia several hours earlier tomorrow
than previously scheduled to avoid volcanic ash spewing from
Mount Merapi, White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said. The
president still plans to visit a mosque in addition to his
university address before leaving for Seoul for the G-20 summit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Jakarta at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Jakarta at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  