-- Oil Price Doesn’t Reflect Nigerian Output Threat, Barclays Says
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2010-11-09T17:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/oil-price-doesn-t-reflect-nigerian-output-threat-barclays-says.html
Nigerian crude oil exports to the
U.S. may decline if militants make good on threats to attack oil
installations before presidential elections due in April,
according to Barclays Capital analysts.  “The risk for sharp output reductions as elections draw
closer is high in our view, but little of this risk seems to
have been captured in the oil price so far,” said  Costanza Jacazio , a Barclays analyst, in an e-mail. “We see Nigerian
output developments as a key upside risk to prices in coming
months.”  The U.S. imported  942,000 barrels a day  in August from
Africa’s biggest oil producer, according to the Energy
Department. Nigeria is the fifth-largest source of U.S. imports.
The country’s main rebel group claimed responsibility for an
attack on Afren Plc’s Okoro field this week in which seven
foreigners were seized from an oil rig.  The country produced 2.05 million barrels of oil a day in
October, up 175,000 barrels from a year earlier. U.S. imports
from Nigeria have risen 304,000 barrels a day in the first 8
months of the year from the same period in 2009, compared with
an increase of 143,000 barrels a day from all of OPEC.  “Rising OPEC imports into the U.S. so far this year are
entirely attributable to higher light grades, mainly on the
strong recovery in Nigerian volumes,” a team of Barclays
analysts, including Jacazio and  Amrita Sen , said in a note to
clients. “We view the sustainability of this trend as highly
unlikely.”  Light Crude  Light, or low-density, grades made up 73 percent of
Nigerian crude flows into the U.S. this year, according to
Barclays. Light crudes are prized for their higher yields of
more valuable products such as gasoline.  A cutback in Nigerian oil imports would also “tend to have
a positive influence” on the spread between light and heavy
crudes, Jacazio said.  The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, or
MEND, wants states in Nigeria’s oil-rich Niger River delta
region to keep all revenue earned from crude sales and pay only
taxes to the federal government. The government in Abuja
currently takes 87 percent of the revenue and producing states
receive 13 percent.  Mend said yesterday it will start attacks on oil
installations in the Niger River delta in “coming days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Burkhardt  in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 