-- Money-Laundering Crackdown Cuts Mexican Dollar Deposits 75% in Two Months
-- B y   A n d r e s   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-11-09T18:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/money-laundering-crackdown-cuts-mexican-dollar-deposits-75-in-two-months.html
Mexican companies reduced dollar cash
deposits by 75 percent since President  Felipe Calderon  in
September restricted some currency exchanges to fight money
laundering by drug gangs, said  Guillermo Babatz , president of
the National Securities and Banking Commission.  The government banned the use of dollar bills for sales
above $100 on Sept. 13 and required retailers to apply for a
license to handle dollar deposits. Companies based in states
that border the U.S. and in tourist areas are allowed to
exchange as much as $7,000 for pesos monthly.  “We don’t want people buying cars with dollars in cash, or
refrigerators, or plasma televisions,” Babatz, 41, said in an
interview yesterday at his office in Mexico City. “The
intention is to make it harder to launder dollars in cash that
originate from illicit activities.”  Mexican banks accumulate as much as $14 billion of dollar
bills of unknown origin annually, Babatz said. By limiting the
use of U.S. bills in the economy, Calderon aims to cut into the
 profits  of drug gangs that earn an estimated $30 billion
annually selling cocaine, marijuana and methamphetamines to U.S.
customers.  Violence tied to drug trafficking shaves off 1.2 percentage
point from the economy annually, Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said on Sept. 1.  Unpopular  The Sept. 13 measures don’t affect the peso’s exchange rate
because money-changing is a fraction of currency trades between
banks, Babatz said. Mexico’s peso gained 7.1 percent this year
to 12.2254 pesos per U.S. dollar yesterday.  The restrictions that took effect two months ago limit cash
dollar deposits by Mexican individuals to $4,000 a month.
Foreign tourists can change as much as $1,500 monthly to
personal accounts.  “This hasn’t been popular in some places, but we feel it’s
necessary,” Babatz said. “We have to monitor the new rules to
make sure there is no negative impact on legal business.”  Calderon asked President  Barack Obama  and the U.S. Congress
this year to help him clamp down on money laundering of drug
sales in Mexico. More than 28,000 people have been killed since
Calderon started battling the cartels in December 2006.  Calderon proposed additional measures in August that make
it illegal to buy property with cash and would ban gambling or
the purchase of vehicles, airplanes and jewelry with more than
100,000 pesos ($8,179) in cash. Penalties would range from five
to 15 years in prison.  Banks including Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit began imposing their own limits on some
deposits earlier this year, before the Sept. 13 rule change.  Banamex spokesman  Paulo Carreno  said in May that the limits
“benefit” clients, the bank and help the government fight
money laundering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  