-- Money Funds Get `Micro Bailouts' as Disclosure Rules Take Effect
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-11-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/money-funds-resorting-to-micro-bailouts-as-disclosure-rules-take-effect.html
Money funds are covering small losses
on their investments to avoid unsettling clients when tighter
U.S. rules will require them to disclose even small shortfalls.  Charles Schwab Corp ., based in San Francisco, spent $132
million last quarter and Baltimore’s  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. 
said it will spend $17 million this quarter to eliminate losses
from securities that went sour in 2008. The deficits weren’t big
enough to push the funds’ share prices below $1.  “The reforms may usher in an era of micro-bailouts,”
 Peter Crane , president of Crane Data LLC, a money-fund research
firm in Westborough, Massachusetts, said in an interview.  Starting this month, the Securities and Exchange Commission
is requiring money funds to unveil a net asset value that
reflects small, previously undisclosed realized and unrealized
losses or gains, a figure known as a “shadow NAV.” Fund
companies, including Fidelity Investments and Vanguard Group
Inc., opposed the change, arguing it might confuse investors.  The firms want to avoid spooking clients after the 2008
failure of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund led to a run
on money funds. Reserve Primary’s net asset value had fallen to
97 cents per share, because it held debt issued by bankrupt
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  ‘Meaningful Dialogue’  “The SEC said this rule could result in a meaningful
dialogue between investors and fund managers when there is a
discount” in the shadow NAV,  Joan Swirsky , an attorney at
Philadelphia law firm Stradley Ronon Stevens & Young LLP who
specializes in money-market funds, said in an interview.  The decisions by Schwab and T. Rowe Price, she said,
“indicate that’s a dialogue the companies would rather not
have.”  SEC spokesman  John Heine  declined to comment.  The predicament adds to woes for the industry caused by
record low interest rates. Yields that average  0.08 percent  for
the biggest 100 taxable funds, according to Crane Data, have
helped reduce assets by 14 percent this year to $2.8 trillion.
Funds have also been forced to waive some fees in order to keep
yields above zero. Crane estimated the industry’s fee revenue
will fall below $7 billion this year, down from $11 billion in
2009.  “For smaller companies, this gives them another reason to
re-evaluate why they have money funds and whether they want to
continue,” said  Mike Krasner , managing editor for research firm
iMoneyNet Inc. in Westborough, Massachusetts.  $1 Share Price  Money-market funds maintain a $1 share price for investors
by recording their holdings at or close to their expected value
at maturity, and by rounding to the nearest penny. Using the
maturity value allows funds to ignore day-to-day fluctuations in
the market prices of holdings. The rounding serves to obscure
realized losses that amount to less than half-a-cent a share, or
0.5 percent of assets.  Funds realize losses and gains when they sell a security
below or above its maturity value, and commonly deviate from $1
by a few hundredths of a penny, according to  Deborah Cunningham ,
head of taxable money funds at  Federated Investors Inc ., which
managed $233.6 billion in money-market mutual funds as of Sept.
30.  As long as losses don’t surpass half a penny, a fund can
eliminate them over time by offsetting losses with capital
gains. Realized losses of more than half a penny force the firm
to round the share price to 99 cents, a drop in value known as
“breaking the buck.” Only two money-market mutual funds have
ever broken the buck, the more recent being the  Primary Reserve
Fund  in September 2008.  Shadow NAVs  Under the new rule, funds must report shadow NAVs to the
SEC every month beginning at the end of November. The SEC will
make those public 60 days later.  In addition to showing how the market prices of money fund
holdings fluctuate, the shadow NAVs will also reveal more
frequently and in a much clearer way than before any realized
losses being carried by the funds.  The shadow NAV must be spelled out to four places past the
decimal point, so a $2 billion fund carrying a $1 million loss
will report a shadow NAV of $0.9995.  Crane said an unknown number of funds are still carrying
losses stemming from the financial crisis. He said that while he
expects many funds to report shadow NAVs below $1, anything
below $0.9990 would be an “outlier.”  Standard & Poor’s, which rates money funds, asks for daily
pricing reports whenever a fund dips below $0.9985. While that
level is not necessarily cause for worry, it could alarm some
investors, said  Peter Rizzo , senior director of fund services at
S&P in New York.  Lehman Debt  T. Rowe Price plans to spend $17 million, or about $10.5
million after taxes, to top up three funds, including two that
are available to retail investors, the $5.5 billion  Prime
Reserve Fund  and the $5.5 billion  Summit Cash Reserves Fund ,
said  Edward Giltenan , a spokesman for the firm.  “We took this action to allay any shareholder concerns or
confusion as this new rule gets implemented,” Giltenan said in
an e-mailed statement. “These funds, and all T. Rowe Price
money-market funds, have never redeemed shares at a loss to
shareholders.”  Prime Reserve had a $10.4 million realized loss as of Nov.
30, 2008, according to a regulatory  filing , resulting in a NAV
of $0.9984. Most of the loss resulted from debt issued by Lehman
Brothers, Giltenan said. The NAV rose to $0.9985 as of  May 31  of
this year.  Summit Cash Reserve also held Lehman and reported a
realized loss of $8.3 million, resulting in a net asset value of
$0.9987 per share on  Oct. 31, 2008 . That rose to $0.9992 by
 April 30, 2010 .  T. Rowe manages $14.3 billion in money market funds.  ‘Educating Shareholders’  The Schwab losses, spread across seven money funds, all
stem from holdings in Whistlejacket Capital Ltd., a structured
investment vehicle that defaulted in February 2008. The funds
sold the holdings at auction in April 2009, recording about a 20
percent loss on the debt, according to  Greg Gable , a spokesman
for Schwab.  “We believe the SEC’s recent money market reforms will
help educate shareholders about the minor fluctuations that
occur in a fund’s mark-to-market NAV,” Gable said in an e-mail.
“However, Schwab and many other firms in the industry believe
that not all shareholders may understand this initially.”  Schwab manages $151 billion in money market funds.  Fidelity, Vanguard  Boston-based Fidelity, Vanguard in Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh’s Federated, three of the six
largest U.S. money fund providers, according to Crane Data, each
said that all their taxable money funds currently carry shadow
NAVs at or above $1. Tax-exempt funds carry small realized
losses for tax reasons, Federated’s Cunningham said.  Rizzo said some companies are being forced to weigh the
cost of injecting money into funds they believe are safe against
the risk of a panic by customers.  “It boils down to their feelings over whether shareholders
understand what the shadow NAV means,” Rizzo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  