-- Money Manager Barry Ran Ponzi Scheme, Jury Is Told
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-11-09T16:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/money-manager-barry-ran-ponzi-scheme-that-defrauded-hundreds-jury-told.html
A money manager from Brooklyn, New
York, ran a 30-year Ponzi scheme that defrauded hundreds of
investors, a federal prosecutor told jurors at the start of his
securities-fraud trial.  Philip Barry , 53, a resident of the Bay Ridge section of
Brooklyn, began accepting money in 1978 from investors,
guaranteeing fictional annual profits, according to prosecutors
in the office of U.S. Attorney  Loretta Lynch  in Brooklyn.
Instead, he used new investors’ money to pay earlier ones,
prosecutors said.  “This is a case about a con man,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Jeffrey A. Goldberg told jurors in his opening statement.
“Philip Barry repeatedly lied to his clients to get their money
and now their money is gone.”  In a separate action, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said Barry diverted some of the investor money to a
mail-order pornography business. On Sept. 7, Barry sued the SEC
for libel over the accusation. He has run Barry Publications for
30 years, selling “vinyl LP records, music cassette tapes,
compact discs and DVDs,” he said.  “‘Your house will always go up in value,’” Michael Weil,
a lawyer for Barry, told jurors in his opening statement.
“Philip Barry bought into that same myth, that you can’t lose
money in real estate.”  Bond Trader  The first witness, Frank J. Monteleone, 47, a bond trader
at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in Memphis, Tennessee, who grew up in
Bay Ridge, told jurors he gave Barry $100,000 to invest and
Barry refused to return any money.  Barry was charged in September 2009 and later indicted for
securities fraud and mail fraud. If convicted of the securities
fraud, he faces as much as 20 years in prison. He is free on
$500,000 bail.  Barry, who worked out of a Bay Ridge storefront, is accused
of luring more than 800 investors into his Leverage Group, which
claimed to be investing in stock options. His reported ending
balance of more than $45 million far exceeded assets actually
held, producing “substantial losses” for many investors,
according to prosecutors.  Each December, Barry would figure a “guaranteed” rate of
return for the following year, ranging from 12.55 percent to 16
percent, prosecutors said. When investors tried to withdraw
money from their accounts, checks would often be returned due to
insufficient funds or, in some cases, Barry ignored their
requests altogether, prosecutors said.  ‘Possibilities’ Document  U.S. District Judge  Raymond J. Dearie , presiding over the
criminal trial, ruled that jurors can see a document called
“Possibilities” in which Barry wrote that he was running a
Ponzi scheme.  He tried to keep the document out of the case, arguing he
wrote it to gather his thoughts for investors who were beginning
to sue him. He mistakenly handed it over to prosecutors, he
said.  In August 2008, Barry went to federal prosecutors and told
them he was invested only in land rather than options and that
he couldn’t get approvals to develop the land, according to
court papers. He also admitted he used money from new investors
to pay off old ones, according to prosecutors.  Dearie said Barry can’t call to the witness stand a
Monticello, New York, real-estate broker to testify as an expert
that Barry’s properties in Sullivan County, New York, about 100
miles north of Manhattan, would be worth $160 million if
developed, showing he had no intent to defraud, according to
court papers.  Developed Land  At a Nov. 3 pre-trial hearing, the broker, William Rieber,
testified that the developed land would be worth about $225
million.  Prosecutors say Barry bought the land for himself. The
properties were auctioned off for $6.6 million in 2009, after he
declared bankruptcy the previous year, according to the
government.  In February 2009, after the scheme unraveled, Barry told
his investors that the Leverage Group only held real estate, and
not enough to cover account balances, according to prosecutors.  Barry also used investor money for personal expenses,
including at home-improvement stores, restaurants and gas
stations, the SEC said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Barry, 09-cr-0833, the SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Barry, 09-cv-3860,
and Barry’s suit against the SEC is Barry v. United States
Securities and Exchange Commission, 10-cv-4071, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 