-- Hong Kong Asset Bubble Risk Rises With Fed Easing Liquidity Rush, RCM Says
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-11-09T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/hong-kong-asset-bubble-risk-rises-with-fed-easing-liquidity-rush-rcm-says.html
RCM Asia Pacific Ltd. is favoring
raw material stocks as China moves to curb property price gains
and as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s latest stimulus measure
threatens to create an asset bubble in Hong Kong.  China’s government has committed to increasing the supply
of public housing to ease pressure on home prices, which will
benefit producers of cement and other raw materials,  Christina Chung , portfolio manager for Allianz RCM China Strategy, said at
a media briefing in Hong Kong yesterday. Hong Kong’s real estate
valuations will increase as money from the Fed’s $600 billion of
bond purchases flows into the city’s market, Chung said.  “Capital will continue to flow into Hong Kong, and under
such circumstances, chances are that an asset bubble will form
as prices keep on rising,” Chung said. RCM is a unit of Allianz
Global Investors, which manages $1.73 trillion of assets.  The Federal Reserve announced last week a bond-purchase
plan to stimulate the economy, a move known as quantitative
easing. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Nov. 3 research
report that Hong Kong asset prices, including real estate, would
likely increase as a result of the extra liquidity released by
quantitative easing programs.  Home prices in Hong Kong have surged  51 percent  since the
beginning of 2009 on record low mortgage rates and an influx of
mainland Chinese buyers, prompting the city’s government to
announce a series of measures since October to curb the
formation of an asset bubble. The Fed’s expansion of stimulus
will add to the risk of a housing bubble in Hong Kong, Norman
Chan, the head of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said Nov. 4.  More China Tightening  Chung also said she expects another round of tightening by
the Chinese government aiming at curbing gains in real estate
prices. The central government will likely let local governments
to decide on appropriate actions, she said.  “Even after policies were being introduced in the past few
months, property prices still remain stable, or have even gone
up,” Chung said. “Next year I’d expect prices to adjust a bit
more.”  China’s government departments are drafting rules that will
allow local authorities to control gains in home prices, the
official business newspaper Securities Times reported yesterday,
citing unidentified people. China unexpectedly raised borrowing
costs on Oct. 19 for the first time since 2007. Home prices in
70 cities rose 9.1 percent in September, according to data from
the statistics bureau, which is due to report last month’s
figures today.  Chung said she allocated more weight to raw-material
producers, in particular, cement makers, because they will
benefit from potential rising demand if China’s government moves
to increase the supply of public housing.  Consumer and energy stocks are being favored by Chung, who
did not identify specific companies.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 