-- Hong Kong $230,000 Bid Overtakes London-New York Wine Auctions
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n   a n d   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-10T04:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/hong-kong-s-230-000-a-bottle-bid-overtakes-london-new-york-wine-auctions.html
He Wei Qi, a businessman from
eastern China’s Zhejiang province, says he routinely pays more
than 30,000 yuan ($4,500) for a bottle of wine to entertain
guests.  “A price tag of more than a million yuan a bottle -- that
does more than show off your wealth, it shows you have good
taste,” He, 38, said while attending a three-day Hong Kong wine
and  spirits exhibition  that drew about 700 companies from 29
countries and regions. “We don’t care how outrageously
expensive the wines are.”  Wine sales in the city by  Sotheby’s  and  Christie’s
International  will raise more than in New York and London
combined this year, the top two auction houses said, with
vintage  Chateau Lafite  selling in excess of $200,000 a bottle.
Sales at Hong Kong’s auctions have more than quadrupled since
the city cut  duties  to zero two years ago.  “What we’ve seen emerging in the last year are people
paying virtually any price for wine,” said David Elswood,
 Christie’s  London-based head of wine. “That’s not investment.
That is just uncontrolled spending.”  Buyers from China, where the number of billionaires rose
more than 60 percent from last year, may double auction sales in
Hong Kong next year, he said.  “Red wine is better than stocks,” wine merchant Alex Yu
said while touting a HK$80,000 ($10,321) 5-litre bottle of
Chateau Mouton Rothschild. “Chinese wine lovers are pushing up
prices.”  Vintage Lafite  Three bottles of Chateau Lafite’s 1869 vintage sold for a
record $230,000 each on Oct. 29, 28 times  Sotheby’s  top  estimate 
before the auction.  Chinese collectors in Hong Kong, China and Taiwan hold
about one in four bottles of fine or rare vintage wine globally,
according to  Crown Wine Cellars , which stores about HK$1 billion
of wine in a network of converted ammunition bunkers in Hong
Kong. Total consumption has doubled in China in the past five
years, with red wine accounting for 75 percent of demand,
according to a March report by Citigroup Inc.  Wine isn’t the only product Chinese buyers are mopping up.
The  fastest growth  of any major economy and an appreciating
currency have led them to pick up properties in London and
artwork in New York. In Hong Kong, mainland Chinese demand drove
luxury  property  prices past the 1997 peak, spurring the
government to warn of an asset bubble.  1,400 Percent Markup  Asia’s wine market will expand four times faster than the
rest of the world, said  Robert Beynat , chief executive of wine
exhibition organizer  Vinexpo  Asia Pacific. Much of the growth
will come from China, which is the final destination of a
“large part” of the wine imported into Hong Kong, he said.  Liu Xue Biao, a wine merchant from Shenzhen, said that wine
he buys in Hong Kong for about $3 a bottle can be sold in
mainland China for 300 yuan, a 1,400 percent markup. “They are
willing to pay just about any price,” said Liu, accompanied by
two female assistants carrying suitcases for their purchases.  Imports by Hong Kong merchants jumped to $600 million in
the first nine months, more than the whole of last year. The
value of auctions reached $120 million this year, almost double
the $64 million in 2009, according to the government.  Sotheby’s  had to issue tickets for the first time for its
Oct. 29 wine auction at the Mandarin Oriental, when it offered
almost 2,000 bottles of Lafite shipped directly from the
Bordeaux chateau’s cellars.  No Catching Up  The sale beat the auction record for a single bottle set in
1985 in London, when publisher  Malcolm Forbes  paid 105,000
pounds ($169,000) for a 1787 vintage.  “New York and London aren’t going to catch up,” said
 Robert Sleigh , who moved to Hong Kong from New York in August to
run Sotheby’s Asia wine business. “People like the fact that
the wine is here in Hong Kong. You just go and pick it up.”  Sotheby’s next wine auctions in Hong Kong will take place
in January, where it will put on sale the Bordeaux Winebank
Collection. The highlights include bottles of Chateau Petrus
2000 and Chateau Lafite Rothschild 2000.  Sotheby’s  sold $52 million of wine in eight auctions this
year in Hong Kong compared with a combined $24 million so far in
New York and London, previously the world’s biggest- and second-
largest markets. The New York-based company had 11 consecutive
sold-out wine auctions in the Chinese city.  The  Hong Kong sales  are an indication of how far mainland
Chinese buyers have come since the 1990s, when they would drink
Coca-Cola with wine and merchants hawked unwanted vintages to
them, said Gregory De’Eb, general manager of Crown Wine Cellars.  “Through their own aggressive tasting, they have built a
better knowledge of what suits their palettes,” De’Eb said.  ‘Inflating a Bubble’  While the Chinese are the ninth-largest consumers of wine
globally, the spirit accounts for only 2 percent of alcohol
drunk in the country, according to Citigroup analysts.  That’s changing as wine starts to win favor compared with
the traditional Baijiu and Maotai liquor. In 2008,  Domaines
Barons de Rothschild (Lafite)  agreed to develop more than 25
hectares of vines in Shandong province with  Citic Group , China’s
biggest state-owned investment company.  The burgeoning wealth is “inflating a bubble” in wine,
said Christie’s Elswood. “When you’re paying four, five times
or even more than the reference price then you have to seriously
question the market knowledge of that buyer.”  At  Sotheby’s  April 3 auction in Hong Kong, a 12-bottle lot
of Chateau Latour 1982 fetched HK$338,800 or $43,649. About two
weeks later, New York-based Tribeca Wine Merchants Ltd. ran a
newspaper advertisement offering the same for $2,250 a bottle.  “Westerners drink wine slowly as a way of enjoying life,”
said He, strolling around the Hong Kong exhibition holding a
glass of wine. “Just look around you. Mainland Chinese tilt the
glass and pour it straight down the throat.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  