-- Morgan Stanley to Sell Invesco Stake After 28% Climb
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-11-09T22:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/morgan-stanley-to-sell-its-717-million-invesco-stake-after-28-share-gain.html
Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, said it will divest its $717 million stake
in  Invesco Ltd.  five months after acquiring the shares in its
sale of a retail asset-management business.  Morgan Stanley will sell 30.9 million shares in a public
offering, the companies said today in a statement. The New York
bank acquired the stake as part of Atlanta-based Invesco’s $1.37
billion purchase of Morgan Stanley’s retail investment-
management business, which included the  Van Kampen  funds unit.  Invesco’s  shares  have rallied 28 percent since June 1, when
the deal closed. Morgan Stanley last month agreed to sell a
controlling stake in FrontPoint Partners LLC and said it may
sell other holdings in hedge funds to free up capital before new
minimum capital requirements go into effect.  “This share sale is part of Morgan Stanley’s strategy to
reallocate capital,” Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer
 James Gorman  said in the statement.  Invesco won’t receive proceeds from the sale and Morgan
Stanley will serve as the sole underwriter for the offering, the
statement said.  Morgan Stanley is likely to book a gain on the sale in the
fourth quarter, as it carried the equity stake at a value of
$568 million, according to a regulatory filing. Morgan Stanley
had previously recorded a cumulative gain of $673 million
related to the sale, the filing said.  Invesco’s Profit  Last month, Invesco posted third-quarter profit that jumped
47 percent from a year earlier, aided by the purchase. The
acquisition, Invesco’s largest in nine years, will add about 21
cents a share to earnings in the first 12 months after closing
and 23 cents in the second year, the company said in June.  The deal added $114.6 billion to Invesco’s assets under
management and included a distribution agreement with Morgan
Stanley’s retail-brokerage unit, which has $1.6 trillion in
client assets.  Invesco , manager of the AIM and PowerShares funds, boosted
the percentage of cash used to complete the deal in June after
its stock fell 18 percent from October 2009 when the deal was
announced. The company paid for the transaction with $800
million and 30.9 million  shares , compared with the original
agreement of $500 million cash and 44.1 million shares. The
purchase price was still below the $1.5 billion the companies
originally estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 