-- Osborne Says Civil Servants Are Committed to Carrying Out Spending Curbs
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-11-09T09:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/osborne-says-civil-servants-are-committed-to-carrying-out-spending-curbs.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  dismissed suggestions from former top civil servants
that he will fail to push through the spending cuts needed to
narrow Britain’s  record budget deficit .  Osborne said officials are determined to implement the
program after  Rachel Lomax  questioned last week whether the
proposals are “going to stick” and  John Gieve  said it’s “most
improbable” the government will achieve its objectives. Lomax
headed the civil service in three government departments from
1996 to 2003, while Gieve was in charge at the Home Office from
2001 to 2005.  “The current civil service is committed to the plan,”
Osborne said in an interview in Beijing today.  Proposals to reduce expenditure by 81 billion pounds ($130
billion) a year by 2015 and the targeting of welfare payments in
particular have sparked opposition both among the public and
from some lawmakers in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition
of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, which took power in May.  Osborne plans to cut the deficit to 2 percent of economic
output by 2015 from more than 10 percent today. Lomax and Gieve
have experience of implementing spending cuts in the 1980s and
1990s. Both worked at the Treasury and also served as deputy
governors of the Bank of England.  Osborne’s plan involves half a million public-sector job
losses and 18 billion pounds of welfare reductions, a cut of
almost 9 percent in the total bill.  He and Cameron argue that their austerity program is
keeping interest rates low and securing Britain’s top-grade
credit rating. Their balancing act is to assure investors they
will meet their targets while persuading voters that the cuts
are worth the pain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Beijing at  gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 