-- Osborne Says U.K. Finance Companies Outpacing U.S. Competitors in China
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-11-09T08:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/osborne-says-u-k-finance-companies-outpacing-u-s-competitors-in-china.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said British banks and financial services companies are
outpacing U.S. counterparts in China and that London is more
hospitable toward Chinese investors.  The comments came as Prime Minister  David Cameron  gained
preferential access for U.K. companies to China’s securities
markets when two of Britain’s leading financial institutions
signed agreements to expand their business in Beijing.  “They find it easier to do business with the U.K. than
with the U.S.,” Osborne said in an interview in Beijing. “I
don’t think there are some of the issues they find in the U.S.
around what is sometimes presented as national security and
sovereignty concerns.”  The accord signed today comes as  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  teamed with Guolian Securities Co. to underwrite bonds
and shares and Aberdeen Asset Management Plc won approval for a
$200 million-a-year investment fund. Standard Life Plc is also
seeking approval for an insurance joint venture in China.  “China and the U.K. agree to renew and expand their
unrivaled program of bilateral technical cooperation and joint
research on financial-sector reform and development,” the two
nations said in a statement released in Beijing.  Cameron and Osborne are in China with the largest-ever U.K.
business delegation. The coalition administration has vowed to
make trade the cornerstone of its foreign policy.  Opening Doors  The U.K. Treasury said Britain’s work with China on
regulatory issues has opened doors for its companies.  “I want to connect Britain up with the fastest-growing
countries and the fastest-growing parts of the world,” Cameron
told Sky News television after meeting with 400 entrepreneurs in
Beijing. “We have brought a really big trade delegation here,
bigger even than the one we took to India, some of Britain’s
best-known companies and best-known names, coming here to deepen
and expand our trading and economic relationship with China.”  The two governments agreed to work together to improve
financing for small companies. British companies will help build
corporate and government bond markets, develop alternative
investment vehicles and create an offshore market for the
Chinese yuan.  Both nations also agreed to push ahead with plans to allow
some Chinese companies to list in London and to improve
transaction technology, clearing systems and data management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Beijing on  gvina@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Beijing on  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 