-- Tesla Says Toyota Deal Is for ‘Couple Thousand’ RAV4s
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-11-10T21:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/toyota-backed-tesla-says-initial-deal-is-for-couple-thousand-rav4-suvs.html
Tesla Motors Inc. , the electric-car
maker backed by  Toyota Motor Corp. , said its initial deal to
supply battery packs and motors for an electric Toyota sport-
utility vehicle will be only for a few thousand vehicles.  “This is a test fleet,”  Elon Musk , Tesla’s chief
executive officer, said in a conference call late yesterday.
“The initial phase is in the couple thousand-unit range.”  After buying a $50 million stake in Tesla this year, Toyota
said in July it would develop an electric version of the compact
RAV4 SUV with its new affiliate, procuring batteries, motors and
other components from the Silicon Valley company. Toyota, the
world’s largest automaker, agreed to pay $60 million to develop
components for the project, Tesla said in a filing last month.  The Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker has yet to announce
where the electric RAV4 will be built and how many it expects to
sell when the model arrives in 2012. Toyota is to show a
 prototype of the SUV  at the Los Angeles auto show next week.  Tesla, which drew a $30 million investment from Japan’s
 Panasonic Corp.  last week, is in talks with other automakers on
supply agreements, Musk said. Accords like those with Toyota and
Daimler AG for battery packs and electric motors are possible,
he said, without elaborating.  Tesla, based in Palo Alto, California, surged $4.73, or
19 percent, to $29.36 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The close was the  shares ’ highest since trading
began in June.  The gain came after  Himanshu Patel , a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst, said he was “bullish” on Tesla’s outlook, and
reiterated his “overweight” recommendation on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  