-- Pakistan Cricketer Haider Fled Because of Death Threats, His Brother Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-09T18:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/pakistan-trying-to-contact-fleeing-cricketer-haider-diplomat-in-u-k-says.html
Pakistan cricketer Zulqarnain Haider,
who fled to London from Dubai yesterday, had received death
threats from match-fixers and felt “pressure” from within his
own squad, his brother said today.  Wicketkeeper Haider, 24, quit Pakistan’s five-match one-day
series against South Africa and arrived in London seeking
asylum. His brother  Raza Haider  said the player called his
family today from a hotel near Heathrow Airport.  “He said (he’s had) some internal issues and some threats
from unknown persons so he’s a bit scared,” Raza Haider said in
a telephone interview from Lahore, Pakistan. “Throughout the
series he was saying, ‘I’m in pressure, I’m in pressure.’”  Haider went missing from the Pakistan team’s hotel in Dubai
yesterday, three days after the fourth one-day international.
His brother said he’s retired from the national team and is
seeking legal advice over the asylum claim.  Pakistan’s top diplomat in the U.K. said Haider has yet to
seek any support from consular officials in London.  “We can’t help him if doesn’t approach us,” Wajid Shamsul
Hasan, High Commissioner of Pakistan to the U.K., said in an
interview today. “I have asked my officers to find out where he
is.”  The U.K.’s Home Office told Bloomberg News it doesn’t
comment on individual cases. Hasan said it’s unlikely an
application for asylum would be successful.  ‘Ill Advised’  “I think he’s been ill advised because they don’t give
asylum that easily anymore,” the High Commissioner said. “He
hasn’t been persecuted by a state, in fact the state of Pakistan
wants to help him.”  The International Cricket Council, the sport’s governing
body, yesterday said it had been contacted by officials in
Pakistan on Haider’s disappearance, and today said it’s willing
to help the player.  Haider scored a match-winning 19 not out to help bring
Pakistan level at 2-2 on Nov. 5 in the series against South
Africa.  “I received death threats to lose the fourth and fifth
one-day internationals against South Africa, but I could not
compromise the dignity of my country,” Haider was quoted as
saying by Geo News.  The Pakistan Cricket Board said the player didn’t report
any issues to them.  “PCB has informed Dubai police of the incident and also
has brought it into the notice of ICC’s Anti-Corruption Unit,”
it said in a statement on its website. “All other concerned
authorities were also taken into the loop.”  Haider will write a letter to cricket officials in which
he’ll “address all the concerns,” Raza Haider said.  Accusations  The ICC is trying to reform the Pakistan board after
several investigations into alleged misdeeds by the country’s
team this summer. Pakistan captain  Salman Butt  and fast bowlers
 Mohammad Asif  and Mohammad Amir were accused of anti-corruption
violations by the ICC last month and suspended. The players have
denied the charges.  The ICC today offered support to the PCB and Haider.  “The ICC has today confirmed that it is in regular
communication with the Pakistan Cricket Board and has offered to
support the PCB in its current investigations into the reasons
behind wicketkeeper Zulqarnain Haider’s decision to leave the
Pakistan team,” the ICC said in a statement. It offered Haider
“any help he needs.”  Ended Probe  “Clearly this is in the first instance a team matter for
Pakistan cricket but the ICC is willing to provide assistance to
the PCB and the player,” ICC Chief Executive Officer  Haroon Lorgat  said in the statement. “We understand his plight if
reports are indeed true, but we can only help if he is willing
to engage with us.”  Last month, the governing body ended a probe of scoring in
the Sept. 17 one-day cricket match between England and Pakistan,
saying it found “no compelling evidence to suspect individual
players or support staff” of cheating.  Pakistan played South Africa in Dubai because security
concerns mean it’s unable to play matches at home.  South Africa beat Pakistan in the fifth and final match
yesterday to win the series 3-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  