-- Panamericano to Get $1.5 Billion Injection After `Inconsistencies' Found
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   R o b i n   S t r i n g e r
-- 2010-11-10T00:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/panamericano-to-get-1-5-billion-injection-after-inconsistencies-found.html
Banco Panamericano SA  said Grupo
Silvio Santos, its controlling shareholder, will inject 2.5
billion reais ($1.5 billion) into the bank to shore up its
capital after accounting “inconsistencies” were detected.  Grupo Silvio Santos, owned by Brazilian media mogul  Silvio Santos , will borrow the cash from the country’s deposit
insurance fund, according to a filing by Panamericano. Brazil’s
central bank approved the transaction, Panamericano said in the
statement.  The injection aims to “preserve current levels of capital
in light of the uncovering of accounting inconsistencies that
don’t allow financial statements to reflect the actual capital
situation of the institution,” the Sao Paulo-based bank said.  Panamericano also changed its board of directors and named
 Celso Antunes da Costa  new chief executive officer, replacing
 Rafael Palladino . Its preferred shares  have tumbled  11 percent
this week, closing at 6.77 reais today, the  lowest  in more than
a year.  The central bank declined to comment on the matter because
“it is a deal between private parties,” the institution’s
press office said in an e-mailed statement. Panamericano’s press
office declined to comment further on details in the filing.  The bank was the victim of a fraud,  O Estado de S. Paulo 
newspaper reported today, after the bank’s statement, citing
unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Fictitious assets and credits registered by the bank’s
directors inflated its results, O Estado said. The fraud wasn’t
noticed by either the bank’s internal controls or independent
auditors, the newspaper said.  Brazil state bank Caixa Economica Federal paid 739.3
million reais for a 35 percent share in Banco Panamericano in
December 2009. Panamericano sold $300 million of five-year bonds
to yield 5.625 percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net 
 Robin Stringer  in Sao Paulo at 
 rstringer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 