-- Payden's Ceva Picks Ghana Bonds Over G-10 as Debt Dogs Richest Countries
-- B y   J o n   A s m u n d s s o n
-- 2010-11-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/payden-s-ceva-picks-ghana-bonds-over-g-10-as-debt-dogs-richest-countries.html
As the global financial crisis has
soured the economies of developed countries, emerging nations
are looking better and better by comparison, says  Kristin Ceva ,
head of global fixed income at Payden & Rygel, a Los Angeles-
based investment management firm with $50 billion in assets.  “Over the past year, you’ve really started to see a
divergence in credit fundamentals between developed and emerging
markets,” says Ceva, who manages the $550 million Payden
Emerging Markets Bond Fund. “You’ve got the emerging-markets
countries with half the fiscal deficits of the developed world
and debt-to-GDP ratios that are between 30 and 40 percent, not
100-plus percent,” as with advanced economies such as Greece
and Japan, she says.  Indonesia’s debt , for example, was 27
percent of its gross domestic product as of early November,
while  Greece’s  was 113 percent and  Japan’s  was 189 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Payden  fund  returned 9.65 percent annually for five
years as of Nov. 5, including a 28.9 percent gain in 2009 and a
17.68 percent rise this year, Bloomberg Markets reports in 
its December 2010 issue. That places it in the middle of the pack 
of emerging-market bond funds as measured by absolute  
performance , according to Bloomberg data. On a risk-adjusted 
basis, the fund  ranks  near the top, with one of the highest 
Sharpe ratios among its peers, Bloomberg data show. The ratio, a
gauge of gains that takes volatility into account, divides
returns by their standard deviation.  Bond Returns  Ceva, 44, says she expects that returns from emerging-
market bonds will soon equal those from stocks. The difference
is that bond returns will come with much lower volatility.  “In the next three to five years, emerging-markets debt is
going to be returning 6.5 to 7.5 percent annualized,” Ceva
says. “That’s probably what you’re going to get in equities.”  Investors are pouring more money into emerging-market bonds
and stocks, Ceva says. In the first nine months of 2010,
emerging-market bond funds had inflows of $39 billion, 4.3 times
the largest previous full-year total, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based fund-flow-data company  EPFR Global .
Investors added $49 billion into emerging-market stock funds in
the same period. That’s partly because the asset class as a
whole has been improving in terms of fundamentals such as credit
quality, Ceva says.  When she joined Payden & Rygel as an analyst in 1998 after
earning a Ph.D. in political science from  Stanford University ,
very few emerging-market countries were investment grade, she
says. “Now 50 percent or more of the asset class is investment
grade, with big, important countries like Mexico, Russia and
Brazil achieving investment-grade status,” says Ceva, who wrote
her dissertation on trade and financial liberalization in Latin
America with a focus on Mexico, where she studied as a Fulbright
scholar.  Indonesian Trends  That trend will continue in countries such as Indonesia,
she says. The Asian nation accounted for the Payden fund’s
third-largest country allocation, 10.7 percent as of Sept. 30.
Ceva says Indonesia has improved its debt and  budget  trends.  “Politically, things are more stable,” she says. “It’s a
country where there are 250 million people, so there’s more of a
chance of domestic-led growth.”  Given the improving trends, companies such as Standard &
Poor’s are likely to raise Indonesia’s credit ratings, Ceva
says. “It’s a BB credit right now, but I think it could be
investment grade within a year,” she says.  When S&P in March raised Indonesia to BB, which is two
rungs below its lowest investment-grade rating of BBB-, the
company said its positive outlook reflected the likelihood of an
additional upgrade.  Sticky Money  Emerging markets also stand to benefit from a widening
investor base, Ceva says.  “The inflows into the asset class are changing; it’s much
more sticky money,” she says. “Pension funds and endowments
are looking at emerging-markets debt as a strategic part of
their asset allocation.” That contrasts with the so-called hot
money that in the past would flee at each bump, she says.  Ceva uses a three-step process to pick  investments  for the
Payden fund. First, she uses fundamental research to analyze
economic trends and develop a view on countries, while also
considering politics and the strength of a country’s
institutions. “We’re looking for social stability, policy
consistency,” Ceva says.  Ghana, for instance, accounted for 3.6 percent of the
fund’s holdings as of Sept. 30. “It’s a country where they
recently discovered oil, where there’s political stability,”
Ceva says. “It’s our top pick in Africa.”  Macro Scenarios  The next step is to analyze what drives a country’s
interest rates and examine how they might change during the
coming six months under the firm’s global macro scenarios. As of
October, Payden attributed a 60 percent likelihood to its base
case: slower economic growth around the world, low inflation and
no double dip back into recession. The firm gave a 25 percent
chance to a double dip and 15 percent odds for better-than-
expected growth.  Ceva says she looks at how bond yields may move under each
scenario based on history. She also takes into account how
changes in credit quality and currency moves may affect bonds.
In addition, Ceva compares bonds that pay in dollars with those
that pay in the local currency as well as with corporate bonds.  “There are a number of countries where we think it makes
sense to go out of the dollar pay and buy some local,” she
says. “Countries like Brazil, where the local market is
yielding 12 percent and the dollar market is yielding 4 to 4.5
percent.”  Risk Parameters  The last part of the process is to develop  risk  parameters,
Ceva says. The fund limits any one country to a maximum of 20
percent of its total, for example. Its biggest weighting was
Brazil, at 13.4 percent of the  portfolio , as of Sept. 30. In
addition, Ceva invests in a minimum of 15 countries at any one
time and she limits private-sector corporate holdings to 20
percent altogether.  Ceva says the fund sometimes bets on rate moves in a
particular country using interest-rate swaps, which exchange
interest payments on a notional amount at one rate for payments
at another rate. She says the fund doesn’t use credit-default
swaps, which pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a country
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  That contrasts with other funds that get exposure to
emerging-market debt through CDSs and then invest in assets such
as stocks or even U.S. mortgage-backed securities, she says.  “It becomes a lot harder for investors to understand
what’s going on in their portfolios when they have all these
swaps and the underlying cash invested in other things that
aren’t really related to emerging-markets debt,” she says.  By focusing mainly on sovereign bonds, the fund still
offers diversification to investors.  “We like the sovereign diversification of the emerging-
markets asset class,” she says. “We think its default rates
are going to be very low -- below 1 percent going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Asmundsson  in New York at 
 jasmundsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at   lcolby@bloomberg.net  