-- China Central Bank Raises 1-Year Bill Yield for Second Time in Three Weeks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-09T03:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/pboc-raises-1-year-bill-yield-for-2nd-time-in-3-weeks-to-tackle-inflation.html
The People’s Bank of China boosted
the yield of its one-year bills for the second time since
raising benchmark interest rates last month, furthering efforts
to tackle inflation by draining funds from the financial system.  The central bank sold 2 billion yuan ($4.8 billion) of the
securities at a yield of 2.3437 percent, up five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, from last week. It allowed the rate to
rise 20 basis points at the Oct. 26 auction, a week after it
increased the benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates by a
quarter of a percentage point.  A government report on Nov. 11 may show inflation quickened
to 4 percent in October, from 3.6 percent the previous month,
according to the median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That would be the fastest pace since October 2008.  “The higher yield today increases the probability of
another rate increase by the central bank as we may see higher-
than-expected inflation this week,” said  Hu Hangyu , a Beijing-
based fixed-income analyst with Citic Securities Co., China’s
biggest listed brokerage. “The PBOC may also strengthen
sterilization through open-market operations in the coming weeks
with higher bill rates.”  The central bank said in its quarterly monetary policy
report on Nov. 2 that it will continue to “guide monetary
conditions to return to normal levels.” Last month’s increase
in benchmark interest rates was the first since 2007.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, climbed two basis points to 1.65 percent,
according to a daily fixing rate published at 11 a.m. by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It reached a six-month low of
1.61 percent on Nov. 5.  -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact the Bloomberg news staff on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  