-- Peru to Sell Benchmark 40-Year Dollar Bond, Sol Debt as Soon as Tomorrow
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-11-09T20:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/peru-plans-to-sell-benchmark-dollar-bonds-due-in-2050-as-soon-as-tomorrow.html
Peru plans to sell 40-year debt in
the international market for the first time as part of dollar
and sol-denominated bonds it may issue as soon as tomorrow to
take advantage of demand for higher-yielding debt.  The government will sell benchmark dollar bonds due in 2050
and at least $500 million more of 7.84 percent sol bonds due in
August 2020, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley are arranging the
bond sale, the person said.  The Andean country said Nov. 7 it will sell as much as $2.5
billion of bonds as a rebound in South America’s sixth-largest
economy fuels demand for Peruvian debt amid near-zero interest
rates in the U.S., Japan and other developed economies. Peruvian
gross domestic product may increase 8 percent this year and 6
percent next year, the fastest growth in Latin America, Finance
Minister  Ismael Benavides  said earlier this month.  The country’s dollar bonds will be snapped up by investors
hungry for hard-currency debt from governments in the region,
said  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income
research at IDEAglobal.  “Anything that Peru decides to issue with its sovereign
name attached to it is going to be swallowed up by the
markets,” he said in a phone interview from New York. “I don’t
even say ingested -- I think it’s going to be swallowed. That’s
the amount of dollars out there looking for yield.”  100-Year Bond  Mexico sold $1 billion of bonds due in 100 years last
month, the first such issue by a Latin American government.
Brazil’s Treasury Secretary  Arno Augustin  said it is considering
selling century bonds after the Mexican sale.  Peru’s sol fell as investors bought dollars to buy bonds at
the auction, said  Frank Babarczy , head of trading at BBVA Banco
Continental in Lima. The government will offer $2.5 billion of
dollar and sol bonds, Babarczy said.  The sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.7985 per U.S. dollar at
1:54 p.m. from 2.7958 yesterday.  “The issue in soles is going to be redeemable in dollars
so all the locals -- banks and AFPs -- are going to have to buy
dollars to pay the government. That’s putting a bit of pressure
on the currency,” Babarczy said.  Peru’s private pension funds, known as AFPs, are the
largest holders of sol bonds.  Fernando Mendoza , a spokesman at the Finance Ministry, said
in a telephone interview he didn’t have any information about
the size or timing of the bond sale.  Yields Rise  Investors offloaded sol bonds in the domestic market today
in order to take part in the government’s auction, causing
yields to rise the most in five months, Babarczy said.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 climbed 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage
point, to 5.02 percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local
unit. That’s the bond’s steepest rise since May 25 when it
jumped 22 basis points.  Proceeds from the government’s bond sale will be used to
finance the pre-payment of loans and repay $63 million the
Finance Ministry borrowed from the Treasury to finance an
earlier buyback of international bonds, the government said Nov.
7. The remainder will be used to pre-finance next year’s
spending plans “if the financial conditions are favorable,” it
said at the time.  A sale of $2.5 billion of bonds would be Peru’s biggest
ever. The country sold 4.75 billion soles ($1.7 billion) of 30-
year bonds in 2007 to repay debt ahead of schedule to Paris Club
creditors. Peru sold its first 40-year bond in the domestic
market in 2006.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said on Aug. 23 it may
raise its rating on Peru’s foreign currency debt from BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, if the country’s current macroeconomic
policies remain in place after next year’s elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  