-- Pfizer's Wyeth Defeats Australian Generic Challenge Against Effexor Patent
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-11-09T00:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/pfizer-s-wyeth-defeats-australian-generic-challenge-against-effexor-patent.html
Wyeth, a unit of  Pfizer Inc. , beat
back a challenge from generic drug makers against the patent on
the extended-release form of its antidepressant Effexor in
Australia.  Federal Court Judge Jayne Jagot dismissed the challenge by
 Sigma Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , Alphapharm Ltd. and Generic Health
Ltd. in a  judgment  released yesterday, ruling that Wyeth’s
patent was valid.  “The applicants have not established any ground” under
the law to justify revoking the patent, Jagot wrote.  Sigma, which had a net loss of A$218.5 million ($221
million) for the six months ended July 31, and the other generic
drug makers are prohibited under the ruling from selling copies
of Effexor. The drug was Wyeth’s best-selling antidepressant,
with sales of $3.9 billion in 2008, until cheaper U.S. generic
versions were released this year. Effexor sales dropped to $175
million in the third quarter.  Sigma  fell  0.5 cents to 45 cents in Australian Stock
Exchange trading at 10:17 a.m. Pfizer declined 0.8 percent
yesterday in New York.  Jagot also ordered Sigma and the other generic drug makers
to destroy any copies of Effexor they have. She suspended the
order for 14 days, or until the ruling is upheld on appeal.  Sigma began selling a copy of Effexor, called Evelexa, in
Australia in May 2009. A month later, Wyeth won a court-ordered
prohibition on the sale of the copy until trial.  Sue Morgan-Dethick , Sigma’s general counsel, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  The case is Sigma Pharmaceuticals (Australia) Pty Ltd v
Wyeth, VID195/2009, Federal Court of Australia, Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  