-- Polish Company Bond Sales Poised to Grow on Energy Needs, Bank Pekao Says
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2010-11-09T11:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/polish-company-bond-sales-poised-to-grow-on-energy-needs-bank-pekao-says.html
Polish zloty-denominated corporate
bond sales may increase “several percent” to “slightly” over
10 percent annually, driven by the energy industry’s investment
needs, according to  Bank Pekao SA .  Offerings of Polish corporate bonds in foreign markets may
expand even faster,  Andrzej Kopyrski , Pekao’s deputy chief
executive officer in charge of corporate banking, said in an
interview on Nov. 3. He didn’t give an estimate for growth of
non-zloty bonds issued by Polish companies.  The Polish banking unit of  UniCredit SpA  has underwritten
more than 1.6 billion zloty ($566 million) of corporate bonds so
far this year, he said. That compares with total issues by
Polish companies of more than 4 billion zloty of local-currency
corporate debt in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
News. Local currency corporate bonds outstanding were worth 16.4
billion zloty at the end September, according to Pekao.  Separately, PKO Bank Polski SA, Poland’s largest lender,
sold 800 million euros ($1.11 billion) of euro-denominated bonds
in October.  Energy companies will boost the bond market as they seek to
finance growing investment needs, according to Kopyrski. Poland
must invest more than 200 billion zloty in power generation
through 2025 to comply with European Union requirements, Deputy
Treasury Minister  Jan Bury  said in May.  Companies are stepping up bond sales as such debt is more
“flexible,” gives access to longer financing and requires less
collateral than a loan, Kopyrski said. Corporate loans in zloty
fell 5.3 percent in the 12 months ended June 30, according to a
 report  published by the Polish financial market regulator on its
website.  Acquisitions  Still the corporate bond market remains “relatively small
and not liquid compared with size of the Polish economy,”
Kopyrski added. Poland’s gross domestic product was worth $430
billion in 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Growing financing needs of the public sector, corporate
refinancing of debt along with mergers and acquisitions will
also drive the bond market, Kopyrski sad. The bank is working on
debt issues worth up to 1 billion zloty by the end of the first
quarter 2011, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  