-- Pound Gains as Central Bank Bond-Purchase Speculation Wanes
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-09T14:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/pound-gains-versus-euro-for-4th-day-on-waning-qe-outlook-ireland-s-budget.html
The pound rose against the euro,
trading near the strongest level in more than a month, amid
waning speculation that the Bank of England will step up bond
purchases as the economic recovery sustains its momentum.  Sterling appreciated through 86 pence per euro for the
first time since Sept. 30 as a report today showed  manufacturing 
expanded for a fifth month in September, reaching the strongest
level in almost two years. U.K. policy makers kept their bond-
purchase program unchanged at 200 billion pounds ($323 billion)
on Nov. 4 even as they maintained the benchmark interest rate at
a record low of 0.5 percent. The central bank is scheduled to
deliver its quarterly Inflation Report tomorrow.  “The BOE has already acknowledged in the minutes over the
last couple of months that growth has been relatively solid so
far,” said  Chiara Corsa , an economist at UniCredit SpA in
Milan. “The Inflation Report will suggest that the risk they
will resume quantitative easing is relatively low.”  The pound appreciated almost 0.1 percent to 86.19 pence per
euro as of 2:41 p.m. in London, after strengthening to 85.90
pence. Sterling rose 0.1 percent to $1.6157.  Manufacturing output  rose 0.1 percent from the previous
month and the trade  deficit  narrowed as exports gained,
according to figures from the Office for National Statistics.
Overall industrial production increased 0.4 percent.  U.K. government bonds were little changed, with the 10-year
gilt yield at 3.01 percent. The two-year note yield was at 0.69
percent.  Gilt Auction  The Treasury sold 700 million pounds of 1.25 percent
inflation-linked gilts maturing in November 2055 at a yield of
0.619 percent, the nation’s Debt Management Office said. The
sale drew bid of 2.1 times the amount on offer.  “The auction went very well due to strong demand from real
money investors,” said  Matteo Regesta , an interest-rate
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “What you have is a
gilt friendly inflation report coming tomorrow. Despite some
pressure today we remain very much constructive on gilts.”  A U.K. housing-market  gauge  dropped to an 18-month low in
October as homebuyers became “cautious” on prospects for
prices, data from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors
showed today.  Gilts have returned 8.9 percent this year, compared with a
8.7 percent gain for German bonds and an 8.9 percent increase
for U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 