-- PPC May Build Its Own African Cement Plants After Not Finding Acquisitions
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-09T09:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/ppc-may-build-its-own-african-cement-plants-after-not-finding-acquisitions.html
Pretoria Portland Cement Co. ,
Africa’s largest maker of the building material, is considering
building its own cement factories in Africa as it hasn’t found
suitable acquisition targets on the continent.  PPC has “done a lot of work” evaluating targets, Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Stuiver  said in a telephone interview
from Johannesburg today. “We took one or two of them forward
quite aggressively but we have decided to back off after
analyzing what the opportunity was.”  PPC is seeking growth in new markets on the rest of the
continent as cement-demand growth in Africa’s largest economy
has slowed and increased pricing competition from new entrants
looms. Stuiver said in May that the Johannesburg-based company
was looking for acquisitions in East Africa and had identified
as many as 10 possible targets. Countries of interest included
Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya, he said at the time.  Many of them were eliminated because they are “too
expensive, too broken and not always in the right place,” the
CEO said today. “We are likely to go down the road where we
make a number of smallish investments in strategic geographic
areas,” he said. “Many of the real quality assets have also
been taken.”  With limited acquisition opportunities on the continent
“we actually do see ourselves building new facilities in other
parts of Africa,” he said. Small factories with shorter
building and commissioning timelines will be considered, Stuiver
said.  ‘Modest Investments’  PPC will make “modest investments in a strategic area and
get that plant built, get it up and running in a two- to three-
year timeframe and once it is up running you can build from
there,” he said. Building its own factories will require more
of PPC’s  resources , while it also provides more control over the
projects, thus minimizing risks, he said.  “These things are difficult to predict but we are
certainly looking at one or two of these activities actually
coming to fruition in 2011,” he said.  PPC today said net income for the 12 months through
September fell to 1.01 billion rand ($147 million) from
1.02 billion rand a year earlier. Sales were little changed
at 6.81 billion rand.  The company’s  shares  fell 2 percent to 33.60 rand at
10:57 a.m. in Johannesburg, trimming PPC’s market value to
19.7 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  