-- Property Sales Get `Cash for Clunkers' Boost in Tax Uncertainty
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-11-09T18:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/property-sales-get-cash-for-clunkers-boost-in-bush-tax-cut-uncertainty.html
Christopher Nolan’s family has owned
three rent-stabilized apartment buildings in Astoria, New York,
for almost 80 years. He wants to sell them by the end of 2010.  The decision to market the 220-unit complex was prompted,
in part, by Congressional deadlock over renewing  Bush-era tax
cuts . An end to the reductions, set to expire Dec. 31, would
result in Nolan paying higher taxes on profits from a property
sale if he makes a deal after this year.  “Capital gains is definitely one of the major factors,”
said Nolan, who owns a stake in the Astoria buildings in the New
York City borough of Queens. “It makes it more attractive to
sell in 2010 than otherwise.”  Longtime U.S. property owners such as Nolan are testing the
sales market amid uncertainty over the status of the tax cuts,
setting the stage for a surge in transactions followed by a
decline, said  Robert Knakal , chairman of  Massey Knakal  Realty
Services, a brokerage in New York. His firm has already seen a
jump in deals, with contract signings reaching the highest
monthly totals in three years each month since July.  “This is just like ‘cash for clunkers’ or the first-time
homebuyers’ tax credit,” said Knakal, referring to the
government incentives for automobile and housing sales that led
to a temporary jump in demand. “It’s essentially going to steal
activity from the beginning of next year to the end of this
year.”  Resuming Debate  President Barack Obama has proposed ending the tax cuts
enacted during the presidency of George W. Bush for families
making more than $250,000 annually and raising levies on capital
gains, which include real estate profits, to 20 percent from 15
percent for those same earners. Republicans want to make the
reductions permanent for all Americans. Congress adjourned in
September without settling the issue and will resume the debate
when it returns for a session starting Nov. 15.  The Obama administration is “open” to negotiations on
temporarily extending tax cuts for upper-income individuals to
win extensions for middle-income families, White House press
secretary Robert Gibbs said Nov. 4, two days after mid-term
elections made Republicans the majority in the House of
Representatives. The lawmakers elected Nov. 2 take office in
January, after the lame-duck session this month.  “The interesting question is what do these outgoing
Democrats do?” said  Gerald Prante , an economist at the  Tax
Foundation , a Washington-based research group that advocates
lower taxes. “Do they care?”  1986 Jump  Commercial-property sales soared before the implementation
of a 1986 change in the federal tax code that increased the
capital-gains rate to 28 percent and ended the practice of
allowing real estate losses to generate large tax write-offs,
said  Hessam Nadji , managing director of research and advisory
services at brokerage Marcus & Millichap in San Francisco.  “The second half of 1986 was off the charts,” Nadji said
in a telephone interview. “We did about a year’s worth of
business in about four months. There was such a frenzy to sell
and book profits before the tax laws changed.”  The capital gains realized in 1986 almost doubled over the
previous year because of the liquidations, Nadji wrote in an
August  research note .  “Despite the decline in investment values over the last
two years, many investors will likely follow this liquidation
strategy,” he wrote.  Capital-Gains Surge  The Congressional Budget Office is  projecting  that realized
capital gains will surge by 29 percent this year to $540
billion, as investors sell holdings such as stocks and property.
The estimate assumes the Bush tax cuts expire at year’s end.  The dollar volume of U.S. commercial property offered for
sale in July was $13.5 billion, the highest since October 2008,
according to  Real Capital Analytics Inc . in New York. In
September, $14.8 billion worth of property was listed for sale,
more than double the amount in the same month last year.  The volume of transactions that closed also more than
doubled in September from a year earlier, with $11.5 billion
worth of property such as hotels, apartments and office
buildings changing hands, according to Real Capital.  The increase in deals could stem from a sense that real
estate values are no longer plummeting, rather than tax
uncertainty, said  Robert Bach , the Chicago-based chief economist
at commercial-property broker  Grubb & Ellis Co.   Supply and Demand  “The tax issues are sort of overwhelmed by the broader
issues of supply and demand,” Bach said in an interview.
“There’s a limited number of properties, and maybe the increase
is from the fact that buyers and sellers are coming to common
ground as contrasted with a year ago, when there was little
clarity on pricing and nobody was doing anything.”  Sellers motivated by a change in tax rates must weigh
whether possible taxes saved by striking a deal now will
outweigh any price appreciation they can capture in the future,
said  Ben Thypin , an analyst at Real Capital.  A hypothetical property sold for $20 million now with a
capital gain of $3 million would generate taxes of $450,000 at
the current 15 percent rate, Thypin said. If the rate increases
to 20 percent, the tax on the same transaction in 2011 would be
$600,000. The difference would be less than 1 percent of the
sales price.  “If you have a relatively small basis, your price does not
have to increase that much in order to compensate” for the
extra tax paid, Thypin said.  The higher the capital gain, however, the more the seller
would need to recover from a future sales price to offset the
tax, he said.  Eight-Year Low  U.S. commercial property prices tumbled for a third
straight month in August to the lowest level in eight years,
Moody’s Investors Service said on Oct. 19. The Moody’s/REAL
Commercial Property Price  Index  fell 3.3 percent from July and
is down 45 percent from its October 2007 peak.  With the exception of “very high-quality assets” in
coastal urban areas such as New York and San Francisco,
“there’s really no appreciation at a broader market level,”
said Nadji of Marcus & Millichap. “If you sell a year from now
not only will you still be dealing with sluggish valuation, but
another 5 percent” in taxes.  Selling income-producing real estate ahead of the possible
tax change triggers the question of how to invest the proceeds
in an environment where investors are scouring for yield, said
 Alan Dlugash , a tax partner at New York-based accounting firm
Marks Paneth & Shron LLP.  “It’s not going to be easy for them to invest the money
and get the same rate of return,” Dlugash said.  Deferring Tax  Real estate owners concerned about capital gains taxes have
the option of using a so-called “ 1031 Exchange ” which allows
them to defer payment of those taxes by selling one property and
then buying a similar one, according to Nadji. The share of
commercial transactions that involve such an exchange “will
increase substantially” if the capital gains rate rises to 20
percent, he said in the August research note.  The disincentive to doing that is that some sellers may
simply want to liquidate, while others may not have another
property lined up to buy, he said.  “People typically know what they want to exchange into,”
Nadji said. “There’s less clarity into that right now.”  Clients are coming to  Eric Anton ’s office seeking advice on
whether uncertainty over tax policy is a good enough reason to
sell, said Anton, executive managing director for Eastern
Consolidated, a New York investment sales brokerage.  Greater Motivation  “We’re definitely having a lot of those conversations,
mostly with long-term New York-based owners,” Anton said. The
longer a property had been held, the larger the profit built in,
and the more likely the owner is motivated to sell on capital-
gains concerns, he said.  “Three years ago it wasn’t a topic, whereas now it’s one
of the key decision-making factors,” Anton said. “The real
concern is that the lame-duck Congress comes back and makes
massive tax increases, because they can.”  Tax rates will rise for everyone if no action is taken,
Prante of the Tax Foundation said. The more likely scenarios are
that Congress temporarily extends the tax cuts to all Americans
for one or two years, or temporarily continues the cuts for all
but a small subset of high-income individuals, such as those who
earn $1 million or more, he said. Personal residences by and
large aren’t subject to capital gains taxes.  End of Year Deadline  Michael Haas, chief executive officer of property holding
company Direct Invest USA Holdings LLC, decided in September to
sell four office buildings in northern Virginia and Philadelphia
after following the Congressional debate that month on the tax
rates, he said.  One of the properties, a $40 million Virginia building
leased to a federal military office, is now in contract to be
sold -- with the contingency that the deal close by the end of
the year. As of yesterday, it appeared the buyer may not be able
to meet the deadline, Haas said in a telephone interview.  “I said, ‘If you don’t want to close before the end of the
year I’m just going to keep it,’ ” he said.  The other three properties, all of them leased to the
government, will also be taken off the market if they fail to
sell this year, said Suffolk, Virginia-based Haas, who hired
Marcus & Millichap to market his buildings. Haas said he and his
partners aren’t interested in a 1031 exchange strategy because
“sometimes people want to do other things with the profits”
instead of buying another property.  For Haas, not selling his buildings this year means he’ll
be a reluctant buyer of property next year.  “The larger transactions are the ones that have large
profits and allow people to do larger reinvestments,” Haas
said. “If you stop that, you’re going to have more people
sitting around waiting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  