-- Prostrakan Rises Most in Five Years on Norgine Stake
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-11-09T17:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/prostrakan-rises-most-in-five-years-on-norgine-stake-update1-.html
ProStrakan Group Plc  rose the most
since 2005 in London trading after closely held pharmaceutical
company  Norgine BV  bought 12.6 percent of the U.K. drugmaker and
didn’t rule out the possibility of bidding for the rest.  Norgine “has no current intention to make an offer for
ProStrakan” and will continue to consider its options, the
Amsterdam-based company said in a statement late yesterday.
Before today, ProStrakan, based in Galashiels, Scotland, had
sunk 18 percent this year after a manufacturing glitch hurt
profit and the chief executive quit.  Norgine, under U.K. takeover law, can’t make a bid for the
company for the next six months unless certain events occur,
such as someone else taking a stake of more than 20 percent, or
ProStrakan receiving an offer or possible offer from another
company. Norgine reserves the right to make a bid should any of
those things happen, according to its statement.  “We believe this stake represents an ‘option to acquire’
an essentially synergistic European business,” wrote  Shawn Manning  and  Elizabeth Klein , analysts at Singer Capital Markets
Ltd., in a note to clients today. The share purchase may serve
to inform other ProStrakan shareholders of Norgine’s interest.”  U.S. regulatory approval for ProStrakan’s testosterone
replacement gel Fortesta and the Abstral cancer pain treatment
may spur further buying, the analysts wrote. Singer Capital
reiterated its  “buy”  rating on ProStrakan, with a target price
of 100 pence.  Sanofi Stake  Norgine may have purchased the  ProStrakan shares  from
French drugmaker Sanofi-Aventis SA, the Singer analysts wrote.
Norgine paid 95 pence, 34 percent above yesterday’s closing
price of 70.75 pence, the analysts said.  Jean-Marc Podvin , a
spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi, didn’t return a call for
comment.  ProStrakan jumped 16.25 pence, or 23 percent, to close at
87 pence at 4:30 p.m. in London trading, giving the company a
market value of 176 million pounds ($283 million). The advance
was the biggest since the company sold shares in an initial
public offering in June 14, 2005.  Peter Allen , ProStrakan’s
chairman and acting CEO, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Norgine, founded in 1906, focuses on drugs for
gastroenterology and hepatology and had sales of 257 million
euros ($357.5 million) last year, according to the company’s
website.  Peter Stein , Norgine’s chairman and chief executive
officer, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. Stein
is the grand nephew of the company’s founder, Victor Stein.  Movicol, a constipation treatment, is Norgine’s biggest
selling product, accounting for more than half of sales.  To contact the reporter on this Story:
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  