-- Qatar's Emir Says Government Putting Together Plan to Raise Credit Rating
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-11-09T15:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/qatar-s-emir-says-government-putting-together-plan-to-raise-credit-rating.html
Qatari Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa
 Al Thani  said the government is putting together a program to
boost the credit rating of the world’s largest producer of
liquefied natural gas.  The government is working on “a comprehensive plan to
raise the credit rating to the level of advanced industrial
countries,” Sheikh Hamad said in remarks broadcast today on Al-
Jazeera television.  Qatar, forecast by the  International Monetary Fund  to have
the world’s fastest-growing economy this year, has an AA rating
from Standard & Poor’s on its long-term debt, the highest of any
Persian Gulf country. The rating is two levels below that of the
United States.  Qatar and Qatari companies have sought to tap investor
appetite for higher yields over the past year by issuing bonds
and Islamic sukuks. The country sold 12 billion riyals ($3.3
billion) of debt to local banks earlier this year after
receiving $28 billion of orders for a $7 billion sovereign bond
sale in November 2009.  Qatar Islamic Bank issued sukuks and Qatar Telecom QSC sold
bonds in the past three months.  Driven by rising natural gas exports, Qatar’s gross
domestic product may expand 21 percent next year, compared with
16 percent in 2010, Finance Minister  Yousef Kamal  said Nov. 2.
The IMF is forecasting 16 percent growth this year.  Qatar’s annual capacity to produce liquefied natural gas
will increase to 77 million tons a year by early 2011 after the
start of two of the world’s largest liquefaction plants. Qatar
will also start operating the world’s biggest gas-to-liquids
fuel plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  