-- Quant Fund Assets Plunge After Strategies Underperform, Nomura Report Says
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-11-09T07:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/quant-fund-assets-plunge-after-strategies-underperform-nomura-report-says.html
Quantitative funds, which choose
stocks according to mathematical models, may have lost almost
half their assets since 2007 after failing to capture swings in
markets, according to a study by  Nomura Holdings Inc.   Money overseen at a sample of 137 quant funds fell 43
percent over three years to $44 billion, while the quant share
of actively managed equity funds is also estimated to have
halved since 2007, the Tokyo-based bank said in a Nov. 4 report.
The funds lost 24 percent based on price since October 2007,
with the rest of the shrinkage coming from withdrawals, the
report showed. That compares with a 20 percent decline for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  over the same period.  “We saw quants win new mandates in the first half of 2010,
perhaps a bit of a sign of a leveling-off of the outflows in
2010,”  Inigo Fraser-Jenkins , London-based European head of
quantitative strategy at Nomura, said in a phone interview
today. “The problem is that since then, over the summer, their
performance has suffered and that may give a bit of a knock to
their ability to win mandates.”  Changes in the performance of groups of shares such as
banks and increasing correlation between markets has hindered
the performance of quant funds. Companies including Janus
Capital Group Inc.’s Intech and Axa Rosenberg Group LLC have
reported multi-billion-dollar redemptions this year after
returns disappointed investors.  Benchmark Indexes  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Quantum Global Long Short Index  has
gained 4.5 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with a 7.9 percent rally for the MSCI
World Index of 24 developed markets. Last year, the quant
benchmark gauge dropped 6.9 percent as the global  index  jumped
27 percent, its best performance in six years.  The Hedge Fund Research Equity Market Neutral Index ,
another measure for quant performance, has gained 1.8 percent
this year, compared with a 9.7 percent gain in the  S&P 500 . The
HFR index dropped 5.6 percent in 2009, missing a 23 percent gain
in the S&P 500, as stocks with the weakest finances soared.  Investors redeemed $2.1 billion in the third quarter from
Janus’s Intech, which uses mathematical models to trade
securities, after the unit’s funds failed to reach their own
return targets, the company said Oct. 21.  Axa Rosenberg, a unit of Paris-based insurer Axa SA, on
June 30 said co-founder  Barr Rosenberg  will leave with immediate
effect after a review found he tried to cover up a coding error
in the firm’s investment model. Axa on Aug. 4 said its Axa
Investment Managers unit had 17 billion euros ($23.6 billion) of
outflows in the first half, “mostly from Axa Rosenberg.”  Quant funds started 2010 with positive returns only to pare
gains in July and August, said Fraser-Jenkins. Increasing
correlation among stocks amid concern that the global economic
recovery was stalling may be to blame for the underperformance,
the strategist said.  The funds have returned 3.4 percent on average this year
and 2.7 percent when the group is weighted by the size of its
components, according to Nomura.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 