-- Rand Gains on Bets Carry-Trade Allure to Continue, Gold Surges to Record
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-09T15:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/rand-weakens-as-renewed-european-debt-woes-curb-demand-for-higher-yields.html
South Africa’s rand strengthened
against the dollar on speculation record-low interest rates in
developed nations will continue to encourage purchases of
higher-yielding assets and as gold surged to a record high.  The currency appreciated as much as 0.7 percent to 6.7925
per dollar and traded at 6.7969 as of 5:07 p.m. in Johannesburg,
from a previous close of 6.8388. Against the euro, the rand
advanced 0.6 percent to 9.4764.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said today that the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s decision last week to buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June as it keeps interest rates
near zero, a process known as quantitative easing, will boost
the rand. Gold, which rivals platinum as South Africa’s biggest
export earner, rallied to a record high of $1,424.35 an ounce in
London as concern Europe’s debt crisis may be resurfacing
boosted demand for alternative investments.  “The same structural drivers that have driven the rand
stronger in the past two years are still intact,” Trevor
Barsdorf, an analyst at  Econometrix Treasury Management , a
Johannesburg-based bond and foreign-exchange consultancy, said
in a telephone interview. “Guys looking for yield in emerging
markets are still the main driver of the currency.”  The rand has rallied 38 percent against the dollar since
the start of last year as near-zero interest rates in developed
nations encouraged investors to borrow cheaply and invest in
markets offering higher returns. South Africa’s  6 percent 
benchmark interest rate, which compares with deposit returns as
low as 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in the U.S., makes
the country a popular beneficiary in this strategy, known by
traders as the carry trade.  More Liquidity  “With more quantitative easing on the horizon it’s likely
that a lot of liquidity will find its way into emerging
markets,”  Victor Mphaphuli , a portfolio manager at Stanlib
Asset Management, said by telephone from Johannesburg today.
“The rand is likely to be a beneficiary of that and will
probably stay stronger as long as U.S. interest rates stay as
low as they are.”  Earlier today, the rand slid as much as 0.6 percent to
6.8828 on concern Ireland may need a Greece-style rescue package
from the European Union as investors shun its bonds on concern
the cost of bailing out its banking industry will bankrupt the
nation. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said late yesterday that Ireland hasn’t requested aid.  Government bonds in South Africa fluctuated before falling
for a third day in late trade. The benchmark 13.5 percent
security due September 2015 lost 2 cents to 126.46 rand, leaving
the yield little changed at 6.97 percent.  Earlier the bond fell as low as 125.72 rand while the yield
rose to 7.12 percent, the highest since Oct. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  