-- Arena Drug May Boost Heart Risk for Obese Diabetics
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-11-09T21:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/rejected-diet-drug-helped-obese-diabetics-shed-weight-in-study.html
Arena Inc.  said lorcaserin, the
weight-loss drug rejected last month, boosted the risk in obese
diabetics of a heart abnormality that was among the reasons U.S.
regulators  pulled  Wyeth’s fen-phen from the market in 1997.  Patients who took the medication lost an average of 4.5
percent of their body weight, compared with 1.5 percent among
those taking placebo, the San Diego-based company said in a
statement. At the end of the yearlong study, 2.9 percent of
patients had valvulopathy, a heart-valve disorder, compared with
0.5 percent of those taking placebos, Arena said. The side-
effect data wasn’t statistically significant, the company said.  Arena is racing  Vivus Inc. , of Mountain View, California,
and  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  of San Diego to introduce the
first prescription weight-loss drug in more than a decade. The
Food and Drug Administration declined to approve lorcaserin on
Oct. 22, asking the company for the results of the diabetes
trial and data about cancer in earlier studies of rats.  John LeCroy , an analyst at Hapoalim Securities, said the drug won’t
gain FDA approval and lowered his target price for Arena.  “In our view, any valvulopathy signal is extremely
concerning,” LeCroy said today in a note to investors. “In
light of lorcaserin’s limited efficacy, the concerns over rodent
mammary tumors and the new numerical increase in valvulopathy
seen in the BLOOM DM trial, we are removing lorcaserin from our
valuation of Arena as we now assume the drug is unapprovable.”  Few Patients  The study had too few patients to reach conclusions about
the heart-valve risk,  Jack Lief , Arena’s chief executive
officer, said today in a telephone interview. Six patients
taking lorcaserin in the trial and one patient on placebo had
valvulopathy, as measured by echocardiograms, he said.  The difference in the rate of valve defects was smaller
between the groups in studies of about 7,200 patients previously
submitted to the FDA, according to  briefing documents  prepared
by the agency’s staff. The agency concluded that the studies
showed the increased risk of valvulopathy in patients taking the
medicine was about 7 percent.  Steve Yoo , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in New York,
said he was “encouraged” by the new data and thought the heart
results weren’t a big worry for regulators.  “The FDA did not raise concerns about valvulopathy” in
its letter last month describing the reasons it didn’t clear the
drug, Yoo said today in a note to investors. “This is unlikely
to become an issue.”  Arena, which is developing lorcaserin with Tokyo-based
 Eisai Co. , will meet with the FDA to discuss the diabetes study
and the rat cancer issue sometime before year’s end, Lief said.  ‘Confident’ About Approval  “We’re confident, and so is Eisai, that lorcaserin is
approvable,” Lief said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“It’s not a question of if, but when.”  Arena lost 5 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $1.48 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The company
 declined  59 percent in the past 12 months.  Two-thirds of American adults are overweight, raising their
risk of diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure and cancer,
according to the 2008 National Health and Nutrition Examination
Survey. Within this group, more than one-third are  obese ,
measured as a ratio between height and weight.  Safety concerns have led to the demise of three weight-
loss drugs since fen-phen was withdrawn in 1997. Regulators
rejected  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s rimonabant in 2007 and asked  Abbott
Laboratories  to remove Meridia on Oct. 8.  Weight-Loss Comparison  In Arena’s study, 604 obese or overweight patients who also
had Type 2 diabetes took a placebo or a 10-milligram dose of
lorcaserin once or twice a day. After one year, 37.5 percent of
the patients taking two doses of the medication daily had lost
at least 5 percent of their weight, compared with 16.1 percent
of patients taking placebo. A weight loss of 10 percent was
achieved by 16.3 percent of those taking the drug and 4.4
percent of those taking a placebo.  The findings released by Arena didn’t include results on 95
patients who took only a single daily dose of lorcaserin.  At the start of the study, patients weighed an average of
228 pounds and had a mean  body mass index  of 36. Their average
HbA1C level, a measure of blood sugar, was 8 percent. By the end
of the study, the glucose level of the patients taking
lorcaserin declined 0.9 percent, compared with a 0.4 percent
drop among those taking placebo.  The company’s initial reading of the development of cancer
in some rats suggested they weren’t relevant to humans, Lief
said. The company will analyze that data again and present their
new findings to FDA officials, he said.  Yoo said the company’s ability to address the rat cancer
issue may be the most important step toward gaining FDA
approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 