-- Repsol's YPF Unit Preparing First Bond Issue Since 1998: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-11-09T14:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/repsol-s-ypf-unit-preparing-first-bond-issue-since-1998-argentina-credit.html
YPF SA, Argentina’s biggest oil
producer by market value, plans to return to global markets for
the first time in 12 years with the sale of up to $600 million
of bonds as the company aims to expand at home and abroad.  The unit of Madrid-based  Repsol YPF SA  will likely pay a 7
percent yield on a 10-year bond, or 400 basis points more than
10-year Repsol notes due in 2017, said  Jim Harper , director of
corporate research at BCP Securities in Greenwich, Connecticut.
YPF bonds are  rated  Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, three
levels below the Baa1 ranking on Repsol debt.  YPF increased crude output this year for the first time
since 2003 even as President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner
maintained export caps that started during the 2001 economic
crisis. Chief Executive Officer  Sebastian Eskenazi  said in a May
19 interview that YPF plans to sell $400 million to $500 million
of bonds a year to grow in Argentina and expand in international
markets.  “The prospect for YPF to increase production and reserves
is very real,” Harper said in a telephone interview.  Bonds sold by Buenos Aires-based YPF will be “reasonably
attractive” if they sell to yield about 7 percent or 8 percent,
said  Eric Ollom , chief emerging-markets strategist with
Jefferies in New York. That would be 200 basis points above the
5.81 percent average yield for Latin American energy companies
in Credit Suisse Group AG’s LABI index.  June Restructuring  Banco Supervielle SA, the first Argentine bank to sell debt
abroad since 2007, sold $50 million of bonds to yield 11.625
percent yesterday. Fernandez’s June restructuring of $12.2
billion of debt left over from the country’s record $95 billion
default in 2001 is allowing lower-rated companies to seek
financing.  YPF’s  board  approved the bond sale on Nov. 5 as part of a
$1 billion debt program. The company didn’t provide more details
on the offering. Repsol, which bought the company in 1998 during
then-President Carlos Menem’s push to sell state assets, owns 84
percent of the YPF unit. Argentina’s Petersen Group, owned by
the Eskenazi family, has a 15.4 percent stake and operates YPF.  The Argentine unit’s oil output rose 1.9 percent in the
first nine months of this year from the same period a year
earlier. YPF accounts for about 65 percent of Repsol’s oil
production.  YPF  was the best performer among Repsol units in the second
quarter, with operating income soaring 364 percent as pump
prices in Argentina rose by about 20 percent in the first half
of 2010.  New Government?  The bond sale may attract investors who are betting that
the country’s next government will ease  export  caps. The Oct. 27
death of  Nestor Kirchner , Fernandez’s husband and predecessor,
increases the chances an opposition candidate will win next
year’s presidential election, Harper said.  “Anyone else is likely to be more market friendly and
implement policies that provide incentives for private sector
investment,” he said.  The  cost  of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 8 basis points
yesterday to 608, according to data provider CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries slid four basis points to 508
as of 9 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Economic Growth  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose 0.22 cent to 14.10 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The economy may expand as much as 9
percent this year, the fastest pace in five years, the central
bank said last week.  The peso slid 0.1 percent to 3.9614 per U.S. dollar.  Repsol is seeking to reduce exposure to mature fields in
Argentina while boosting exploration in Brazil’s offshore Santos
Basin and elsewhere to increase output. Repsol Chief Executive
Officer  Antonio Brufau  said last month that the company wants to
sell more of YPF to Argentine investors through a private
offering or a share sale.  “The thing is it will take time because Argentina is a
difficult place to gather funds and I don’t need investors in
New York, I want local ones,” Brufau told reporters in Buenos
Aires on Oct. 6.  Government Challenges  Ollom said “Argentina has some specific challenges in that
government policies haven’t been very government friendly in
regard to developing oil. YPF as a business is probably less
valuable today than it was 10 years ago.”  YPF may spend $3 billion to $3.5 billion a year to boost
operations in Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and Canada, Eskenazi said
in the May interview. Overseas sales will account for 50 percent
of total revenue in 10 years, up from 30 percent now, he said.  There will likely be strong demand for the company’s bonds,
BCP’s Harper said.  “There’s appetite in the market for emerging market fixed
income, especially for the higher yields Argentina corporates
offer, and YPF is a blue-chip company,” Harper said. “It all
lines up pretty well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  