-- Republican Activists in Congress Choke U.S. Courts: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-11-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/republican-activists-in-congress-choke-courts-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
The Republican wave that swept
through Congress has House victors declaring they’ll kill
Obamacare, slash spending, ease up on Wall Street reform and
crank out subpoenas to delve deep into administration misdeeds.  But another agenda item looks more likely to succeed. And
it will play out in the Senate, where Democrats held on to its
majority.  I am talking of federal judges. Pushing the judiciary
rightward has been a staple of Republican campaigns for decades.  Part of the strategy, used by both parties, is to block
judicial candidates named by a president of the opposite party.
This became easier last week for Republicans, who were already
doing quite well at it.  Republicans have managed to stall more than a score of
 President Obama ’s nominees to the bench so far, although they
number only 41 senators, barely enough to keep a filibuster
going.  With six more Republican senators narrowing the gap in
January, the minority party in the Senate will have more muscle
to use against the president’s choices.  This matters a lot. Whether the issue is health care,
immigration or regulation, federal judges will decide which
provisions are constitutional and which ones must die.  Republicans have been loading the federal bench with as
many conservatives as they can, while blocking as many
Democratic nominees as possible.  Yes, I said Democratic nominees instead of liberal. The
current list of 23 stalled Obama nominees includes 17 approved
by the  Senate Judiciary Committee  without a whiff of controversy
or even a no vote against them.  Blocking Diaz  They were blocked in the full Senate, often by a single
Republican senator, among them Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell .
Phone calls to his spokesman yesterday weren’t returned.  Among the nominees Mitchell blocked is  Albert Diaz  of North
Carolina, named to fill a spot open since 2007 on the 4th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals, in Richmond, Virginia.  Given that Diaz has remained unconfirmed for a full year,
you might suspect something iffy in his  background . But this is
a man who enlisted in the Marine Corps at age 17 and earned an
undergraduate degree from the Wharton School of Business, a law
degree from New York University and a masters’ degree from
Boston University.  The first in his family to go to college, Diaz worked in
the military as a lawyer, joined the national firm  Hunton &
Williams  as a business lawyer and eventually took a special
state court judgeship in North Carolina overseeing business
litigation.  Bipartisan Support  Now 49, Diaz won quick and unanimous approval from the
Senate Judiciary Committee. His home state senators, a
Republican and a Democrat, sang his praises.  Then his nomination skidded to a halt. It’s been ready for
full Senate action since January, and still it waits.  This is Republican payback for the treatment Democrats gave
some of  President Bush ’s nominees, which was payback because
Republicans stood in the way of  President Clinton ’s, which
followed -- you get the point. It’s an ever-escalating war.  When McConnell blocked a vote on Diaz this summer, he
claimed, as if to explain, that the Senate had been acting
faster on Obama’s nominees than it did on Bush’s.  First, that’s irrelevant if the point is to put qualified
judges into courts that desperately need them.  Second, if it were relevant, it would be wrong. No
president in American history has seen as small a percentage of
his nominees confirmed within the first 20 months in office,
 according  to the Alliance for Justice, a liberal umbrella group.  Judicial Emergencies  And for those eventually confirmed, it took three times as
long for district court nominees and five times as long for
appellate candidates as it did for Bush’s judges to get from
committee approval to Senate confirmation, according to the
Senate Judiciary majority staff.  So long have so many vacancies languished that court
administrators have declared judicial  emergencies  in 50 courts.
When Bush left office, that number stood at 20. In all, there
are  106 vacancies  on the 876-judge federal bench, says the
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts.  Republicans aren’t the only ones responsible for that. The
White House has been slow to name judges, frustrating Democrats
and liberal interest groups who wish Obama were as intent on
remaking the judiciary as his predecessor was.  Republican Dominance  That Republicans seem to be forever stuck in backlash mode
is remarkable given that their nominees dominate the federal
appeals courts that shape case law across the country.  Republican appointees have a majority in eight of the 13
 appellate circuits . Democratic nominees constitute the majority
in three. Two others are evenly split.  If Obama were to fill every vacancy, the partisan balance
of those courts would shift from Republican to Democrat in only
one circuit.  Nationwide, 59 percent of the country’s federal judges were
put on the bench by Republicans, according to the Alliance for
Justice.  As for the only court whose rulings affect the whole
country, the  U.S. Supreme Court , five of the nine justices were
named by Republican presidents.  And if Obama gets another chance to put someone on that
court, the larger Republican presence in the Senate would
influence his next choice more than it did his last two. He
might as well simply name a Republican.  Given that federal judgeships are lifetime appointments,
the influence of those new Republican senators will last a lot
longer and be felt in far more areas of American life than any
law the incoming Republicans will enact or repeal.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  