-- RHB Capital Sees Profit Rising Through 2011 on Lending Growth in Malaysia
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-09T02:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/rhb-capital-says-profit-may-rise-through-2011-on-loans-overseas-expansion.html
RHB Capital Bhd. , the best performer
on Malaysia’s benchmark equity index this year, expects record
earnings for 2010 and 2011 as lending accelerates and the
company expands abroad.  Profit  at Malaysia’s fourth-largest banking group may climb
to 1.4 billion ringgit ($452 million) this year from 1.2 billion
ringgit in 2009, Managing Director  Tajuddin Atan  said in an
interview yesterday in Kuala Lumpur. Profit is expected to keep
rising in 2011, he said.  RHB’s loan growth may exceed 15 percent this year, almost
double the industry pace, Tajuddin said. The Kuala Lumpur-based
bank plans to generate about a fifth of its  profit from abroad 
in five years, up from 4 percent now, as it expands in Southeast
Asia, he said.  “The profits are coming in and we know it’s sustainable,”
Tajuddin said. “Malaysia’s economy is doing quite well, with
the impetus that has been put forward by the government.”  Malaysia’s gross domestic product may grow as much as 6
percent next year after expanding 7 percent in 2010, according
to an Oct. 15 Ministry of Finance report. Prime Minister  Najib Razak ’s government has identified $444 billion in projects led
by non-state companies to spur investment.  Shares of  RHB , controlled by Malaysia’s biggest pension
fund, fell 1.1 percent to 7.99 ringgit at 10:39 a.m. in Kuala
Lumpur trading. The stock’s 51 percent advance this year makes
it the  best performer  on the nation’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index, which has climbed 20 percent.  Economic Momentum  “The banking sector is benefiting from the economic
momentum; profit growth will be strong,” said  Vincent Khoo , an
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Malaysia Holdings Sdn. “There are also
lots of restructuring and M&A deals, meaning there will be
strong investment banking earnings.”  Malayan Banking Bhd., the country’s biggest lender by
assets, posted record profit for the 12 months ended June 30,
helped by earnings at PT Bank Internasional Indonesia, which it
bought in 2008.  RHB, whose  net income  almost tripled from 2006 to the end
of last year, aims to complete the acquisition and listing of
Indonesian lender PT Bank Mestika Dharma by the first quarter of
2011, pending regulatory approval, Tajuddin said. The company
plans to list the bank on the  Jakarta Stock Exchange  before
completing the purchase.  That acquisition may double RHB’s share of earnings from
abroad to 8 percent of the total, Tajuddin said. Apart from
Indonesia, both Thailand and Vietnam look “promising,” he said.
The company has an office in Vietnam and branches in Singapore,
Thailand and Brunei.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  