-- Rice Supplies Tighten as Flooding Hurt Harvests in Thailand, Philippines
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2010-11-09T08:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/rice-supplies-tighten-as-flooding-hurt-harvests-in-thailand-philippines.html
Thailand, the world’s biggest rice
exporter, said that output will drop because of flooding, while
the Philippines, the largest buyer, said its harvest may miss a
target, potentially raising import demand. Futures surged.  Main-crop, rough-rice output may decline 3.9 percent to
22.34 million metric tons, while second-crop production may gain
0.9 percent to 8.33 million tons, according to a statement from
Thailand’s Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives today. The
total harvest may drop to 30.67 million tons from last year’s
31.5 million, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The Philippines may miss a rice-production goal of 16.24
million tons this year after flooding caused by typhoons,
Agriculture Secretary  Proceso Alcala  told reporters today. The
government will probably decide by the first week of December
how much rice it will import, Alcala said.  The developments add to signs that wetter-than-usual
weather is harming Southeast Asian rice harvests, contributing
to a rally in prices and rising food costs.  World food prices 
climbed to the highest level in more than two years in October
on more expensive cereals, cooking oils and sugar, the United
Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization has said.  ‘Crop Losses’  “Crop losses in Thailand raise concerns supplies will be
tightened during November to January as floods will likely delay
crop availability onto the market until February,” said
Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat, a director at  Novel Commodities SA ’s
Thai office, which trades about $600 million of rice a year.  Rough rice for January delivery gained for a sixth day
today, advancing as much as 2 percent to $15.55 per 100 pounds
on the Chicago Board of Trade. That’s the highest price since
last December.  A La Nina weather event has brought heavier-than-usual
rainfall to parts of Asia this year, damaging rice crops in the
Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam. The rice crop in the U.S.,
the fourth-largest shipper, has also been hurt by dry weather,
while Pakistan’s rice crop was hit by floods last year.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut  its estimate for
global milled rice output to 452.5 million tons on Oct. 8,
171,000 tons short of forecast demand. The global deficit, the
first in four years, may be wider as typhoons and flooding hit
Southeast Asia days after the USDA released that estimate.  Lower Forecast  Global milled output may be 450 million tons in the 2010-
2011 season, 10 million tons less than previously forecast,
Samarendu Mohanty, a senior economist at the  International Rice
Research Institute , said today. The revision came after the
floods in Southeast Asia, as well as drought in parts of China,
Mohanty said in an interview.  The “supply situation is definitely very tight this year
and next year,” Mohanty said from Hanoi, where he’s attending a
conference. Other food prices have also risen, including wheat
and corn, Mohanty said.  Thai rice-export prices, the benchmark for Asia, may
advance to $550 a ton, said Kiattisak at Novel Commodities. The
price of 100 percent grade-B white rice rose to $521 a ton on
Nov. 3, the highest level since March 31. Prices are set weekly.  About 7.56 million rai (2.99 million acres) of rice lands -
- about 11 percent of Thailand’s total -- are estimated to have
been damaged in the floods, the ministry’s statement said.
Thailand’s crop year runs from late October, with the main crop
contributing most production.  The Thai floods spread to 51 provinces over the past month,
leaving 165 dead and affecting at least 7.6 million residents,
according to the Department of Disaster Prevention and
Mitigation. The La Nina will intensify around the end of the
year, Thailand’s Meteorological Department has said.  Vietnam, the world’s second-largest rice exporter, will
focus on keeping the amount of land devoted to the crop stable,
Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung  said at the conference in Hanoi.  The nation’s rice shipments totaled 5.7 million tons in the
January-to-October period, a 5.8 percent increase from a year
earlier, according to the General Statistics Office in Hanoi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
 Clarissa Batino  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi at 
 Uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  