-- Rousseff May Cut Brazil's Inflation Target in Bid to Lower Interest Rates
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-11-09T17:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/rousseff-may-cut-brazil-s-inflation-target-in-bid-to-lower-interest-rates.html
Brazilian President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  may reduce the government’s  inflation target  during her
four-year term as part of a plan to cut the country’s  overnight
rate , Budget Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said.  “I believe Brazil has the room, looking ahead, to reduce
its inflation rate too,” Bernardo told reporters today in
Brasilia. “If we want to bring real interest rates down to 2
percent, I think it’s good to start working to bring inflation
down” to between 2 percent and 3 percent.  A government report today showed that  consumer prices 
jumped to an eight-month high, adding to pressure on policy
makers to resume rate increases next year. The country’s
benchmark interest rate, adjusted for inflation, is 6.05
percent, the highest among the Group of 20 nations.  Bernardo said that reductions to the 4.5 inflation target
need to be “gradual,” without providing a timeframe.  Annual
inflation  quickened to 5.2 percent in October, up from 4.70
percent a month earlier, the national statistics agency said
today. Consumer prices rose 0.75 percent from September, beating
40 of 41 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey whose median
forecast was for a 0.67 percent increase.  The central bank kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged
at 10.75 percent in its two past meetings. Policy makers led by
President  Henrique Meirelles  forecast inflation will slow to 4.6
percent next year without any further rate increases, according
to a Sept. 30 report.  Yields on the interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2012, the most traded on the Sao Paulo exchange, rose 6
basis points to 11.48 percent at 11:48 a.m. New York time. The
real was unchanged at 1.7000 per U.S. dollar.  Traders are wagering that Rousseff is unlikely to cut
spending enough to stem inflation. They expect policy makers
will raise the rate to as high as 12.5 percent by December 2011,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures
contracts.  Bernardo said he backs a proposal to increase the minimum
wage to 540 reais ($323.31) next year given that there is
“little margin” in the 2011 budget to grant a bigger raise.
The government originally proposed a wage of 538.15 reais.  Senator Gim Argello, the lawmaker sponsoring the budget
bill in Congress, said in an interview yesterday that he would
discuss with Rousseff’s advisers a union proposal to increase
next year’s minimum wage to 580 reais.  Rousseff has said she back the government’s policy of
awarding minimum wage increases based on a formula using gross
domestic growth rate and inflation.  According to Bernardo, the next government needs to ensure
“big expenditures” don’t increase more than gross domestic
product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  