-- Rousseff Losing Traders' Confidence as Long-Term Rates Jump: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2010-11-09T23:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/rousseff-losing-traders-confidence-as-long-term-rates-jump-brazil-credit.html
Dilma Rousseff  has deepened bond
traders’ inflation concerns in her first eight days as
president-elect of Brazil, futures trading shows.  The yield difference between interest-rate futures due in
January 2011 and 2015 jumped to a five-month high of 123 basis
points yesterday, a sign investors anticipate the central bank
will have to raise borrowing costs during her first term to curb
quickening inflation. The gap was at 122 basis points, or 1.22
percentage points, today and has widened 23 basis points since
Oct. 29, the last trading day before elections.  Speculation is building that Rousseff, 62, will fail to cut
government expenses, hurting the central bank’s effort to bring
inflation down to its 4.5 percent annual target. Rousseff said
Nov. 3 that she’ll boost payouts to the poor and may raise the
minimum wage more than planned, three days after stating in her
victory speech that Brazilians don’t tolerate governments that
spend at “unsustainable levels.”  “What has been clear is that there’s no plan of fiscal
adjustment,” said  Marina Santos , an economist at Squanto
Investimentos in Sao Paulo, who was among the three out of 51
analysts who predicted a smaller-than expected interest-rate
increase in July in a Bloomberg survey. “Without fiscal
adjustment, inflation will pick up and it seems the new
government will have a tolerance for higher inflation. She says
one thing one day and another thing another day. Investors are
demanding a higher premium because of uncertainty.”  ‘Foundations’  Yields on futures due in 2015 jumped 12 basis points to
11.88 percent yesterday after newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo
reported Rousseff may replace central bank President  Henrique Meirelles , 65, and push policy makers to lower interest rates at
their first meeting next year. Yesterday’s increase left yields
up 24 basis points since Oct. 29. Yields on 2011 contracts held
at 10.65 percent during the same period.  A central bank official declined to comment.  Rousseff will “keep the foundations of the current
economic policy and not take any action to cause unease in the
markets,” her press office said in an e-mailed comment to
Bloomberg News. Rousseff served as energy minister and Cabinet
chief under President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva before stepping
down to run for office in March.  The president-elect told reporters on Nov. 3 that she’s
considering raising the monthly minimum wage to more than 700
reais ($413) by 2014 from the current 510 reais. Lula’s 2011
budget bill proposed a 5.5 percent increase to 538.15 reais.  Benchmark Rate  Rousseff also said she plans to cut net public debt to 38
percent of  gross domestic product  in four years from 41 percent.
That target is higher than the 28 percent level she outlined in
an interview with Veja magazine in June as part of an effort to
give the central bank room to lower interest rates.  The central bank has boosted its  benchmark rate  to 10.75
percent from a record low of 8.75 percent in April to prevent
Latin America’s biggest economy from overheating. International
investors seeking alternatives to near-zero key rates in the
U.S., Europe and Japan have poured money into Brazil’s fixed-
income assets, driving the country’s currency to a two-high and
helping widen the current account deficit to  an annual record  of
$47 billion.  The government boosted spending 27 percent in the first
nine months of the year, helping push inflation above the
central bank’s target of 4.5 percent.  Consumer prices , as
measured by the IPCA index, increased 5.2 percent in the 12
months through October, the fastest pace since May, from 4.7
percent in September, the national statistics agency said today.  ‘Realistic’  “I don’t think it’s realistic to expect the new president
to make any radical change of fiscal programs at all,” said
 Paulo Vieira  da Cunha, a former Brazil central bank director
who’s now a partner at Tandem Global Partners LLC in New York.
“It’s possible that she will be more careful not to spend
rapidly. By doing that, she will help contain some inflationary
pressure, but not really much.”  Rousseff may reduce the government’s inflation target
during her four-year term as part of a plan to cut the country’s
overnight rate, Budget Minister  Paulo Bernardo  told reporters
today in Brasilia.  “It’s good to start working to bring inflation down” to
between 2 percent and 3 percent, Bernardo said.  Investor expectations for consumer price increases, implied
by the difference between the government’s two-year inflation-
linked bonds and fixed-rate notes, climbed to 647 basis points
from 635 at the end of October. The gap, known as the breakeven
rate, compares with 391 basis points in Mexico.  Yield Spread  Yields on interest-rate futures will begin to decline when
Rousseff announces her choices for top economic posts, according
to Nomura Securities International Inc. She named  Antonio Palocci , who as finance minister helped cut the inflation rate
to 5.3 percent in 2006 from a high of 17.2 percent in 2003, to
lead her transition team.  Yields on interest-rate futures due in January 2012 rose 8
basis points today to 11.5 percent, signaling traders expect the
central bank will raise the benchmark rate to about 12.5 percent
by then, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points to 174,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 3 basis points to
100, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Consumer Prices  The real fell 0.1 percent today to 1.7013 per dollar.  Brazil’s  consumer prices  may rise 5.31 percent this year,
according to a central bank survey of economists released
yesterday, up from 5.29 percent forecast a week earlier.
Economists also raised their net debt-to-GDP forecast to 39.64
percent next year, up from 39.57 percent a week earlier.  “The market needs some clarity,” said  Virgilio Castro Cunha , head of fixed-income strategy at Bank of America Corp. in
Sao Paulo. “At this point, you have virtually zero visibility
about the new administration. The market doesn’t know what to
look at.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  