-- Rubbermaid, Krka Group, Facebook, Sunfish, Costco: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-09T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/rubbermaid-facebook-sunfish-costco-intellectual-property.html
Newell Rubbermaid Inc. ’s Rubbermaid
Commercial Products sued a unit of  Carlisle Cos.  for patent
infringement.  Carlisle Foodservice Products Inc., of Oklahoma City, and
China’s Guangzhou Baiyun Cleaning Tool Co. are accused of
infringing four patents related to a mop bucket-and-wringer
combination. In dispute are patents 7,571,831, D530,870,
D536,851 and D542,494.  Rubbermaid Commercial, based in Winchester, Virginia,
claims to be harmed by the sale of allegedly infringing
products. It’s been “deprived of rights, remunerations and
profits” from the sale of allegedly infringing products and
says that unless Carlisle and the Chinese company are stopped it
will suffer “irreparable damage,” according to the complaint
filed Nov. 5 in federal court in Harrisonburg, Virginia.  Rubbermaid asked the court to order the defendants to quit
infringing the patents, and for an order for destruction of all
infringing products. Additionally, it asked for awards of all
profits the defendants derived from their alleged infringement,
and for money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  The company told the court that if it can prove the
infringement is deliberate, it will also ask that the damages be
tripled to punish the defendants for their actions.  Rubbermaid is represented by  David E. Finkelson  and  Derek
H. Swanson  of  McGuire Woods LLC  of Richmond, Virginia.  The case is Rubbermaid Commercial Products LLC v. Carlisle
Foodservice Products Inc., 5:10-cv-00115-sgw, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Virginia (Harrisonburg).  Krka Ordered to Stop Selling Generic Nexium in Austria  Krka Group dd ’s Austrian unit was ordered to stop selling
the esomeprazole acid-reflux drug in the country because of
alleged infringement of a patent held by  AstraZeneca Plc .  The commercial court in Vienna granted a temporary
injunction on the request of AstraZeneca subsidiaries in Sweden
and Austria, the Novo Mesto, Slovenia-based drugmaker said in a
 statement  to the Ljubljana stock exchange yesterday. The
compound is the main ingredient in AstraZeneca’s Nexium
medicine.  Krka, which started to sell the product in Austria in
April, says it doesn’t infringe the patent and will file an
appeal. Krka is Slovenia’s biggest pharmaceutical company.  Facebook Accuses Boston Phoenix Publisher of Patent Infringement  Facebook Inc., the world’s biggest social-networking
website, accused the owner of the Boston Phoenix newspaper and
WFNX radio station of infringing two patents related to ways to
manage information online.  Facebook filed the complaint yesterday in federal court in
Boston against Phoenix Media/Communications Group Inc. and its
People2People Group, Tele-Publishing and FNX Broadcasting units.
The allegations were made in response to a patent-infringement
lawsuit Tele-Publishing filed last year against Palo Alto,
California-based Facebook.  Facebook claims features including the “band guide” and
“find restaurants” on the newspaper’s website, as well as the
radio station’s online music player, are infringing the two
patents. It’s seeking cash compensation and an order that would
prevent further use of the inventions.  One of the disputed patents -- 6,199,157 -- was originally
acquired by  Applied Materials Inc.  with its 1997 acquisition of
Orbot Instruments Ltd. Facebook acquired the patent in May 2009,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  Facebook’s patent at issue in the case -- 6,314,458 -- was
acquired from  Hewlett-Packard Co.  in February 2010.  In the case filed last year, Facebook is challenging the
validity of the Tele-Publishing patent for a computer network
that provides a personal page, and contends it isn’t using the
technology. Facebook initially made the infringement allegations
against Phoenix in July as part of that case. U.S. District
Judge Douglas Woodlock in October ordered Facebook to file a
separate lawsuit if it wanted to pursue the claims.  Officials with Phoenix Media didn’t immediately return a
message seeking comment.  Facebook is represented by  Donald K. Stern  of San
Francisco’s  Cooley LLP .  The case is Facebook Inc. v. Phoenix Media/Communications
Group Inc., 10cv11917, U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts (Boston). The earlier case is Tele-Publishing Inc.
v. Facebook Inc., 09cv11686, also in Boston.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Lamebook Seeks Declaration It Doesn’t Infringe Facebook Marks  Facebook Inc., the creator of a social-network site with
more than 500 million users, was sued by a company begun by two
Texas graphic designers who want a judicial declaration they’re
not infringing the San Francisco-based company’s trademarks.  Jonathan Standefer and Matthew Genitempo of Austin, Texas,
began lamebook.com in April 2009 as a parody to the popular
social-network site, according to the complaint filed Nov. 5 in
federal court in Austin. Their site “highlights the funny,
absurd and often ‘lame’ content that gets posted on the Facebook
website,” they said in court papers.  They said their website has become “a very popular
destination for people to poke fun at and comment on the kind of
pictures, comments and messages” that get posted on Facebook.  Lamebook was contacted by counsel for Facebook in March
2010 and told to quit using the Lamebook mark and to change the
look of its website, according to the complaint.  Lamebook is a “clear parody” and doesn’t infringe or
dilute, they claim. Instead, they maintain that the site is “a
protected form of expression under the First Amendment of the
U.S. Constitution.”  They’re asking the court to declare that their use of the
Lamebook mark doesn’t infringe or violate Facebook’s rights.
Additionally, they’re seeking awards of litigation costs and
attorney fees.  Lamebook is represented by  Conor M. Civins  and  Edward A.
Cavazos  of Houston’s  Bracewell & Giuliani LLP .  The case is Lamebook LLC v. Facebook Inc., 1:10-cv-00833,
U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  LaserPerformance Claims ‘Sunfish’ Trademarks Infringed  LaserPerformance LLC , holder of the IP rights connected to
the Laser and  Sunfish  sailboats, sued a Rhode Island ship broker
for trademark infringement.  Gecko Marine LLC of Warren, Rhode Island, which does
business as  Zim Sailing , is accused of infringing
LaserPerformance’s trademarks through the unauthorized use of
the marks, trade names and product depictions on its website.
Although the offending items have been removed, LaserPerformance
said that Gecko made sales as the result of its alleged
infringement.  LaserPerformance also accused a former employee of taking
some of its IP to Gecko, and of making “disparaging and
derogatory comments” about his ex-employer. Portsmouth, Rhode
Island-based LaserPerformance claims the public has been
confused by Zim’s actions and that it’s suffered “irreparable
harm.”  It asked the court for awards of money damages, litigation
costs and attorney fees and for orders barring further
infringement of its intellectual property.  LaserPerformance is represented by  Mark W. Freel  and
 Raymond M. Ripple  of Boston’s  Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge LLP .  The case is LaserPerformance LLC v. Gecko Marine LLC, 1:10-
cv-00454-0ML-DLM, U.S. District Court, District of Rhode Island
(Providence).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Costco’s ‘Gray Market’ Omega Watch Sales Probed by High Court  The  U.S. Supreme Court  grappled with a case that will shape
the future of the multibillion-dollar “gray market,” which
retailers including  Costco Wholesale Corp.  use to sell foreign-
made products at a discount in U.S. stores.  Hearing arguments yesterday in Washington, the justices
debated whether  Swatch Group AG’s  Omega unit can use a
copyrighted logo on its Swiss-made watches to block Costco from
selling them in U.S. stores.  Costco is asking the high court to extend a 1998 ruling
that limited the ability of manufacturers to block the
importation into the U.S. of goods originally sold overseas.
That ruling said that if a copyright owner sells domestically
made products abroad, it can’t bar them from later being
imported back into the U.S.  The question in the latest case is whether U.S. copyright
law imposes a similar rule on goods made overseas. The high
court didn’t clearly indicate yesterday how it would rule,
though some of the justices voiced concern about giving
manufacturers an incentive to make their products overseas.  “What earthly sense would it make to prefer goods that are
manufactured abroad over those manufactured in the United
States?” Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  asked.  In the case before the justices, Costco, the largest U.S.
warehouse club, worked out a way to sell Omega’s  Seamaster 
watches for a third less than the suggested retail price. Costco
found a distributor offering watches originally sold overseas,
where Omega charged less than it did in the U.S. for its goods.
The discount let Costco sell the watch for $1,299, compared with
the $1,995 suggested retail price.  The Supreme Court case turns on the scope of the first-sale
doctrine, which says a copyright holder can profit only from the
original sale of a product. In the 1998 case, the Supreme Court
unanimously ruled against copyright holders by saying the
doctrine applies to U.S.-made products sold overseas.  A San Francisco-based federal appeals court said that
reasoning doesn’t apply to goods made abroad, ruling that Omega
could block importation of its foreign-made watches.  Several justices today voiced frustration that federal
copyright law didn’t give a clearer indication about the scope
of the first-sale doctrine.  “Like the other side, in order to make your theory of the
text appear reasonable, you have to bring in a skyhook with a
limitation that finds no basis in the text,” Justice  Antonin Scalia  told Omega’s lawyer.  The ramifications could extend beyond the gray market
context. Costco’s allies, including  EBay Inc. ,  Google Inc.  and
 Amazon.com Inc. , say a ruling for Omega might imperil sales of
second-hand items and even the lending of library books. Costco
also has the support of fellow retail chains  GameStop Corp.  and
 Target Corp. ;  Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest chipmaker; Public
Citizen, a consumer-advocacy group; and six library
associations. Costco is based in Issaquah, Washington.  Omega has support from the Obama administration; the
publishing, film and music industries; office equipment makers
including  Seiko Epson Corp. ; and the Intellectual Property
Owners Association, a trade group whose members include
drugmakers, oil companies and computer companies. Swatch is
based in Biel, Switzerland.  The case, which the court will decide by July, is Costco v.
Omega, 08-1423.  Paper Mill Store Sues Paper Maniac for Copyright Infringement  Paper Mill Store Inc. of Sun Prairie, Wisconsin, sued a
competitor for copyright infringement.  Paper Maniac LLC of Bloomington, Minnesota, is accused of
copying and altering photos from the Paper Mill Store website --
 www.thepapermillstore.com  -- and using them on its own site,
 www.papermaniac.com . In a complaint filed Nov. 5 in federal
court in Madison, Wisconsin, Paper Mill Store claims it has been
“substantially harmed” by this alleged copying.  It asked the court to find that Paper Maniac infringed and
for awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Paper Mill is represented by  Erin K. Fay  and  Adam L.
Brookman  of Milwaukee’s  Boyle Fredrickson SC , and  Karl. S.
Kronenberger  of  Kronenberger Burgoyne LLP  of San Francisco.  The case is the Paper Mill Store Inc. v. Paper Maniac LLC,
3:10-cv-00680, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 