-- Rupee Strengthens as Power Grid Corp. of India Share Sale May Draw Funds
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-11-09T11:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/rupee-trades-near-two-year-high-as-power-grid-ipo-may-draw-funds-to-india.html
India’s rupee strengthened for the
fourth time in five days on speculation state-owned  Power Grid
Corp. of India Ltd.’s  share sale, which opened today, will
attract investment from overseas.  The nation’s biggest transmission company and the
government plan to raise a combined 75.8 billion rupees ($1.7
billion) in the equity offering, according to a statement on the
National Stock Exchange of India website. Overseas investors
have poured a record $28.1 billion into Indian equities so far
in 2010, 93 percent more than in the year-earlier period, data
from the  Securities and Exchange Board of India  show.  “The Power Grid share sale should bring in some more
inflows, offering support to the rupee,” said  Krishnamurthy Harihar , treasurer at FirstRand Ltd. in Mumbai.  The Indian currency appreciated 0.1 percent to 44.33 per
dollar as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee has advanced 5 percent this
year and reached a two-year high of 43.96 on Oct. 15.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 44.94 in
three months, compared with expectations of 45 yesterday.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  Power Grid got bids for 869.9 million shares, or 1.03 times
the stock on offer, as of 4 p.m. in Mumbai today, according to
the website of the National Stock Exchange.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration plans to
raise 400 billion rupees from asset sales this year to help fund
the construction of roads, ports and hospitals, taking advantage
of a 20 percent advance in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive
Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anil Varma  at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  