-- Grupo Bimbo to Buy Sara Lee Unit for $959 Million
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-09T22:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/sara-lee-sells-north-american-fresh-bakery-to-grupo-bimbo-for-959-million.html
Grupo Bimbo SAB , the world’s largest
bread maker, agreed to buy Sara Lee Corp.’s North American
bakery business for $959 million to boost sales outside Mexico.  The transaction, which includes the right to the Sara Lee
brand for bakery goods in the U.S. and regional brands such as
Heiner’s and Rainbo, will likely close during the first half of
2011, Mexico City-based Bimbo said today in a statement.  Bimbo, which makes Entenmann’s cakes, Thomas’ English
Muffins and Mrs. Baird’s breads, currently gets most of its
sales in Mexico. Buying the Sara Lee unit may help make the U.S.
Bimbo’s largest market, building on its $2.5 billion purchase of
George Weston Ltd.’s U.S. baking operations.  “This is good news for Bimbo, especially because they
reached an agreement at a lower price than speculated,”  Rogelio Gallegos , who helps manage about $575 million in equities at
Actinver SA in Mexico City, said today. “Bimbo has the
expertise for this transaction and is becoming a major global
player.”  Sara Lee had been looking to sell the business for as much
as $1.5 billion, a person familiar with the situation said Oct.
4, declining to be identified because talks were private.  Sara Lee’s North American bread unit faces increasing
competition from cheaper store brands and regional bakeries such
as Flowers Foods Inc. The division’s  sales  dropped 3.1 percent
to $2.1 billion in the year ended Oct. 2, Downers Grove,
Illinois-based Sara Lee said today. The company said that the
sale will help drive growth in its coffee and meat businesses.  Cost Savings  Bimbo may get as much as $200 million in cost savings by
2013, Chief Financial Officer  Guillermo Quiroz  said today in an
interview. Ebitda margins -- or earnings, before interest,
taxes, depreciation, and amortization -- will likely fall at the
U.S. bakery unit to 9.4 percent after the purchase is complete
from 11.6 percent now, before rebounding to 12 percent by 2013,
he said.  “We’re not buying Sara Lee’s unit for what it’s worth
today, but for what it’s going to be worth tomorrow,” Quiroz
said later in a presentation.  Bimbo will have the right to sell the Sara Lee brand in the
fresh baked goods category globally, except in Western Europe,
Australia and New Zealand. The Sara Lee business includes about
13,000 employees, 41 plants and 4,800 distribution routes.  Sara Lee rose 41 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $15.21 as of the
4:15 p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
The shares have increased 25 percent this year, compared with an
8.8 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  ‘Dark Chapter’  “This does mark the end of a dark chapter in Sara Lee’s
history,”  Christopher Growe , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus in
St. Louis, said today in a note to investors. “Divesting itself
of these slower growth, very low margin businesses should
improve the overall growth and margin profile of the company
going forward.”  Grupo Bimbo rose 4.44 pesos, or 4.6 percent, to 101.90
pesos, its biggest gain since March 26, on the Mexican Stock
Exchange. The shares have gained 26 percent in the past year.  Bimbo said it will use its own cash and tap credit lines to
finance the transaction.  Bimbo plans to invest $1 billion in the next five years in
the U.S. manufacturing and distribution program “to improve the
efficiency of this platform,”  Gary Prince , president of Bimbo
Bakeries USA, said in a statement today.  Debt Ratio  Bimbo’s debt ratio to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization will increase to 2.6 times after
the transaction, from 2.3 times in 2009, according to a
presentation posted today on Bimbo’s website.  Food companies worldwide in the last five years have
received an average 19 percent premium when getting acquired,
according to Bloomberg data.  Sara Lee also today posted a 32 percent drop in first-
quarter profit. Net income fell to $192 million, or 29 cents a
share. Excluding some items, profit was 21 cents, and earnings
from continuing operations on that basis were 13 cents. Analysts
projected earnings of 18 cents, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sara Lee boosted its growth forecast for fiscal 2011
adjusted earnings from continuing operations by 4 cents to as
much as 99 cents per share. Previously it had been as much as 95
cents per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Manuel Rodriguez  in Mexico City
at   carlosmr@bloomberg.net 
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  or
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  