-- Scarred Soldiers Tell Gandolfini About Combat Stress on HBO: Dave Shiflett
-- B y   D a v e   S h i f l e t t
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/scarred-soldiers-tell-gandolfini-about-combat-stress-on-hbo-dave-shiflett.html
James Gandolfini , who cracked plenty
of skulls as Tony Soprano, visits the troubled minds of soldiers
in HBO’s “ Wartorn: 1861-2010 ,” a powerful documentary about
post-traumatic stress disorder.  In “Alive Day Memories: Home From Iraq,” broadcast on HBO
in 2007, Gandolfini interviewed hideously wounded veterans,
reminding Americans of the terrible cost of combat. In
“Wartorn,” which airs Thursday (Veterans Day) at 9 p.m. New
York time, he traces a condition that has long raged behind a
cloak of silence.  The program opens with the case of Angelo Crapsey, a Civil
War infantryman from Pennsylvania who chronicled his descent
into madness -- known then as hysteria or melancholia -- in a
series of letters.  Crapsey was a gung-ho soldier in 1861 when he enlisted in
the Union Army at the age of 18. He disparaged a sergeant who
committed suicide and called deserters “cowards.” By the fall
of 1863, he wrote that “I am clear off the hooks” and was
discharged.  Crapsey’s sister noted he “looked wild” after his return
home and had to be tied down to his bed. He committed suicide in
1864. After the Civil War, according to the show, more than half
the patients in mental wards were veterans.  Gandolfini, sporting a beard and a powerful girth, enjoyed
good access for this project, including a sit-down in Baghdad
with General  Raymond Odierno , who recently left his post as
commander of U.S. forces in Iraq.  Soldier’s Suicide  Odierno says the military is much more aware of stress-
related problems than it was during earlier wars.  “I think society changes over the years,” says Odierno,
adding that almost 30 percent of soldiers suffer from post-
traumatic stress after combat.  One of the saddest stories is that of Noah Pierce, who did
two tours in Iraq, came home and committed suicide by shooting
himself through dog tags that he held next to his head.  His mother reads part of the 23-year-old’s suicide note:
“Mom, I am so sorry .... I have done bad things. I have taken
lives. Now it is time to take mine.”  Gandolfini recounts the 1943 incident where General  George Patton  slapped a soldier suffering from “combat fatigue,”
called him a “yellow son of a bitch” and ordered him back to
the battlefield.  His views were common at the time, as reflected in a
wartime film in which a clearly disturbed soldier is berated for
admitting “I can’t stand seeing people killed.”  Crying Vets  Several World War II veterans tell of personal and family
dissolution they blame on post-traumatic stress. Al Maher, a
former Army Air Corps lieutenant, became an abusive drunk and
hasn’t spoken to his sons in 25 years. Watching these old men
cry is heart-rending.  While progress is being made, the old viewpoint hasn’t
completely disappeared. Army Vice Chief of Staff  Peter Chiarelli 
says it’s difficult to change long-held attitudes toward post-
traumatic stress and suicide.  “You’re fighting a culture that really doesn’t believe in
these things,” Chiarelli says. He adds that you’re not a
“weaker person because you see something that no human being
should ever have to see” and then develop emotional problems.  Gandolfini does good work here. Perhaps someday he could
turn his attention to the numskulls who start the wars.  Rating: ****  ( Dave Shiflett  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Dave Shiflett at  dshifl@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 