-- Schroders Rises to Highest Level Since 1998 as Profit Doubles on Markets
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-11-09T10:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/schroders-rises-to-highest-level-since-1998-as-profit-doubles-on-markets.html
Schroders Plc , Europe’s largest
publicly traded asset-management company by market value, rose
to the highest in more than 12 years in London trading after
third-quarter pretax profit and net inflows beat expectations.  Pretax profit more than doubled to 94.5 million pounds
($152.3 million) from 43.6 million pounds a year earlier, the
London-based money manager said in a statement today. Funds
under management increased 31 percent to a record 181.5 billion
pounds on Sept. 30 from a year earlier after attracting net
inflows of 5.4 billion pounds in the period.  The MSCI World Index gained 13 percent in the third quarter
on anticipation the U.S. Federal Reserve would step in to boost
the ailing economic recovery. That boosted revenue for fund
managers such as Schroders, whose fees are based on assets under
management as well as encouraging investors to add money.  “The positive surprise is on net flows, which were twice
our estimate for the quarter,” JPMorgan Cazenove Ltd. analyst
 Rae Maile , who rates the stock “overweight,” said in a note to
clients today. “The operational momentum at Schroders continues
to surprise positively.”  The  shares  rose as much as 4.8 percent and were up 55
pence, or 3.5 percent, to 1,635 pence at 10:06 a.m. in London.
That was the highest since July 1998 and lifted the company’s
market value to about 4.5 billion pounds, extending the gain in
the past six months to 16 percent.  No Gartmore Bid  Pretax profit for the quarter was estimated to be 88.9
million pounds with net inflows of 3.7 billion pounds, according
to the consensus of five analysts compiled by Schroders.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dobson  ruled out Schroders
making a bid for Gartmore Group Ltd., a U.K. fund manager that
is considering putting itself up for sale.  “No, we are not looking at Gartmore,” Dobson said in an
interview. “We haven’t made a significant acquisition in the
last five or six years. Our focus is on investing in our own
business rather than seeking to grow by significant
acquisitions.”  Pretax earnings for the first nine months more than tripled
to 282.7 million pounds as Schroders attracted net inflows of
21.5 billion pounds in the three quarters.  “There are all sorts of risks out there, but we don’t
think we are going to have a double-dip recession,” Dobson
said. “Equities offer an interesting opportunity that is what
is pushing markets.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Peter Woodifield  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 