-- Serbia Doesn’t Plan on Borrowing More From IMF, Djelic Says
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-11-09T11:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/serbian-government-doesn-t-plan-on-further-borrowing-from-imf-djelic-says.html
  Serbia  doesn’t plan on borrowing more
from the  International Monetary Fund  as it narrows the budget
deficit to below 4 percent of gross domestic product, Deputy
Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic said.  The government hasn’t made a final decision on whether to
continue its current bailout-loan agreement with the Washington-
based lender, Djelic said in an interview in the Romanian
capital Bucharest yesterday. “But, as it stands, the external
position of Serbia is such that we don’t need the level of
support that we got from the IMF,” he said.  An IMF mission left Serbia on Nov. 5 without an agreement
on the 2011 budget and said the Balkan nation must be careful
with spending in the last two months of 2010 to meet the 2010  budget-deficit  target. Under its 3 billion-euro ($3.9 billion)
loan agreement with the IMF to support Serbia’s balance of
payments, the gap can’t exceed 4.8 percent of GDP.  The government is struggling to find ways to reduce
spending and boost tax collection without cutting too many
popular social benefits as it brings the economy into line with
European Union norms.  The government withdrew pension law amendments from
parliament, putting at risk future installments of its loan.
Changes to the law, which include raising the requirements for
collecting a full pension and reducing payments, triggered
protests by workers across the Balkan nation, with trade unions
threatening to call a national referendum if the legislation
goes through parliament. The  IMF  wants Serbia to cut budget
spending on pensions to under 10 percent of GDP from 13 percent.  ‘Difficult’ Cuts  The government has reached an agreement with trade unions
on the pension law and it expects to conclude a budget for next
year with a deficit lower than 4 percent of GDP,“although it
will be difficult,” Djelic said. The government and the IMF
expect the economy to grow 1.5 percent this year after a 3
percent contraction in 2009.  The former communist countries of  Europe  and central  Asia 
are recovering from their deepest recessions since switching to
free-market policies, after cheap credit helped growth average 5
percent annually in the years before the credit crunch. The IMF
provided more than $70 billion of loans to the region during the
global financial crisis, making it the largest recipient of
bailouts.  Serbia,  Hungary ,  Latvia , Ukraine and Romania all received
loans as they struggled to refinance debt, often denominated in
foreign currencies. The region received more than $100 billion
in total, including aid from the  European Union  and  World Bank .  “Serbia was the first country in the region to enter into
an arrangement with the IMF because we saw the financial crisis
coming and so far we have executed the stand-by arrangement
spotlessly,” Djelic said. “We are in discussion for the sixth
revision of this program that runs until April and I’m confident
we will continue having this program in good standing.”  The Cabinet plans to use the proceeds from the planned sale
of Telekom Srbija AD, which is expected to be completed by the
end of the first half of 2011, to cover its budget needs for
next year, he said.  “We plan to have by the end of the first semester of next
year the successful privatization of 51 percent of Telekom
Srbija and this amount should have us covered comfortably” as
far as budget needs are concerned, Djelic said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  