-- Sex Tops Salary in Quest to Lift Taboos: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-11-09T15:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/sex-beats-salary-in-quest-to-unravel-last-taboo-matthew-lynn.html
We are no longer embarrassed when
talking about sex. Death, disease and depression are discussed
openly. And there isn’t a single bodily function that a comedian
can’t make a joke about on television.  But one taboo still remains.  Most people are still reluctant to discuss what they earn,
or how much money they have.  We know precisely how much most chief executive officers
earn. But our co-workers? Our neighbors? Most of us have no idea
what they make, how much they owe on their house, or what kind
of savings they have.  In reality, we’d all be better off if we revealed our
finances. We would get a fairer deal, feel more secure, and be
less likely to run up  crazy debts .  If we’re comfortable talking about sex or death with
everyone, we should be able to talk about money.  Regulations force senior managers to make their earnings
public. We know that  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  CEO Antonio Horta- Osorio will get an annual salary of 1.035 million pounds ($1.7
million), as well as a bonus, because the bank said so in a
statement when he was appointed last week.  We know that  Willie Walsh , the CEO of  British Airways Plc ,
just received a pay increase of 90,000 pounds because the
airline revealed that as part of the process of receiving
shareholder approval for its merger with Iberia Lineas Aereas de
Espana SA. With a quick search, we can get the same details for
just about any corporate executive.  Olympic Salaries  Increasingly, we know top public-sector salaries as well.
Earlier this year, the U.K. decided to publish those of the
highest-earning executives at government agencies. So we know
that David Higgins, the man in charge of delivering the London
2012 Olympics, is being paid 394,999 pounds a year.  The range of salaries being revealed is widening all the
time. The U.K. government announced yesterday that the pay of
teachers at state schools would also be  made public .  Scandinavian countries aren’t shy about it, either. In  Norway , details of everyone’s earnings are published online by
the tax authorities.  But almost everywhere else, salaries are still cloaked in
secrecy. A  survey  of 1,392 British adults published last week by
the website Uswitch.com found that 37 percent of people were
happy to tell family and friends what they earned, 20 percent
would discuss their bonuses, and 23 percent their debts. But, of
course, that still means 63 percent of people aren’t happy to
discuss their finances.  American Reserve  A U.S. survey found that Americans were also reticent. A
poll by  Harris Interactive  of 2,257 adults for the website
Glassdoor.com this year found that  17 percent  of people wouldn’t
discuss their earnings with anyone at all. But of the 83 percent
that would, most would share that information only with their
spouse or partner. A third would discuss their earnings with
their best friend, only 15 percent with a colleague at a similar
level in the workplace, and just 5 percent with an acquaintance.  There is still huge resistance to revealing your financial
situation to the world. The majority of us just won’t do it. But
we should all be completely open about what kind of money we
make. Here’s why.  One, everyone would benefit. We can’t really be sure if we
are paid fairly unless we know what our colleagues are getting.
Our bosses can easily hoodwink us because we don’t have enough
information. If we all knew what everyone else was getting paid,
we would find it easier to seal a better deal. In the short
term, we might suffer some embarrassment if it turned out we’d
negotiated only a fraction of what everyone else in the office
was getting. In the medium term, we’d come out ahead.  Improved Self-Esteem  Two, since we have no idea what everyone else is earning,
we tend to feel insecure about what we are making. We look
around us and assume that others are earning much more. The
chances are that we get a salary somewhere in the middle. If we
were more open, we’d probably be pleasantly surprised, and
realize we are doing OK. Our self-esteem would improve.  Three, it will make us more financially responsible. One of
the big problems around the world right now is consumer debt.
That is partly because we are so secretive about our finances.
We show off by spending lots of money. If it was normal to tell
everyone how big your mortgage was, or how we had purchased that
new car entirely on credit, we might feel a bit uneasy. We would
compete on financial responsibility, as well as just consumption
-- and feel less tempted to run up unaffordable debts.  True, what we earn is personal information. It reveals much
about us and our place in the world. But society is undoubtedly
a better place for having swept away Victorian taboos on
discussing sex, death, health and emotions.  We should do the same for money as well. How much do I
earn? I’ll tell you -- but only if you tell me yours first.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  