-- HSH Nordbank State Owners Ask Chairman for Dismissal of CEO Nonnenmacher
-- B y   J a n n   B e t t i n g a
-- 2010-11-09T14:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/hsh-nordbank-state-owners-ask-chairman-for-dismissal-of-ceo-nonnenmacher.html
HSH Nordbank AG’s biggest
shareholders, the German states of Schleswig-Holstein and
Hamburg, called for the dismissal of Chief Executive Officer
 Dirk Jens Nonnenmacher  following a dispute over his role in a
spying scandal at the lender.  The two states asked  Hilmar Kopper , chairman of HSH
Nordbank’s supervisory board that oversees the management, to
remove Nonnenmacher from his office and find a successor,
Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein said in a joint e-mailed
statement today. “Both governments regard this step as
necessary to regain lost trust,” they said.  Nonnenmacher, who took over as CEO two years ago, came
under pressure from politicians to quit following allegations of
spying at the state-controlled lender. The 47-year-old executive
has also been investigated by prosecutors over risky investments
that cost the bank millions of euros.  Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein, which control about 86
percent of HSH Nordbank, were forced to bail out the lender
during the financial crisis. The states provided the Hamburg-
and Kiel-based bank with 3 billion euros ($4.2 billion) in
capital and 10 billion euros in guarantees to cover potential
losses. The lender also tapped the federal government’s  Soffin 
bank-rescue fund for 17 billion euros in guarantees.  Regular Meeting  HSH Nordbank’s supervisory board acknowledged the states’
request and will discuss how to proceed at its regular meeting
on Dec. 2, the lender said in an e-mailed statement today.
Nonnenmacher will continue his duties for the time being, it
said. Rune Hoffmann, a spokesman for HSH Nordbank in Hamburg,
said the CEO had no comment.  Nonnenmacher joined HSH Nordbank in October 2007 as chief
financial officer and was named CEO in November 2008 to succeed
Hans Berger, who stepped down just a week after the lender first
asked for government help. The bank, a global shipping
financier, posted a loss of 2.8 billion euros in 2008 because of
writedowns on credit investments.  The CEO announced a program in 2009 to cut about 1,100 jobs
and close or sell businesses to shrink the balance sheet and
focus on doing business with clients in northern Germany and the
shipping, transportation and renewable energy industries. The
bank seeks to return to profit in 2011.  Last year, Nonnenmacher came under scrutiny over risky
investments the bank made in 2007. HSH Nordbank took about 500
million euros in writedowns in 2008 related to investments in
collateralized-debt obligations, known under the name Omega.
Nonnenmacher had signed off on part of the transactions when he
was finance chief, according to the bank’s supervisory board.  Breach of Trust  The Hamburg prosecutor in 2009 began a breach-of-trust
probe into Nonnenmacher and other managers over the Omega deal.
Ulrike Abratis, a HSH Nordbank spokeswoman speaking for
Nonnenmacher, said at the time that the bank would “fully
support” the investigation.  Nonnenmacher also faced pressure this year over reports
about alleged spying. German news magazine  Der Spiegel  said in
August that officials at the bank asked a security company to
spy on former Chief Operating Officer Frank Roth.  HSH Nordbank asked prosecutors in April 2009 to investigate
whether Roth leaked corporate information to the media and fired
him, saying the case made it “unacceptable” for the manager to
continue in his job. Prosecutors in Kiel, Germany dropped a
probe against Roth in June, saying the claims were unfounded.  Mathematics, Medicine  Nonnenmacher said he never approved or tolerated spying at
the bank and that the lender will “do everything” to examine
allegations that spying took place. The claims are
“unbelievable” and “perfidious,” he told reporters at a
press briefing in Hamburg in August. HSH Nordbank said last
month that its supervisory board found no evidence of “culpable
behavior” by the CEO over Roth’s dismissal.                  Nonnenmacher, born in 1963,  studied  mathematics and
medicine in Germany and the U.S. He taught at universities and
did consulting work for financial companies on group and risk
management and product development. In 1998, he was named
department head at  Dresdner Bank  in Frankfurt and London, where
he developed methods for market and credit risk. From 2004,
Nonnenmacher was head of strategic, risk and financial
controlling at cooperative lender  DZ Bank AG  in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 