-- Singapore Seeks Minimum Twelve-Week Jail Term for U.K. Author's Contempt
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-11-09T07:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/singapore-seeks-minimum-twelve-week-jail-term-for-u-k-author-s-contempt.html
A Singapore prosecutor urged a judge
to jail British author Alan Shadrake for at least 12 weeks for
disparaging the city-state’s judiciary in a book.  Prosecutor Hema Subramaniam said at a sentencing hearing
today that  Shadrake  was “insincere” in his “half-hearted
attempt at an apology” and deserved to be jailed for contempt
of court.  Shadrake, 76, challenged the impartiality of Singapore’s
judiciary in the book “Once a Jolly Hangman: Singapore’s
Justice in the Dock,” accusing courts of bowing to political
and economic pressures and dispensing justice unequally to the
rich and the poor.  Shadrake alleged “grave misconduct” by the city state’s
courts,  High Court Judge Quentin Loh  said in his Nov. 3 decision
to convict the author for contempt. The book contained “half-
truths and selective facts; sometimes even outright
falsehoods,” Loh said then.  The judge said he’d give Shadrake “a final opportunity to
make amends,” when he convicted the author. Loh today reserved
his decision on a sentence until Nov. 16.  The writer, dressed in a beige linen suit, showed
“continued defiance” of the Singapore judiciary, Subramaniam
said. She cited the writer’s comments to media that he wouldn’t
apologize and would continue fighting for freedom and democracy.  Heart Condition  “The attitude of the state is horrendous,” Shadrake’s
lawyer M. Ravi said at the hearing, adding the authorities were
“overzealous” in pursuing Shadrake. He urged the judge to be
merciful.  Shadrake has a heart condition and is fighting colon
cancer, which is in remission, Ravi said.  “He would certainly apologize if he had offended the
sensitivities of the judiciary,” Ravi said. “It was never his
intention to undermine the judges or the judiciary.”  Shadrake, based in Malaysia, was arrested in his hotel room
after the book’s release in Singapore in July. The author, who’s
out on bail, is also being investigated for criminal defamation
by the Singapore authorities.  Shadrake declined to comment after the hearing.  Contempt of court  carries a jail sentence, a fine, or both.
No maximum penalty has been specified under Singapore’s
constitution, according to the  Attorney General’s office.   A Wall Street Journal editor was fined S$10,000 ($7,772)
last year for the publication of three articles that the
Singapore government said showed contempt of the judiciary. In
another case, three activists were sentenced to between seven
and 15 days in prison for wearing T-shirts with pictures of a
kangaroo dressed as a judge.  The case is Attorney-General vs Alan Shadrake OS720/2010 in
the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  