-- Singapore Air's Boosts Second-Half Capacity 5% on Business-Travel Rebound
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-11-09T10:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/singapore-air-s-profit-beats-estimates-as-economy-revives-business-travel.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. , the world’s
second-largest carrier by market value, said it would increase
capacity 5 percent in the fiscal second half as business
travelers and holidaymakers reserve more flights.  “Advance bookings for the coming months indicate that
demand is holding up,” the carrier said in the statement today.
The airline also reported second-quarter profit of S$380 million
($296 million), surpassing analysts’ estimates.  The carrier has added flights to cities including Los
Angeles, Tokyo and Seoul as global air travel recovers from the
worst drop since World War II. Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. has
also said it plans to return capacity to pre-crisis level, while
Tokyo-based  All Nippon Airways Co.  is boosting overseas flights
15 percent in the year ending March.  “Singapore Air will continue to benefit from a global
recovery and an increase in demand for leisure and business
travel in the medium-to-long term,” said  Steven Lim , who
manages about $200 million at Daiwa SB Investments in Singapore.
“The recovery in premium travel is still intact.”  The carrier’s capacity in the fiscal first half ended
September was little changed from a year earlier. Airlines
slashed flights last year as travel plunged during the global
recession.  Capacity Increase  Asian airlines have so far limited capacity increases amid
rising demand to preserve margins. Regional passenger numbers
jumped 15 percent in the nine months ended September, while
capacity rose 3.3 percent, according to the  Association of Asia
Pacific Airlines , which represents 15 carriers including
Singapore Air, Cathay Pacific and All Nippon.  Singapore Air’s passenger numbers were little changed at
 4.17 million  in the three months ended September, according to
the statement. The carrier filled  80.3 percent  of seats in the
quarter, compared with 79.6 percent a year earlier.  Passenger yield, or the average price a traveler pays to
fly one kilometer, increased to 11.8 Singapore cents from 9.8
cents a year earlier. The carrier expects yields to be
“steady.”  Second-quarter revenue rose 18 percent to S$3.6 billion.
 Net income  in the period surpassed the S$366 million average of
seven  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. A year earlier,
the airline had a loss of S$159 million.  The  carrier  gained 0.9 percent to S$16.32 at the close of
trading today. The results were released after the market
closed. Of the 23  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg data in the past
12 months, 20 have a “buy” rating, two recommended that
investors hold the stock, while one says “sell.”  The company is proposing to pay an interim  dividend  of 20
Singapore cents per share, according to the statement.  Singapore Air has resumed all services on its Airbus SAS
A380 after conducting “precautionary technical checks”
recommended by Rolls-Royce Group Plc and the planemaker
following a Qantas Airways Ltd. engine blowout on Nov. 4.
Singapore Air, the first to fly the double-decker plane, has 11
Airbus A380s.  Airlines in the Asia Pacific will probably post a combined
profit of $5.2 billion this year, more than double an earlier
forecast of $2.2 billion, the  International Air Transport
Association  said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  