-- SNS to Dispose of Part of Dutch Property Finance Portfolio to Free Capital
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-11-09T09:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/sns-to-dispose-of-part-of-dutch-property-finance-portfolio-to-free-capital.html
SNS Reaal NV , the Dutch firm that
intends to wind down its international property financing
activities, will also dispose of a portion of its Dutch property
loans to free up capital.  SNS Reaal, which received 750 million euros ($1 billion) in
aid from the Dutch state in 2008, is splitting its property
finance unit in two at the start of next year, the Utrecht,
Netherlands-based company said in a statement today.  One part will include its international property finance
operations and a portion of its Dutch loans, and will be
“phased out” over the next two to four years. This division,
known as property finance, has about 6.9 billion euros of loans
and will operate as a separate unit. The part of the Dutch
lending book SNS intends to keep will be folded into its retail
bank.  “It is positive that SNS Reaal boosted the loan portfolio
in runoff,”  Cor Kluis , an Utrecht-based analyst at Rabo
Securities, said in a note. “We estimate this business consumes
about 600 million euros in capital, so if it reduces the size by
50 percent of this book in the next few years it releases 300
million euros in capital.”  SNS Reaal was little changed at 3.33 euros by 10:09 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading, after falling 21 percent this year. The bank
and insurer has a market value of about 960 million euros.  ‘Next Step’  SNS last year said it plans to withdraw from international
property finance markets and focus exclusively on the
Netherlands to reduce risk. International commitments were
reduced by 32 percent so far, the lender said. Impairments on
bad loans at the property finance division rose to 147 million
euros in the third quarter from 129 million euros in the second,
and are expected to be “at a high level” in the fourth.  The property finance activities had a loss in the third
quarter that was bigger than in the second half of 2009 and in
line with the average for the first half of 2010, the company
said, without elaborating. SNS reported a net loss of 189
million euros for the unit in the first six months. Total
outstanding loans, net of provisions, declined to 12.2 billion
euros from 12.7 billion euros at the end of June.  The Dutch loans to be put in runoff amount to about 3.5
billion euros, Chief Executive Officer  Ronald Latenstein  told
reporters on a call today. Some of the loans may be sold.  “In view of our intention to free up more capital and to
achieve a lower risk profile, more transparency, a better
funding profile, this next step is essential,” Latenstein said
in the statement.  ‘Funding Profile’  New banking regulations, known as Basel III, have added to
pressure to release capital, Chief Financial Officer  Ference Lamp  said on a conference call today. Moreover, “there are
increasing demands around managing your funding profile. Phasing
out a substantial part of a portfolio that is to a large extent
wholesale funded helps that profile,” Lamp said.  SNS, which first offered shares to the public in 2006, said
today that third-quarter profit was 63 million euros. Excluding
the international property finance portfolio, profit was 163
million euros.  The company received the lifeline from the Netherlands in
2008 and another 500 million euros from  Stichting Beheer SNS
Reaal , its largest shareholder, to boost capital. It sold shares
last year to help repay 250 million euros of support.  SNS said “freeing up capital with a view to repaying the
capital support” remains a priority, along with stabilizing the
situation at SNS Property Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  