-- South Africa's Gordhan Says U.S. Bond Purchases May Boost Rand, Cost Jobs
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-11-09T11:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/south-africa-s-gordhan-says-u-s-bond-purchases-may-boost-rand-cost-jobs.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said the U.S. decision to purchase bonds to pump money
into the economy, known as quantitative easing, may push up the
rand and cost jobs in Africa’s biggest economy.  Group of 20 nations meeting in South Korea this week need
to agree on ways to stimulate their economies without damaging
those of others, Gordhan told reporters in the South African
capital, Pretoria, today.  “We need to find tools in our domestic environment that
are not going to have a negative impact on other countries,”
Gordhan said before flying to Seoul to attend the summit with
President  Jacob Zuma . “We need to find a global solution to
what is clearly a global problem.”  China, Germany and Brazil are among countries that
criticized the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Nov. 3 decision to buy
$600 billion of Treasury securities. Chinese Vice Finance
Minister  Zhu Guangyao  yesterday said it might “shock” emerging
markets by flooding them with capital, while Gordhan said on
Nov. 5 that it may strengthen their currencies.  “Fuel prices will be lower, imported goods will be
cheaper,” Gordhan said today. “It keeps inflation down. The
other side of the equation is that it dictates an appreciation
of the rand, it endangers certain sections of our economy like
the manufacturing sector. It could result in job losses.”  Union Pressure  South Africa’s government is under pressure from unions,
which helped President Zuma into power, to try and devalue the
rand to bolster exports and reduce an unemployment rate of 25.3
percent.  Foreign capital flooded into emerging markets this year as
investors exploited near-zero interest rates in advanced
economies to borrow cheaply and invest in high-yielding assets.
Brazil, South Korea, Turkey, Thailand and other emerging markets
have since taken action to curb their currencies.  The rand has gained 38 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of 2009, the best performance of any emerging-market
currency. Brazil last month said it would increase its tax on
foreign portfolio inflows to 6 percent from 4 percent in a bid
to curb the real’s appreciation.  Developed economies also have a responsibility to stop
their funds from undermining emerging economies, Gordhan said.  “The answer lies in finding a multilateral formula which
would allow us to have actions taken both at the source of these
funds that are flowing around the world and at the destination
of these funds as well,” he said.  Growth Patterns  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  yesterday said
recent tensions over currency policies stem from a shift in
global growth patterns. Emerging-market nations are growing
faster than the U.S., Europe and Japan, attracting investment
and prompting different policy approaches, he said.  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick ’s Nov. 7 suggestion to
use gold as a  global money peg  is proof that the global economy
needs to reform the way is operates, Gordhan said.  Gordhan renewed a call to G20 members to end “competitive
devaluation” and protectionism. Countries may put up barriers
and curtail free trade, he said in an Oct. 19 speech.  While the Oct. 23 decision of G20 finance ministers to
yield more power in the International Monetary Fund to poorer
countries, Gordhan said Africa still needs to be better
represented in international financial institutions. South
Africa will push for a chair for sub-Saharan Africa on the IMF’s
24-seat Executive Board, he said.  ‘Africa Underrepresented’  “You cannot have a global organization that is not
democratically founded,” Gordhan said. “Africa is
underrepresented. What we require is a rebalancing.”  South Africa will help the central bank buy foreign
currency, allow citizens to take more money out of the country
and consider further measures to devalue the rand, Gordhan said
on Oct. 27. The central bank has been buying foreign currency,
in part through additional funds from the National Treasury this
year, to help limit the rand’s gains.  Gross gold and foreign currency  reserves  increased 0.3
percent to $44.2 billion in October from the previous month,
according to the bank’s data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Pretoria at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 