-- South Africa Urges Farmers to Switch to Yellow Corn, Target Asian Markets
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-11-09T15:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/south-africa-failed-in-effort-to-ship-excess-corn-to-tunisia-and-egypt.html
South Africa’s government said the
country should change the type of corn it plants to target
markets in Asia and suggested setting up an agency to promote
exports.  An investigation conducted by a team of officials from the
Department of Agriculture and the National Agriculture Marketing
Council recommended that South Africa “aggressively” move
toward producing more yellow corn to meet demand from Taiwan,
Japan and South Korea. South Africa, the biggest producer of the
grain in Africa, grows mainly white corn, locally known as
maize.  “African countries use white maize and we’ve exported when
there were regional shortages,” the department said in a report
to lawmakers today. “Now all African countries have good crops
due to improved productivity and the white maize demand is
down.”  Favorable weather conditions and increased use of
genetically-modified seed have resulted in bumper harvests and
an over-supply in South Africa with this years’ harvest expected
to be the biggest since 1982 at 13.04 million metric tons. Of
that 60 percent is expected to be white corn and the rest
yellow.  That has cut corn prices, eroding farmers’ profits. White
corn has slid 20 percent to 1,338 rand ($196) a ton this year on
the South African Futures Exchange in Johannesburg while yellow
corn has fallen 10 percent to 1,426 rand. In South Africa white
corn is used to make corn meal, a staple food, while yellow corn
is mainly fed to animals, with chicken producers Rainbow Chicken
Ltd. and Astral Foods Ltd. being among the biggest buyers.  Unutilized Stock  The government has failed in its efforts to significantly
cut the country’s estimated 4.5 million ton corn surplus as
plans to export to Egypt, Tunisia and China were thwarted,
Agriculture Minister  Tina Joemat-Pettersson  told lawmakers in
Cape Town.  “We are intervening as government to assist these
farmers” get rid of their excess corn, she said. “We know we
have a national interest to safeguard this industry.”  South Africa had 2.1 million tons of unutilized corn stocks
in the marketing season through April this year, according to
the Pretoria-based South African Grain Information Service,
which is known as Sagis. That stockpile stood at 8.86 million
tons at the end of September with two thirds of that being white
corn.  Despite the setbacks the county has managed to find new
markets for some of its corn in the marketing year that began
May 1.  Japan, Kuwait, Spain  In that period South Africa has shipped 500,900 tons of
yellow corn to nine African countries as well as to Spain,
Taiwan, Japan, Kuwait and South Korea, according to Sagis. That
compares with 261,338 tons in the whole of the last marketing
year when shipments went to 12 African countries as well as to
Iran and Malaysia.  White corn exports this marketing year have totaled 340,932
tons to 12 African countries compared with 1.42 million tons to
11 African countries in the last marketing year. This year
Malawi and Zambia have declared corn surpluses. Zimbabwe’s crop
is expected to rise 38 percent, according to the U.S. Department
of Agriculture.  In the week ended Nov. 5 South Africa exported 1,089 tons
of yellow corn to five African countries and 6,691 tons of white
corn to five neighboring states, Sagis data showed.  Export pool  The government backs a request by the corn industry for the
formation of an export pool to rid the country of its grain
surplus, Langa Zita, the director-general of the agriculture
department, said in an interview in Cape Town. The pool would
separate surplus corn from that needed for domestic use.  “The decision doesn’t lie with us, it’s with the
Competition Commission,” he said. “We wouldn’t want going
forward to say every year there is a surplus, this will be the
path we will follow. Collective interventions like this are not
in the long-term interest of vibrant markets.”  The Pretoria-based Commission is considering  Grain SA ’s
application for exemption from some antitrust laws to reduce the
surplus, which Grain SA, which represents growers, estimates at
about 3.6 million tons to 3.7 million tons in the corn marketing
year that ends April 30 next year. Kobus Laubscher, the chief
executive officer of Grain SA, wasn’t available for comment when
his office in Bothaville was called today.  Sagis , which provides grain market data on behalf of the
industry, is “quite comfortable” with the minister’s estimate,
while it views Grain SA’s estimate as “quite conservative,”
Anna Enslin, general manager of the organization, said from
Pretoria.  The agriculture department also recommended that there be
increased support for the production of wheat, soybeans and
sunflowers and that the markets for biofuels and animal feed be
explored. South Africa is a net importer of wheat.  An export agency or trading desk shouldn’t move South
Africa back to the pre-1994 regulated-market system as the
government doesn’t have the capacity or skill to sell all corn
through a single state-run channel, Lindie Stroebel, economic
intelligence manager at the Agricultural Business Chamber said
from Pretoria today. Such an agency or desk should focus,
instead, on promoting the local industry to develop new markets
abroad, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net 
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 