-- Steelers Are Super Bowl Favorites Midway Through Season as Cowboys Sink
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-09T05:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/steelers-giants-are-narrow-super-bowl-favorites-midway-through-nfl-season.html
The Dallas Cowboys have gone from
preseason Super Bowl favorites to 2,000-1 long shots at some Las
Vegas sports books.  With their Super Bowl prospects almost dashed at 1-7, the
Cowboys are an exception during a season of parity in the
National Football League. Halfway through the campaign, no team
has fewer than two losses for the first time since 1981.  The Pittsburgh Steelers, New York Giants and New York Jets
are among nine teams that have odds of 9-1 or better to win the
Super Bowl, according to Las Vegas Sports Consultants, which
advises Nevada sports books on gambling lines. The lack of a
clear favorite has been a boon for Super Bowl future betting in
Las Vegas, said  Jimmy Vaccaro , director of sports operations at
 Lucky’s Race and Sports Book .  “In years past, when you get to the midway point of the
season, the future book really dries up because there’s not
really too many ways you can go,” Vaccaro said in a telephone
interview. “This year, there are 10 or 12 teams that have
legitimate chances to win. When you get that type of variety,
people continue to bet.”  The Steelers, who are tied for the NFL’s best record at 6-2
after beating the Cincinnati Bengals 27-21 last night, are
listed as the 6-1 favorites by Las Vegas Sports Consultants.  They’re followed by the Giants, Jets, Baltimore Ravens and
New England Patriots at 7-1. All have 6-2 records after Week 9
of the regular season.  Colts, Saints  The Indianapolis Colts, who opened the season as 13-2 Super
Bowl favorites, are now listed at 8-1. Also with 8-1 odds are
the defending champion New Orleans Saints (6-3) and Green Bay
Packers (6-3). The Atlanta Falcons, who have a 6-2 record, have
9-1 odds of winning the Super Bowl.  “Each week it’s a new team,” Vaccaro said.  At the start of the season, five teams had odds of 9-1 or
better to win the Super Bowl.  Among them was Dallas, which at one point during the
preseason was a 5-1 favorite at the  MGM Mirage’s sports book .
The Cowboys, who have lost five straight and yesterday fired
 Wade Phillips  as coach, are now 500-1 at the Mirage.  “The way this season has gone, I wouldn’t be surprised to
see the Cowboys win six straight,” Jay Rood, sports book
director at the MGM Mirage, said in a telephone interview.
“They’ve got some guys there that can play football and they
could inspire some people to take 500-1. But I don’t think I’d
have to sweat it out too much.”  1,000-1 Cowboys  Las Vegas Sports Consultants puts the Cowboys’ Super Bowl
chances at 1,000-1, meaning a winning $10 bet on Dallas would
return $10,000 along with the initial stake. Vaccaro is offering
an even better possible return at Lucky’s.  “If you want to jump in, we’ll give you the Cowboys at
2,000-1,” Vaccaro said. “They should be two million to one,
but you can only go so high.”  The Steelers are the current favorite because of a defense
that allowed a league-low 123 points. Pittsburgh, which won NFL
titles following the 2005 and 2008 seasons, also has quarterback
 Ben Roethlisberger  back to lead its offense after he was
suspended for the first four games.  “You’re going to see nothing but good things from the
Steelers down the road, as opposed to the Jets, who sort of
seemed like they’ve been misfiring on a cylinder,” Rood said.
“They just can’t quite put together a commanding performance.”  Home Shut Out  The Jets, who on Oct. 31 were shut out at home by the
Packers, rallied from a 10-point fourth-quarter deficit in their
last game and beat Detroit 23-20 in overtime. Next up for the
Jets are the Cleveland Browns, who are 3-5 this season yet have
played only one team with a losing record.  The Browns have won two of their past three games while
facing the Steelers, Saints and Patriots.  “The Browns going up against probably the three best teams
in the league and coming out with a 2-1 record, that would
probably have been 200-1,” Rood said. “Everybody is so jammed
in the middle right now, it seems like almost anyone has a
chance. Except maybe Dallas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  