-- Steny Hoyer to Run for House Democratic Whip, Setting Up Race With Clyburn
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-11-09T18:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/steny-hoyer-to-run-for-house-democratic-whip-setting-up-race-with-clyburn.html
Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  received
the support of seven Democratic committee chairmen for his bid
to continue as the second-ranking member of the Democrats’
leadership team in the U.S. House.  The seven, including Financial Services Committee Chairman
 Barney Frank  of Massachusetts, circulated a letter today urging
Democratic colleagues to support Hoyer in the contest against
 James Clyburn  for the job of minority whip.  “He is one of our party’s most effective messengers, with
the ability to challenge Republicans on the floor, build support
for our party’s middle-class policies across America, and fight
back against” against special-interest money that aided
Republicans in the election, the letter said.  Hoyer announced he is seeking the position yesterday in a
letter to members of the Democratic Caucus. Clyburn, of South
Carolina, currently holds the post of whip and declared his
candidacy Nov. 5 to remain in the job.  Because they lost their House majority for the next
Congress in last week’s midterm elections, the Democrats are
losing a spot in their leadership ranks. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , 70, announced Nov. 5 that she would run for minority
leader. So far, she is unopposed for that position.  Support from Caucus  “Over the past several days, I have talked to most of my
Democratic colleagues” and “have received support from across
the breadth of our caucus,” Hoyer, of Maryland, said in a
statement yesterday accompanying the release of the letter to
the chamber’s Democrats.  Hoyer, 71, has spent the last few days rounding up support
for the race against Clyburn, 70. The leadership vote for both
parties will take place after members return to Washington for
the lame-duck session starting Nov. 15.  Today’s letter by the seven committee chairmen called Hoyer
“a tested leader” who can help Democrats “win back the
majority.”  The chairmen also include Massachusetts Representative
 Edward Markey , chairman of the Select Committee on Energy
Independence and Global Warming, and Representative  Henry Waxman 
of California, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee.  On Nov. 7, Hoyer’s staff released a letter from 30 House
members who urged fellow Democrats to support Hoyer for minority
whip.  ‘Stand Up to Republicans’  Hoyer is “well suited to stand up to Republicans” and is
someone “who understands the economic frustration that played
such a large role in the outcome of last week’s election,” said
the letter signed by California Representative  Linda Sanchez  and
29 other Democrats, including  John Dingell  of Michigan.  Separately, California Representative  Jane Harman  announced
that she will support Hoyer “for whatever post he seeks in our
leadership.”  Niki Tsongas  of Massachusetts is also backing
Hoyer, her press secretary said.  Democrats lost at least 60 House seats in the Nov. 2
elections, meaning their caucus will contain about 188 members.
To win the secret ballot, a candidate would need at least 95
votes.  The website Hotline On Call, part of National Journal, said
today that  50 Democrats  had publicly said they would support
Hoyer, while Clyburn had the backing of 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 