-- U.A.E. Stocks Rise as Aldar in Talks With Abu Dhabi Government for Funds
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-09T12:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-a-e-stocks-rise-as-aldar-in-talks-with-abu-dhabi-government-for-funds.html
United Arab Emirates shares rose, led
by real-estate companies, as Abu Dhabi’s  Aldar Properties PJSC 
said it is in talks with the government for funding. Dubai’s
 index  climbed the most this month, while Kuwait  stocks  fell.  Aldar, the capital’s biggest developer, climbed 3.2
percent, lifting the ADX General Index 0.2 percent to 2,755.3.
Emaar Properties PJSC, builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, led the gain in Dubai after shareholders approved a
$500 million convertible notes issue. The  DFM General Index 
advanced 1.3 percent, the most since Oct. 28, to 1,715.68 at the
2 p.m. close in the emirate. Kuwait’s  index  lost 1 percent.  Investors are optimistic as “the market is now expecting
that Aldar will get some non dilutive support given their
announcement of explicit talks with the government,” said
 Shehzad Janab,  head of asset management at Dubai-based Daman
Investments PSC. “When Aldar moves up, it drags other real-
estate names in the U.A.E.”  Aldar climbed to 2.29 dirhams. The developer said it
expects to reach a “framework” agreement with Abu Dhabi’s
government on cash requirements by the end of the year. The
builder of thousands of homes and offices across the emirate has
been hurt by falling sales and about 26 billion dirhams ($7
billion) of outstanding debt. The company posted a third-quarter
loss of 731.2 million dirhams. The shares fell as much as 5.9
percent earlier.  The DFM  Real Estate Index  rallied 3 percent and  Abu Dhabi’s
property index jumped  2.7 percent. Emaar, the company with the
heaviest-weighting on Dubai’s gauge, rose 3.3 percent, the most
since Oct. 28, to 3.77 dirhams. The developer plans to use the
proceeds of a bond sale to pay contractors and convert $1.4
billion of short-term debt into long term securities.  Kuwait Falls  Kuwait  stocks  fell the most since July 4 to 6,982.2.  Al-
Fawares Holding Co.  said it will file a lawsuit against  Mobile
Telecommunications Co. , known as Zain, and its board for
allowing  Emirates Telecommunications Corp.  to conduct due
diligence on the Kuwaiti phone operator without presenting the
purchase offer, according to an advertisement in Al-Watan
newspaper today. Calls to Al-Fawares weren’t returned.  Etisalat last week said it started the due diligence
process to buy a 51 percent stake of Zain in a deal valued at
about $12 billion.  Investor Interest  “Investors believe that today’s news may either void the
sale or prolong the process which isn’t in investors’ or
shareholders’ best interests,” said  Jasem Al Zeraei,  head of
institutional sales at NBK Capital in Kuwait. “From what we
know the deal is going through and things are looking
positive.” Zain shares closed unchanged after earlier falling
as much as 5.4 percent. Etisalat shares were also unchanged.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  gained 0.3 percent
and Oman’s  gauge  rose less than 0.1 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index 
increased 0.4 percent, while  Bahrain’s  measure decreased 0.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 