-- U.K.'s Total Debt May Hit 10 Trillion Pounds by 2015, PwC Economist Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-09T10:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-k-s-total-debt-may-hit-10-trillion-pounds-by-2015-pwc-economist-says.html
Britain’s total debt levels may rise
about 33 percent to about 10 trillion pounds ($16.1 billion) by
2015, posing a threat to long-term economic growth,
 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  said in a report.  Consumers, companies, banks and the government will add to
debt over the next five years, PricewaterhouseCoopers said in
the report published in London today. Government debt as a
percentage of gross domestic product will rise to 77 percent
from 67 percent, while Britons’ total debt will amount to 5.4
times output, it said.  Property-related borrowing and lending between financial
institutions has boosted the debt of U.K. households and
companies over the past decade. U.K.  public debt  soared as the
recession eroded tax revenue and the government spent billions
of pounds to fight the financial crisis and revive growth.  “The U.K.’s addiction to debt has reached alarming
levels,” PricewaterhouseCoopers Chief Economist  John Hawksworth 
said in a statement. “Sooner or later, this will have to be
addressed either through debt being run down sharply, which
would risk triggering another recession, or more likely through
a persistently heavy debt service burden that could damp
economic growth for decades to come.”  While the government’s planned fiscal squeeze may curb
economic growth and “should allow interest rates to remain
lower for longer,” borrowing costs will have to increase at
some point, PricewaterhouseCoopers said.  “Current exceptionally low  interest rates  will not last
forever and a large part of household and corporate lending
remains exposed to possible future falls in residential and
commercial property prices,” Hawksworth said.  While absolute debt will increase, debt as a percentage of
GDP will remain constant at about 5.4 times as the U.K. economy
grows, PricewaterhouseCoopers said. GDP will rise about 1.8
percent this year and 2 percent in 2011, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  