-- U.K. Retail Sales May Drop in 2011 as Cuts Limit Spending, Report Says
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-11-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-k-s-retail-sales-may-decline-as-spending-cuts-hurt-incomes-report-says.html
U.K. retail sales may fall next year
amid lower disposable income and falling consumer confidence as
the government slashes spending to balance the budget, according
to  Deloitte LLP.   Retail sales in the U.K. may not rise in 2011 and there is
a “distinct” possibility that they will fall, Richard Hyman,
strategic retail adviser to Deloitte, said in a statement.
“Another year of flat sales growth in U.K. retail would
represent an achievement,” he said.  The U.K. last month set out plans to balance its budget,
cutting a total of 490,000 public sector jobs and withdrawing
child benefits from higher earners. Value-added tax in the
country will increase to 20 percent from Jan. 4, also affecting
sales, Deloitte said.  A third of consumers think their personal finances will
deteriorate, while 38 percent expect the economy to get worse,
according to a Deloitte consumer survey. Seventy-six percent of
consumers would spend less on household goods and clothing if
forced to make cutbacks, the advisory firm said.  Christmas retail sales may increase 1 percent, bringing
sales in December to 37 billion pounds ($60 billion), Deloitte
said.  “Each year, consumers tell us they will do whatever they
can to enjoy Christmas and this year will be no different,” Ian
Geddes, head of retail at Deloitte, said in the statement.  Deloitte said that most people continue to spend on
Christmas with 71 percent of U.K. consumers planning to spend
the same or more on gifts than last year, according to the
survey of 20,000 consumers across Europe, including 2,000 in the
U.K. Deloitte said the Christmas trend is similar in most
countries, apart from Greece, where more than half of consumers
said they would spend less.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  