-- U.K. October Housing Gauge Drops to 18-Month Low, RICS Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-k-october-housing-gauge-drops-to-18-month-low-rics-says.html
A U.K.  housing-market  gauge dropped
more than economists forecast to an 18-month low in October as
homebuyers became “cautious” on prospects for prices, the
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said.  The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying
prices fell exceeded those reporting gains by 49 percentage
points, compared with minus 36 points in September, the London-
based group said in an e-mailed report today. Economists
forecast a decline to minus 39 points, according to the median
of 20 predictions in a  Bloomberg News survey .  The housing market has weakened after more homeowners put
their properties on sale and the government unveiled a budget
squeeze that will wipe out almost half a million public-sector
jobs. While the Bank of England kept its  benchmark interest rate 
at a record low of 0.5 percent last week, banks are still
rationing credit, RICS said.  “With both supply and demand falling, transaction activity
is set to remain at relatively flat levels for the foreseeable
future,” RICS spokesman  Jeremy Leaf  said in a statement. “A
subdued housing market is not good news for an economy which
requires a high degree of mobility to take advantage of job
opportunities.”  A measure showing the number of new property listings fell
for the first time since January to minus 4 from 22 the previous
month, RICS said. A gauge of new buyer enquiries dropped to
minus 12 from minus 2.  The gauge of price expectations for the next three months
fell to minus 42 in October from minus 41 in September.  East Midlands  All 12 regions in the RICS survey showed negative price
balances in October. England’s East Midlands and East Anglia
areas led declines, while Scotland posted its first negative
reading in 15 months.  “Agents may be cautious about what this could mean for
house prices in the short term, but dramatic falls are likely to
be limited by a gradual drying up of stock coming to the
market,” RICS’s Leaf said.  Bovis Homes Group Plc , the smallest publicly traded U.K.
homebuilder by volume, said yesterday that while there was
“uncertainty concerning the near-term direction of house
prices,” demand and supply dynamics should support values “in
the medium term.” Market conditions “will remain challenging
over the coming months,” Bovis said.  “Buyer enquiries are slow for this traditionally busy time
with few motivated buyers and also not nearly as many motivated
sellers as there should be,” Charles Puxley, an estate agent at
Jackson-Stops & Staff in London’s Chelsea area, said in the
report. “We are in for a frustrating winter with vendors’
expectations of value very unlikely to be met.”  A separate report from the British Retail Consortium
released today showed stores posted faster sales growth in
October. Retail sales at stores open at least 12 months rose an
annual 0.8 percent, compared with 0.5 percent in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  