-- U.S. Anti-Gun Program Targeting Flow to Mexico Has `Significant' Weakness
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-11-09T16:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-anti-gun-program-targeting-flow-to-mexico-has-significant-weakness.html
There are “significant weaknesses”
in a U.S. program to stem the flow of guns illegally sent to
Mexico, undermining the effectiveness of the crackdown,
according to the Justice Department’s inspector general.  The  Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives 
doesn’t consistently exchange firearms trafficking intelligence
with Mexican and U.S. partner agencies as part of its Project
Gunrunner program, according to the  report , released today. It
said the agency hasn’t provided Mexican law enforcement with
information it requested on firearms trafficking routes and
distribution points.  Project Gunrunner, part of an effort to reduce violence
associated with drugs and guns on the U.S.-Mexico border,
expanded from a pilot program in 2006. Drug traffickers turn to
the U.S. as a source of weapons partly because Mexico restricts
gun ownership, according to the report.  “Despite the increased ATF activity associated with
Project Gunrunner, we found that significant weaknesses in ATF’s
implementation of Project Gunrunner undermine its
effectiveness,” according to the report.  The ATF increased the number of Project Gunrunner cases it
referred for prosecution by 54 percent since the program began,
according to the report.  Although requests from Mexico for ATF to trace guns have
increased, most requests are “unsuccessful” because of missing
or improperly entered gun data, according to the report.  Kenneth Melson , deputy director of ATF, said in a letter
responding to the report that the agency is committed to
“building” on successes and improving shortcomings cited by
the inspector general.  The U.S. and Mexico are “diligently collaborating” to
solve “information-sharing challenges,” Melson wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  