-- U.S. Housing's Postwar Low Threatens Home Depot: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-09T15:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-housing-s-postwar-low-threatens-home-depot-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. home-improvement retailers face
“rising headwinds” as housing investment’s share of the
economy falls to a post-World War II low, according to  Budd Bugatch , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares spending on new homes and
apartments, including furnishings, with gross domestic product
in the top panel. The data, compiled by the Commerce Department,
aren’t adjusted for inflation. The bottom panel shows the ratio
between them.  Housing fell to 2.22 percent of nominal GDP in the third
quarter from 2.45 percent in the second. The previous low was
2.35 percent, set in the first three months of this year.  In dollar terms, residential  investment  dropped 8.3 percent
in the quarter as the expiration of federal tax credits for home
buyers hurt demand. The third-quarter total, $327.4 billion, was
the lowest since the first quarter of 1996.  Bugatch cited the government’s data in reducing his
investment rating on  Home Depot Inc. , the largest U.S. home-
improvement chain, by two levels to “market perform”
yesterday. He had rated the stock a “strong buy.”  Comments from suppliers also indicate the prospects for
Home Depot and its competitors have worsened, he wrote in a
report. He cited  Masco Corp. ’s statement that third-quarter
sales to key retailers, including  Lowe’s Cos.  and  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  as well as Home Depot, were little changed after
adjusting for its exit from making ready-to-assemble cabinets.  “Consumers are spending in other categories as we enter
the holiday season,” Bugatch wrote.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  