-- U.S. Stocks Decline as Financial, Consumer Companies Slip
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-11-09T21:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-stock-index-futures-fall-oil-shares-drop-priceline-gains-in-germany.html
U.S.  stocks  fell, dragging benchmark
gauges to the biggest decline in three weeks, as financial and
raw materials companies wiped out an early advance led by energy
producers as commodities extended a rally to a 25-month high.  Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co. and Morgan Stanley
lost at least 2.6 percent, pacing a drop in financial shares.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. slid 2.5 percent as gold
fell from a record. Dean Foods Co. plunged 18 percent after
reporting earnings that missed estimates and its chief financial
officer quit. Atlas Energy Inc. soared 34 percent after agreeing
to be bought by Chevron Corp.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slipped 0.8 percent to
1,213.40 at 4 p.m. in New York, the most since Oct. 19. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average declined 60.09 points, or 0.5 percent,
to 11,346.75. U.S. stocks rallied last week as the Federal
Reserve announced a $600 billion bond-purchase plan to boost
economic growth, a tactic known as quantitative easing.  “We’ve had backlash against quantitative easing, and maybe
that means less of a likelihood for more QE, which is helpful
for the dollar and negative for stocks,” said  Jason Brady , a
managing director at Thornburg Investment Management in Santa
Fe, New Mexico, which oversees more than $65 billion.
“Materials, financials -- the groups that didn’t do very well
are really more cyclical sectors, so these stocks are going to
go down more.”  Dollar, Treasuries  Stocks retreated from earlier gains as the dollar rebounded
after yields on 30-year Treasuries increased to a five-month
high following an auction of 10-year notes that drew the lowest
demand since February.  Earnings per share have  topped  analysts’ estimates at 76
percent of the 421 companies in the S&P 500 that have announced
results since Oct. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Net income has grown 30 percent for the group, topping estimates
by 7.7 percent, and sales have increased 9.8 percent and
exceeded analysts’ projections by 0.7 percent.  The Dow rose to its highest level since before Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy last week, as the Fed
announced the $600 billion Treasury-purchase plan and employment
increased more than forecast. Benchmark gauges slipped yesterday
as investors dumped Irish government bonds, speculating that the
cost of bailing out its banks may bankrupt the nation.  ‘Not Euphoric’  “I wouldn’t call investor sentiment euphoric,” said  Chris Hensen , portfolio manager of a group that manages $3 billion of
U.S. stocks at MFC Global Investment Management in Toronto.
“Most managers more cautiously have cash higher balances. You
could see increased volatility coming out of Europe especially
as the banks issues still remain. That could put a cap on the
S&P.”  Stocks rose earlier after inventories at U.S. wholesalers
rose twice as much as forecast in September, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. The 1.5 percent increase
followed a revised 1.2 percent rise in August that was larger
than initially estimated. The median of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a 0.7 percent gain in stockpiles.  Financial companies slumped 2.2 percent, as  Bank of America 
declined 2.6 percent to $12.27. Wells Fargo slid 3.1 percent to
$28.13, and Morgan Stanley dropped 3.3 percent to $26.32.  Dean Foods tumbled 18 percent to $8.50, the most intraday
since May 10. The biggest U.S. dairy processor posted  third-
quarter earnings  that missed analysts’ estimates as higher
butterfat costs cut profitability. The company also said its
chief financial officer will resign.  Atlas Energy soared 34 percent to $42.50, its biggest one-
day gain since it began trading in 2004. The natural gas
producer said it will be acquired by Chevron for $3.2 billion,
or $43.34 a share.  Chevron , the second-largest U.S. oil company,
fell 1.5 percent to $83.56.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index
surged to the highest since October 2008 as cotton rallied to a
record.  China Downgrades U.S.  China’s Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. reduced its rating
for the U.S. to A+ from AA, citing a deteriorating intent and
ability to repay debt obligations after the Fed announced more
monetary easing. The credit outlook for the U.S. is “negative,”
as the Fed’s plan to buy government debt will erode the value of
the dollar and “entirely encroaches” on the interests of
creditors, analysts at Dagong, said in a statement.  “The palpable anger -- mixed with gloating -- that is
present in this release is demonstrative of the current
dismissal by many international investors of the U.S. capital
markets as an attractive destination,”  Michael Shaoul , chief
executive officer of Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York, said in
a note to clients. “We also wonder whether this wave of
indignation over QE2 marks the end of the period of cooperation
and coordination between global central banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 