-- Judge Dismisses Most of Citigroup Stock Fraud Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-09T21:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-judge-dismisses-part-of-citigroup-shareholder-securities-fraud-suit.html
Citigroup Inc.  won dismissal of most
claims in a shareholder  lawsuit  alleging that the bank lied
about its exposure to collateralized debt obligations and other
toxic assets.  U.S. District Judge  Sidney H. Stein  dismissed an array of
claims in the 536-page complaint against Citigroup, finding in
most cases that the plaintiffs failed to allege facts showing
the  bank  and its officials knew they were misleading investors.  “The court finds that plaintiffs have stated a claim to
relief only with respect to alleged misstatements and omissions
occurring between February 2007 and April 2008 concerning
Citigroup’s collateralized debt obligation holdings,” Stein
said in today’s ruling in federal court in Manhattan.  The plaintiffs, who sued in 2007, seek to represent all
investors who bought  Citigroup stock  from Jan. 1, 2004, to
Jan. 15, 2009. They claim they lost money when the extent of
Citigroup’s losses on the investments became public.  Stein ruled that the  shareholders  failed to allege that the
bank and its officials knew they were acting fraudulently when
they made statements about a series of financial instruments
held by Citigroup, including residential-mortgage-backed
securities,  subprime mortgages , structured investment vehicles,
collateralized loan obligations and auction-rate securities.  ‘Strong Defenses’  “We are pleased the court has dismissed the great majority
of plaintiffs’ claims and substantially reduced the class period
at stake,”  Danielle Romero-Apsilos , a Citigroup spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement. She said the bank has strong
defenses to the remaining claims related to CDOs.  Ira M. Press , a lawyer for the investors, said he is
pleased Stein declined to dismiss claims related to Citigroup’s
CDO disclosures. The CDO claims form “the lion’s share” of the
allegations in the complaint, Press said.  Stein dismissed claims against seven of 14 current and
former Citigroup  officials  named in the suit. The remaining
seven, including former Chief Executive Officer  Charles Prince ,
attended meetings in the summer of 2007 to discuss Citigroup’s
CDO exposure, according to the complaint.  “That defendants engaged in meetings concerning
Citigroup’s CDO risks is inconsistent with the company’s public
statements downplaying or concealing that risk,” Stein wrote in
the opinion.  A CDO is a structured debt security backed by a portfolio
of bonds or loans. The CDOs at the center of this suit were
collateralized by nonprime mortgages, according to the
complaint.  The case is In Re Citigroup Inc. Securities Litigation,
07-cv-09901, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 