-- New Zealand Finds Vine Disease Threatening $1.4 Billion of Kiwifruit Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-11-09T12:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-stops-imports-of-new-zealand-kiwifruit-nursery-stock-ministry-says.html
The U.S. and Australia have halted
imports of New Zealand kiwifruit nursery stock after a
bacterial vine disease was discovered in a North Island orchard
and an adjacent orchard was quarantined.  The U.S. has stopped importing the plant material until
they can put certain “requirements in place”, said Helen
Keyes, a spokeswoman for New Zealand’s  Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry . Nursery stock, or plant cuttings imported for
growing, is a “small part” of New Zealand’s kiwifruit export,
she said.  New Zealand produced about 28 percent of the world’s
kiwifruit in 2008, making it the second-biggest supplier after
Italy, according to  data  from the United Nations’ Food and
Agriculture Organization.  “Overseas experience has shown the potential for this
disease to have devastating effects on kiwifruit production,”
Seeka Kiwfruit Industries Ltd. said today in a statement.
Confirmation of the strain may take up to three weeks, it said.  Tests are under way to determine whether a second New
Zealand orchard has been infected with Pseudomonas syringae pv
actinidiae, a disease found in an adjacent orchard in the Bay
of Plenty area, said David Yard, response manager at the
ministry, in a telephone interview. More New Zealand orchards
have been identified as suspicious, he said.  Australia Review  Australia’s Quarantine and Inspection Service said it’s
 stopped  imports of the nursery stock until a review is
completed.  An earlier report today from Television New Zealand saying
the U.S. banned imports of actual kiwifruit was incorrect, Keyes
said.  The pathogen is carried by cuttings and the nursery
material, the service said, adding there are no human health
issues relating to the consumption of the fruit.  Bacterial canker of kiwifruit caused by Pseudomonas
syringae pv. actinidea was first noted in Japan in the 1980s,
according to the European and Mediterranean Plant Protection
Organization. In Europe, the disease was first noticed in
Northern Italy in 1992, according to the group.  The kiwifruit industry earned NZ$1.4 billion ($1.1
billion) in the year ending March 31, according to  Zespri Group
Ltd , the world’s largest marketer of the fruit.  “We now have a restricted place notice on the other
suspect property,” Yard said in the interview.  The European Union is the largest export destination for
New Zealand kiwifruit, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. Frederic Vincent, a spokesman for the 27-nation
bloc, wasn’t immediately able to say whether EU has restricted
imports of New Zealand kiwifruit or nursery material.  The EU imported 265,937 metric tons of kiwifruit last year
with a value of 214.9 million euros ($300 million), according
to figures from Freshfel Europe, the European fresh-produce
industry association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Bourke  in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  and  Jason Scott  in Perth at 
1257 or  jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  