-- U.S. Calls on Russia to Punish Attackers of Reporter
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-11-09T13:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-calls-on-russia-to-punish-attackers-of-reporter-beaten-close-to-death.html
The U.S. called on Russian
authorities to find and punish the people responsible for a
“heinous” assault on Kommersant newspaper reporter Oleg
Kashin.  “A free and independent press is central to a vibrant and
well-functioning democracy,” State Department spokesman  Philip Crowley  told journalists in Washington yesterday, according to a
transcript released by the Federal News Service. “Journalists
around the world must feel free to do their jobs without fear of
intimidation or physical violence.”  Kashin, a political correspondent, was beaten by two men
wielding a metal bar wrapped in flowers outside his apartment
building in the Russian capital early on Nov. 6, according to
the Moscow-based newspaper. Doctors induced a coma to help
Kashin recover from his injuries, which included a fractured
jaw, skull and fingers.  The attack on Kashin, 30, is the latest in a series of
assaults and murders of journalists in Russia in recent years.
Most of the cases remain unsolved, including the 2004 murder of
 Paul Klebnikov , the U.S. editor of Forbes Inc.’s Russian
edition, and the 2006 killing of  Anna Politkovskaya , who wrote
articles critical of the government.  ‘Special Control’  President  Dmitry Medvedev  called on the Interior Ministry
and Prosecutor General’s Office to take the case under their
“special control” a few hours after the attack and vowed to
find the perpetrators.  “Whoever is responsible for this crime will be punished,
regardless of their position,” Medvedev told reporters at a
meeting yesterday, according to a  transcript  posted on the
president’s website. The government must guarantee “the right
to tell truth about people and events in the country,” he said.  A lawmaker from the ruling United Russia party today
introduced a legislative amendment toughening the penalty for
attacking a reporter to a maximum of 20 years, with the
possibility of life imprisonment in the case of murder.  “Unfortunately, attacks on journalists have become routine
and there have been many murders,” Boris Reznik, deputy head of
the lower house of parliament’s media policy committee, said by
telephone. “Journalists fulfill an important role in society by
fighting against corruption and government abuse.”  Iraq, Afghanistan  Eight journalists, many of whom reported critically on the
government, have been killed in Russia in the past year, Crowley
said. “With one exception, the government has failed to
identify, arrest or prosecute any suspects,” he said.  The Committee to Protect Journalists puts the number of
murders of journalists in Russia since 2000 at 19. The New York-
based advocacy group ranks Russia the  eighth-most dangerous
country  for reporters, after nations including Iraq and
Afghanistan.  Another reporter, Anatoly Adamchuk from the independent
weekly Zhukovskiye Vesti, was beaten outside his newspaper’s
offices in the Moscow region and hospitalized with a concussion
yesterday, CPJ said.  Both Kashin and Adamchuk had reported on protests against a
planned highway to St. Petersburg that has come under fire from
environmental activists who claim the project will irreparably
damage the  Khimki  forest outside Moscow.  Vinci Concession  Medvedev in August suspended the plan to build a toll road
between the capital and St. Petersburg and ordered further
studies and public hearings. Some Russian officials, including
OAO Russian Railways president  Vladimir Yakunin , have called for
the construction of the road to go ahead.  Vinci SA , the world’s biggest construction company, on
Sept. 18 defended the chosen route for Russia’s first major toll
road from Moscow to St. Petersburg, saying the government had
provided no alternative proposal. The Rueil-Malmaison, France-
based  company  signed a 60 billion-ruble ($1.9 billion)
concession in 2009 to build and operate the initial stretch of
the highway.  The latest assaults come two years after the near-fatal
beating of a journalist who campaigned against the road. Mikhail
Beketov, the editor of a newspaper based in Khimki, had a leg
amputated as a result of the attack. Another activist,
Konstantin Fetisov, was assaulted with a baseball bat near his
house on Nov. 4 and is in serious condition in hospital.  Attack Video  Russian news site Life News posted a  graphic video  of what
it said was Kashin’s assault, showing two men holding down and
repeatedly beating the reporter with a heavy bar. The tip of his
left little finger was hacked off during the attack, according
to Kashin’s wife, Yevgeniya Milova.  Yaroslav Nikitenko, of the Movement to Defend Khimki
Forest, said he believed the “same people” were behind the
attacks on the activists and Kashin, who had done a lot to
publicize the protests against the highway.  “Those who have an interest in the project going ahead are
local and federal officials,” Nikitenko said in a phone
interview from Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  