-- U.S. Says UAE Is Ating to Block Iran's Efforts to Avoid Nuclear Sanctions
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-11-09T23:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-says-uae-is-ating-to-block-iran-s-efforts-to-avoid-nuclear-sanctions.html
The United Arab Emirates government
is taking steps to prevent Iran from exploiting bilateral
economic ties to evade international sanctions aimed at
preventing nuclear proliferation, U.S. officials said.  UAE is sustaining some economic damage from its efforts to
comply with international obligations under United Nations
sanctions against Iran, two officials told reporters, speaking
at the end of Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s visit to
Abu Dhabi. One official said the economic impact is causing pain
for certain enterprises, if not heavy damage to the country’s
overall economy.  The U.S. Treasury chief met yesterday with Abu Dhabi Crown
Prince  Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed  al-Nahyan during a brief visit
to UAE, between events this week in New Delhi and Singapore, en
route to the Nov. 11-12 Group of 20 leaders summit in Seoul.  Geithner also met with UAE’s Foreign Minister  Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan , Central Bank Governor  Sultan bin Nasser al- Suwaidi  and Minister of State for Financial Affairs  Obaid Humaid al-Tayer , the U.S. Treasury Department said.  U.S. Treasury officials are traveling extensively in the
Middle East to rally support for sanctions aimed at cutting off
funds for Iran’s nuclear regime. Iran has said its nuclear
program is for civil energy purposes, and Brazil and Turkey have
opposed some of the U.N. penalties on the grounds that threats
are ineffective.  Abu Dhabi  While in Abu Dhabi, Geithner and his team discussed UAE’s
experiences with, and challenges from, implementing the
sanctions, one of the U.S. officials said. This ties into U.S.
efforts in Turkey and Iraq, the official said.  UAE is not asking for any of its obligations to be waived,
or for any easing of the actions required by international
sanctions, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Abu Dhabi at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  