-- U.S. Bond Upgrades Beat Europe’s at Record Pace: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-11-09T17:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-bond-rating-upgrades-trounce-europe-by-record-amount-credit-markets.html
U.S. credit quality is improving
relative to Europe at a record pace, reflecting faster economic
growth in North America and ratings downgrades of nations from
Ireland to Greece.  Standard & Poor’s ratio of U.S. upgrades to downgrades is
1.07 this year, compared with 0.46 in Europe, the widest gap
ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. S&P lifted the
ratings of 455 U.S. issuers including  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc.  and lowered 427. In Europe there were 102
upgrades, including France’s second-largest automaker Renault
SA, versus 224 cuts.  The U.S. is benefiting as the Federal Reserve pumps money
into the economy and investors snap up riskier assets, allowing
the neediest borrowers to access capital and refinance debt.
Europe, where interest rates are also at record lows, is lagging
behind, mired in a sovereign-debt crisis and a slow-growing
economy fettered by the strong euro.  “The potential for additional downgrades is the highest in
Europe,” said  Diane Vazza , head of global fixed-income research
at S&P in New York. The region “is plagued by sovereign-debt
uncertainties and expectations for a slow economic recovery,”
she said.  Default Swaps Fall  Moody’s Investors Service also favors U.S. corporate and
sovereign credit quality over Europe’s. The ratio of upgrades to
downgrades by Moody’s in the U.S. this year is 1.43, compared
with 0.25 in Europe. The firm upgraded 429 U.S. issuers and cut
301. The difference between the two regions is a record 1.18.  The gap has grown wider this quarter, according to S&P
data. The difference between the upgrade-downgrade ratios rose
to 1.37 during this three-month period, from 0.02 in the
previous quarter, the data show. Moody’s numbers show the gap
fell to 0.46 from 1.38.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold corporate bonds worldwide rather than government
debt was unchanged yesterday at 165 basis points, or 1.65
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds in the U.S. from
default fell. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on company
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 0.9 basis
point to a mid-price of 86.85 basis points as of 12:18 p.m. in
New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  HCA Offering  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  HCA Inc., the hospital chain acquired four years ago in a
$33 billion leveraged buyout, plans to sell $1.525 billion of
senior unsecured notes as soon as tomorrow, according to a
person familiar with the situation, who declined to be
identified as terms aren’t set.  The company will sell the debt coming due in 2021 through
its HCA Holdings Inc. unit, according to a statement distributed
today by Business Wire. Proceeds, along with borrowings under
the company’s credit facility, may be used to fund a dividend
for private-equity owners, the statement said.  Europe’s slow economic recovery in the wake of the region’s
sovereign deficit crisis is hurting the credit profile of its
borrowers compared with the U.S.  Economic Expansions  The Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  forecasts
the U.S. economy will expand 2.6 percent this year and 2.3
percent in 2011, compared with 1.7 percent and 1.5 percent for
the euro region. The dollar has weakened against all 16 major
currencies since the end of June, while the euro has
strengthened versus 14, making Europe’s exports less
competitive, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The strength of the euro is starting to take its toll,
even on Germany,” Europe’s biggest economy, said  Ian Stannard ,
a currency strategist in London at BNP Paribas, the world’s
largest bank.  U.S. investment-grade bonds have proven to be a better bet
this year, returning 11.9 percent, compared with 6.8 percent for
European debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The difference in performance has grown wider this
quarter, with U.S. debt handing investors 0.53 percent compared
with 0.18 percent for European notes.  Reductions in sovereign ratings are affecting Europe’s
corporate sector, leading to cuts of government-owned companies
and banks whose credit depends in part on the strength of the
nation in which they’re based.  Greek Ratings  When Portugal had its rating lowered two levels to A- by
S&P on April 27, electricity and gas utility  REN-Redes
Energeticas Nacionais SA , which is part-owned by the government,
was also cut. Portuguese lenders Banco Santander Totta SA, Caixa
Geral de Depositos SA, Banco Espirito Santo SA, Banco BPI SA and
Banco Comercial Portugues SA had their ratings reduced on the
same day.  Reducing Greece’s rating three levels to BB+, also on April
27, prompted S&P to downgrade Greek lenders including  EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA , Alpha Bank AE and National Bank of Greece
SA. Spain was cut one level to AA by S&P the next day, bringing
railroads, municipalities and banks down with it.  S&P lifted Boulogne Billancourt-based Renault one level to
BB+ last week after France’s second-largest carmaker raised 3
billion euros selling shares in Volvo AB. The New York-based
firm in October raised Starwood Hotels of White Plains, New
York, to BB+ from BB, citing the “improving global lodging
environment.”  Quantitative Easing  S&P cut Ireland one level to AA- in August and left the
outlook negative to signal it may cut again, citing the
spiraling cost of rescuing the nation’s banks. BT was cut in
February because of the cash-flow drain represented by the
company’s pension deficit.  Morgan Stanley analysts forecast speculative-grade U.S.
company bonds will continue to outperform European debt because
of the growth outlook and the different approaches of the
regions’ central banks to supporting the economy.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced a second round of
so-called quantitative easing on Nov. 3, with a $600 billion
plan to buy Treasuries in an attempt to avert deflation and
stabilize the economy. The following day European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled he intends to stick to a
strategy of pulling back from emergency stimulus measures.  “Looking across multiple avenues -- the macro picture,
technical flows and relative fundamentals -- we still believe
U.S. credit is positioned to outperform,” Morgan Stanley
analysts led by  Adam Richmond  in New York wrote in a client note
on Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  