-- U.S. Airline Cancellations Rise 62% After Tarmac Rule
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-11-09T17:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-airline-cancellations-rose-62-in-september-after-tarmac-delay-rule.html
U.S. airlines  canceled 4,754 flights
in September, a 62 percent jump from the same month a year ago,
as the government requires carriers to let passengers off stuck
flights within three hours.  The cancellation rate, rising to 0.9 percent from 0.57
percent in September 2009, has increased in four of five months
since the Transportation Department imposed a rule April 29 to
discourage airlines from keeping passengers on delayed aircraft.  Delays subject to the rule fell for a fifth straight month,
to four in September from six a year earlier, according to a
Transportation Department  report  released in Washington. Since
May, 12 flights have been delayed by at least three hours, down
from 535 in the same period a year earlier.  Carriers are seeking to avoid fines as high as $27,500 per
customer stuck on a plane during a lengthy delay under the rule
by Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood . Airlines said the
requirement would lead to cancellations, and as of September an
additional 5,000 flights were scrapped, an 18 percent rise,
since the rule took effect.  The agency’s data don’t show how many cancellations are
prompted by the rule or by circumstances such as equipment
breakdowns or foul weather.  “Cancellations are a much worse result for passengers”
than long delays, said  David Stempler , president of the Air
Travelers Association, an advocacy group in Chevy Chase,
Maryland. “The time it takes them to get to their destinations
may last up to days” after a flight is scrubbed, he said.  Stempler said a portion of the increase in cancellations
probably is a result of the tarmac rule, though he said he
doesn’t know how much.  On-Time Slump  The report showed 85.1 percent of flights arrived on time
in September, down from 86.2 percent in the same month a year
earlier.  Hawaiian Holdings Inc. ’s Hawaiian Airlines had the best on-
time rate in September at 95.8 percent, followed by  AirTran
Holdings Inc.  at 90.7 percent and  Alaska Air Group Inc. ’s Alaska
Airlines at 90.5 percent.  Delta Air Lines Inc. ’s Comair regional carrier had 78.2
percent of flights on-time, the lowest among 18 airlines that
report results.  JetBlue Airways Corp.  had the second-worst rate
at 78.8 percent, followed by Delta at 81.5 percent.  San Francisco and New York’s Kennedy and LaGuardia had the
worst on-time performance among major airports, with fewer than
80 percent of flights arriving on time in September.  Denver’s airport had the best on-time performance, at 90
percent, followed by Phoenix at 88.9 percent and Baltimore at 88
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   or  lliebert@bloomberg.net . 