-- Ex-Glaxo Lawyer Charged With Making False Statements
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-11-09T21:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-charges-drug-company-lawyer-with-making-false-statements-during-probe.html
A former in-house attorney for
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  was charged with obstruction and making
false statements during a U.S. investigation into unapproved
uses of its antidepressant drug Wellbutrin SR.  Lauren Stevens, of Durham, North Carolina, was accused
yesterday in an indictment of impeding an inquiry in 2002 and
2003 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration into the marketing
of the drug for uses not approved by the FDA. Stevens was a vice
president and associate general counsel for London-based Glaxo.  Stevens signed letters to the FDA making false statements
and hid the extent of the company’s promotion of the drug for
unapproved uses, including weight loss, according to the
indictment. She withheld that the company paid a Vermont
physician to speak at 511 promotional events in 2001 and 2002 to
discuss off-label uses and also paid Michigan doctor to give 488
talks, prosecutors said.  “There is a difference between legal advocacy based on the
facts and distorting the facts to cover up the truth,”  Carmen Ortiz , U.S. attorney for Massachusetts, said today in a
statement. “Federal agencies such as the FDA cannot protect the
public health if entities and individuals they regulate provide
false information.”  The indictment doesn’t identify the company or the drug by
name. Glaxo spokeswoman  Mary Anne Rhyne  confirmed in an e-mail
that Stevens worked in the legal department and is now retired,
and the drug was Wellbutrin SR.  Stevens, who was investigated by Ortiz’s office, was
indicted in Maryland, where the FDA is based.  ‘Not Guilty’  “Lauren Stevens is an utterly decent and honorable
woman,” her lawyer,  Brien T. O’Connor  of  Ropes & Gray LLP , said
in an e-mailed statement. “She is not guilty of obstruction or
of making false statements. Everything she did in this case was
consistent with ethical lawyering and the advice provided her by
a nationally prominent law firm retained by her employer
specifically because of its experience in working with FDA.”  Stevens told the FDA she would collect materials about
Glaxo’s promotion of the drug, which was approved only for a
single use, “the treatment of a major depressive disorder in
patients age 18 or older,” according to the indictment.  After a teleconference with the FDA on Nov. 5, 2002,
Stevens agreed the company would send letters to all health-care
professionals who spoke about the drug in a set time period, the
indictment said. Glaxo identified 2,700 speakers who gave
promotional talks, and Stevens wrote to 550 to ask for the
slides and materials they used, according to the indictment.  Promotional Materials  About 40 promotional speakers gave their slides to the
company, and she sent letters to 28 of them saying they
contained information about unapproved uses, according to the
indictment.  Stevens met with the Michigan doctor who spoke at 488
events and reviewed his materials, including an audio cassette,
which showed he “repeatedly promoted” Wellbutrin for
unapproved uses, including weight loss, the indictment said. She
also learned that the Vermont doctor who spoke at 511 events had
made similar statements, according to the indictment.  Stevens sent three false letters between February 2003 and
May 2003 to the FDA, failing to disclose that Glaxo had directly
encouraged the use of Wellbutrin for weight loss, that it paid
doctors to give promotional talks, and that it held “special
issue boards” to discuss unapproved uses, the indictment said.  In March 2003, Stevens got a memo from “other lawyers
involved in responding to the FDA” that discussed the pros and
cons of handing over the promotional materials gathered. One
benefit of disclosure, it said, was that it “potentially
garners credibility with FDA,” the indictment said.  Incriminating Evidence  The negatives, it said, were that it potentially
demonstrated “lack of control” over sales representatives and
physician speakers and could provide incriminating evidence
against the company “in this or a future investigation.”  Stevens didn’t turn over the materials and said the company
only promoted the drug for approved uses, according to the
indictment.  She learned in September 2003 that a Glaxo sales
representative told the FDA about the off-label promotions and
sent a copy of slides used by the Vermont doctor and a
California physician touting unapproved uses, according to the
indictment.  ‘Isolated Deficiencies’  Stevens wrote to the FDA in November 2003, sending the
slide sets she knew the agency already had and saying that while
she found “isolated deficiencies,” the evidence “clearly
demonstrates” Glaxo didn’t engage in off-label promotions.  Stevens knew the company “had held what was likely more
than 1,000 programs that were led by speakers whose presentation
materials included off-label information” about the drug and so
were not “isolated deficiencies,” the indictment said.  A spokeswoman for Ortiz,  Christina Sterling , said Stevens
will be summoned to make an initial appearance in court.  Stevens is charged with one count of obstructing an
official proceeding, one count of falsifying and concealing
documents and four counts of making false statements. The first
two charges carry maximum terms of 20 years, and the others
carry terms of five years.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, agreed Oct. 27 to pay
$750 million to settle a U.S. whistleblower lawsuit over the
sale of defective drugs.  The case is U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-694, U.S. District
Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 