-- U.S. Beef Exporters Urge Speed, Not Changes, in South Korean Trade Accord
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-11-09T23:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/u-s-beef-exporters-urge-speed-not-changes-in-south-korea-trade-pact.html
American beef exporters are pushing
the Obama administration and Congress to approve a pending trade
agreement with South Korea without delay rather than hold out
for concessions on their behalf.  U.S. exports of beef are up 175 percent in the first eight
months of this year to $331 million, regaining sales that
collapsed following concern about mad-cow disease that sickened
animals in 2003, according to Commerce Department data.
Australia and Canada are pursuing their own free-trade
agreements with South Korea, and their suppliers may gain on
U.S. producers, according to the American Meat Institute.  “The market is coming back and it would be a shame to lose
this opportunity,” said William Westman, vice president for
international trade at the Washington group, which  represents 
companies such as  Tyson Foods Inc.  and Cargill Inc. American
exporters “don’t want to be put at a disadvantage to our
competitors.”  President  Barack Obama  is to meet South Korea President  Lee Myung Bak  in Seoul tomorrow, and both sides are aiming to wrap
up talks on the agreement before then. Beef is one of the two
issues that U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said must be
renegotiated before the agreement, which has languished since
being signed in 2007, can be sent to Congress. Kirk hasn’t said
what changes he is seeking.  The U.S. is also aiming to secure pledges to open the
Korean auto market to American-made cars. Negotiations between
Kirk and  Kim Jong Hoon , the Korean trade minister, are to resume
today in Seoul, according to a statement yesterday from Kirk’s
office.  Beef Protests  U.S. beef has become a political issue in Korea, and Lee
had to apologize in 2008 after agreeing to allow imports, which
triggered candlelight vigils by tens of thousands of people
concerned about food safety. The protests prompted U.S.
producers to limit exports to cows that are younger than 30
months, which may have a lower risk for mad-cow disease.  More than 90 percent of U.S. beef exports come from cows
younger than 30 months, according to the  National Cattlemen’s
Beef Association , based in Centennial, Colorado.  While the beef industry is pushing for quick approval of
the accord, Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman
of the Finance Committee, has said the free-trade agreement, or
FTA, can’t win approval by Congress unless the 30-month cap is
removed.  “No deal is better than a bad deal,” Baucus told Kirk at
a congressional hearing on Aug. 6. “I don’t know why I should
schedule a hearing on a Korean FTA that does not include all
beef, all ages, all cuts,” Baucus said.  A spokesman for Baucus didn’t return e-mail and telephone
messages yesterday seeking comment on the talks.  Delay, Backlash  Beef producers are worried that pushing for such a pledge
may mean a delay for the overall agreement, or a backlash among
Korean consumers who will spurn U.S. beef, said Jeffrey Schott,
a senior fellow at the  Peterson Institute for International
Economics  in Washington.  “From the point of view of the U.S. beef exporters, it’s a
no-brainer” to get the deal done, said Schott, who traveled to
Seoul in recent weeks to meet Korean officials. “This doesn’t
seem like it’s worth blowing up the deal over.”  Once the agreement goes into effect, Korea will phase out
its 40 percent duty on beef imports, cutting it by 2.5 percent a
year for 15 years, Westman said.  If the U.S. agreement takes effect before Korea finishes
deals with Canada and Australia, it would give American
producers an advantage for 15 years, he said. If not, producers
in those countries would get a head start on the tariff cuts.  Accord ‘Done Now’  “As far as the priority, let’s get the free-trade
agreement done now,” Westman said at a forum in Washington on
Oct. 19.  U.S. beef exports to Korea are on course to exceed $500
million this year, more than double last year’s total of $208
million, according to Commerce data. In 2003, the exports
totaled $742 million, making Korea the third-largest export
market after Japan and Mexico.  The South Korea accord is the biggest for the U.S. since
the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement, and the Obama
administration’s stated goal of completing it is being watched
as a signal about whether the U.S. is capable of getting trade
deals approved by Congress, according to  William Reinsch ,
president of the National Foreign Trade Council in Washington.  Companies such as Citigroup Inc.,  United Parcel Service
Inc . and  Ace  Ltd. say the deal will help open the Korean market
to more U.S. exports and foreign investment in financial
services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  