-- Mummy Guidebook to Hereafter Fascinates at British Museum: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-11-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/mummy-guidebook-to-hereafter-fascinates-at-british-museum-martin-gayford.html
Death in ancient Egypt was far from
straightforward. A new and splendid exhibition at the  British
Museum  -- “Journey Through the Afterlife: Ancient Egyptian Book
of the Dead” -- makes that clear.  Viewed from within the mummy case, the hereafter was strewn
with pitfalls. The “Book of the Dead” was a post mortem self-
help manual to get you safely through the tricky early stages to
the Egyptian paradise, or “Field of Reeds.”  This is not the kind of show you can just relax and enjoy.
There’s a steep learning curve, as there was for the occupants
of the tombs in the Valley of the Kings. Renaissance Italian art
isn’t really comprehensible without a smattering of Greco-Roman
mythology and Biblical events. Similarly, to appreciate Egyptian
imagery, you have to assimilate a pantheon of gods (many beast-
headed), plus numerous arcane rituals and beliefs.  So this exhibition involves work. On the other hand, it’s
beautifully designed: The installation is in a maze-like series
of spaces within the old Reading Room that evoke the gloom and
mystery of Pharaonic architecture, though I could have done
without the sci-fi sound effects.  The exhibits largely come from the BM’s own collection, the
largest in the world (seldom displayed for conservation
reasons). In Egyptologist terms, the Books of the Dead
themselves are actually a bit newfangled, only appearing in the
17th century B.C. That means they date from the New Kingdom
(16th century B.C. to 11th century B.C.), or later -- at which
point Egyptian civilization already had been established for
more than a millennium.  Fashionable Spells  If not actually mass produced, the books (papyrus scrolls)
were made in quantity and stayed in fashion on and off for 1,500
years. Thousands survive. Many have the weird quality -- a
consequence of the hot, arid Egyptian climate -- of looking as
if they had been written last week even though they are 3,500
years old. Often magnificently illustrated, they contain spells
and hymns to the gods to avert the perils of afterlife.  There were plenty of perils and spells. The largest
surviving example -- “The Greenfield Papyrus,” made around
990-969 B.C. for Nesitanebisheru, daughter of a high priest --
is 37 meters in length. Also on show are coffin cases and other
accessories for the well-furnished tomb.  I emerged understanding the Ancient Egyptian cosmos a good
deal better, though admittedly starting from a somewhat low
base. Much of it seems strange, and also, if you come from a
Judeo-Christian background, oddly familiar. The Egyptian
paradise, an idealized version of the Nile Valley landscape, is
reminiscent of the Garden of Eden and the Greek Elysian Fields.  Murdering Queen  The toughest test the dead faced was interrogation by 42
divine judges to whom one had to plead innocence of a long list
of offenses. Among these was murder, of which Queen Nodjmet was
definitely guilty. Amazingly, the BM has an incriminating letter
on show beside her Book of the Dead.  At this point, the heart -- believed to be the site of
consciousness -- was weighed in a pair of scales much like those
used in paintings of the Last Judgment. If these tipped the
wrong way, you were prey to the “Devourer,” a nasty-looking
customer with the head of a crocodile, forelegs of a lion and
back end of a hippopotamus. But the Books of the Dead always
show the owner arriving successfully in the Field of Reeds. Some
things don’t change: Self-help manuals tend to look on the
bright side.  “Journey Through the Afterlife: Ancient Egyptian Book of
the Dead” is at the British Museum, London, through March 6,
2011. The exhibition is sponsored by  BP Plc .  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by  Lucian Freud .”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 