-- Hungary Can Avert Credit-Rating Downgrade on Budget Cuts, Csefalvay Says
-- B y   D o u g l a s   L y t l e   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-09T10:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/hungary-can-avert-credit-rating-downgrade-on-budget-cuts-csefalvay-says.html
Hungary can avert a credit-rating
downgrade because the cabinet is “totally committed” to cutting
the budget gap below the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of
economic output, said  Zoltan Csefalvay , an economy official.  “I don’t think that there will be changes in a negative way
because Hungary is totally committed to sticking to this budget-
deficit target,” Csefalvay, a state secretary in the Economy
Ministry, said in an interview yesterday in Vienna.  Moody’s will make a decision this month on whether to cut
Hungary’s credit rating from Baa1, the third-lowest investment
grade, Frankfurt-based Moody’s analyst  Dietmar Hornung  said on
Oct. 25. Standard & Poor’s on Nov. 3 maintained Hungary’s rating
at BBB-, the lowest investment grade, with a negative outlook.  The government is levying a three-year tax on selected
industries starting this year and using private pension funds to
plug budget holes from a reduction of the personal income tax to
a flat 16 percent next year. It targets a 2011  shortfall  of 2.94
percent of gross domestic product, compared with 3.8 percent
this year.  For its rating decision, Moody’s will assess “to what
extent the measures that have been announced are appropriate to
preserve economic strength and financial strength,” Hornung
said. S&P on Nov. 3 said the government’s measures were “largely
ad hoc,” sufficient to meet short-term budget targets while
failing to address the “structural deficit” that may lead to the
shortfall widening to 6 percent of GDP by 2014.  Csefalvay said the special taxes on companies in the
energy, financial, retail, telecommunication industries are
balanced by cuts in the corporate income-tax rate that will help
make the economy more competitive.  “Just to deal with the fiscal imbalances is a short-term
solution,” Csefalvay said. “Without increasing competitiveness,
we can’t solve the problem.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Douglas Lytle  at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net  