-- Munich Re Raises Profit Goal on Mild Hurricane Season
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-11-09T15:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/munich-re-raises-2010-profit-forecast-on-mild-hurricane-season-investment.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, raised its 2010 profit forecast after third-quarter
earnings increased, helped by a mild hurricane season and
better-than-estimated investment income.  Net income attributable to shareholders rose to 764 million
euros ($1.06 billion) from 643 million euros in the year-earlier
period, the Munich-based company said in an e-mailed  statement 
today. That exceeded the average projection of 571 million euros
in a Bloomberg survey of six analysts.  Munich Re raised its full-year target for  net income before
minority interests  to about 2.4 billion euros amid “high income
from investments” and a “favorable claims experience.” That
compares with an earlier forecast for profit of more than 2
billion euros. Net income including minority interests stood at
1.96 billion euros after the first nine months of 2010.  “Profit in the third quarter was again driven by an
exceptionally high investment income,” said  Thomas Noack , a
Dusseldorf-based analyst at WestLB AG. “The increased full-year
guidance is rather conservative, reflecting the expectation of a
less favorable investment result.”  The reinsurer, led by Chief Executive Officer  Nikolaus von Bomhard , resumed plans to buy back as much as 1 billion euros of
its own stock by the 2011 shareholders’ meeting to woo
 investors , including  Warren Buffett  and asset manager  BlackRock
Inc.  Billionaire investor Buffett last month raised his stake in
Munich Re to more than 10 percent.  Swiss Re  Buffett also holds about 3 percent in  Swiss Reinsurance
Co. , the world’s second-largest reinsurer. The Zurich-based
company said Nov. 4 that it agreed to an early repayment of 3
billion Swiss francs ($3.1 billion) of capital injected by
Buffett last year.  “I don’t believe Buffett will raise his stake in Munich Re
substantially beyond his current holding and we are pleased to
have him as an investor,” Munich Re Chief Financial Officer
 Joerg Schneider  said on a conference call today.  Munich Re fell 3 euros, or 2.6 percent, to 112.25 euros at
3:39 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The shares have increased 3.3
percent this year, giving the company a market value of about 21
billion euros.  Reinsurers, which help primary insurers such as  Allianz SE 
shoulder risks for clients, are benefitting from the second
benign U.S. hurricane season in a row. The 2010 June-through-
November storm season has not resulted in major damages. In
2008,  Hurricane Ike  hit the U.S. coast and cost insurers $18.5
billion, according to  estimates  by Munich Re, making it the
second-most expensive natural disaster for the industry after
Hurricane Katrina, which cost insurers $62 billion in 2005.  Combined Ratio  Spending on claims and costs as a percentage of net
premiums at Munich Re’s property and casualty reinsurance unit
stood at 93.8 percent in the third quarter, compared with a
ratio of 93.1 percent a year earlier. If claims experienced for
the remainder of the year are normal, Munich Re expects the
combined ratio for 2010 to be just under 100 percent, it said.  A ratio above 100 percent means an insurer’s claims and
costs exceed premium income, giving it a loss from underwriting.
Munich Re aims for a combined ratio of around 97 percent “over
the market cycle as a whole.”  As capacity for reinsurance coverage meets or slightly
exceeds demand from primary insurers, rates for property and
casualty reinsurance are likely to remain unchanged in the
January round of renewals, Munich Re said on Oct. 25, echoing
comments from rival  Hannover Re .  ‘Somewhat Higher’  For 2011, Munich Re expects “a somewhat higher
underwriting result and a marginally lower consolidated
result,” it said.  “That would be a good consolidated result, only slightly
below our substantially raised profit guidance for 2010,” CFO
Schneider said. Next year’s profit is projected at 2 billion
euros to 2.4 billion euros, he said.  Munich Re doesn’t anticipate any significant rise in
interest rates in 2011, expecting a lower medium-term investment
result with a return on investments of under 4 percent, it said.
For 2010, the reinsurer raised its ROI forecast from just over 4
percent to about 4.5 percent.  Investment income on Munich Re’s 194 billion euros of total
investments declined 1.5 percent to 2.2 billion euros in the
quarter, beating the 2.11 billion-euro analyst estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  