-- United Nations Probes 770 Cases of Sexual Violence in Angolan Expulsions
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-11-09T10:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/united-nations-probes-770-cases-of-sexual-violence-in-angolan-expulsions.html
The United Nations is investigating
more than 770 alleged cases of sexual violence against people
expelled by Angola to neighboring the  Democratic Republic of
Congo  since September.  Doctors have so far verified that 114 women and men were
victims of sexual violence, according to the International
Committee for the Development of Peoples, a Rome-based aid group
known as CISP. More than 7,000 people were expelled by  Angola  to
Congo during September and October for being in the country
illegally, the UN said.  “What concerns us are not the expulsions, which are in many
cases legal, but the violence that often accompanies them,”
Maurizio Giuliano, spokesman for the UN Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, said in an interview
yesterday in Kinshasa, the Congolese capital.  Expulsions of Congolese from its richer, southern neighbor
are common. Last year, more than 150,000 people were forced from
Angola between January and October, the UN said. Many Congolese
migrants cross the border to work in Angolan diamond mines.  All of those expelled in the past three months had their
possessions taken from them and arrived “almost naked,” Anotino
Mangia, protection coordinator for  CISP , said by phone from
Kinshasa yesterday.  When migrants are expelled, some are subjected to full-body
searches by police or military at the border to check for
smuggled diamonds, Mangia said. The searches include vaginal and
anal examinations, which are sometimes done “without gloves or
without protection or with gloves used on others,” he said.
Authorities occasionally go beyond what a typical search would
require, Mangia said.  ‘Sexual Slavery’  In some cases, women have been detained near the border for
days in a situation Mangia described as “sexual slavery.” Others
have been beaten, he said.  Angola’s ambassador to Congo, Emilio Guerra, declined to
comment when called by Bloomberg today.  In a separate e-mailed statement today,  UNICEF  called for
“special protection measures and action by the relevant
authorities on both sides of the border.” The organization said
it hasn’t verified the number of victims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 