-- Turkey Can Help Broker Nuclear Agreement as Host of Iran Talks, Gul Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2010-11-09T20:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/turkey-prepared-to-host-negotiations-between-iran-world-powers-gul-says.html
Turkey, which has backed diplomacy
over sanctions to contain Iran’s nuclear program, can help
broker an accord as the host of talks between the Islamic
republic and world powers, President  Abdullah Gul  said.  Turkey expects to host the “very important” negotiations
and “has the capacity to contribute,” Gul said in an interview
with Bloomberg TV in London.  Iranian Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  said today that
Turkey was “agreed upon” as the location and the talks may
start Nov. 15, the state-run Mehr news agency reported. Turkish
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said no definite date has
been set, according to the Anatolia news agency.  Gul, president since 2007 and foreign minister for four
years before that, and Erdogan have overseen a shift in Turkey’s
foreign policy that has disturbed some traditional allies in
Europe, the U.S. and Israel. While the country began accession
talks with the European Union in 2005, it has also pursued
closer relations with neighbors in the Middle East including
Iran and Syria, and has repeatedly criticized Israel, for
decades a close security ally.  U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said
today Iran has responded to European Union foreign affairs chief
 Catherine Ashton ’s letter soliciting a meeting and “indicated
it is prepared to move ahead.” Crowley said the U.S. hoped a
meeting might take place by the end of the month, though a
specific date and location hadn’t yet been agreed upon.  Series of Meetings  “We want to see a return to the kind of meeting we had a
year ago,” Crowley told reporters in Washington. “We would
like to see it be a series of meetings not just one. These are
difficult, complex issues and clearly none of these issues can
be resolved in a single meeting.”  Turkey in June joined Brazil to vote against a U.S.-backed
resolution in the United Nations Security Council imposing
tighter sanctions against Iran to curb its nuclear program on
concern it may seek to develop atomic weapons. The two countries
in May brokered an agreement with Iran to swap its nuclear fuel
that was criticized by the U.S.  Iran wants the Turkey-Brazil accord to be part of the
negotiations, Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  said last
week. The accord would have allowed Iran to exchange some of the
uranium it has enriched for fuel that is only usable in its
Tehran medical research reactor.  The U.S. will offer a “revised” proposal for a fuel swap,
State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said on Oct. 28.  Gul said that Iran “has to be more transparent to convince
the international community.”  ‘Artificial Obstacles’  Gul also criticized the European Union for imposing
“artificial obstacles” to Turkish membership, and said the
deterioration in Turkey’s ties with Israel is the fault of the
Jewish state. Israel should make amends according to
international law for the “crime” it committed in killing nine
Turkish activists aboard an aid ship in May, he said.  The incident hurt ties between the allies that had already
been under strain since Israel’s 2008 incursion into the Gaza
Strip. Israel said its soldiers were attacked by activists
aboard the Turkish ship, as they sought to prevent it from
breaching the blockade of the Gaza Strip.  Gul, 60, was elected by parliament over protests from the
country’s secular army, which objected to his Islamist
background and clashed with Erdogan over Gul’s nomination.  He’s the first holder of the post whose wife wears the
traditional Islamic headscarf, one of the issues that has
triggered tensions between Erdogan’s government and Turkey’s
secular army and courts. When Gul was sworn in three years ago,
the chief of Turkey’s General Staff and the secular main
opposition party boycotted the ceremony.  State Secularism  Gul was a founding member of Erdogan’s  Justice and
Development Party  or AK Party, and has been a loyal ally of the
premier, who was jailed in 1998 on charges of seeking to
undermine the secularism of the state.  In 2002, when the AK Party came to power, Erdogan was still
banned from office because of that jail sentence, and Gul served
as the party’s first prime minister for four months. He stepped
aside in March 2003 for Erdogan to take the position after the
AK-dominated parliament lifted the ban.  Erdogan and Gul have presided over record  economic
expansion , a surge in investment and a decline in the  inflation
rate  to a 39-year low.  Turkey has drawn about eight times as much  foreign direct
investment  as in the previous decade, according to the Treasury.
Inflation averaged 12.5 percent under the Ak Party, from 72
percent in the previous six years. Gross domestic product grew
at an annual pace of about 5 percent, and in the first half of
2010 growth exceeded 10 percent, rivaling China. The  ISE-100
stock index  has added more than 33 percent this year.  New Constitution  Gul today called for a new Turkish constitution that will
strengthen rights and freedoms, a project Erdogan has said he’ll
undertake if re-elected next year. The president also expressed
concern about allegations that the Turkish media has been
subjected to political pressure.  “We don’t want to hear anyone say that Turkey is a country
with a bad reputation for press freedom,” Gul said.  Turkey was criticized by the EU when tax authorities
imposed fines of more than $3 billion on the country’s biggest
media group,  Dogan Yayin Holding AS , in 2008 and 2009 after its
publications became embroiled in a row with Erdogan over their
coverage of a corruption scandal. The government said the
penalty resulted from a routine inspection.  Later today, Gul will receive the Chatham House Prize from
 Queen Elizabeth II . The prize is awarded to “the statesperson
who is deemed by Chatham House members to have made the most
significant contribution to the improvement of international
relations in the previous year.” Last year’s winner was former
Brazilian President  Luiz Ignacio Lula  da Silva.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  at 
 Bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
 Francine Lacqua  in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  