-- Venezuela Prices Rise Most in Three Months as Shortages Drive Up Staples
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-11-09T19:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/venezuela-prices-rise-most-in-three-months-as-shortages-drive-up-staples.html
Venezuelan consumer prices in October
rose the most in three months as shortages of staple foods such
as milk and sugar pushed inflation higher.  Consumer prices rose 1.5 percent last month, up from a 1.3
percent climb in September, according to the central bank’s
benchmark  Caracas price index , matching the median  forecast  of
seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual inflation slowed
to 27.6 percent from 28.5 percent, the bank said.  The rise in consumer prices snaps five months of
disinflation as the Venezuelan economy has yet to emerge from a
recession that began last year. Inflation will accelerate in the
next few months as the government relaxes food price controls to
avoid shortages, said  Asdrubal Oliveros , director Ecoanalitica.  “The government is playing a game of trying to strike a
balance between food shortages and avoiding raising prices,”
Oliveros said at the sidelines of an event in Caracas. “Going
forward, I don’t see a reduction in inflation like we saw in the
last few months.”  Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said last month that
inflation was decelerating as the government assumes greater
control over the production, distribution and sale of food
goods.  Central bank President  Nelson Merentes  said on Nov. 3 that
consumer prices will rise 26 percent this year, and that the
bank will target single digit inflation by 2013.  Recession  Monthly inflation as measured by the central bank’s
 national consumer price index , which measures prices across the
country, was also 1.5 percent in October, the bank said today in
an e-mailed statement. Annual inflation slowed to 27.5 percent,
the bank said.  Education, alcoholic beverages and tobacco rose the most in
October, according to the bank. Food prices, which have the
biggest weight in the consumer price index, surged 1.6 percent
from 0.3 percent a month earlier, the statement said.  The government yesterday raised the price of corn flour and
rice by as much as 24 percent -- the first increase since March
-- in a bid to avoid food shortages.  Consumer prices have stabilized in recent months as a five-
quarter contraction has seen limited industrial output and a
contraction in foreign investment,  Boris Segura , Latin America
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc., said in a
telephone interview from New York.  “The recession is doing the work,” said Segura. “If the
authorities were really determined to bring down inflation, they
should attack the causes and not the symptoms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net 
 Corina Rodriguez-Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  