-- Virgin America Sees Chicago O'Hare, Atlanta Flights Next Year
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-11-09T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/virgin-america-sees-chicago-o-hare-atlanta-flights-next-year.html
Virgin America Inc., the low-fare
airline partly owned by U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson , plans
to add flights to Chicago, Atlanta and Houston next year if it
can secure gates in those U.S. cities.  Discussions with Chicago over gates at O’Hare airport, the
nation’s second-busiest, have “moved forward” and may be
resolved by year’s end,  David Cush , chief executive officer of
Virgin America, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Virgin America wants to lease two gates in O’Hare’s
Concourse L inside Terminal 3 that are now controlled by Delta
Air Lines Inc., he said. The closely held carrier, based in
Burlingame, California, has been trying to enter O’Hare for more
than three years.  “If we can make progress in the next 60 days, I think
you’ll see Virgin America in Chicago in April,” Cush said.
“The city is making good progress in taking control of that
concourse. We wish them success because we want in.”  Other cities under consideration for next year are Atlanta,
the world’s busiest airport and fortress hub of Delta; Houston,
a hub for United Continental Holdings Inc., which surpassed
Delta as the world’s largest carrier this year when United
Airlines and Continental Airlines merged; and Philadelphia, a
hub for US Airways Group Inc.  Virgin America will learn from initiating service to
Dallas-Fort Worth airport, the hometown hub of AMR Corp.’s
American Airlines, and use those findings to inform its
decisions on the other venues dominated by competitors, Cush
said.  First Net Income  Early bookings in Dallas are “quite strong” and “on par
or exceeding the rest of the network,” he said.  Also today, the carrier posted the first net income in its
three-year history, earning $7.48 million for the three months
ended Sept. 30. That compares with a net loss of $5.94 million a
year earlier. Revenue rose 28 percent to $202 million.  Virgin America is benefiting from higher fares and
increased demand for travel as the U.S. economy improves. The
carrier plans to buy 40 more planes as it adds routes to new
cities including Cancun, Mexico.  The airline, which started service in August 2007, has a
fleet of 28 Airbus SAS A320 jets and flies to cities including
San Francisco, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Seattle, Washington, New
York’s John F. Kennedy airport and Boston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 