-- Vodafone to Sell Softbank Interests for $5 Billion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-09T12:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/vodafone-to-sell-softbank-interests-for-5-billion-raises-profit-forecast.html
Vodafone Group Plc  plans to sell
securities in Japanese wireless operator Softbank Corp. for 3.1
billion pounds ($5 billion), hastening the disposal of minority
assets to focus on data services and other growth areas.  The world’s largest mobile-phone company also today raised
its full-year profit forecast, after fiscal first-half sales
rose 3.9 percent to 22.6 billion pounds. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell 1.2 percent
to 7.36 billion pounds, the company said in a statement. That
beat the average  estimate  of 7.29 billion pounds by analysts in
a Bloomberg survey.  The proceeds from the planned Softbank sale are “better
than expected,” said  Mandeep Singh , an analyst at Berenberg
Bank in London, adding that Vodafone released “a very good set
of first-half results.”  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao , a former
McKinsey & Co. partner, has said he’s reviewing all minority
interests amid pressure from shareholders to squeeze more out of
the investments. Earlier this year, Vodafone placed its minority
holdings into a separate unit directly managed by Colao and
Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Halford .  Shares of Vodafone rose as much as 2.8 percent to 179.9
pence today in London trading and were up 0.5 percent as of
12:10 p.m. Before today, the stock had gained 22 percent this
year.  Vodafone Japan Deal  Vodafone will sell to Softbank the financial instruments
created through the disposal of Vodafone Japan in two tranches.
The first tranche will be sold in December 2010 for 1.6 billion
pounds to pay down net debt. The second one will be sold in
April 2012 for 1.5 billion pounds.  Softbank said in a separate statement that it will mainly
buy preferred stock and stock acquisitions rights issued to
Vodafone as a result of the Vodafone Japan acquisition in 2006.  Vodafone also in September sold a stake in China Mobile
Ltd. for $6.5 billion in the biggest divestment since Colao took
charge.  The CEO is also reviewing stakes in French mobile-phone
company  SFR  and U.S. operator  Verizon Wireless  and is
considering a sale of Vodafone’s holding in Polkomtel SA,
Poland’s biggest mobile-phone operator.  Asked about Verizon Wireless, Colao told reporters today
that he still expects “ dividends  from cash generation at some
point in the future.”  Verizon Wireless Dividend  Vodafone hasn’t received a dividend from the joint venture
since 2005 as partner Verizon Communications used the unit’s
proceeds to pay down debt. CFO Halford said today Vodafone may
receive a dividend in 2012.  “We have today announced an updated strategy, which
positions Vodafone to realize further value from non-controlled
assets and take full advantage of the most valuable
telecommunications growth opportunities,” Colao said in the
statement.  The company today raised its full-year profit forecast and
now predicts an adjusted operating profit in a range of 11.8
billion pounds to 12.2 billion pounds.  “Vodafone’s first-half results look good, with revenues
and earnings ahead of consensus,” Evolution Securities analysts
 John McPate  and  Steve Malcolm  said in a note today.  Vodafone, like other operators faced with falling profit
margins on traditional voice offerings, has invested in networks
to ride the wave of demand for data-hungry devices such as  Apple
Inc .’s iPhone that allow users to surf the Web and download
music and videos.  ‘Wave of Adoption’  The CEO said he will invest in networks to take advantage
of the “huge wave of adoption” of data use. “It is an
acceleration, it is deeper investment,” Colao said today. “The
core focus of our growth will be enhancing networks.”  Vodafone, based in  Newbury, England , has said it plans to
increase the percentage of sales from smartphones in Europe to
about 70 percent in the fiscal year ending March 2013 from 30
percent in 2010.  The company also intends to switch to tiered pricing plans
based on the amount of data used and quality of service from its
fiscal third quarter, Colao said at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
conference in New York.  About 11 percent of Vodafone’s users have smartphones. The
company, which initially missed out on selling the iPhone in the
U.K. to  Telefonica SA’s  O2, is now offering the device in its
home market and in Germany and the Netherlands.  The company today also wrote down the value of its Greek
operations by 800 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 