-- Vodafone Says It Plans to Sell Its Interests in Softbank For $5 Billion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-09T07:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/vodafone-says-it-plans-to-sell-its-interests-in-softbank-for-5-billion.html
Vodafone Group Plc  plans to sell
interests in Japanese wireless operator Softbank Corp. for a
total of 3.1 billion pounds ($5 billion) as it seeks to speed up
the sale of minority assets and other holdings.  The world’s largest mobile-phone company will sell the
financial instruments created through the disposal of Vodafone
Japan in two tranches. The first tranche will be sold in
December 2010 for 1.6 billion pounds to pay down net debt. The
second one will be sold in April 2012 for 1.5 billion pounds.  The company today raised its full-year profit forecast,
after fiscal first-half sales rose 3.9 percent to 22.6 billion
pounds from a year earlier. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization fell 1.2 percent to 7.36 billion
pounds in the six months through September, beating the average
 estimate  of 7.29 billion pounds by analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao , a former
McKinsey & Co. partner, has said he’s reviewing all minority
interests amid pressure from shareholders to squeeze more out of
the investments. Earlier this year, Vodafone placed its minority
holdings into a separate unit directly managed by Colao and
Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Halford .  Vodafone in September sold a stake in China Mobile Ltd. for
$6.5 billion in the biggest divestment since Colao took charge.  The CEO is also reviewing stakes in French mobile-phone
company  SFR  and U.S. operator  Verizon Wireless  and is
considering a sale of Vodafone’s holding in Polkomtel SA,
Poland’s biggest mobile-phone operator.  Strategy Update  “We have today announced an updated strategy, which
positions Vodafone to realize further value from non-controlled
assets and take full advantage of the most valuable
telecommunications growth opportunities,” Colao said in the
statement.  The company today raised its full-year profit forecast and
now predicts an adjusted operating profit in a range of 11.8
billion pounds to 12.2 billion pounds.  Vodafone, like other operators faced with falling profit
margins on traditional voice offerings, has invested in networks
to ride the wave of demand for data-hungry devices such as  Apple
Inc .’s iPhone that allow users to surf the Web and download
music and videos.  Vodafone, based in  Newbury, England , has said it plans to
increase the percentage of sales from smartphones in Europe to
about 70 percent in the fiscal year ending March 2013 from 30
percent in 2010.  Tiered Pricing Plans  The company also intends to switch to tiered pricing plans
based on the amount of data used and quality of service from its
fiscal third quarter, Colao said at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
conference in New York.  About 11 percent of Vodafone’s users have smartphones. The
company, which initially missed out on selling the iPhone in the
U.K. to  Telefonica SA’s  O2, is now offering the device in its
home market and in Germany and the Netherlands.  The company today also wrote down the value of its Greek
operations by 800 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 