-- Volcker Says in China He Remains Concerned About Global Economic Imbalance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-09T13:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/volcker-says-in-china-he-remains-concerned-about-global-economic-imbalance.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who is also chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s
Economic Recovery Advisory Board, said he continues to be
concerned by global economic imbalances.  Developing economies such as China still have a “heavy
dependence” on the U.S. as a market for their exports and the
U.S. still has an “inability to produce savings,” Volcker said
at a financial forum in Beijing today.  “The imbalances remain and those imbalances are
particularly categorized with the relationship between the U.S.
and China, the two leading countries in the world now,” Volcker
said. “Concerns about adjustments that I had five years ago
remain.”  Volcker’s comments come as Obama, Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and other world leaders are to gather this week for the
Group of 20 Nation’s meetings in Seoul. South Korean President
 Lee Myung Bak  said Nov. 3 that he expected G-20 leaders to agree
on “guidelines” for current-account positions to ease global
trade imbalances.  Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  met Volcker in Beijing
yesterday, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. Wang and
Volcker discussed economic relations between China and the U.S.,
Xinhua said.  The Federal Reserve’s plan to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries to pump money into the world’s biggest economy has
been criticized by Chinese officials including Vice Foreign
Minister  Cui Tiankai , who said yesterday that so-called
quantitative easing may undermine the global economic recovery.  Dai Xianglong , chairman of China’s national pension fund
and a former governor of the nation’s central bank, said today
at the Beijing forum where Volcker spoke that the world needs a
stable dollar. Dai proposed setting a trading range for the
dollar.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at   bruceg@bloomberg.net  