-- VW-Porsche Merger Risks 'Manageable,' McAllister Says
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-11-09T18:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/vw-porsche-merger-unlikely-to-be-upset-by-u-s-lawsuits-lower-saxony-says.html
Volkswagen AG ’s merger with  Porsche
SE  is unlikely to be derailed by U.S. investor lawsuits, even
though its completion in 2011 appears “doubtful,” according to
the German state  shareholder  with veto power.  “It’s a very complicated process,” Lower Saxony Prime
Minister  David McAllister  said in an interview in Berlin. “I
consider the judicial and financial risks from the U.S. to be
manageable. Nevertheless, caution should take priority over
haste, thoroughness over speed.”  McAllister, who took the helm of the state that holds 20
percent of Wolfsburg-based VW’s common stock, said his
government has abandoned plans to sell any VW shares in 2011
because of better than anticipated tax-revenue estimates. VW
Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said last month that
the combination with Porsche planned for next year may be put on
hold until U.S. lawsuits are resolved.  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, paid Lower Saxony
about 94 million euros ($131 million) in dividends last year. It
reduced its payout to investors by 17 percent, even as 2009 net
income tumbled 80 percent. Nine-month profit jumped more than
sixfold to 4 billion euros, VW reported last month.  Dividend, Profit  “As long as the company is profitable and paying a
dividend, then it’s good for the state,” said  Hans-Peter Wodniok , an analyst with Fairesearch in Bad Soden, Germany.
“Everything’s going in the direction that the state wanted.”  Porsche’s preferred stock  rose  2.94 euros, or 7.2 percent,
to 43.54 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Frankfurt.
That’s the steepest increase since August 2009. Volkswagen
 climbed  2.4 percent to 111.45 euros.  Volkswagen agreed to join with Porsche in August 2009 after
the 911 sports-car maker’s debt tripled to more than 10 billion
euros following a failed bid to buy VW by securing options
trading. VW has since bought 49.9 percent of Porsche’s operating
unit for 3.9 billion euros, setting the stage for a merger.  Lower Saxony had opposed Porsche’s efforts to weaken the
government’s influence in connection with the sportscar maker’s
attempt to take over VW.  Porsche is being sued by U.S.-based short sellers of VW
stock who claim the sports-car maker secretly cornered the
market in VW shares and later caused them more than $1 billion
in losses. VW’s merger with Porsche is also being hampered by
negotiations with German tax authorities over the tax-exempt
status of  profits  from Porsche’s options transactions.  Timetable  “Initially, we were expecting that the integration of
Porsche would be carried out in 2011,” McAllister said in the
No. 5 interview, adding that the timetable now looks
“doubtful.” “A possible sale of VW shares in 2011 is
definitely no longer on the agenda” for Lower Saxony, he said.  As part of the original deal, VW has the option to pay cash
for the remaining stake in Porsche’s automobile operations
without merging with the holding company. Under this scenario,
Porsche’s holding company would continue to manage its VW stake
and be legally responsible for the pending U.S. litigation.  A Lower Saxony state official said in August that
completion of the merger might boost Lower Saxony’s VW stake to
more than 20 percent.  Under Germany’s so-called Volkswagen law, Lower Saxony may
block major decisions by the carmaker. Porsche’s holding company
owns 50.7 percent of VW’s ordinary shares. Qatar Holding LLC,
part of the country’s sovereign wealth fund, is the third-
largest owner with a 17 percent stake.  “VW is on a good path” toward meeting its target of
surpassing  Toyota Motor Corp.  as the world’s biggest carmaker by
2018, said McAllister, who has been a member of Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats since 1988. “It remains a
very ambitious goal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 