-- Warhol's $63 Million Portrait of Elizabeth Taylor Stuns Dealers at Auction
-- B y   L i n d s a y   P o l l o c k
-- 2010-11-09T05:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/warhol-s-63-million-portrait-of-elizabeth-taylor-stuns-dealers-at-auction.html
Andy Warhol ’s blotchy 1962 black-and-
white painting of serially married movie star  Elizabeth Taylor 
sold for $63.4 million last night at  Phillips de Pury & Co.  in
New York, the second-highest price for the artist at auction.  Warhol’s “Men in Her Life’’ helped the Russian-backed
auction house record its highest total, $137 million, as 52 of
the 59 lots offered found buyers. Nine artists achieved auction
records including  Cindy Sherman ,  Felix Gonzalez-Torres  and
Rudolf Stingel.  The seven-foot-tall Warhol, based on a photo from Life
magazine depicting a demure Taylor with third husband Mike Todd
and future husband  Eddie Fisher , had been estimated to sell for
around $40 million, a tag some dealers said before the sale was
ambitious. The price soared past the estimate in a battle
between two telephone bidders.  “Two people wanted it -- as simple as that,” said New York
dealer  Christophe Van de Weghe . “What a great way to kick off
the week.”  Phillips’s sale begins a trio of contemporary art auctions
that are a benchmark for the industry’s recovery from last
year’s slump.  Sotheby’s  and  Christie’s International ’s sales
today and tomorrow evening are projected to sell as much as $565
million.  A year ago, Phillips’s equivalent sale tallied $7 million.
It boosted the total almost 20-fold this year partly by tapping
private dealer  Philippe Segalot  who concocted an extra sale,
titled “Carte Blanche.’’ Segalot stocked the sale with names he
champions and lined up bidders in exchange for a cut of the
buyer’s fees. The anonymous winner of the Warhol was a client of
his, he said at the post-sale press conference.  ‘Huge’ Price  Jonathan P. Binstock, a senior adviser at  Citi Private
Bank ’s Art Advisory, described the price for the Warhol as
“surprisingly huge.”  Segalot’s “Carte Blanche’’ portion of the sale was
estimated to reap over $80 million and brought $117 million. The
rest of the sale was estimated to total as much as $34.4 million
and made $19.9 million.  The estimates do not include fees. Phillips charges buyers
25 percent of the hammer price up to $50,000, plus 20 percent
from $50,000 to $1 million, plus 12 percent above $1 million.  Segalot locked in buyers who contractually agreed to bid on
certain works, eliminating some of the evening’s drama. The
Warhol was offered subject to a pre-arranged guarantee from a
third party. The same pledge underpinned a halo-topped  Jean- Michel Basquiat  1982 “Self-Portrait’’ that sold for $4.6
million, near the low estimate.  Mudcaked Corpse  Cindy Sherman’s nearly six foot tall “Untitled #153,’’
featuring the artist as a mudcaked corpse, sold for a record
$2.7 million, near the $3 million high estimate.  “Philippe does have his finger on the pulse, obviously,”
said dealer Rachel Mauro. Segalot, whose clients include French
billionaire and Christie’s owner  Francois Pinault , ran
Christie’s contemporary art department for four years, before
becoming a private dealer.  Works not bound to pre-arranged bidding also fared well.
 Takashi Murakami ’s 1997 Lolita-like “Miss Ko2’’ statue of a
girl sporting a Hooters-style waitress ensemble fetched $6.8
million, topping the $6 million estimate. The artist, hair piled
high in a top knot, observed proceedings from the back of the
salesroom. The buyer was dealer  Jose Mugrabi , whom other dealers
identified as the seller of the $63 million Warhol.  New Saleroom  Last night’s event was the first held in Phillips’s new
midtown Manhattan salesroom at 450 Park Avenue, an expansion
geared to help the company compete with uptown rivals Sotheby’s
and Christie’s. It’s Phillips’s second attempt at moving after
an ill-fated effort in 2001 to operate from a 57th Street
address under the ownership of French retailer  Bernard Arnault .
Phillips has retained its old 15th Street outpost.  Not everything sold well last night. A  Jeff Koons  painting
and sculpture both flopped.  “We put aggressive prices, but the Koons market wasn’t
there to support it,” said  Michael McGinnis , Phillips worldwide
head of contemporary art.  Paul McCarthy’s 2005 life-like sculpture of a slumbering
pig,  “Mechanical Pig,” estimated to sell for $3.5 million on
behalf of Chicago collectors Stefan Edlis and Gael Neeson, also
didn’t sell.  “It’s an auction, and an auction is not a perfect
science,” said Segalot.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Lindsay Pollock  in New York at  lindsaypollock@yahoo.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 