-- Warsaw Exchange Shares Surge After $420 Million Initial Public Offering
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-11-09T15:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/warsaw-stock-exchange-shares-gain-18-at-start-of-their-first-day-of-trade.html
Shares in  the Warsaw Stock Exchange 
soared at their debut, posting the biggest first-day gain by a
Polish state-run company in five years, after investors bid for
25 times the shares on sale in its initial public offering.  The first bourse operator in central Europe to go public
jumped 26 percent to 54 zloty at the 4:30 p.m. close in Warsaw.
Poland raised 1.2 billion zloty ($420 million) from the sale of
a 64 percent stake in its sole stock exchange last month as it
speeds up asset sales to help finance the budget deficit.  “The debut price is not a big surprise to us because after
such strong demand in the IPO one could expect a good start,”
said  Tomasz Karsznia , who helps manage the equivalent of $530
million at Credit Suisse Asset Management in Warsaw.  The government sold the shares at 46 zloty apiece to
institutional investors, the top of an earlier announced range,
and at 43 zloty to individuals, cutting its stake to 35 percent.
Institutions bid for 21.6 billion zloty of shares.  The Warsaw exchange lists companies with total market
capitalization of $198 billion, making it the third-largest in
emerging Europe after markets in Russia and Turkey. The market
has expanded faster than any regional competitor, more than
doubling the number of traded companies and almost tripling
daily turnover in the past decade, according to its  website .  Western European exchanges saw trading volume shrink last
year following the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. At the same time competition has increased from
multilateral trading facilities such as Chi-X Europe Ltd. and
Bats Europe, which offer lower fees and faster trading.  Insurer, Utility IPOs  Poland has had the highest number of IPOs each year in
central Europe since at least 2004, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Sixty-two IPOs have raised a record $4.85 billion
in 2010, the largest coming from state-run insurer  PZU SA  and
utility  Tauron Polska Energia SA , the data show.  The Warsaw exchange’s debut was the strongest by a state-
owned company since gas distributor  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA ’s 28 percent advance on its first day of trading
in September 2005, according to data on the bourse’s website.  The benchmark  WIG20 Index  rose 1.4 percent today, extending
this year’s gain to 16 percent and closing at the highest level
in more than two years.  The Warsaw exchange was valued at around 19 times its 2010
net income, based on the IPO price for institutional investors,
according to ING Groep NV estimates.  The London Stock Exchange
Group Plc  trades at almost 12 times this year’s profit, while
Brazil’s BM&FBovespa SA, the operator of Latin America’s largest
exchange, is valued at 20 times earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and UBS AG were the global coordinators of the exchange’s
offering. Ipopema Securities SA, KBC Groep NV, Societe Generale
SA, PKO Bank Polski SA, Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA, Alior Bank
SA, Banco Espirito Santo SA, IDM SA and Wood & Co. helped manage
the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  