-- Bond Yields Hold Near 1-Week High as Bank Lending Growth Exceeds Deposits
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-11-09T12:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/twelve-year-bonds-decline-for-a-third-day-as-bank-lending-exceeds-deposits.html
India’s 12-year  bond  yields held near
the highest level in a week on concern banks will have less
funds to invest in debt as  lending  growth exceeds the pace of
addition to  deposits .  The central bank reported on Nov. 5 that loans rose 21.2
percent in the 12 months ended Oct. 22, beating a 17.3 percent
increase in deposits. Overnight  borrowing rates  in the nation’s
money market have averaged 6.2 percent this quarter, up from 5.4
percent in the previous three months, signaling cash in the
banking system decreased, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The money market is really tight and that’s affecting
demand for bonds,” said  Krishnamurthy Harihar , the Mumbai-based
treasurer at the Indian unit of FirstRand Ltd. “Liquidity is
going to remain under pressure as bank credit growth continues
to outpace increases in deposits.”  The yield on the 8.13 percent note due September 2022 was
at 8.02 percent as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, near a one-
week high of 8.03 percent reached yesterday, according to the
central bank’s trading system. The price was at 100.85 per 100
rupee face amount.  Banks have borrowed an average 796 billion rupees a day
from the  Reserve Bank of India  this month to meet cash shortages,
compared with 522 billion rupees in October and 251 billion
rupees in September, central bank data show.  Central Bank Measures  Bonds pared losses after the Reserve Bank said it will hold
additional daily money-market auctions up to Dec. 16 to lend to
banks, resuming measures aimed at easing the cash crunch in the
nation’s financial system.  The monetary authority will also allow lenders to raise
cash by lowering holdings of bonds to as much as 1 percentage
point below the regulatory requirement without paying penal
interest up to Dec. 16, it said in a statement today.  Indian banks are required by law to invest at least 25
percent of their deposits in government debt or other low-risk
securities approved by regulators.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
was little changed. The rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, was at 6.68 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 