-- Wholesale Inventories Exceed Estimates as Suppliers Stock Up for Holidays
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-09T15:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-rise-twice-as-much-as-forecast.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers
climbed twice as much as forecast in September as suppliers
stocked up ahead of the holiday sales season.  The 1.5 percent increase in the value of  inventories 
followed a revised 1.2 percent rise in August that was larger
than initially estimated, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. The  median  of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a 0.7 percent gain. Sales climbed 0.4
percent to $353.9 billion, the highest since September 2008.  The advance in stockpiles, which would normally lead to an
upward revision to third-quarter growth, may reflect a surge in
imports which would widen the trade gap and blunt the effect on
the world’s largest economy. Higher inventories last quarter also
means merchants may place fewer orders in the last three months
of 2010.  “We’ll get stronger imports in September than people are
looking for,” said Brian Jones, an economist at Societe Generale
SA in New York, who forecast a 1.3 percent gain in stocks.
“You’ve got a very big build going into the final three
months of the year. The gap between demand and inventory build
has to be resolved one way or the other.”  Another report today showed job openings dropped in
September, a sign a sustained labor market rebound will take time
to develop.  Openings  decreased by 163,000 to 2.93 million, the
Labor Department said. The number of people hired rose from the
prior month and separations fell.  Shares Rise  Stocks climbed on a better-than-predicted earnings forecast
at Priceline.com Inc. and a surge in  Yahoo! Inc. amid takeover
speculation. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,225.93 at 10:22 a.m. in New York.  The median forecast for wholesale inventories was based on a
survey of 34 economists. Estimates ranged from increases of 0.3
percent to 1.5 percent. The August gain was revised up from a
previously reported 0.8 percent increase.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles.  Factory inventories , which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 0.7 percent in September, the Commerce
Department said Nov. 3. Retail stockpiles, which make up the
rest, will be included in the Nov. 15 business inventories
report.  Today’s report showed wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable
goods, or those meant to last several years, increased 0.7
percent in September, led by automobiles, machinery and
electrical equipment.  Non-Durable Goods  The value of unsold non-durable goods rose 2.8 percent and
sales increased 0.6 percent.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods on
hand to last 1.18 months in September, the most since November
2009. The inventory-to-sales ratio reached a record low of 1.13
months in April.  An increase in U.S. payrolls last month indicates
wholesalers are correct in boosting stockpiles, said Societe
Generale’s Jones. Employers added 151,000 workers to payrolls
last month, the first gain in five months.  Last week’s employment report suggests “maybe we’ll get
better demand-side numbers,” helping close the gap between sales
an inventories, Jones said.  The gain in wholesale inventories signals that imports in
September probably also increased. The Commerce Department
tomorrow will release trade balance figures tomorrow.  Rebuilding Stocks  Inventory rebuilding, a major driver of the early stages of
the economic recovery, is continuing at a stronger rate than most
economists had expected. Restocking contributed 1.44 percentage
points to the 2 percent expansion in the third quarter.  Some retailers are adding to stockpiles in anticipation
spending will be sustained into the holidays.  Coach Inc ., the largest U.S. luxury goods maker, boosted
inventories by 36 percent in the latest quarter from a year
earlier as global sales rose and the company expanded its network
in North America, China and Japan.  “This planned inventory build supports strong underlying
business trends to maximize sales this holiday,” Michael  Devine ,
chief financial officer of Coach Inc., said on an Oct. 26
conference call with analysts.  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest chipmaker, is among
companies keeping a rein on restocking.  “We’re trying to be really nimble to respond to the
environment and to get ahead of the ramp that we’re expecting,”
 Stacey Smith , chief financial officer at Intel, said on a
conference call Oct. 12. “That’s a good part of the reason why
we grew inventory less than we could have given the changing
demand environment.”  Intel posted record revenue and operating income in the
third quarter as strengthening demand in emerging markets offset
weak sales in the consumer markets of Europe and North American.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 Bobwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  