-- Wilmar Drops in Singapore After Profit Falls 60%
-- B y   C l a i r e   L e o w   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-11-10T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/wilmar-profit-slumps-60-as-profit-margins-shrink-at-oilseeds-grains-unit.html
  Wilmar International Ltd ., the
world’s largest palm oil trader, fell the most in almost six
months in Singapore trading after reporting a 60 percent drop in
third-quarter profit.  Shares fell as much as 5.8 percent to S$6.48, the biggest
decline since May 19. They closed down 5.4 percent at S$6.51 on
the local stock exchange after Wilmar said profit margins at its
oilseeds and grains unit were squeezed in the third quarter.  The results “surprised and disappointed,” said Alvin Tai,
an analyst at OSK Investment Bank in  Kuala Lumpur . Still,
Wilmar’s “strong track record” would allay investor concerns,
he said after meeting management at today’s briefing.  Net income fell for a second quarter, dropping to $259.5
million, compared with $653 million, a year earlier, the
Singapore-based company said today in a statement. Before the
second quarter, earnings had risen every quarter since at least
2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The challenging operating environment during the third
quarter resulted in weaker overall margins and earnings,”
Wilmar said today in the statement.  Weak Margins  The oilseeds and grains unit had a pre-tax loss of $37.1
million because of “weaker margins and less-timely purchases of
raw materials,” Wilmar said. A $167 million gain for the group
in the 2009 third quarter wasn’t repeated.  The company’s overall quarterly performance was “lousy”
but not a concern given the long-term outlook, Chief Executive
Officer Kuok Khoon Hong said at a briefing with analysts and
fund managers in Singapore.  Kuok is seeking to diversify from Wilmar’s palm oil
business, and in July agreed to spend A$1.75 billion ($1.77
billion) to buy  CSR Ltd .’s Australian sugar unit. The Australian
government approved the sale this week. CSR said on Nov. 3 that
its sugar earnings dropped to A$66.7 million from A$114.2
million as rain delayed cane crushing.  Wilmar has oil palm plantations in Indonesia and  Malaysia ,
as well as soybean-crushing plants in  China , the largest
consumer of edible oils.  Total sales gained 23 percent to $7.8 billion in the
quarter and the cost of sales climbed 31.5 percent to $7.3
billion.  Positive, Replanting  “Despite the weak third-quarter performance, the group
remains positive on its long-term prospects,” Kuok said.  “Fourth quarter margins will be ok unless raw material
prices go up,” he added today at the briefing.    Palm oil  in Malaysia has rallied for more than 10 weeks to
the highest since July 2008.  Soybean oil  in  Chicago  has also
reached a 26-month high.  The markets are experiencing “volatility not seen before”
and “it’s not just the fundamentals,” Kuok said. “It’s the
liquidity flow.”  Wilmar raised prices for cooking oil in China in October
and “can’t raise any more” too soon, he said. It accounts for
more than a third of cooking oil sales in China, which is
fighting food inflation.  The company can’t meet its oil palm replanting target of
15,000 hectares this year due to wet weather, and targets 10,000
to 15,000 hectares next year, executive director and co-founder
Martua Sitorus said at the briefing.  Sugar Business  As for its new sugar plantation in  Indonesia , “we plan to
plant early next year once we get the license,” he said.  “Indonesia planting is a bit slow” because of the need to
get the right licenses at the local, provincial and central
government levels, Sitorus said, referring to plans for a cane
plantation covering 200,000 hectares in Tabonji village in
Merueke, Papua province.  In the grains and oilseeds business, Wilmar, which has
eight bulk carriers, intends to exercise an option to buy four
more to transport grains and oilseeds to and from the Americas,
Kuok said. The U.S.,  Brazil  and  Argentina  are the largest
producers of soybeans.  By buying freight ships at the right time, Wilmar hopes to
compete better than rivals when they buy at higher costs, he
said when commenting on how the company tries to improve profit
margins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claire Leow in  Singapore  at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net 
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  