-- Wind Telecom May Raise $9.7 Billion Before Merger
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2010-11-10T14:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/wind-telecom-may-raise-9-7-billion-in-bonds-loan-before-vimpelcom-merger.html
(Corrects location of company in fourth paragraph of story
published yesterday.)  Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA, the
Italian mobile-phone operator owned by billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , plans to raise loans and bonds totalling as much as 6.9
billion euros ($9.7 billion) to refinance existing debt,
according to four people familiar with the situation.  The company is seeking as much as 3.5 billion euros of
senior secured bonds, which will rank alongside 3.4 billion
euros of new loans, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the deal isn’t public yet.  Wind is refinancing its debt as Sawiris prepares to combine
its parent, Weather Investments SpA, with Russia’s VimpelCom
Ltd. It’s also seeking consent from bondholders to amend terms
and nullify a change-of-control clause before completing the
merger.  Marcella Voza, a spokeswoman for Rome-based Wind, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  The debt will refinance a 6.8 billion-euro facility used by
Sawiris to acquire Wind in 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sawiris used a total of 9.3 billion euros of bonds
and loans for the acquisition, Europe’s biggest debt-financed
buyout at the time.  Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse Group AG, Banca IMI SpA,
BNP Paribas SA, Credit Agricole SA, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc, JPMorgan Chase &
Co, Morgan Stanley, Natixis and UniCredit SpA underwrote the new
loan, Bloomberg data show. WestLB AG joined as an arranger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London on 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 Fkhan33@bloomberg.net ; 