-- Xstrata Plans More Deals to Set Up Iron Ore Unit
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-11-09T06:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/xstrata-seeking-to-build-iron-ore-unit-with-sphere-takeover-freyberg-says.html
Xstrata Plc , the world’s largest
exporter of thermal coal, is seeking more acquisitions to create
an iron ore division after making a A$514 million ($520 million)
bid  for Sphere Minerals Ltd.   “We would like to grow our business so it ultimately
becomes its own business unit within the Xstrata group when we
get to critical mass,”  Peter Freyberg , chief executive officer
of the Zug, Switzerland-based company’s coal business, said
today in an interview in Sydney.  Establishing an iron ore unit will help Xstrata compete
against larger rivals  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto Group ,
whose ore divisions generate their biggest sales by value. BHP,
Rio and Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore producer, control
about three quarters of the global export market.  “It’s an industry which offers greater returns because of
its concentrated nature,” said  Ric Ronge , who helps manage the
equivalent of $1.3 billion at Pengana Global Resources Fund in
Melbourne. “You’ve got three top players, Rio, BHP and Vale -
that all conspires to offer pretty good margins.”  Xstrata fell 1.4 percent to close at 1,365 pence yesterday
in London trading.  Sphere , which has three projects in
Mauritania, including half of the $1.65 billion Guelb el Aouj
development, gained 0.7 percent to A$2.97 in Sydney today.  Mauritania Projects  BHP’s carbon steel materials unit, which includes iron ore,
had an earnings before interest and taxation margin of 57
percent last year compared with 22 percent for its energy coal
unit, according to a Oct. 21 Deutsche Bank AG report.  Freyberg wants to buy Sphere for its three iron ore
projects in Mauritania and has agreed to spend as much as $106
million on an initial study of the Zanaga project in the
Republic of Congo.  “These two iron ore opportunities present us with a very
interesting entry into the sector and we’ll continue to look for
further opportunities elsewhere,” Freyberg said.  Xstrata on Nov. 3 raised its cash offer for Sphere by 20
percent to A$3.00 a share as prices for the steelmaking
ingredient climb. The ore business is at present part of
Xstrata’s coal unit, Freyberg said.  Less Attractive  The average  price  for ore delivered to China was $145 a
metric ton in the first half, according to The Steel Index.
That’s more than double the average $69 a ton for the same
period last year.  Chinese companies have been buying overseas mines and
projects to reduce costs and their dependency on the three big
suppliers.  “We have some fears that the iron ore market is going to
look a little less attractive in the long run than what it is
now,” said Pengana’s Ronge. “China being a major consumer is
doing everything it can to support fragmentation and
diversification of supply and security supply longer run.”  Xstrata’s offer for Sphere lapses on Nov. 12 and carries a
50 percent minimum acceptance condition. The acceptance level
was above 30 percent today, Freyberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  