-- Yen Near Week High Versus Euro on Capital Curbs; Asian Currencies Weaken
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-11-10T06:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/yen-advances-versus-euro-on-speculation-officials-will-curb-capital-inflow.html
The yen traded near a one-week high
against the euro on speculation policy makers around the world
will introduce more measures to restrict cross-border capital
flows, boosting demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  The dollar was close to a two-week high versus the euro
after CME Group Inc.’s Comex unit raised margin requirements for
trading silver futures and as World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said emerging markets have “hot money issues.” Asian
currencies weakened on concern authorities around the region
will unveil measures to stem gains after Taiwan said it would
restrict foreign investment.  “The CME’s increase in margin requirements for silver
futures trading may be aimed at curbing speculative inflows,”
said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-exchange department at
Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in Tokyo. “The
bias appears to be for risk aversion, and for buying of the
dollar and the yen.”  The yen traded at 112.63 per euro as of 5:57 a.m. in London
from 112.51 in New York yesterday, when it climbed to 111.73,
the strongest since Oct. 29. Japan’s currency was at 81.78 per
dollar from 81.69. The dollar was at $1.3777 per euro from
$1.3773, after rising to $1.3736, the highest since Oct. 27.  The minimum amount of cash that traders must deposit when
borrowing from brokers to trade silver futures will rise to
$6,500 per contract from $5,000 for exchange members, said
 Michael Shore , a spokesman for the exchange in Chicago.  China’s  State Administration  of Foreign Exchange said
yesterday it would crack down on “hot money” inflows and it
will introduce new rules on currency provisioning and tighten
management of banks’ foreign-debt quotas.  Greater Protectionism  Currency tensions may increase protectionism, World Bank
President Zoellick told reporters in Singapore before the Group
of 20 leaders’ summit on Nov. 11-12 in Seoul, adding he doesn’t
see a currency war developing.  Asian economies may need to turn to capital controls as
quantitative easing by the U.S. threatens to spur asset bubbles,
 Sri Mulyani Indrawati , a World Bank managing director, said in
an interview this week. Any curbs should be “targeted,”
temporary and tailored to address specific problems, she said.  The euro touched a two-week low against the greenback on
concern the European Central Bank will withdraw stimulus
measures too early.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who speaks in Lyon,
France, today, signaled on Nov. 4 the bank intends to outline
possible steps to withdraw non-standard aid next month as some
policy makers warn easy monetary policy risks spurring inflation.  ‘Market May Suffer’  “As the ECB tightens liquidity to the financial sector,
financial institutions that can’t access the market may
suffer,” said  Tsunemasa Tsukada , chief manager for currencies
and financial products in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Trust &
Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s largest financial group by
market value. “People are switching their attention from U.S.
quantitative easing to pains associated with ECB’s exit
strategy,” weighing on the euro.  The ECB is committed to handing banks’ unlimited liquidity
in its weekly, monthly and three-month refinancing operations
until the end of the year.  Asian Currencies  The Thai baht and Singapore dollar led Asian currencies
lower after Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission said
yesterday global funds can only invest up to 30 percent of their
portfolio in bonds and money-market products.  “There is worry in emerging economies that quantitative
easing will result in substantial hot-money inflows,” said
 Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy at Credit
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “They see this as difficult to
control. With the run-up in asset prices, it is understandable
where this concern is coming from.”  The Thai government last month removed a 15 percent tax
exemption for non-resident investors on income from domestic
bonds to stem inflows of funds. The central bank is studying
additional measures aimed at reducing the baht’s volatility,
Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said Oct. 21.  The baht fell 0.2 percent to 29.58 per dollar after
climbing to 29.46, the strongest level since 1997. The Singapore
dollar dropped 0.3 percent to S$1.2874.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 