-- Yuan Trade Settlements to Total $2 Trillion in Five Years, HSBC Predicts
-- B y   S o n j a   C h e u n g
-- 2010-11-09T07:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-09/yuan-trade-settlements-to-total-2-trillion-in-five-years-hsbc-predicts.html
Global trade transactions settled in
yuan will total about $2 trillion annually within five years as
the Federal Reserve’s decision to print more dollars puts the
greenback under pressure, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  At least half of China’s total trade flows with emerging
markets will be completed in yuan, compared with less than 3
percent now, according to a report published today by HSBC.
Settlements totaled 126.5 billion yuan ($19 billion) in the
third quarter, 160 percent more than in the previous three
months, the People’s Bank of China reported this month.  “A switch from the dollar to the renminbi for trade
settlement is likely to be an appealing option for emerging
nations eager to bolster their relations with the fast-growing
Middle Kingdom,” wrote  Qu Hongbin , co-head of economics
research at HSBC in Hong Kong.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is encouraging greater use of the
Chinese currency for international trade and investment to
reduce reliance on dollars as the Federal Reserve boosts the
supply of dollars to support the U.S. economy. The central bank
bought $1.7 trillion of debt from December 2008 through March to
help end a recession and last week announced plans to buy $600
billion of Treasuries through June.  While yuan settlements accounted for 2.4 percent of China’s
$794 billion of  imports  and  exports  during the last quarter, the
pace of growth was more than 10 times faster than the expansion
in overall trade. The dollar has weakened against all 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg since June, when China scrapped
a two-year currency peg and said it would allow a more flexible
exchange rate.  Yuan Gains  The yuan was 0.1 percent stronger at 6.6701 per dollar as
of 2:10 p.m. in Shanghai, extending gains since the peg ended to
2.3 percent, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The currency touched 6.6404 on Oct. 15, the strongest
level since the central bank unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993, and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predict it will reach 6.33 by the start of 2012.  Global demand for yuan is growing as offshore investment
options expand, most notably in Hong Kong where an offshore
market for the currency was set up in July. Yuan deposits at the
city’s banks more than doubled to a record 149 billion yuan ($22
billion) in the six months through September and Qu forecast
they will exceed 400 billion yuan within three years.  McDonald’s Corp. in August became the first foreign company
to sell yuan-denominated debt in Hong Kong, raising 200 million
yuan. Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Berhad, which sets the global
benchmark for crude palm oil, said last week it will start
accepting the Chinese currency as margin collateral.  Yuan settlements will help expand the currency’s
circulation and acceptance in overseas markets, “thereby
supporting its wider use in outward investment,” Qu said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in Hong Kong 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 