-- Coal Miner Belon Says Share Sale Still on After Bid
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2008-03-03T15:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-03/coal-miner-belon-says-share-sale-still-on-after-bid-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO Belon (BLNG) , the Russian coal producer
and metals trader, said plans by shareholder OAO Magnitogorsk
Iron & Steel to increase its stake won't derail its intention to
sell shares next year.  
 Belon may sell as much as a 20 percent holding in London or
 Frankfurt  in November 2009, Chief Executive Officer Andrey Dobrov
told reporters in Moscow today. Magnitogorsk's bid for a larger
stake in Belon doesn't ``cancel'' that, he said.  
 Magnitogorsk bought 11 percent of Belon in October and said
it may seek control. Talks are still going on, said Dobrov, who
holds a 72 percent stake and said he doesn't plan to cede control
of Novosibisk, Russia-based Belon. Yelena Azovsteva, a
spokeswoman for Magnitogorsk, said it's ``premature'' to announce
the size of the stake her company is seeking.  
 Magnitogorsk wants to secure coal supplies after global
benchmark prices jumped because of supply problems in producing
nations including  Australia  and South Africa. Belon raised its
2008 contract prices for coking coal by 50 percent to 70 percent,
Dobrov said.  
 The coal miner agreed to sell about half of its production
to Magnitogorsk this year, or 2 million metric tons, Dobrov said.
That's up from 600,000 tons last year.  
 Belon wants to increase overall production by 50 percent
this year to 7.2 million tons, spending $208 million on the
expansion, Dobrov said. Coking coal output will jump 80 percent
and thermal coal production 34 percent, he said. The company
plans to spend a total of $500 million on expansion through 2012.  
 Debt Refinancing  
 Belon may borrow 4 billion rubles ($166 million) this year,
Dobrov said. Two billion rubles may come in April to finance a
new mine and the rest in May or June to refinance debt, he said.
Belon may also sell about 1.5 billion rubles of Eurobonds next
year, he said. It had debt of $420 million on Jan. 1.  
 A global shortage of coking coal will persist for at least
another two years and  Russia  as a whole probably won't produce
much more of the steelmaking ingredient any time soon, Dobrov
said. Annual contract prices may rise as much as 10 percent next
year, he said.  
 For thermal coal, burned in power plants, Belon wants to
sell about 40 percent of its production on the spot market this
year to take advantage of a surge in prices, Dobrov said. It
exports about 70 percent of its thermal coal, to  Europe , South
Korea and  Japan .  
 Belon has offered to buy a Siberian thermal coal mine from
Evraz Group SA in February and has yet to hear back, Dobrov said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        