-- MUFG executive rejects report to invest in Lehman
-- 
-- Wed Sep 3, 2008 7:12pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/09/03/businesspro-lehman-dc-idUST16473020080903

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) 
( 8306.T ) has no plans to invest in U.S. investment bank Lehman 
Brothers LEH.N, an executive at Japan's largest bank said, 
rejecting a media report that it was considering taking a 
stake. 

  Shares in Lehman rose in after hours trade after The Times 
of London reported that the core banking unit of MUFG was 
poised to enter the bidding for a substantial stake in Lehman, 
and may seek control.  A Korean bank is in stake talks with Lehman but an 
executive at MUFG said the Japanese bank had "absolutely no 
plans" to invest in the U.S. firm, which has more than $60 
billion of mortgage and mortgage security exposure.  The report is the latest about several potential suitors 
for the smallest of the major Wall Street investment banks, 
which is under pressure to raise capital ahead of its results 
announcement this month as the financial sector reels from the 
credit crunch.  Citing unnamed banking sources in Tokyo, The Times said 
MUFG was likely to move cautiously if it did proceed with a 
takeover and wait until Lehman announced its quarterly results.  Lehman declined to comment on the report. Its shares, which 
gained 5 percent in the regular trading session, added another 
1.6 percent in extended trading.  State-controlled Korea Development Bank has said it is in 
talks with Lehman over a possible joint investment with other 
Korean banks, but was unsure whether there would be a deal.  Europe's biggest bank, HSBC Holdings Plc ( HSBA.L ) 
( 0005.HK ), also reported to be interested in Lehman, is 
unlikely to make a move for Lehman, people familiar with the 
matter have told Reuters.  Mitsubishi UFJ, valued at around $90 billion, is one of the 
world's largest banks in terms of assets. It is also considered 
one of the most conservative of Japan's big banks.  Last month, it bid $3.5 billion to take full ownership of 
U.S. regional lender UnionBanCal UB.N and is seeking to raise 
its stake in Japanese consumer lender Acom Co ( 8572.T ).  (Reporting by Taro Fuse and  Paritosh Bansal ; Editing by 
Jeffrey Benkoe and  Rodney Joyce )