-- `End of Cycle' Means Sabesp Sale May Be Last Until January: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2010-12-10T11:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/-end-of-cycle-means-sabesp-sale-may-be-last-brazil-credit.html
Bond offerings by  Cia de Saneamento
Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo  and  Telemar Norte Leste SA  may
mark the end of a record year in Brazilian issues as overseas
borrowing costs rise.  Sabesp, as the country’s biggest water utility is known,
sold $350 million of 10-year bonds yesterday while Telemar, the
biggest land-line company, issued 750 million euros ($993.3
million) of seven-year notes, snapping a three-week drought and
pushing issuance this year to $40.7 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Overseas debt sales from Brazil rose 62
percent from last year and exceeded the $26 billion from Mexico.  Brazilian companies may be reluctant to sell more bonds
this month as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and rising U.S.
 Treasury yields  drive up borrowing costs for emerging-market
issuers, said  Andre Silva , co-head of Latin America debt capital
markets at Deutsche Bank AG in New York. Yields on Brazilian
corporate dollar debt have  jumped  47 basis points from a record
low on Nov. 4 to 6.11 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “It’s the end of the cycle for the year,” said  Vinicius Pasquarelli , an emerging-market debt trader in New York at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., a unit of Lausanne,
Switzerland-based inter-dealer broker Compagnie Financiere
Tradition SA. Borrowers “will probably come back only next
year,” he said in a telephone interview.  The  yield  on the 10-year U.S. note climbed 20 basis points
this week to 3.2, the highest since June, on speculation
President  Barack Obama ’s decision to extend tax cuts enacted
under his predecessor may bolster U.S. growth while worsening
the nation’s budget deficit.  Ireland Bailout  The $1.3 billion raised by Brazilian companies this week
was the most since the week ended Nov. 10, according to
Bloomberg data. Issuance dropped last month after rising
borrowing costs forced Ireland to seek an 85 billion-euro
bailout from European governments and the International Monetary
Fund and sparked concern the region’s debt crisis may spread to
Spain and Portugal.  “Concerns on the U.S. economy, and on the Treasury side,
and European peripheral concerns -- those are the two major
macro drivers for diminishing risk appetite,” Silva said in a
telephone interview. “The macro backdrop could deteriorate even
further. That’s the dilemma people have. ‘Should we test the
waters now in a less than ideal environment and beat the crowd,
or wait for January and hope that the markets are going to be
better?’”  ‘Natural Hedge’  Telemar, based in Rio de Janeiro, paid 274.5 basis points,
or 2.745 percentage points, more than German bunds on its first
euro-denominated offering. The company borrowed in euros because
it’s looking for a “natural hedge” to match its operations
with  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA , which agreed in July to invest as
much as 8.4 billion reais ($4.9 billion) in Telemar to tap into
Brazil’s wireless market, Chief Financial Officer  Alex Zornig 
said.  “We didn’t want to risk waiting until next year,” Zornig
said in a telephone interview in Rio de Janeiro. “We’re always
looking to extend maturities and reduce cost. We took advantage
of this end-of-year window to do this.”  Sabesp, based in Sao Paulo, paid 315.8 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries on its first international bond
since 2006. Sabesp officials were traveling and unavailable for
comment, the company’s press department said.  The yield  premium  on Brazilian dollar government bonds over
U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 168, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI+ index.  Default Swap  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against default for
five years rose one basis point to 110, according to data
compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  The real rose 0.3 percent to 1.7055 per dollar at 6:30 a.m.
New York time.  The yield on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures
contract due in January 2012 dropped 5 basis points to 11.93
percent.  The average Brazilian corporate bond yield fell one basis
point yesterday to 6.11 percent, according to JPMorgan’s CEMBI
index.  Sabesp and Telemar were the first Brazilian issuers to sell
debt abroad since Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Brazil’s biggest
bank by market value, sold 500 million reais ($293.4 million)
overseas on Nov. 16. Banco Bradesco SA, Banco Industrial e
Comcercial SA and Banco BVA SA pulled offerings the same week
after a slump in global markets and an investigation into
alleged fraud at Banco Panamericano SA drove up borrowing costs.  ‘Premium’  Sabesp and Telemar “had to access the market with some
premium,”  Leonardo Kestelman , who helps oversee $860 million of
assets at Dinosaur Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview.  Deutsche Bank expects Brazilian bonds sales to increase
next month as investor demand picks up. The Frankfurt-based bank
arranged $4 billion of overseas Brazilian debt sales this year,
making it the fourth-biggest underwriter, according to Bloomberg
data.  “There’s a question in the markets of whether you’ll be
better off by waiting until early next year,” Silva said.
“Investors have more clean balance sheets and more appetite to
invest” in January, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  