-- `No Short-Term Solution' to Advancing Wheat Prices, FCStone's Rizzo Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-12-10T01:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/-no-short-term-solution-to-advancing-wheat-prices-fcstone-s-rizzo-says.html
Flour millers will have to live with
higher wheat prices as crop damage in Australia and logistical
concerns in the U.S. tighten supplies, according to FCStone
Australia Ltd.  “I don’t think the international market yet comprehends
the impact these rains are having, and have had, on the
Australia crop,” Peter Rizzo, managing director at FCStone,
said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions. “Buyers
will have to continue to pay higher prices for milling wheat and
it will reflect in flour and industries that need high-protein
milling wheat.”  Terminals in the U.S., the world’s largest wheat shipper,
may lack capacity to “absorb enough milling wheat for
shipment” after excessive rains downgraded the quality of some
crops in Canada and Australia, pushing importers to seek
alternative suppliers, Abdolreza Abbassian, an economist at the
UN Food & Agriculture Organization, said Dec. 7.  “There is no short-term solution, if that is the
expectation on the US to fill the breach,” Rizzo said
yesterday. Supplies may remain tight through the rest of the
2010-2011 season, he said.  Tighter milling-wheat supplies may sustain a rally that has
driven Chicago futures 64 percent higher since June 30 as buyers
compete for U.S. exports after the worst drought in half a
century prompted Russia to ban exports and rains damaged
Canadian and Australian crops.  ‘Quality Rally’  As much as 8 million metric tons of wheat in Australia, the
fourth-largest exporter this year, may be downgraded, Abbassian
said in an interview on Dec. 7.  “This current rally is a quality rally,” Wayne Gordon, an
analyst at Rabobank Groep NV in Sydney, said in an e-mail,
referring to concerns that supplies of high-quality grain fit
for human consumption may decline.  Higher demand for wheat may add to pressure on the U.S.’s
capacity to ship agricultural commodities as purchases of corn
and soybeans also expand, Gordon said. The U.S. is the world’s
biggest shipper of all three.  Shipping on the Columbia-Snake River System, a major
gateway to the Pacific Ocean for U.S. wheat and barley exports,
will be halted until March as the Army Corps of Engineers
replaces locks and dams built as long ago as 1957.  Barge traffic will be “effectively” stopped along a 365-
mile (587-kilometer) stretch from tomorrow until March 18 as
lock gates are replaced at the John Day, The Dalles and Lower
Monumental dams, Army Corps spokesman Scott Clemans said Dec. 8.
Five other dams will be repaired during the period, he said.  Global production of wheat will trail demand by 20.3
million tons in the 2010-2011 season, reducing stockpiles to
180.9 million tons at the end of the season, from 200.9 million
the previous season, according to the FAO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  