-- A&P Said to Consider Filing for Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J e f f   S t . O n g e
-- 2010-12-10T22:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/a-p-may-file-for-bankruptcy-as-soon-as-weekend-after-151-years-in-business.html
Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. ,
the once-dominant grocery-store chain founded in 1859, may file
for bankruptcy in the coming days to restructure debt, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The shares fell $1.90, or 67 percent, to 93 cents at 1:24
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange  trading , the biggest drop in at
least three decades, before trading was halted.  A filing to reorganize under court protection may come as
soon as this weekend, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. A&P hired law firm
Kirkland & Ellis LLP to represent it in negotiations with
creditors and in any Chapter 11 proceeding, the people said.  Lauren La Bruno , an A&P spokeswoman, didn’t return an e-
mail and a call seeking comment.  A&P’s largest shareholder is Tengelmann Group, which
operates a chain of German supermarkets and other stores. As of
Oct. 22, the Muehlheim-based company held almost 40 percent of
A&P’s outstanding shares. Tengelmann is family-controlled and
has had an A&P stake since 1979.  Montvale, New Jersey-based A&P has struggled to cope with
mounting competition from discounters such as Target Corp. and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , which are offering more fresh food to
attract customers. A&P, which operated almost 16,000 stores in
the 1930s, now runs about 400 locations under its namesake
banner and others including Waldbaum’s, SuperFresh and Food
Emporium. In 2007, it bought the Pathmark Stores supermarket
chain for $678 million.  Hamstrung  A&P has lagged behind rivals on fresh food and
presentation, said Jim Hertel, a managing partner at Willard
Bishop Consulting, a Barrington, Illinois-based firm which
advises retailers and suppliers. A&P also has been hamstrung by
a heavily unionized workforce, he said.  A&P’s labor costs mean the company has less flexibility to
invest in other parts of the store, Hertel said today in a
telephone interview.  The grocer in October said sales in the  quarter  ended Sept.
11 fell 7.1 percent to $1.9 billion and its net loss almost
doubled to $153.7 million in that period. A&P had $94 million in
cash and short-term investments as of Sept. 11, a 63 percent
decline from $252 million as of the end of February.  Egan-Jones Ratings Company today lowered the company’s
credit rating to C from CC.  The company had about $1.5 billion in net  debt  as of
September. It had an $876 million net loss on $8.8 billion in
2009 sales, its third straight  annual  shortfall.  ‘Illiquid’  A&P “may be illiquid at some point in the near term,”
Standard & Poor’s said in July, issuing a downgrade of the
company’s corporate credit rating to CCC.  Chief Executive Officer  Sam Martin  was hired in July to
help lead a turnaround, replacing  Ron Marshall , who had held the
job for about six months. Martin said then that A&P was
examining its business in an effort to improve  results .  The company announced a $89.8 million sale-leaseback of six
stores last month. In August, A&P said it will close 25 stores
in five states as part of its turnaround plan.  The Great American Tea Co. began as a store on Vesey Street
in lower Manhattan, selling coffee, tea and spices and
dispatching salesmen in horse-drawn carriages through New
England, the Midwest and South, according to the company’s
website. The grocer renamed itself The Great Atlantic & Pacific
Tea Co. in 1869.  Once a national chain, A&P now operates its stores only in
the northeastern and mid-Atlantic regions of the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ; 