-- AbitibiBowater Names Garneau CEO, Seeking to Reduce Reliance on Newsprint
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-12-10T21:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/abitibibowater-says-richard-garneau-to-replace-paterson-as-chief-executive.html
AbitibiBowater Inc. , the world’s
largest newsprint producer, hired  Richard Garneau  as chief
executive officer and said it will seek acquisitions to cut its
reliance on North America’s shrinking newspaper industry.  Garneau, a member of the company’s board and a former CEO
of Catalyst Paper Corp., replaces  David J. Paterson  on Jan. 1,
Montreal-based AbitibiBowater said today in a statement.
Paterson, 56, will remain in an executive advisory role through
January and as a non-executive until July 31.  “Richard has extensive background in the pulp-and-paper
industry,” AbitibiBowater Chairman  Dick Evans  said today in a
telephone interview. “He’s been a lifer, if you will, in that
industry.”  AbitibiBowater emerged from bankruptcy yesterday after
applying for court protection from creditors in April 2009 as
the global economic slowdown further eroded demand for
 newsprint . Paterson shut mills and focused newsprint sales on
export markets in Asia and the Middle East while seeking court
approval to turn $7.2 billion of debt into shares.  Reorganization of the company and expectations of increased
cash flow open the possibility of making new investments in
capital projects as well as acquisitions, said Evans, the former
CEO of aluminum producer Alcan Inc.  ‘Interested in Diversifying’  “We’re interested in diversifying our product mix
generally away from newsprint because of the long-term secular
decline into pulp-and-paper products that have a favorable
growth profile,” Evans said in the interview. “In terms of
going into the aluminum business or the detergent business, we
have no plans.”  AbitibiBowater has no intention to exit the newsprint
industry completely and no immediate plans to reduce newsprint
capacity.  “Partly because we are coming out of bankruptcy, we’re
getting a very favorable response from customers who now see us
as a sustainable, low-cost producer,” Evans said. “I think
we’re probably enjoying a bit of a market-share gain.”  Under AbitibiBowater’s reorganization plan, unsecured
creditors of the company and its 34 operating units will see
recoveries ranging from nothing to full payment, according to
projections set out last month. Secured lenders will get a full
recovery in either cash or another arrangement that pays them in
full, according to the plan. AbitibiBowater’s former
shareholders were wiped out under the arrangement.  AbitibiBowater was formed in the October 2007 merger of
Abitibi-Consolidated and Greenville, South Carolina-based
Bowater Inc. in a transaction valued at about $4.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 