-- Madoff Firm Trustee Seeks $50 Billion as Clawback Window Closes
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/madoff-trustee-sues-sonja-kohn-for-19-6-billion-treble-damages-via-rico.html
The trustee liquidating  Bernard L. Madoff’s  investment firm has filed more than $50 billion in so-
called clawback suits to compensate victims of the con man’s
fraud since his 2008 arrest for masterminding the biggest Ponzi
scheme in U.S. history.  Irving Picard  filed hundreds of lawsuits against banks,
feeder funds, investors and others alleged to have profited from
Madoff’s decades-long crime. Among those sued was  Madoff’s  son
Mark, who hanged himself in his Manhattan apartment Dec. 11, the
two-year anniversary of his father’s arrest.  The deadline for Picard to file claims expired that day. So
far, he has recovered about $2.5 billion. Last week, he sued
Bank Medici AG and its founder,  Sonja Kohn , as well as Bank
Austria,  UniCredit SpA  and dozens of other parties. He is
seeking $19.6 billion from them, which could potentially triple
to $58.8 billion under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act. It’s the biggest claim filed by Picard.  Kohn, 62, whom Picard called Madoff’s “criminal soul
mate,” used a relationship with the financier that began in
1985 to help build the Vienna-based bank, feeding more than
$9.1 billion of investor money into his company, Picard said in
a complaint last week in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York.  “The illegal scheme enriched Kohn, her family, and scores
of other individuals and entities, including the largest banks
in Austria and Italy, at the expense of the BLMIS estate and on
the backs of Madoff’s victims,” Picard said in court papers,
referring to Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  Higher Returns  In the 153-page complaint against Kohn, Picard claimed she
told investors she was very close to Madoff and could deliver
higher returns on investments made through his firm. Instead,
Madoff was secretly paying Kohn, who knew Madoff was running a
fraud, to funnel money into the Ponzi scheme, Picard said.  According to the trustee, Kohn ran her own complex scheme
centered on Bank Medici, parts of which overlapped with Madoff’s
own fraudulent enterprise, delivering $9.1 billion into the
Ponzi scheme. They funneled $4 billion of the total through
feeder funds including Primeo Fund, Thema International, Herald
Fund Alpha Prime Fund, Senator Fund and Herald (Lux), which
placed all of their investors’ money with Madoff, according to
Picard.  Shortly before Madoff confessed, in December 2008, Kohn
withdrew $536 million from Madoff’s firm, Picard said, and took
steps to hide her connection to the money manager.  Bank Austria  Bank Medici operated as a branch of Bank Austria, which
administered its accounts, according to Picard. In return, Bank
Austria, which is named as a defendant, was paid at least
$31 million.  Bank Medici renamed itself 20.20 Medici AG after Austria’s
Financial Markets Authority withdrew the company’s banking
license because of insufficient capital in May 2009.  Andreas Theiss, a lawyer for Kohn and Medici in Vienna,
said in an interview that, “Kohn and Medici are victims of
Madoff. What is being claimed in the lawsuit has nothing to do
with reality.”  UniCredit said in an e-mailed statement on behalf of
itself, Bank Austria and its fund management unit Pioneer Global
Asset Management SpA, which is also a defendant, that they will
fight the lawsuit.  Their “attorneys are reviewing the matter and we will
manage this through the normal course legal process,” the bank
said in a statement.  Ousted CEO  Former UniCredit Chief Executive Officer  Alessandro Profumo , who was ousted from the Italian lender in September, is
also named as a defendant in the suit.  “The allegations are completely unfounded and will be
defended vigorously,” said a spokesman for Profumo.  Madoff, 72, who pleaded guilty, is serving a 150-year
sentence in federal prison in North Carolina.  At the time of his arrest, his financial statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  HSBC Holdings Plc  was sued this month for $9 billion by
Picard, who alleged Europe’s biggest lender enabled Madoff’s
fraud. Picard previously sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  for
$6.4 billion over claims the New York-based bank aided and
abetted the fraud.  Earlier last week,  Citigroup Inc. ’s Citibank, Bank of
 America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit and five other banks were
sued by the trustee to recover more than $1 billion.  ABN Amro  The banks, which include Natixis SA, Fortis Prime Fund
Solutions Bank (Ireland) Ltd., ABN Amro Bank NV, Nomura Bank
International Plc. and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
received money through Madoff feeder funds when they knew, or
should have known, that Madoff’s investments were a fraud,
Picard said in a statement at the time.  Picard also sued UBS AG and Tremont Group Holdings Inc.,
the hedge-fund firm owned by Oppenheimer Acquisition Corp., over
claims they profited from Madoff’s fraud. Picard, along with the
liquidators of Madoff’s U.K. operation, sued the unit’s former
directors in a London court seeking at least $80 million.  All of the banks and firms have denied wrongdoing and vowed
to fight the lawsuits.  Also last week, one of  Bernard Madoff’s  first clients,
along with 19 family members, settled potential lawsuits by
agreeing to forfeit $625 million in profits from the con man’s
investment fraud.  Son-in-Law  Carl Shapiro, a Boston-based philanthropist, held an
account with Madoff’s firm beginning in 1961. His son-in-law,
Robert Jaffe, is the former vice president of Cohmad Securities
Corp., a feeder fund that shared offices with Madoff’s firm.  Picard also sued the owners of the New York Mets baseball
team for the return of profits earned from their Madoff
investments. The defendants and Picard confirmed they are in
settlement talks.  On Dec. 10, Picard said in a statement that he sued  Frank Avellino  and  Michael Bienes , two certified public accountants,
as well as family members, for more than $900 million, seeking
money they withdrew from Madoff’s firm. Picard called Avellino
and Bienes “among the earliest enablers” of Madoff.  Picard announced Dec. 10 that he had settled for more than
$80 million against a group of charities and non-profit
organizations that profited from their Madoff investments.  One settlement announced, with Hadassah, the Women’s
Zionist Organization of America Inc., will add $45 million for
distribution to Madoff victims, Picard said in the statement.  Hadassah’s former finance chief,  Sheryl Weinstein , wrote in
a book published last year about an affair she had with Madoff.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 10-5411, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in Manhattan federal court at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  