-- Madoff's Legacy Forces New Zealand Hedge Fund Pure Capital's London Move
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-12-10T00:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/madoff-s-legacy-forces-new-zealand-hedge-fund-pure-capital-s-london-move.html
Pure Capital Ltd., the New Zealand
hedge fund led by  Anthony Limbrick , will move its base to London
to be closer to clients as the legacy of Bernard Madoff’s ponzi
scheme makes it tougher to convince investors to part with money.  Pure Capital’s headquarters will be in the U.K. within six
months, said Limbrick, the fund’s chairman and chief investment
officer, who is based in the New Zealand capital Wellington.
Away from global financial centers, it’s “very difficult” to
attract assets, he said, declining to disclose the fund’s size
or performance.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty in March 2009 to using money
from new investors to pay off old ones, compounded the challenge
of attracting funds in remote locations, said Limbrick. He’s
following others including Sydney-based  Global Trading
Strategies , which set up in London to court potential investors.  “Proximity to investors is a very important thing ever
since Bernie Madoff came along,” said Limbrick in a Dec. 8
interview. “There’s a natural human proclivity to trust someone
next to you as opposed to on the end of the phone.”  Almost all of the $23 billion put into hedge funds during
the first half of the year went to those with more than $5
billion, Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. said on Sept. 15.
Such funds account for 60 percent of the industry’s $1.6
trillion of assets.  London Wins  “We have significant problems getting people down” to
Australia to do due diligence, said  Murray Chatfield , chief
operating officer of  Global Trading Strategies , a global macro
fund that oversees about $400 million. “We’ve quite often
arranged meetings with other managers to make a trip worthwhile.
We now have a London presence to partially offset that issue.”  Pure Capital will set up in London with a partner, Limbrick
said by phone, declining to comment further. As chairman of the
 New Zealand Absolute Return Association , which represents
domestic hedge funds, he recommends any fund has half its
business in a financial center such as Hong Kong or New York.  Limbrick, who’s also a director of London-based hedge fund
 36 South Investment Managers Ltd. , said he chose London over
Singapore as Pure Capital’s new headquarters because the bulk of
investors are in Europe. That concentration may migrate east
within a decade, he said.  “We can imagine in five to 10 years relocating to Asia,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  