-- Agrokor Seeks Expansion in Europe, U.S. to Lock in Growth, Executive Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2010-12-10T08:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/agrokor-seek-expansion-in-europe-u-s-to-lock-in-growth-crnjac-says.html
Agrokor d.d., the largest company in
the former Yugoslavia, wants to expand further in Europe and get
a foothold in the U.S. to lock in profit growth, a top executive
said.  Agrokor, a Croatian food producer and retailer, surged
ahead of Croatian refiner  INA Industrija Nafte d.d . and
Slovenia’s  Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d.  with 3.6 billion euros
($4.78 billion) in 2009 revenue, according to  Deloitte  LLP. The
company now aims to mine other markets for growth, said  Ivan Crnjac , executive vice president for strategy and capital
markets in an interview in Zagreb.  The privately held company grew from a family flower
business during communist times to an enterprise with 40,000
employees. The company then combined the consumer goods industry
with food retail and distribution as ex-Yugoslav republics,
whose civil wars brought down the federation in the 1990s,
opened borders and trade.  ‘Now, we are looking at establishing our position in other
European and global markets, and particularly in the U.S.,”
where it won a distribution contract with Kroger Co., the
largest U.S. grocery chain.  While some of Agrokor’s subsidiaries are listed on the
 Zagreb Stock Exchange , the holding company Agrokor d.d. is not
listed and founder and Chairman  Ivica Todoric  owns 91.7 percent.  To survive the crisis that put Croatia under a recession,
Agrokor has worked to boost profits, Crnjac said. Sales in the
first nine months totaled 19 billion kuna, little changed from
the year before, while earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 10 percent.  Profit, Cash Flow  “Under the conditions of crisis, deflation and reduced
consumption, we have managed to increase profitability, generate
a strong cash-flow and strengthen our position in the region,”
Crnjac said.  The company will base its expansion plans with a focus on
brands such as bottled water  Jana ,  Pik Vrbovec  meat products and
its wines and edible oils.  Revenue from Agrokor’s retail chain  Konzum  grew from 30
million euros in the mid-1990s to 2.8 billion euros, according
to a November report by Deloitte. Its ice-cream brand  Ledo 
generated revenue of 300 million euros alone, compared with 14
million euros in 1994, when Agrokor acquired it.  “We sought out companies that had market potential, and
then followed with new strategies for distribution, sales and
marketing,” he said.  EBRD Stake  In 2000, the  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development  gave Agrokor a syndicated loan of 170 million euros,
which has been repaid. The bank in 2006 made an equity
investment, paying 110 million euros for 8.3 percent of the
company.  “Agrokor is one of the rare Croatian companies that has
successfully restructured acquired businesses and benefited from
the expanded market through cross-border investments,” said
Vedrana Jelusic, a senior banker specializing in agricultural
business at the EBRD. “Agrokor has already demonstrated it is a
well-organized company and the leader in the product development
and the application of the modern technologies.”  Moody’s Investor Services yesterday raised the company’s
credit rating to positive from stable. In November,  Standard &
Poor’s  changed its outlook to stable from negative. Currently,
of Agrokor’s total debt of 1.3 billion euros, less than 30
percent is short-term, according to S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jasmina Kuzmanovic  at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  