-- Airbus Operating Chief Leahy, Pillet Charged in EADS Insider-Trading Probe
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-10T18:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/airbus-operating-chief-leahy-pillet-charged-in-eads-insider-trading-probe.html
Airbus SAS Chief Operating Officer
 John Leahy  and Erik Pillet, the former human resources director
at the  European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co.  unit, were
charged by a Paris investigating judge with insider trading.  Leahy was placed under investigation Nov. 5, and Pillet
Oct. 1 after they were called in for questioning, said a
spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office who declined to be named
citing office policy.  Criminal investigators are looking into allegations that as
many as 17 current and former EADS officials engaged in insider
trading ahead of the announcement about production problems that
would delay the A380, the world’s biggest passenger plane. The
report precipitated a  26 percent drop  in the share price on June
14, 2006.  France’s market regulator cleared the officials and the
company of any wrongdoing in December 2009 in a parallel probe.  Leahy’s lawyer Patrick Bernard and EADS spokesman Pierre
Bayle declined to comment. Calls for comment to the men’s
offices weren’t immediately returned.  Leahy, 60, has been the one constant in Airbus’s top
management for close to two decades. He was hired six CEOs ago
in 1985, and, as an American, is one of the few non-Europeans.
Airbus, the world’s largest aircraft maker, is EADS’s biggest
unit.  Leahy sold 260,000 shares for 3.1 million euros ($4.1
million) while exercising his options, and Pillet sold 50,400
shares for 542,416 euros, according to  a report  by the Autorite
des Marches Financiers.  Noel Forgeard  Four former executives including former EADS co-chief
executive officer  Noel Forgeard  and one current official have
also been preliminarily charged in the probe. The investigation
began after EADS investors filed a criminal complaint following
the 2006 share price slide.  Other men cleared by the regulator have been questioned by
police in the investigation and classified as assisted
witnesses, an intermediate step between a simple witness and one
who is charged, the spokeswoman said. She refused to say how
many had been questioned or how much longer the investigation
would go on, saying it is still under way.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France on 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 