-- Akamai, F5, Huntington Banc, Netflix: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-12-13T11:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/airgas-exco-gfi-group-horace-mann-w-t-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  Nasdaq-100 Index changes were announced after exchanges
closed on Dec. 10, and the additions and deletions will take
effect before markets open on Dec. 20. Akamai Technologies Inc.
(AKAM US), Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP US), Dollar Tree
Inc. (DLTR US), F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV US), Micron Technology
Inc. (MU US), Netflix Inc. (NFLX US) and Whole Foods Market Inc.
(WFMI US) were picked to join the index.  The following companies were deleted from the Nasdaq-100:
Cintas Corp. (CTAS US), Dish Network Corp. (DISH US), Foster
Wheeler AG (FWLT US), Hologic Inc. (HOLX US), J.B. Hunt
Transport Services Inc. (JBHT US), Logitech International SA
(LOGI US) and Patterson Cos. (PDCO US).  Airgas Inc.  (ARG US): The company, fending off a hostile
takeover bid from Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD US), said
its directors disagreed over the minimum price they would accept
for the company, after earlier stating they were unanimous.  American Superconductor Corp.  (AMSC US): The maker of wind-
turbine components and transmission lines may be overvalued as
wind-turbine inventories at its Chinese customer Sinovel
increase, Barron’s said, citing no one.  Colonial Properties Trust  (CLP US): The owner of office
properties said it may sell shares equivalent to as much as $100
million.  Exco Resources Inc.  (XCO US): Billionaire  Wilbur Ross 
acquired 7.5 percent of the oil and natural-gas explorer and
wants to discuss “extraordinary corporate transactions” such as
a merger or asset sales, according to a filing.  GFI Group Inc.  (GFIG US): The New York-based inter-dealer
broker of derivatives and securities said it will pay a special
dividend of 25 cents a share to shareholders on record as of
Dec. 20.  Horace Mann Educators Corp.  (HMN US): The company that
sells auto insurance to public-school employees boosted its
quarterly dividend to 11 cents a share, more than the Bloomberg
forecast of 10 cents a share and up 38 percent from the third
quarter dividend.  Huntington Bancshares Inc.  (HBAN US): The Ohio bank that
has yet to repay $1.4 billion in U.S. bailout funds said it’s
selling $920 million of shares.  Mattel Inc.  (MAT US): The toymaker may rise 20 percent or
more in the next year on demand for its popular brands, such as
American Girl dolls, Disney character products and Monster High
dolls, Barron’s reported.  Plains All American Pipeline LP  (PAA US) and  Western Gas
Partners LP  (WES US): The two master limited partnerships may
rise as their fee-based business expands.  Jeremy Tonet , an
analyst at UBS Financial Services Inc., has Plains All American
at $71 in 2011 and Western Gas at $32, Barron’s reported. Plains
All American closed at $61.50 and Western Gas closed at $29.39
on Dec. 10.  W&T Offshore Inc. (WTI US): The oil and gas company said it
will pay a special dividend of 66 cents a share to shareholders
on record as Dec. 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 