-- Taiwan Set for `Outstanding' Share Gains Amid Momentum: Technical Analysis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-10T02:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/taiwan-set-for-outstanding-share-gains-amid-momentum-technical-analysis.html
Taiwan’s  stock index  is poised to
rally a further 10 percent based on momentum indicators and
Fibonacci ratios, according to Auerbach Grayson & Co.  The surge in the Taiex Index  relative strength index  past
70 on Dec. 6 is “a sign of strength” that confirms a “bull
trend” when coupled with other technical tools, not a signal to
sell as suggested by “conventional wisdom,” said  Richard Ross ,
global technical strategist at Auerbach Grayson in New York. The
index’s jump to a two-year high capped a 76.4 percent
retracement on the  Fibonacci chart , he said.  “Taiwan is in an outstanding technical position,” Ross
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “We love the
breakout to a fresh multiyear high. This should set the stage
for a test of our initial upside target around 9,600.”  The Taiex rose 0.6 percent to 8,753.84 yesterday, the
highest since May 2008. The measure has gained eight out of the
past nine days on the prospect closer trade ties with China will
allow technology companies to boost sales. Morgan Stanley and
Citigroup Inc. this month forecast the index will reach 10,000
in 2011, while Nomura Holdings Inc. turned “bullish,”
predicting the equities will be among the year’s best performers.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low. The
ratios are based on the sequence discovered by 13th century
mathematician Leonardo da Pisa, known as Fibonacci, while
studying the reproduction rate of rabbits. Key percentages
include 23.6, 38.2, 50, 61.8 and 76.4. Technical analysts use
the RSI to predict when unusual gains and retreats will probably
reverse.  ‘Underweight’ China  “Taiwan is entering a super-cycle as a beneficiary of the
peace dividend,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by Frank A.Y. Wang,
wrote in a report Dec. 3. With closer ties across the strait,
the brokerage said tourism is a “big opportunity” for Taiwan,
as more Chinese visitors will increase political stability and
cross-strait opportunities.  Ross is less bullish on the outlook for Chinese stocks,
recommending an “underweight” based on a negative divergence
between price and momentum and a “looming” so-called head-and-
shoulders pattern on the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index . The
pattern is formed by three consecutive peaks on a chart, with
the middle being the highest. A breach of a neckline connecting
the base of the three peaks, also a support level, may signal
the reversal of a trend.  The index of 40 Hong Kong-listed mainland companies slipped
less than 0.1 percent to 12,731.42 yesterday, the fourth decline
in five days.  “Chinese H-shares are in a weak technical position as they
approach critical support at 12,700,” Ross said.  Chinese stocks have fallen this year on concern tighter
monetary policy will slow growth in the world’s fastest growing
major economy. The H-share index has slipped 0.5 percent, while
the  Shanghai Composite Index  has dropped 14 percent, the worst
performance in Asia.  -- Allen Wan . With assistance from Weiyi Lim. Editors:  Reinie Booysen ,  Darren Boey   To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  