-- Malaysia Joins Indonesia in Pledging to Deepen South Korea Military Ties
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2010-12-10T05:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/malaysia-joins-indonesia-in-pledging-to-deepen-south-korea-military-ties.html
Malaysia joined neighbor Indonesia
in pledging to deepen military ties with South Korea and
described last month’s shelling of an island by North Korea as
an “unprovoked act of hostility.”  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  met with Malaysian
Prime Minister  Najib Razak  today in Putrajaya, outside Kuala
Lumpur, during his Southeast Asian tour. Lee yesterday won a
commitment from Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  to
deepen military ties and consider jointly manufacturing weapons.  Tensions have risen on the Korean peninsula since North
Korea shelled South Korea’s Yeonpyeong island on Nov. 23,
killing four people. South Korea’s military this week began
live-firing exercises off its coastline in more than 20 areas,
including near another border island off the west coast.  “The attack constitutes an unprovoked act of hostilities
in contravention of the principles enshrined in the United
Nations Charter, as well as a serious threat to the peace and
stability on the Korean Peninsula,” Malaysia and South Korea
said in a statement today.  The two leaders called on North Korea to abandon all
nuclear programs in a “verifiable” and “irreversible” manner.
At the same time, they said that South Korea and Malaysia will
cooperate on peaceful uses of nuclear technology.  Nuclear Energy  Malaysia said on Sept. 21 it planned to develop a nuclear
energy industry, though it has yet to complete its plans. This
comes as its oil and gas reserves start to dwindle. The nation
has crude oil reserves to last 24 years and natural gas for 38
years, Malaysia’s Finance Ministry said on Oct 15.  Najib told reporters Malaysia is particularly keen to learn
from South Korea about small reactors. Lee invited the Malaysian
premier to visit.  “Mr. Najib will be able to see for himself how safe nuclear
technology is in our country,” he told reporters. “South Korea
has nuclear reactors around high population areas because we
have given the people the assurance of its safety.”  South Korea has said Malaysia is one of the countries where
it aims to export its nuclear power technology. South Korea
emerged as a competitor in the global nuclear market after Korea
Electric Power Corp. beat General Electric Co. and Areva SA in
December 2009 to an $18.6 billion order to supply reactors to
the United Arab Emirates.  Korea Electric , the country’s biggest electricity producer,
said Oct. 7 it considers India, Kuwait, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia,
South Africa, Thailand and Turkey as potential markets for
nuclear technology exports.  Lee and Najib also agreed today to explore a possible free
trade agreement and expand cooperation in areas including
tourism, green technology, Islamic finance and nuclear
engineering, according to the statement. A Malaysia-Korea
business council may be set up, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 