-- Pioneer Food Group Faces Rival Takeover Offer for KWV by U.K.'s Halewood
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-12-10T10:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/halewood-wants-to-buy-kwv-as-it-rivals-takeover-bid-by-pioneer-food-group.html
Halewood International Holdings
Plc’s South African unit said it wants to buy KWV Holdings Ltd.,
which is considering a takeover offer from  Pioneer Food Group
Ltd. , the country’s third-largest food producer.  Halewood has “expressed an interest” to acquire KWV
because there are “significant synergies” that can be unlocked
by combining the companies, Mike Veysie, the managing director
of the South African unit in Johannesburg, said in a telephone
interview today. “We are putting our toes into the water.”  Pioneer Foods offered 12 rand ($1.74) a share to buy Paarl,
Western Cape-based KWV, South Africa’s second-largest wine and
spirits company, to diversify  earnings  and use its distribution
network to increase sales of KWV’s top wine brands. Shares of
 KWV , which are exchanged through brokers, last traded at 12.40
rand, according to its website.  Halewood, based in Merseyside, U.K., hasn’t yet received a
response from KWV to a letter sent to the company yesterday,
Veysie said. The company distributes ready-made spirits,
including Caribbean Twist, and Red Square Vodka. Halewood’s bid
will significantly exceed Pioneer’s offer, Johannesburg-based
newspaper,  Sake24  said, citing confidential documents in its
possession from Halewood to KWV.  ‘Unacceptable’  Danie de Wet , a former KWV chairman and one of its top 20
shareholders, on Dec. 3 said the Pioneer bid was
“unacceptable.” Pioneer has offered to pay a quarter of the
828 million-rand offer for 92-year-old KWV in stock and the
balance in cash. The deal needs support of 75 percent of KWV’s
shareholders.  It’s a “fair price,”  Zeder Investments Ltd.  Chief
Executive Officer  Antonie Jacobs  said on Dec. 3. Zeder owns
about 36 percent of KWV and about 42 percent of Kaap Agri Ltd.,
an agricultural-services company that owns 28 percent of
Pioneer. Hymli Krige, KWV’s spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message left at her office seeking comment.  Pioneers  shares , which fell 3.80 rand, or 6.6 percent, to
54 rand yesterday, didn’t trade by 11:40 a.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  