-- Alibaba CEO Says Dissatisfied With Stock Performance
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-12-10T12:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/alibaba-to-review-dividend-policies-ceo-displease-with-stock-performance.html
Alibaba.com Ltd.  Chief Executive
Officer  David Wei  said he is “dissatisfied” with the
performance of the company’s stock, and will extend a pay freeze
for executives at China’s biggest online-commerce site.  “Some investors are dissatisfied about the stock’s
performance, and not only them, the management is also
dissatisfied,” Wei said at Alibaba’s shareholders meeting in
Hong Kong today. The company will regularly review its dividend
policies and buy back stock to lift investor returns, he said.  Wei today announced a HK$1.1 billion ($142 million) special
dividend, helping trigger the biggest gain in Alibaba.com shares
in almost six months. The Hangzhou, eastern China-based company
had slumped 26 percent this year in Hong Kong trading before
today, underperforming Chinese Internet rivals  Baidu Inc.  and
 Tencent Holdings Ltd.   Alibaba.com employees at director level or above won’t get
salary increases this year, as the company extends a pay freeze
that had been enforced in the previous two years, Wei said.  Alibaba.com rose 4.3 percent to HK$13.96 today, the biggest
increase since June 17. The company will pay a special dividend
of 22 Hong Kong cents a share, according to a Hong Kong stock
exchange filing today.  The Chinese company last month said it renewed a stock-
buyback plan, and will repurchase its stock “from time to
time.”  Alibaba.com shares have trailed the 8.1 percent year-to-
date gain for the shares of Tencent, China’s biggest Internet
company, and the more than doubling in the stock of Baidu, the
country’s biggest search-engine operator.  The company’s shareholders today approved a plan to extend
an employee stock-option program, which Wei said will help
incentivize workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  