-- DIC Loses Control of Alliance Medical to Senior Lenders in Restructuring
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t
-- 2010-12-10T15:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/alliance-medical-s-senior-lenders-to-take-control-under-restructuring-plan.html
Alliance Medical Ltd., the U.K.
maker of medical-imaging equipment including CT scanners and X-
ray machines, said lenders will take control of the company as
part of a 570 million-pound ($900 million) debt restructuring.  Alliance Medical, which Dubai International Capital LLC
bought in 2007 in a 600 million-pound leveraged buyout, has been
in talks with investors for the past year amid declining sales
following government health-care cuts.  Its obligations will be reduced to 250 million pounds after
writing down senior debt and 140 million pounds of mezzanine
loans as well as a debt-for-equity swap, the company said in an
e-mailed statement today.  Senior lenders including Lloyds Banking Group Plc,
Commerzbank AG and M&G Investments, will take a majority stake
in the company, while holders of mezzanine debt and Dubai
International will take a minority share, according to the
statement.  Senior investors, all of which agreed to the restructuring,
will also lend 60 million pounds to Alliance Medical, the
company said. The loan will have super-senior ranking, putting
it first in line for repayment. The three-year debt will pay 10
percentage points more than benchmark rates, according to three
people familiar with the restructuring.  Lenders will earn a margin of 3.32 percentage points on the
remaining 250 million pounds of senior debt due in 2013, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the
restructuring is private.  Dubai International said in a statement that this is the
final debt restructuring among its European companies after
agreements on loans by borrowers including Almatis Holding BV
and Travelodge Hotels Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London at 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 