-- Americans in Poll Want Deficit Cut With Entitlements Secured
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-12-10T05:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/americans-in-poll-say-cut-deficit-with-entitlements-secured-as-rich-pay-up.html
Americans want Congress to bring
down a federal  budget deficit  that many believe is “dangerously
out of control,” only under two conditions: minimize the pain
and make the rich pay.  The public wants Congress to keep its hands off
entitlements such as Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, a
Bloomberg National Poll shows. They oppose cuts in most other
major domestic  programs  and  defense . They want to maintain
subsidies for farmers and tax breaks like the mortgage-interest
deduction. And they’re against an increase in the gasoline tax.  That aversion to sacrifice is at odds with a spate of
recent studies, including one by President  Barack Obama ’s debt
panel, that say reductions in Medicare, Social Security,
military and other spending are necessary to curb a deficit that
totaled $1.29 trillion in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, or 9
percent of the gross domestic product.  “The idea that we can solve our structural-deficit
problems merely by asking more of the well-off is totally
unrealistic,” said  David Walker , who was U.S. comptroller
general from 1998 to 2008 and now leads a group advocating
against deficits. “The math simply doesn’t work.”  According to the Dec. 4-7 poll, taken days after Obama’s
commission sounded an alarm over the nation’s “unsustainable
fiscal path,” the public still believes it’s more important to
“minimize sacrifice” than to take “bold and fast” action to
pare the $13.7 trillion national debt.  ‘Deficit Cutting Hurts’  If anything, the poll shows that public concern over the
deficit has ebbed: Forty-eight percent of Americans say the
budget shortfall is “dangerously out of control,” down from 53
percent who said that in an October survey.  “The reality is deficit cutting hurts, and the American
public is in no mood for further hurt than the slow economy and
high unemployment is delivering,”  J. Ann Selzer , president of
Selzer & Co., a Des Moines, Iowa-based firm that conducted the
nationwide survey.  Investors are worried about a widening of the budget gap.
Treasuries tumbled for two days after Obama announced a plan to
extend Bush-era tax cuts and reduce payroll taxes, stoking
concern over more borrowing. The 10-year yield rose 35 basis
points in its biggest back-to-back increase in more than two
years. Treasuries rebounded yesterday on uncertainty over the
prospects for the tax cuts. The  10-year  Treasury yield slipped
five basis points to 3.22 percent at 4 p.m. in New York.  Sacrificing the Rich  The one place Americans are willing to see sacrifice is in
the  wallets  of the wealthy and Wall Street.  While they say they strongly support balancing the budget
over the next 20 years, when offered a list of more than a dozen
possible spending cuts or tax increases, majorities opposed
every one of them except imposing a bigger burden on the rich.  A majority backs raising the cap on earnings covered by the
tax on the Social Security retirement program above the current
limit of $107,000. Two-thirds would means test Social Security
and Medicare benefits. Six of 10 would end tax cuts for the
highest-earning Americans. And 7 of 10 favor a tax on Wall
Street profits.  “We give billions of dollars to these corporations, and in
my eyes they pretty much just put it in their pocket,” said
Donald Froemming, a 57-year-old independent voter and unemployed
diesel gas mechanic from Moose Lake, Minnesota.  Divided on Taxes  While Republican congressional leaders have opposed
increases in taxes paid by high-income families, sentiment among
the party’s rank and file is mixed. Republicans are divided on
eliminating the tax cuts for the wealthy, with 50 percent
opposing and 47 percent supporting. An increase in the cap on
earnings subject to Social Security taxes splits Republicans
almost evenly.  The poll shows there’s little appetite across all parties
and demographic groups for changes to entitlements.  Eighty-two percent of respondents opposed benefit cuts to
the Medicare health-insurance system for the elderly, with about
half of Republicans wanting to see both the current Medicare and
Social Security systems preserved. Just 35 percent of all
respondents back a system in which government vouchers would
help people pay for their own health insurance.  “Nobody wants to fail to take care of children who need
 medicine  or the elderly,” said Tea Party supporter Randy
Thorman, 45, a high school social studies teacher in Pryor,
Oklahoma. “We don’t want to throw people out without some type
of help.”  Backing Social Security  Support for keeping the current structure of the Social
Security program is strong, at 55 percent. Lower-earning
Americans are especially averse to any big changes.  Cathy Freeman, a 64-year-old Republican and retired
bookkeeper from Waco, Texas, said the deficit should be
addressed by ending tax breaks for the wealthy and corporations,
not slashing the entitlement programs her family relies on.  “We need to look at that before you start hurting the
little guys,” Freeman said. “Let’s look at some things that
aren’t fair in our system.”  A majority of 72 percent also opposes reducing benefits for
the Medicaid health program for the poor. This is true even of
Tea Party supporters who have built a movement around smaller
government, with 66 percent against reducing Medicaid benefits.
Seventy-two percent of those earning $100,000 or more also are
opposed.  Raise the Cap  In Social Security, the only areas for change that have
support are raising the cap on wages subject to the payroll tax
and reducing benefits for the wealthy. The wealthy themselves
are willing to sacrifice. Those making $100,000 or more are most
supportive of raising the cap, at 59 percent. That compares with
45 percent of those making $25,000 or less.  Overall, 67 percent of Americans want means-testing and 51
percent think the payroll tax cap should be raised. Just 31
percent want to see cost-of-living increases trimmed and 37
percent say the government should gradually raise the age of
Social Security eligibility to 69.  Partisan differences over the deficit are strong, with
Republicans more than twice as likely as Democrats to see the
fiscal situation as imperiled. Still, the shortfall is also a
potential source of conflict within each party’s coalitions.  Tea Party supporters, who played a key role in Republican
victories in the midterm elections, are more likely to back
strong action than are rank-and-file Republicans; a 49 percent
plurality favors a dramatic overhaul of Social Security,
compared with 41 percent of Republicans. Tea Party backers want
a Medicare overhaul by 52 percent to 43 percent, while
Republicans narrowly prefer to keep the current system.  Splitting the Coalition  The deficit also divides the coalition Obama assembled to
win the 2008 election. Political independents, whom he carried
then, consider the deficit a more immediate threat than do
Obama’s fellow Democrats. Fifty percent of independents said the
deficit is “dangerously out of control” versus 29 percent of
Democrats.  The poll suggests a possible opening for a new sales tax.
Americans are split on a 6.5 percent national sales tax to bring
down the deficit, with 46 percent in favor and 49 percent
opposed.  Still, three-quarters of the country opposes a 15-cent
gasoline tax across party lines. Even among those who want bold
action, 7 out of 10 oppose a higher gas tax.  A freeze on nondefense discretionary spending, which some
Republican congressional leaders have proposed, is opposed by 53
percent against 43 percent in favor. Cuts in defense spending
are opposed by 51 percent versus 45 percent in favor.  The Bloomberg National survey of 1,000 U.S. adults has a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 morning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 