-- Anglo Gets Key Permit for Minas Rio Iron-Ore Site, Allowing Building Work
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-12-10T16:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/anglo-gets-key-permit-for-minas-rio-iron-ore-site-allowing-building-work.html
Anglo American Plc , the fifth-
largest base-metals producer by market capitalization, secured a
key license from Brazil allowing it to progress with building
the Minas Rio iron ore complex, the company’s biggest project.  The award “marks a major achievement on the critical path
for delivery” of the project, London-based Anglo said in a
statement today. The project includes a mine, a processing
plant, a 326-mile (525 kilometer) pipeline and a port facility.  Anglo has underperformed rivals following time and cost
overruns on the project, which it bought for about $5.5 billion
near the peak of a six-year  commodities cycle  in 2008. The
company said in July the cost of the development in the state of
Minas Gerais may rise by about a fifth to $4.6 billion because
of delays in getting permits and project design changes.  The license is “a big positive for Anglo, with the project
now underway and significantly de-risked,” London-based Liberum
Capital Ltd. wrote in a note today.  The award of the second part of the installation license
allows Anglo to begin building the mine, along with a processing
plant and a tailings dam, used to contain waste, according to
the company. Work will start in March and Anglo should deliver
its first ore 27 to 30 months after that point, it said.  Concerns over Minas Rio contributed to the underperformance
of Anglo’s shares compared with rivals this year and remains the
company’s key risk, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in October.  Anglo  gained 1.1 percent to 3,027.5 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close of London trading, or 12 percent so far this year.  BHP
Billiton Plc  has advanced 24 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 