-- Apax May Get $4 Billion of Loans, Junk Bonds to Back Bid for Denmark's ISS
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-12-10T13:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/apax-may-get-4-billion-of-loans-junk-bonds-to-back-bid-for-denmark-s-iss.html
Apax Partners LLP may get more than
3 billion euros ($4 billion) of loans and bonds to fund its bid
for ISS Holding A/S, the world’s largest provider of cleaning
services, three people familiar with the situation said.  Apax is in exclusive talks to buy ISS from Goldman Sachs
Capital Partners and EQT Partners AB for about 6.4 billion
euros, people with knowledge of the talks said Dec. 8. Goldman
and EQT bought Copenhagen-based ISS in 2005 for 21.9 billion
kroner ($3.9 billion).  It would be the largest leveraged financing to fund a
buyout in Europe since Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. raised 9
billion pounds ($14 billion) of loans in 2007 to buy Alliance
Boots Ltd., the owner of the U.K.’s largest drugstore chain,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ben Harding , a spokesman for London-based Apax, wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  Lenders advising the private-equity firm are working on
debt packages of between 3 billion euros and 3.5 billion euros
that will include senior loans, senior bonds and subordinated
notes, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the deal is private.  Leverage  The acquisition debt would represent at least 5.5 times
ISS’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, the people said. That compares with average debt
of 4.2 times cash flow for leveraged buyouts this year,
according to BNP Paribas SA research.  ISS and its owners have hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley as advisers for a “strategic review” of the
company, which also includes studying an initial public
offering, according to a statement on Aug. 25.  ISS has an enterprise value of 39.4 billion kroner,
according to an August estimate by Jyske Bank A/S. Net debt was
6.5 times it cash flow at the end of September. Standard &
Poor’s ranks ISS’s debt BB-.  Apax is in talks with backers including sovereign
wealth fund China Investment Corp. to provide additional equity
to invest alongside the fund, the people said on Dec. 8.  The purchase would surpass the $5.1 billion acquisition of
Del Monte Foods Co. by firms including  KKR & Co.  last month.
Buyout firms finance buyouts by saddling their targets with debt
and using their cash flows to repay it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net  