-- Areva to Raise $1.2 Billion in Share Sale to Kuwait Fund, French State
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-12-10T12:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/areva-to-raise-1-2-billon-in-share-sale-to-kuwait-fund-french-government.html
Areva SA , the biggest supplier of
nuclear reactors, will raise 900 million euros ($1.2 billion) in
a share sale, bringing in a Kuwaiti sovereign wealth fund
alongside the French state to help finance investments.  Kuwait Investment Authority is offering to buy 600 million
euros of new shares, giving it about 4.8 percent of the Paris-
based company, the French Finance Ministry said today in a
statement. The state, which owns 91 percent of Areva, will
purchase an additional 300 million euros of new stock.  France has been in talks for about a year to sell as much
as 15 percent of the company to Kuwait, Japan’s  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd.  and the sovereign fund of Qatar. Areva Chief
Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  had aimed to raise 3 billion
euros in the capital increase to help fund spending on
equipment, plants and uranium mines to fend off competition and
sell more reactors and fuel in Europe, China and India.  “When the time comes, the state and Areva will consider
new financing measures to complement this first capital
increase, if need be,” the ministry said. Areva is still in
talks to sell its stake in STMicroelectronics NV to a French
government entity, it added.  The ministry didn’t say whether talks with Qatar and
Mitsubishi are continuing. Industry Minister  Eric Besson  said
last week that France and Qatar had failed to agree on a
valuation for Areva.  Patrick Kron , the CEO of French power-
equipment maker  Alstom SA , last month expressed opposition to
rival Mitsubishi taking a stake in Areva.  Target to Slip  Achieving the original target of a 15 percent capital
increase by the end of 2010 now seems unlikely,  Eric Sharper , an
industrials analyst at Credit Agricole in Paris, said in a note.  “We do not consider this to be a big issue for now, given
expected  capital raising  in 2011 and the possibility of further
stake sells,” Sharper said.  France’s state-controlled power utility, Electricite de
France SA, owns 2.4 percent of Areva.  EDF  may increase its stake
in the reactor maker, the government said in July. Areva’s
mining unit may form partnerships, it has said.  Lauvergeon, whose mandate as CEO expires in June, is trying
to prevent  EDF , Areva’s biggest customer, from raising the
holding to a point where it gains a board representation. A seat
for EDF may discourage the power company’s  competitors  from
doing business with Areva, Lauvergeon said last month.  EDF Spat  Both companies blamed each other for the loss of a contract
to build four nuclear plants in the United Arab Emirates to a
Korean group last year, and they have wrangled over nuclear-fuel
enrichment and waste recycling orders in recent months, forcing
the government to step in.  About 4 percent of Areva trades on the Paris stock exchange
as non-voting  investment certificates . Trading is currently
suspended. They have risen 0.7 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 12.5 billion euros.  The French government aims to list Areva shares by the end
of the first half of 2011.  Areva, whose  finances  have been hurt by construction-cost
overruns at a reactor in Finland, has already raised 5.2 billion
euros in 2009 and 2010 by selling its power-grid unit, as well
as stakes in Safran SA, GDF Suez SA and Total SA and other
minority interests. It has also sold 3.75 billion euros of  bonds 
since September 2009.  Cut at S&P  Standard & Poor’s cut Areva’s  debt rating  on June 28 by two
steps to BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade, saying that
the manufacturer’s finances were strained by delays and cost
overruns at the nuclear plant under construction in Finland. The
company has taken 2.6 billion euros in charges on the 3 billion-
euro contract since 2005.  Areva’s debt includes 2 billion euros that’s earmarked for
the purchase of  Siemens AG ’s 34 percent stake in a reactor joint
venture by January 2012. Munich-based Siemens used an option to
exit the business last year after agreeing to create a rival
partnership with Russia’s Rosatom Corp.  “Areva is consuming a lot of cash flow,” Pierre Boucheny,
a Paris-based analyst with Kepler Capital Markets, said in a
telephone interview. “It must avoid further slippage in
Finland.” The French company’s valuation is also held back by
litigation against both Siemens over the termination of their
venture and Finnish customer Teollisuuden Voima Oyj over project
overruns is also weighing, Boucheny said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 