-- Asian Buyers to Extend Global Recovery in Mergers Next Year, Survey Shows
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2010-12-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/asian-buyers-to-extend-global-recovery-in-mergers-next-year-survey-shows.html
Asian companies seeking to expand
internationally may propel modest gains in mergers and
acquisitions next year, extending the recovery that began in
2010, a Bloomberg survey showed.  There will be at least a small increase in mergers and
acquisitions in 2011 after a 12 percent gain to $1.96 trillion
so far this year, according to the Global M&A Outlook, which
queried 1,030 investment bankers, research analysts, traders,
portfolio managers and salespeople. Fifty-eight percent said the
most active buyers would be based in Asia Pacific or Central
Asia, followed by North America, the report found.  Asia and North America will have the most attractive
targets for acquisitions next year, followed by Western Europe,
the survey showed. Deals involving China have jumped in 2010,
with Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. agreeing to buy Ford Motor
Co.’s Volvo Cars unit for $1.6 billion in August. Bright Food
Group Co., Shanghai’s biggest food and dairy company, is in
talks to acquire vitamin retailer GNC Holdings Inc., people with
knowledge of the matter said this week.  “You’ll see the developing world invest in the developed
world,” said  Stephen Bird , Citigroup Inc.’s co-chief executive
officer for Asia Pacific. M&A in the region is set to increase
because companies are “highly liquid,” debt is becoming
cheaper and asset prices are at historically attractive levels,
he said in a Dec. 7 interview.  Domestic competition is also expected to be a catalyst for
global M&A next year, and market volatility will be the biggest
obstacle, the survey showed.  Bright Food  Deals involving Asia Pacific companies have jumped 25
percent this year through November, surpassing Europe and making
them the second-most active after North America, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. There were more than 8,700 deals worth about
$594 billion in Asia through Nov. 30, up from $429 billion in
the first 11 months of 2009. The Americas accounted for $1.1
trillion of transactions in the period, up 12 percent from $979
billion last year, according to Bloomberg data.  Global M&A volume rose 12 percent in the first 11 months of
the year, the data show. About 70 percent of survey respondents
expect an increase in M&A volume next year, compared with 90
percent who anticipated a rise this year.  Equity Financing  Forty-four percent of those surveyed said equity will be
the major source of capital for deal financing next year,
followed by cash and debt. In last year’s survey, debt issuance
was expected to be the main source of M&A financing.  Cross-border deals dominated with more than 8,100
transactions worth $945 billion announced in the first 11 months
of 2010, a 41 percent increase from the same period last year,
the data show. About 75 percent of the survey respondents favor
such deals over domestic M&A.  Financial services was the most active sector during the
first 11 months, with $329 billion of transactions announced,
followed by energy with $300 billion, the data show. Energy may
be the most active sector in 2011 as the industry consolidates,
the survey showed.  Deals in Brazil in the first 11 months hit a 10-year high
with more than $130 billion of transactions, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 