-- Australia Wheat Harvest May Be 60% Feed Because of Wet Weather, ANZ Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-12-10T08:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/australia-wheat-harvest-may-be-60-feed-because-of-wet-weather-anz-says.html
Wet weather this week in eastern
Australia, the fourth-largest wheat exporter, may have cut 60
percent of the crop in three states to feed quality, Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. estimated.  As much as 12.3 million metric tons in New South Wales,
Victoria and South Australia may be classified as feed after
rain in the past three days, Melbourne-based ANZ said in a
report. The bank estimates output in the states at 20.3 million
tons and national production at around 25 million tons.  Wheat futures have gained 45 percent this year on drought
in Russia and concern that high-quality grain will be in short
supply. Much of the downgraded crop from eastern Australia’s
record harvest would go into ending stocks while in the west and
south supplies from last harvest would help boost milling-grade
shipments, ANZ Agricultural Economist  Paul Deane  said.  “East coast exports were always going to be constrained by
logistics,” Deane said by phone today. “We were always going
to have a reasonably large stock of wheat at the end of this
season on the east coast, so what this means is we are going to
switch it from milling quality to feed.” Some 700,000 tons of
Queensland output of 1.3 million tons may also be feed, he said.  Wheat for March delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade fell
0.4 percent to $7.85 a bushel at 6:14 p.m. Melbourne time.  Australia’s wheat exports this marketing year may total
14.6 million tons, with shipments from Western Australia and
South Australia likely to include stockpiled milling wheat,
Deane said. Total milling quality shipments could reach around
12 million tons, he said.  White Wheat  Prices for feed what at Newcastle in New South Wales were
quoted at an average of around A$220 ($217) a ton compared with
A$334 for milling quality Australian standard white wheat and
A$400 a ton for prime hard, Rabobank analyst  Wayne Gordon  said.  The bank forecasts production of 22.5 million to 23 million
tons and exports of 14.3 million tons. Feed could represent at
least 25 percent to 30 percent of exports, Gordon said.  The rains may help output next season reach 25 million tons
as soil moisture levels in New South Wales and Queensland
underpin preliminary production estimates, he said.  This week’s rain may have cut as much as 40 percent of the
New South Wales state wheat crop to feed, Peter Matthews, a
cereals technical specialist at  Industry & Investment NSW  in
Temora said by phone today. That compares with 20 percent to 30
percent estimated at the end of November. Production is forecast
by the state at 9.2 million tons.  “Up until the last rain event we still had about 55
percent of the crop in the paddock, so I suspect we are going to
be looking at a 40 percent damage level depending on how fast
this  weather  front moves through and what we find out in the
next few days from growers,” Matthews said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  