-- Australia to Review Trade Policy in 2011, May Lower Tariffs, Emerson Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-10T02:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/australia-to-review-trade-policy-in-2011-may-lower-tariffs-emerson-says.html
Australia will release a trade
policy review next year that may propose tariff reductions,
Trade Minister  Craig Emerson  said, calling a dispute about
foreign-exchange rate advantages in the global economy a “zero-
sum game.”  “Currency wars are no substitute for trade
liberalization,” Emerson said in the text of a  speech  today in
Sydney. “Australia must not wait for other governments to
reform their economies before reforming ours.”  The U.S. Congress is considering trade legislation “with
teeth” next year to counter China’s policy of restraining the
value of its currency, Senate Foreign Relations Committee
Chairman  John Kerry  said this week. That disagreement is one of
several in which developing and emerging nations are accusing
each other of pursuing cheap currencies as a way of driving
economic growth through exports.  Emerson said his office will issue a report on the future
of Australia’s trade policy near the end of the first quarter of
2011, which he said “can be the year of trade.” Exports
account for about one-fifth of the country’s $1.3 trillion
economy.  The review will not stall efforts to complete proposed
trade deals with Korea, Japan, China and a trans-Pacific
agreement with nations including the U.S. and Singapore,
although it will “have a bearing on the government’s
approach,” Emerson said in remarks to the Lowy Institute for
International Policy.  Emerson said the review will draw on principles that
include a unilateral approach to tariff cuts and separation of
trade policy from foreign policy. It will also take into account
a  Productivity Commission  report on existing policy and be part
of wider government plans to improve the economy, he said.  Australia should “dispense with the bargaining-chip
approach to the remaining Australian tariffs,” Emerson said.
“Australia should make its offers, our trading partners should
make theirs, and where appropriate we should encourage them to
go further. But if the final deal is not in Australia’s national
interest we should not accept it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  