-- Tax-Free Yields Double Treasury Rates as Colorado Sells Notes: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-12-10T15:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/tax-free-yields-double-treasury-rates-as-colorado-sells-notes-muni-credit.html
Yields on top-rated tax-exempts due
in a year reached the highest relative to comparable-maturity
 U.S. Treasuries  in 12 months as  Colorado  sold $500 million in
short-term notes.  The ratio of one-year general-obligation rates to Treasury
yields  touched 208 percent  on Dec. 8, the highest since Dec. 4,
2009, before falling to 186 percent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bigger ratio makes municipal bonds
more attractive relative to federal debt. Yields on top-rated
one-year tax-exempts were  0.51 percent  yesterday, a rise of 9
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, since Nov. 1, according
to Municipal Market Data.  Short-term municipal sales will expand 5 percent to about
$65 billion next year as “governments compensate for wide
budget deficits” and dwindling reserves,  Chris Holmes , fixed-
income strategist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in New York, said in a
research note.  “Any kind of dramatic uptick in ratios is the result of
supply and demand,” said  Evan Rourke , a portfolio manager with
Boston-based Eaton Vance Corp., which has almost $10 billion
under management.  Colorado’s revenue-anticipation notes attracted 30 bids
from 13 banks, accounting for about nine times more orders than
notes available, state Treasurer  Cary Kennedy  said in a
telephone interview. JPMorgan won the competitive bidding for
the sale with an average yield of 0.30 percent, about 12 basis
points over  six-month  Treasuries.  ‘Good Interest’  “There’s a good amount of interest in the short end and
there’s a favorable credit here in Colorado,” Kennedy said.  The short-term notes get the highest ranking from Moody’s
Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s. The state’s underlying
ratings on longer debt are Aa1 from Moody’s, second-highest, and
AA from S&P, third-highest.  The Colorado notes also make a valuable alternative to
putting cash into money market funds without adding risk, said
 Laura LaRosa , who helps manage $4.5 billion in municipal debt at
Glenmede Investment and Wealth Management in Philadelphia. Tax-
free money-market funds on average are paying 0.03 percent
yield, according to iMoneyNet of Westborough, Massachusetts.  “They’re only six-month notes, so they’re not long enough
that you’d be worried,” she said.  Colorado sold $650 million in revenue-anticipation notes in
July last year, with the 11-month notes offering yields ranging
from 0.44 to 0.46 percent. That compares with a 0.45 percent
yield on  1-year Treasuries  at the time.  Forced to Wait  This year, the state was forced to wait until after the
elections to determine if a referendum limiting the state’s
borrowing would pass, Kennedy said. Voters rejected the
proposal, which allowed the state to sell its notes, she said.  “We were pleased to see them fail on the ballot,” Kennedy
said. “It makes good financial sense for us to address the
state’s cash flows with short-term borrowing.”  The rise in the one-year municipal-yield ratio to
Treasuries is unlikely to continue into 2011 as demand may
recover as bondholders reinvest Jan. 1 coupon and maturity
payments, Rourke said.  Demand for short-term debt is “starting to shut down for
the year and is a little bit limited at the moment,” he said.
“This may change as you head into the large Jan. 1 investment
flows.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  NEW YORK, the most-populous U.S. city, plans to sell about
$1.2 billion in taxable and tax-exempt debt next week, including
$745 million in Build America Bonds. JPMorgan will lead
underwriters marketing more than $1 billion of the debt, with
$130 million in traditional taxables being issued through a
competitive sale on Dec. 15. The city’s general obligations are
rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by S&P, both third-highest grades.
(Added Dec. 10)  MASSACHUSETTS , which has the third-highest per capita
personal income among U.S. states, plans to sell about $576
million in taxable Build America and Recovery Zone Economic
Development Bonds through its Commonwealth Transportation Fund
as soon as next week to finance the repair of bridges statewide.
The bonds, which are secured by pledged revenue that include
gasoline taxes and motor vehicle registration fees, carry top
ratings from S&P. Banks led by JPMorgan will market the
securities to investors. (Added Dec. 10)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Ashley Lutz  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  