-- U.S. Tax Vote May Be Too Late to Cut Social Security Levy Jan. 1
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-12-10T17:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/tax-vote-may-be-too-late-to-cut-u-s-social-security-withholding-by-jan-1.html
A vote in Congress on a tax deal may
come too late for some employers to reduce the Social Security
levies withheld from paychecks by the start of next year,
payroll industry executives said.  “At this point, no matter how quickly Congress acts,
that’s not going to happen for some employers,”  Scott Mezistrano , senior manager of government relations at the
American Payroll Association in Washington, said in a telephone
interview.  Lawmakers are weighing an agreement hammered out with
President  Barack Obama  to extend Bush-era income-tax cuts and to
reduce payroll taxes, which fund Social Security and Medicare.
The payroll tax cut will save Americans $111.7 billion in 2011,
according to an estimate last night by the congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation. The tax deal is likely to boost consumer
spending and economic growth next year if it’s approved,
economists say.  The Social Security tax is just one of the headaches facing
companies and workers as the end of the year approaches.
Employers also are waiting for the Internal Revenue Service to
issue income tax withholding tables and guidance on changes.  The Internal Revenue Service and the Treasury Department
declined to comment on how firms should prepare for the changes.
Last year, the IRS alerted payroll departments on Nov. 20 about
2010 tax tables. Companies are contending with the possibility
they might have to revert to a higher withholding rate -- and
take more from employees’ paychecks -- if  Congress doesn’t
extend the tax cuts  passed in 2001 and 2003.  ‘Big Issue’  “Timing becomes a really big issue,” said  William Dunkelberg , chief economist of the National Federation of
Independent Business, in a telephone interview. “When you don’t
know what your rates are for next year, you don’t know how to
make those decisions.”  Obama yielded to Republican demands to extend Bush-era
income-tax cuts for two years for all taxpayers, including the
highest-earning Americans. Democrats sought to limit the tax
reductions, which expire Dec. 31, to the first $250,000 of
annual income.  The tax deal would also give businesses credits for
research and lower the payroll taxes for a year. Social Security
taxes for workers would drop to 4.2 percent from 6.2 percent,
while the cost for the employers’ share would stay at the higher
level. For the first time since 1989, workers and companies
would pay different rates for these taxes.  Federal Employees Protest  Federal employees’ unions are protesting the proposed
change because 600,000 workers don’t pay any Social Security
tax, instead contributing 7 percent of their salaries into a
civil service pension system. Those workers would pay more by
losing a different Making Work Pay tax credit worth up to $800
per couple the payroll-tax cut is designed to replace.  “This unequal treatment of federal employees is unfair,”
National Treasury Employees Union President  Colleen Kelley  said
in a letter to House lawmakers yesterday. She urged that a one-
year, 2% reduction in employee contributions to the pension
system “or a similar remedy, be included in any payroll tax
holiday legislation.” The pension system doesn’t cover more
recent entrants to the workforce.  The Joint Committee on Taxation’s $111.7 billion estimate
for the size of the payroll tax cut is smaller than the $120
billion figure provided by the White House earlier this week.  Big companies and those that hire outside firms to process
 payroll operations  may be able to adjust to the new changes in
about two weeks, said Pete Isberg, president of the National
Payroll Reporting Consortium.  Extra Time  The IRS probably will give extra time to companies that
can’t change course quickly, he said, as it did in 2003, when
tax tables also weren’t ready in time for the first paychecks of
the year. Isberg regularly participates in industry conference
calls with the IRS.  Mezistrano said firms that aren’t ready by Jan. 1 will have
more work to do. Companies will need to reimburse employees who
had too much Social Security tax taken out of initial 2011
paychecks, while income tax changes -- such as differences in
the way married couples are assessed -- could complicate
household tax planning.  Mezistrano said his organization wants the IRS to issue
advice although, he said, the agency may be keeping mum so as
not to add further confusion.  Growth Estimates Raised  The tax accord may raise gross domestic product next year
by as much as half a percentage point to about 3.1 percent, said
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York.  Tom Porcelli , a senior economist at RBC Capital
Markets Corp. in New York, is raising his growth forecast for
2011 by one point, also to 3.1 percent.  A  smaller paycheck  in January may have some effect on
consumer spending although  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff
Economic Advisors in Holland, Pennsylvania, said households are
weighing more than take-home pay before spending.  Job security remains the “overriding concern” for
households deciding whether to save or spend, Naroff said.
“It’s not an issue of income, it’s an issue of confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  