-- Bankers Face Cash Limits, Funds Escape EU Bonus Rules
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-12-10T16:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/bankers-in-europe-face-cash-bonus-limits-after-failing-to-alter-eu-rules.html
Bankers will face limits on cash
payouts and the size of their bonus relative to salary from the
start of next year, as European Union regulators approved laws
to curb incentives for excessive risk-taking.  The rules limit bankers to receiving about 25 percent of
their bonuses in immediate cash payouts, the rest either
deferred or held in shares for a minimum of three years. Many
hedge funds will avoid rules on share awards depending on their
“prudential risk profile,” the  Committee of European Banking
Supervisors  said in an e-mailed statement today.  “This isn’t going to hit the banks very hard at all,”
 Chris Roebuck , a visiting professor at Cass Business School in
London, said in a telephone interview. “It’s not particularly
harsh on the banks. It isn’t introducing much that the best
banks haven’t already introduced to some extent.”  Regulators throughout the EU must adopt the proposals from
CEBS as part of a range of measures to rein in the risk-taking
blamed for causing the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. Banking groups including the  British Bankers’
Association  lobbied to change the rules, arguing that any
agreement on bonuses needed to apply around the globe.  “Not all institutions have to give substance to the
remuneration requirements in the same way and to the same
extent,” CEBS said on its website. “Some institutions will
need to apply more sophisticated policies,” CEBS said, while
other firms can fulfill requirements “in a simpler or less
burdensome way.”  ‘Right Direction’  CEBS said only “minor amendments have been introduced to
clarify” how the rules should be implemented by banking groups.  “The proposals are in principle a step in the right
direction,”  Tom Kirchmaier , a fellow at the London School of
Economics, said in an e-mailed comment. “Much of it will depend
on how they are implemented.”  Bonus awards should be split between shares and cash, and
at least half of each segment of the bonus must be deferred for
three years or longer, CEBS said.  The guidelines also include provisions for national
regulators to take back bonuses paid to senior managers whose
risks are later found to have caused losses at a financial firm
as well as requiring a link between fixed salary and pay.  “An appropriate maximum ratio of the variable to fixed
component is a strong and relatively uncomplicated technique for
obtaining risk alignment,” the rules said.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, which didn’t need
government aid, announced in February a new compensation policy
that will increase employees’ fixed pay by 5 percent to 30
percent, in turn reducing bonus payments by an equal amount. The
bank may also take back bonus payments in the event of losses,
it said at the time.  Supervisors can force a bank to withhold money to bolster
its capital base, rather than pay out bonuses, if the lender’s
reserves are too low. The CEBS guidelines also said bonuses
“should not prevent an orderly and adequate payback of the
government support.”  German lawmakers in October passed a law setting caps on
bonuses for executives at lenders bailed out by the taxpayer.
The bill bars the four lenders in which the government bought
stakes since 2008 -- Commerzbank AG,  Hypo Real Estate Holding
AG , Aareal Bank AG and WestLB AG -- from paying any staff member
more than 500,000 euros annually, however it is distributed.  ‘Appeasing Public Anger’  “I do think that it will go some way to appeasing public
anger, but not completely, because of absolute size of the
payouts relative to base pay,”  Philip Keevil , a senior partner
at investment bank Compass Advisers said in an e-mail.  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority will unveil a
tougher bonus code next week to implement the EU rules after
seeking comments since July.  The FSA will tighten its rules to include EU restrictions
on up-front cash payments and guaranteed bonuses paid on joining
and leaving firms. The U.K.’s regulator may allow small
investment funds to escape the toughest rules regarding share
awards, deferral and bonus disclosure, people close to the
discussions said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 