-- Basel Targets Banks’ Risks From Rogue Traders, Fraud
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-12-10T14:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/basel-regulators-seek-to-curb-bank-defences-against-rogue-traders-fraud.html
Banks should improve their defenses
against losses caused by rogue traders, client fraud and other
so-called operational risks, global regulators said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is seeking to
bolster its principles for how banks should protect themselves
from risks not directly linked to lending or to market
movements.  “Supervisors expect banks to continuously improve their
approaches to operational risk management,” the Basel committee
said on its  website . Bank directors should set “the tone at the
top” to ensure “a strong operational-risk management culture
exists throughout the whole business.”  Regulators are attempting to curb operational risks that
may derail banks’ recovery from the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. Basel rules from 2004 require lenders to
hold capital against risks including natural disasters, computer
hacking, systems failures, theft, fraud and unauthorized
trading.  A Paris court on Oct. 5 sentenced former trader  Jerome Kerviel  to three years in prison after his activities caused
 Societe Generale SA  to suffer a 4.9 billion-euro ($6.5 billion)
trading loss.  Banks should have “close monitoring of adherence” by
traders “to assigned risk limits or thresholds,” the Basel
committee said today.  Out of Line  “Ongoing processes to identify business lines or products
where returns appear to be out of line with reasonable
expectations,” should be set up, according to the draft
principles. The committee also published draft guidance for
supervisors on assessing banks’ management of operational risk.
The group is seeking views on both sets of proposals until Feb.
25.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial-services
commissioner, said Dec. 8 that he’s considering proposing
tougher sanctions for financial crime because a lack of
deterrents in some EU nations had left lenders and markets
vulnerable.  Operational risks are “unlimited, without end,” Karel
Lannoo, chief executive officer of the Centre for European
Policy Studies, said in a telephone interview in Brussels. He
said it was not clear whether regulators could impose rules that
would protect banks from unauthorized trading and fraud.  “These things can always happen,” he said. Mitigating
these risks is to a large extent “a matter of common sense”
and of performing due diligence, he said.  Highest Standard  Bank boards should “establish a code of conduct or an
ethics policy that sets clear expectations for integrity and
ethical values of the highest standard,” the Basel committee
said. Senior management should “ensure the identification and
assessment of the operational risk inherent in all material
products, activities, processes and systems.”  Bonus policies should be aligned to a bank’s agreed “risk
appetite and tolerance,” the committee said. “They should also
appropriately balance risk and reward.” Sound management
practices also include that employees should get “not less than
two consecutive weeks” of vacation time, the Basel group said.  The Basel committee published separate  guidance  today for
banks on how to test models that they use to measure their risk
of incurring losses on their assets. Bank capital rules give
lenders the possibility to use models rather than ratings from
agencies to assess potential losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Anthony Aarons
at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 