-- Beckman Said to Explore Sale After Firms’ Approach
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-12-10T21:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/beckman-coulter-said-to-explore-sale-after-buyout-interest-hires-goldman.html
Beckman Coulter Inc. , a maker of
laboratory equipment, is exploring a sale after it was
approached by buyout firms interested in taking the company
private, said people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Beckman, with a  market value  of about $4 billion before
today, hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to study whether to go
private or search for a strategic buyer, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks are private.  Blackstone
Group LP  and  Apollo Global Management LLC  are among the firms
that approached Beckman, said two of the people. The process is
in early stages, and any deal for the Brea, California-based
company would likely be months away, the people said.  General Electric Co. , Danaher Corp. and 3M Co. are among
industrial companies that have recently told financial advisers
they are interested in acquiring makers of lab equipment or
scientific instruments used in labs, said one of the people.  Beckman said in September that Chief Executive Officer
 Scott Garrett  had resigned and appointed J.  Robert Hurley  as
interim president and CEO while it searches for a successor.
Beckman would likely seek at least $90 a share in a buyout, and
might command as much as $160 a share, said  Dan Leonard , an
analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in New York.  ‘Lab Testing’  “Beckman Coulter should attract interest from both
strategic and financial buyers,” Leonard said in a research
report today. “Beckman’s diagnostic lab testing platforms stick
well to customers and drive significant consumable revenues.”  Beckman jumped 26 percent, or $14.99, to $72.08 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The stock, down 13
percent this year before today, rebounded from a low of $44.58
on Sept. 7, the day Garrett’s resignation was disclosed.  Spokeswomen for Beckman and Goldman declined to comment, as
did spokeswomen for Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE and 3M,
based in St. Paul, Minnesota. A spokesman for Washington-based
Danaher didn’t respond to messages.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo, and  Peter Rose  of
Blackstone also declined comment. There have been 104
acquisitions in the medical diagnostic equipment business in the
past five years with an average disclosed price of $466 million
and an average premium of 51 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Deal Premiums  Buyers paid an average of 18.1 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
diagnostic-equipment industry deals. Beckman had  ebitda  of
$205.9 million in the third quarter, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We think there is low odds that 3M will seriously look at
this, but we believe GE and Danaher will,” said  Jeffrey Sprague , co-founder of Vertical Research Partners in Stamford,
Connecticut, saying Danaher was the most likely to make an
offer. “With a $6 billion enterprise value, Beckman Coulter is
probably a bit bigger than either would care to do right now,
but it is a manageable size for either.”  GE, which has been building its health-care business, in
October agreed to buy cancer diagnostics company Clarient Inc.
in a deal valued at about $580 million. Danaher said in
September it would acquire Keithley Instruments Inc., a maker of
equipment for engineers at electronics manufacturers and
academic institutions, for about $300 million.  In July, Beckman received a warning letter from U.S.
regulators saying the company marketed a test for heart problems
without proper clearance.  FDA Warning  The warning  letter  from the Food and Drug Administration
involved a test called AccuTnI, which measures a protein called
tropinin that is a marker for heart problems. The FDA letter
said the company had made “significant modifications” to the
product without getting the required regulatory clearance.  “Beckman’s product quality issues are clearly hindering
new sales and customer retention,”  Bruce Cranna , an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in Boston, said in an Oct. 27 note to investors.  While Beckman remains a “substantial player” in the
laboratory business, “we have concerns about the macro backdrop
and management’s ability to blunt the impact of troponin
missteps and prevent the fire from spreading to allied clinical
segments,” Cranna said in the note.  Given the company’s “recent operational troubles,” a
buyout may be possible at $60 a share to $70 a share, said  Amit Hazan , an analyst with Gleacher & Co. in New York, in a note to
clients today.  Beckman’s biggest business is making laboratory equipment
used in scientific research and in hospitals. The company had
 revenue  of $3.3 billion in 2009. The company had $285 million in
cash and cash equivalents as of Sept. 10.  Beckman has more than 275,000 laboratory systems installed
in about 160 countries,  Paul Glyer , a company senior vice
president, said at a Piper Jaffray Cos. health-care conference
on Dec. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net 
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  