-- Bernstein’s Glittering ‘Candide’ Blooms D.C. ‘Revisal’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-12-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/bernstein-s-glittering-candide-gets-bubble-bath-in-d-c-jeremy-gerard.html
Like  Voltaire’s  indomitable hero,
“Candide” is forever bouncing back, a perennial fixer-upper
with the sturdy bones of  Leonard Bernstein’s  finest score.  The latest version just opened at Washington’s  Shakespeare
Theatre Company  in a co-production with Chicago’s  Goodman
Theatre .  Candide (Geoff Packard, blond as a beach bum), the bastard
son of a Baron’s sister, has made the mistake of falling in love
with Cunegonde, daughter of his ward.  He’s promptly cast out of their Westphalian castle, leaving
behind not only his sweetheart but his teacher, old Dr. Pangloss
(twinkle-eyed Larry Yando).  The doctor’s philosophy -- that we live in “the best of
all possible worlds” -- is the true object of Voltaire’s scorn.  Candide quickly learns through cruel experience that
optimism is a sham. He sees the world, Old and New; experiences
the horrors of war, the devastation of treachery, the terror of
the Inquisition and the mythic glory of El Dorado.  Undressed Often  Cunegonde, raped, enslaved, sold, dressed up and just as
often undressed, navigates her own trail of tears before she and
Candide are finally united, much older and much wiser, after
having sung a ton of great songs.  Mary Zimmerman’s  jaunty, beautifully realized staging of
the show in Washington delivers pure pleasure for the ears and
eyes. While her productions for the Metropolitan Opera have been
disastrously self-conscious, she’s found the right style here.  Cunegunde sings “Glitter and Be Gay” in a bubble bath,
chirping those high E-flats like so much bird song. Vivacious
soprano Lauren Molina continues singing as she is corseted and
adorned for yet another evening’s festivities.  Beginning with the 1956 premiere of “Candide,” Bernstein
shared billing with  Lillian Hellman , Richard Wilbur,  Dorothy Parker , John Latouche and  Stephen Sondheim  through revisions of
its whimsical if ungainly script and score.  Zimmerman cajoled Bernstein’s heirs into letting her slip
more Voltaire into the book, including some raunchy material
deemed fit for readers in 1759 but not for theatergoers 200
years later.  As if Voltaire’s biting satire wasn’t enough to connect
with a contemporary audience, she misguidedly encourages
mugging, particularly by Molina. Yet there is some magic as
well, when, for example, toy soldiers are poured from one bucket
to another, suggesting the anonymity of war.  Golden Pyramid  Set designer Daniel Ostling surrounds the stage with three
high, oak-paneled walls; from the two on the sides spring
balconies and signs to suggest place. The crystalline lighting
by T. J. Gerckens gives them depth, and the costumes by Mara
Blumenfeld track the characters’ rising and falling fortunes,
notably Pangloss’s sumptuous robe, eventually reduced, like the
man himself, to tatters.  Despite occasionally mushy playing of a demanding score,
Doug Peck conducted with verve.  Among a host of superb performances, the standouts are
Hollis Resnik, whose shtick perfectly fits the Old Lady who
loses a buttock, and Jesse J. Perez as the resilient Cacambo.  Yet it’s the music that matters, from the brass fanfare
that launches the thrilling overture, to the gorgeous chorale
“Make Our Garden Grow” that brings the lovers’ journey to its
poignant end.  “Candide,” Sondheim writes in “Finishing the Hat,” has
“the most scintillating set of songs yet written for the
musical theater.” No argument there.  Through Jan. 9 at Sidney Harman Hall, 610 F Street NW,
Washington. Information: +1-202-547-1122;
 http://www.shakespearetheatre.org  Rating: ***  ( Jeremy Gerard  is a theater critic and editor for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 