-- Best Buy's `Episodic' Consumers Back Bernanke's Cautious View on Recovery
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2010-12-10T21:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/best-buy-s-episodic-consumers-back-bernanke-s-cautious-view-on-recovery.html
Best Buy Co., whose electronics make
it a barometer of discretionary spending, is opening its U.S.
stores an hour earlier than usual this holiday season in a bid
to win over consumers battered by job losses.  With the unemployment rate at a seven-month high of 9.8
percent and a quarter of U.S. homes worth less than their
mortgages, consumers are holding back spending until occasions
such as Thanksgiving and Christmas, said  Scot Ciccarelli , an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets in New York.  “The episodic consumer is becoming even more apparent,”
said  Robert Yerex , chief economist for Kronos Inc., a closely
held Chelmsford, Massachusetts-based maker of payroll and hiring
software for retailers and other businesses. “Unemployment is
really holding back the recovery.”  Even as Americans are poised to boost holiday spending by
the most in four years, according to the National Retail
Federation, short-lived gains underscore Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s concern the recovery may not be
sustainable. “The unemployment rate is just not going down,”
he said in an interview broadcast this month by CBS Corp.’s “60
Minutes” program.  Best Buy’s  domestic comparable-store sales on a three-year
stacked basis will rise 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter,
before dropping 2 percent and 3.5 percent in the following
quarters, Ciccarelli estimates. Measuring sales on a stacked
basis, which adds sales from a particular quarter over time, is
used by analysts to identify underlying patterns.  ‘Pressured Consumers’  Consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of the
world’s largest economy, and the holidays generate about 30
percent of annual revenue for retailers. Stores started
discounting earlier than in recent years in a grab for sales
before Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving and the biggest
shopping day of the year.  “There’s going to be a very late concentration of buying
right around Christmas and right afterwards,” said Ciccarelli,
who rates Best Buy as his “top pick.” “This doesn’t mean we
are off and running for 2011. As long as the consumer remains
under pressure, you are going to continue to see this more
episodic behavior.”  The number of jobless climbed to 15.1 million last month,
signaling a reluctance by companies to boost hiring, and hours
worked and earnings stalled, a Labor Department report showed
last week.  Best Buy shares have climbed 2.4 percent so far in the
fourth quarter. For the year, the stock has advanced 5.9
percent. It fell 20 cents to $41.80 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The company will report fiscal
third-quarter earnings Dec. 14. Analysts predict profit of 60
cents a share, the average of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  ‘Highly Selective’  Shoppers are “episodic” and “operating on cues from the
broader environment,” Best Buy Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn  told analysts Sept. 14. “Many customers are being highly
selective about when they spend their money.”  The Federal Reserve said Dec. 1 that the economy gained
strength in 10 of 12 districts as hiring improved, manufacturing
expanded and retailers anticipated a stronger holiday shopping
season. At the same time, several districts noted that
households remain price sensitive and focused on buying
necessities, according to the Fed’s Beige Book report, which is
based on anecdotal information.  The Fed has kept its  target rate  for overnight loans
between banks at a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  “All the evidence we’ve seen so far does point to a decent
increase in spending over the holiday sales,” said  Paul Dales ,
a U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto. “I don’t
think it will move the Fed from its current course by too much.
It’s just hard to read too much into a few weeks worth of
data.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at 
1348 or  cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 