-- Former President Clinton Endorses Tax Compromise at White House
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-12-10T21:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/bill-clinton-backs-tax-compromise-following-meeting-with-obama-on-agenda.html
Former President  Bill Clinton 
endorsed a compromise agreement between President  Barack Obama 
and congressional Republicans to extend tax cuts and
unemployment benefits beyond this year.  “This is a good bill,” Clinton told reporters at the
White House while standing alongside Obama after the two men met
in private.  Congressional Democrats are registering objections to
keeping tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans and to an estate-
tax provision that would set the top rate at 35 percent after a
$5 million tax-free allowance per individual.  The measure also includes a 13-month extension of
unemployment aid for the long-term jobless, a one-year cut in
payroll taxes and tax breaks for small businesses that were part
of Obama’s economic package.  Like Obama, Clinton said he opposes an extension of tax
cuts for wealthy Americans because that would “not be the most
efficient way to get the economy going again,” though their
inclusion is needed to gain the support of Senate Republicans.  “The agreement taken as a whole is, I believe, the best
bipartisan agreement we can reach to help the largest number of
Americans,” Clinton said. “I don’t believe they can get a
better deal by waiting.”  Touting Endorsements  The Obama administration has been touting endorsements of
the compromise by officeholders around the country, from city
mayors to state governors. Administration officials have also
warned that a failure to approve the measure may send the
economy back into recession.  House Democrats held a nonbinding vote yesterday to prevent
the tax compromise from being voted on in the House of
Representatives unless changes are made.  The Senate will take up the estimated $857 billion proposal
next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Nicholas Johnston  in
Washington at   njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  