-- Boeing Missile Defense Test Planned After Failure in January
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-10T20:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/boeing-missile-defense-system-to-get-pentagon-test-after-january-failure.html
The Pentagon next week plans to test
a  Boeing Co.  missile defense system that failed to intercept its
target in a January exercise.  Depending on weather conditions, the Missile Defense Agency
will attempt to launch an interceptor between Dec. 14 and Dec.
17 from Vandenberg Air Force Base, California, against a target
missile boosted from Kwajalein Atoll, Marshall Islands, in the
Western Pacific,  Richard Lehner , an MDA spokesman said today in
an e-mail.  The test repeats a Jan. 31 exercise that  failed  to
intercept the target because of a classified glitch with a sea
based  radar , Lehner said. Under a 1998 accord, Boeing is the
prime contractor for the system and overseas interceptor
boosters, warheads, radars, command and control equipment.  If successful, the approximately $100 million test will
mark the first intercept since December 2008 of the system
designed to defend the United States from a small number of
missiles fired from Iran or North Korea. Prior to the January
failure, the program has accomplished eight successes in 13
tests since 1999.  Missile Defense Agency Director Lieutenant General Patrick
O’Reilly told the House Armed Services Committee in April that
the interceptor flew as planned “relying on data from the
radar, failed to intercept a target.”  O’Reilly said “it was a very valuable test because we
collected extensive data on the performance” of the radar,
interceptor and warhead.  There are 26 missiles in silos at Fort Greely, Alaska, and
four in Vandenberg silos.  Testing, Development  In the 12 years Boeing has had the approximately $18
billion contract, it has overseen testing and development of
interceptors made by  Orbital Sciences Corp.  of Dulles, Virginia;
warheads by Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. ; and
command and control software made by Los Angeles-based  Northrop
Grumman Corp.   The contract ends next year. The MDA is completing the work
in a program worth as much as $10 billion. It issued  Dec. 2 a
request for proposals  on a 7-year contract for future
development, fielding and sustainment of the system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net .
To contact the reporter on this story: 