-- Brazilian Banks Halt Trades in Loan Portfolios After Panamericano Probe
-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-12-10T20:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/brazilian-banks-halt-loan-portfolio-trades-after-panamericano.html
Brazilian banks stopped buying and
selling loan portfolios in the wake of a fraud investigation
into  Banco Panamericano SA , said  Alfredo Moraes , a vice
president at the country’s capital markets association.  “Banco Panamericano shut down the loan purchases market,
locked it,” Moraes, vice president for fixed income at the
organization known as  Anbima , said in an interview in Sao Paulo
yesterday. “This can’t be solved easily. If it could, it would
have already been solved.”  Panamericano, Brazil’s 21st-largest bank by assets, has
lost 40 percent of its market value since its controlling
shareholder bailed out the lender with a 2.5 billion-real ($1.5
billion) loan, including 11 percent this week. Moody’s Investors
Service cut the rating outlook on several smaller Brazilian
banks yesterday, saying profits may be hurt after capital
requirements were increased by the central bank last week.  Grupo  Silvio Santos  rescued the Sao Paulo-based bank Nov. 9
with a loan from the deposit insurance agency after the central
bank said it found accounting irregularities at Panamericano
related to sales of pools of loans. Prosecutors later began an
investigation into alleged fraud.  Banks are now “reviewing their controls,” Moraes said.
One of the issues under review is that loan payments are
collected by the bank that sold the portfolio, not by the one
that bought it, he said.  “We need to find a way to evaluate the safety in carrying
on business,” Moraes said. “Controls will be changed.”  Caixa Economica Federal, the state-run savings bank that
owns a stake in Panamericano, named a majority of directors to
the board after the probe began.  The yield on Panamericano bonds due in 2020 has climbed to
8.8 percent from 7.4 percent on Nov. 9, according to prices from
Trace. Panamericano shares rose 1.5 percent to 4.06 reais at the
close of trading in Sao Paulo at 3:15 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Felipe Frisch  in São Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net 
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  