-- Brazil Coffee Will Trade at Double Discount of Others, ICE Says
-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 2010-12-10T07:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/brazilian-coffee-will-trade-at-double-discount-of-other-grades-ice-says.html
The discount on Brazilian coffee
will be more than twice that on the cheapest grades currently
deliverable against ICE Futures U.S.’s arabica contract when it
gets included from 2013, according to the bourse.  Brazilian coffee will be deliverable at a discount of 9
cents a pound, compared with a 4-cent discount for supply from
the Dominican Republic and Ecuador, the exchange said in a
statement yesterday. Rwandan, Burundian, Venezuelan and Indian
coffee are also discounted, while Colombian beans get a 2-cent
premium. A further 12 origins are at par.  The exchange had considered adding Brazilian coffee to the
contract three times since 1999 and the change was opposed by a
growers group in Colombia. Adding the Brazilian beans would
compound pricing discrepancies and concerns about the quality of
exchange inventories, the National Federation of Coffee Growers
of Colombia said in a June 9 letter to ICE Futures.  The ICE contract allows deliveries to exchange-licensed
warehouses in the ports of New York, New Orleans, Houston,
Miami, Bremen/Hamburg, Antwerp and Barcelona. Brazilian beans
will be accepted for the March 2013 contract onwards.  Colombia is the second-largest grower of arabica beans
favored by specialty coffee retailers, including Starbucks Corp.
Brazil, the top arabica grower, is the second-largest producer
of robusta beans used in instant coffee and harvested mostly in
Asia and parts of Africa. Vietnam is the biggest robusta grower.  Arabica-coffee futures for March 2011 delivery, the most
active contract, were little changed at $2.0455 a pound
yesterday. Prices have climbed 50 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stuart Wallace  in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  