-- Brazilian Analysts Wrong to Predict Tolerance for Inflation, Barbosa Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-12-10T14:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/brazilian-analysts-wrong-to-predict-tolerance-for-inflation-barbosa-says.html
Brazil’s Economic Policy Secretary
 Nelson Barbosa  said some analysts are wrong to predict
President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  will be more tolerant of
inflation.  “This scenario is completely wrong,” Barbosa said in an
interview yesterday in Brasilia. President Luiz Inacio  Lula da Silva ’s government “has already shown that controlling
inflation is a necessary condition for the success of economic
policy. It’s important this control comes with economic growth,
increased employment and income distribution.”  Brazil’s  inflation  will accelerate to 6.3 percent next year
and may exceed 6.5 percent between the second and third
quarters,  Marcelo Salomon , chief Brazil economist for  Barclays
Capital , the investment banking division of Barclays Bank Plc,
said in a Dec. 8 telephone interview from New York.  Consumer prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA index
rose 5.63 percent in the year through November. Prices rose 0.83
percent from October, the biggest increase since April 2005.
Inflation expectations for 2011 have accelerated to 5.2 percent,
from 4.8 percent in August, according to the bank survey. Brazil
targets annual inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  Traders are betting the central bank will raise the
 benchmark interest rate  by at least 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 11 percent in January, futures contracts
show. Policy makers left the rate unchanged this week after
raising reserve and capital requirements for loans last week to
slow consumer lending growth that’s running at 20 percent
annually.  Commodity Price Surge  Barbosa said the acceleration in the inflation rate stems
from a surge in food and commodities prices that will ease.
There is no demand side pressure on prices, he said.  “The country can grow 8 percent this year, growth is
around 7.6 and 7.8 percent,” Barbosa said. “That is not
excessive because we had a 0.6 percent retraction in 2009. What
happened was an adjustment,” he said.  Investment will continue to grow, which is needed in order
to reduce inflation and the benchmark interest rate in a
“sustainable way”, Barbosa said.  Speculation by economists including those at Barclays that
the Brazilian government’s economic policies may change are
natural at a time of transition and will dissipate when it
becomes clear that Rousseff’s government will "have the same
commitment to economic stability and fiscal balance’’ as Lula,
he said.  Rousseff takes office Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  