-- Briton Who Was Arrested for Wife's Murder During Honeymoon Is Granted Bail
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-12-10T13:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/briton-arrested-for-wife-s-murder-during-november-honeymoon-granted-bail.html
Shrien Dewani, whose wife was
murdered last month while the British couple was on a honeymoon
in South Africa, was granted bail by a U.K. court.  The High Court in London refused a request by lawyers for
the government of South Africa to keep Dewani in custody while
they seek his extradition.  The 30 year old is accused by South African police of
conspiring “with others to murder Anni Dewani” in Cape Town.
Anni, 28, was killed on Nov. 13 after the taxi she and her
husband were traveling in was carjacked in the township of
Gugulethu, near Cape Town.  Taxi driver Zola Tongo was hired by Shrien to arrange the
murder, the Western Cape Director of Public Prosecutions Rodney
de Kock told the Cape High Court Dec. 7, the South African Press
Association reported.  Shrien Dewani denies all wrongdoing. His publicist  Max Clifford  said this week that the allegations were “ludicrous”
and “totally untrue.”  Tongo was sentenced on Dec. 7 to 18 years in jail for his
role in the murder. He said in a plea bargain that Shrien Dewani
offered him 15,000 rand ($2,160) to orchestrate a hit on his
wife, according to Ben Watson, a lawyer for the South African
government at today’s hearing in London.  Security Footage  Watson said that police have security footage filmed at
Dewani’s hotel of him “surreptitiously” handing Tongo a white
plastic package three days after the murder. Watson said the
package contained a 1,000 rand-payment for Tongo’s part in the
murder.  Clare Montgomery , Dewani’s lawyer, said that he gave Tongo
the money to pay for taxi rides from the airport and on the day
of the murder. She said it wasn’t handed over surreptitiously as
it was caught on camera in a public place.  It was “improbable” that even an experienced criminal
would come to a foreign country and almost immediately recruit a
stranger to commit a murder, Montgomery said.  The wound that killed Anni Dewani “does not appear to have
been an execution-style wound,” Montgomery said. The bullet
went through her hand, up her arm and into her neck, where it
severed vital arteries, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 