-- Build America Bonds Program's End Poised to Batter Municipal-Debt Market
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-10T19:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/build-america-bonds-program-s-end-poised-to-batter-municipal-debt-market.html
The looming end of the federally
subsidized Build America Bonds program may push up yields in the
$2.8 trillion municipal securities market and put more financial
pressure on cash-strapped states and cities, investors said.  Senate Democrats backing the subsidy, which has helped
finance bridges, roads and other public works, fell short in a
bid to get the program added to a bill extending the 2001 and
2003 income-tax cuts. That failure was the latest in efforts to
keep the Build America program alive beyond its scheduled end on
Dec. 31.  The securities, which carry taxable interest rates similar
to corporate debt, have allowed state and local governments to
access investors abroad and others who don’t buy traditional
tax-exempt bonds. That has eased the supply of tax-exempt bonds
and buoyed prices, which move inversely to yields, a trend that
may reverse next year if the program is killed.  “It could get pretty ugly,” said  Rob Novembre , managing
director at Arbor Research & Trading Inc. in New York, who runs
the company’s municipal-trading operation. “Whoever owns munis
could potentially experience some pain.”  Build Americas were created under President  Barack Obama ’s
stimulus legislation as a means of driving down borrowing costs
for localities and funneling money to job-stoking construction
projects. More than $179 billion of the securities have been
sold since April 2009, funding clean-water projects in Ohio,
highways in Kansas, dormitories at Rutgers University in New
Jersey and a new bridge spanning the San Francisco Bay.  ‘Great Success Story’  “The BABs program has been a great success story,”
California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  said in a statement today.
“If Congress lets it expire, it will damage our economic
recovery and inflict a multibillion-dollar injury on taxpayers,
not just in California but in every state in the nation.”  California and local issuers in the state have sold about
$36 billion of the taxable debt, he said. In an interview today
on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan ,”
Lockyer said the Build America program has helped create “tens
of thousands of jobs.”  While Obama and Democrats have supported prolonging the
program, they have run into opposition from Republicans critical
of the stimulus package. Extensions have twice passed the
Democratic-controlled House only to stall in the Senate, where
the Republican minority has sufficient power to block
legislation. The U.S. government pays 35 of the interest costs
on Build America bonds.  Republicans Taking Control  With Republicans poised to take control of the House next
month, local governments, banks and other advocates have pressed
to extend the Build America program during the current so-called
lame-duck session of Congress. Analysts including those at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  had anticipated that a measure to prolong
Bush-era rates would be the vehicle for Congress to extend it.  State and local governments, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
and representatives of the construction industry are among the
program’s advocates.  The prospect of its end has weighed on the municipal bond
market as public officials have rushed to borrow money at
subsidized rates. The San Francisco Utility Commission, which
plans to issue $350 million in Build America Bonds next week,
put the securities to market months ahead of schedule to ensure
it would capture the subsidy, said Charles Perl, deputy chief
financial officer of the commission.  “We were trying to beat the clock, so we fast-tracked the
financing to take advantage,” he said today.  Investor Concerns  Investors have expressed concern that traditional tax-
exempt debt issuance might surge next year. That may push up the
interest-rates investors demand to hold tax-exempt bonds. It
would most heavily hurt long-dated bonds, where issuance of
Build America securities was concentrated, investors said.  California’s Lockyer estimates the end of the program may
push up tax-exempt yields by as much as a full percentage point,
which he said could cost taxpayers nationwide as much as $30
billion in higher borrowing costs.  “This can’t be positive for the long end of the curve,”
said  Ed Reinoso , who manages $300 million as chief executive
officer of Castleton Partners in New York. “It’s going to be a
lot more expensive for issuers.”  The tax-exempt market is dominated by individual investors
seeking income-tax breaks. Households own more than $1 trillion
in municipal bonds directly, while almost $1 trillion more are
held in mutual funds where individuals invest, according to the
Federal Reserve Board.  Worst Month  Last month, tax-exempt bonds had their worst monthly
returns of 2010 as rising U.S. Treasury yields and record state
and local debt sales sparked withdrawals from mutual funds.  Tax-free securities lost 2.29 percent in November, the
third consecutive monthly drop and the longest slide since 2004,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Municipal Master
Index, which accounts for price changes and interest income.  The failure by Congress to extend the Build America program
may hurt taxpayers by pushing up the cost of financing local
projects at a time when public officials are already wrestling
with budget deficits, said Novembre.  “They could be putting their own voters in harm’s way,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  