-- Build America Borrowers Race Countdown Clock Before Year-End: Muni Credit
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-12-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/build-america-s-end-has-issuers-from-east-to-west-rushing-to-market-bonds.html
From California to  New York , issuers
are rushing to take advantage of Build America Bond subsidies by
accelerating sales of the securities before the program ends.  States and municipalities were set to sell more than $3
billion of the securities next week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg late yesterday. In Chicago, San Francisco, Los
Angeles and New York state, issuers said they’re hurrying to
market before the program expires Dec. 31, absent an extension.  “We were trying to beat the clock, so we fast-tracked the
financing to take advantage,” Charles Perl, deputy chief
financial officer of the  San Francisco Public Utilities
Commission , said yesterday. The district moved up a planned $350
million Build America debt sale to next week, months ahead of
its previous schedule, he said yesterday in an interview.  The U.S. government pays 35 percent of the interest costs
for the bonds to help communities build roads, bridges and other
infrastructure. The securities pay taxable interest, making them
similar to corporate debt and attractive to a broader market
compared with tax-exempt municipal bonds. The program began as
part of President  Barack Obama ’s economic-stimulus package to
spur public works projects by driving down borrowing costs.  An agreement between Obama and Republican congressional
leaders this week to keep tax rates from rising won’t extend the
Build America program, if it is enacted in the form of a Senate
measure that took shape on Dec. 9. That leaves issuers less than
three weeks to take advantage of the cost-saving subsidy before
it disappears for new borrowing.  Continuing Need  “The need doesn’t go away for us,” Perl said. “If it
expires, we’ll revert back to the tax-exempt financing we’ve
always done.”  Following next week’s sale, Perl’s San Francisco commission
will have raised about half of the $4.5 billion it needs for
water-system improvements, he said.  More than $179 billion of Build America securities have
been sold since April 2009, when the program began, making them
the fastest-growing segment of the $2.86 trillion municipal-bond
market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuers have
sold $37.2 billion of the debt just in California, the most-
populous U.S. state, according to state Treasurer  Bill Lockyer .  Officials at  Monroe County Water Authority , in northwest
New York state by the shores of Lake Ontario, plan to issue
$90.7 million in Build America securities next week. The sale
was accelerated to go to market before the program ends, said
Nicholas Noce, interim executive director of the authority.  Expedited Sale  “We had planned to issue before, but we did expedite the
process to take advantage of the subsidy,” Noce said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “The underwriters worked hard and we
all worked some long hours to put this deal to market and take
advantage of the maximum subsidy.”  In Illinois, the  Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of
Greater Chicago  rushed “quite a bit” to offer $400 million in
Build America debt next week, said Harold Downs, the district’s
treasurer. He said he wasn’t thrilled with the timing.  “The market is terrible,” Downs said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  The average yield on Build America securities  climbed  to an
11-month high of 6.37 percent this week as investors demanded a
 larger premium  to buy the municipal debt, according to a Wells
Fargo index. The yield on 30-year Treasury bonds touched 4.50
percent this week, the highest since May.  Saved $118 Million  The Chicago district used Build America securities to
borrow $600 million in August 2009 to help finance a
$2.7 billion, five-year rehabilitation of sewer lines, Downs
said. He said the district saved about $118 million through the
program, cutting the effective interest rate on the $600 million
to 3.72 percent, compared with the 4.88 percent prevailing in
the  tax-exempt market  at the time.  If the Build America program isn’t renewed, Downs said the
district would sell tax-exempt bonds.  “Of course if the program is renewed, we’d consider that
next time too,” he said.  In Los Angeles, the  Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California  plans to offer $250 million of Build America
securities as soon as next week. The issue was originally set to
go to market next March, said Brian Thomas, the district’s chief
financial officer.  The prospect of a program extension by Congress played a
role in the original schedule, Thomas said yesterday.  Renewal Was Expected  “We had expected it to be renewed in one form or another,
but when that chance began declining, we prepared to go,”
Thomas said.  After the planned issue, the district will have funded
about $600 million of a $1.8 billion, five-year capital
improvement plan, Thomas said.  The district will finance projects through a mix of revenue
and tax-exempt debt, in the absence of the subsidy program,
Thomas said.  “I think it’s very unlikely that they won’t allow a
subsidy in the future,” Monroe’s Noce said of the prospect for
either an extension of the current program or its revival later.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Ashley Lutz  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  