-- Bulgarian Banks Boost Lending as Recession Ends
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-12-10T12:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/bulgarian-banks-boost-lending-as-recession-ends-raiffeisen-says.html
Bulgarian banks may cut the interest
they charge clients and boost lending as the European Union’s
poorest country emerges from the deepest recession in more than
a decade,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG  said.  “If in 2009 and part of 2010 we saw the glass as half
empty, now is the time to look at it the other way around as
half full,”  Momchil Andreev , executive director of
Raiffeisenbank’s Bulgarian subsidiary, said in an interview in
Sofia yesterday.  Rising exports  will boost the country’s economic growth to
3.6 percent in 2011 from 0.7 percent this year, according to
government projections. The bank’s economic growth estimate for
next year is 3 percent, which will help boost assets and lending
growth “at a faster pace than this,” Andreev said. Raiffeisen
is eastern Europe’s third-largest lender by assets.  Bulgaria, the poorest EU country in terms of per-capita
gross domestic product, is emerging from its deepest economic
slump in 12 years after a three-year lending boom stalled and
foreign investment dried up. The  economy grew  0.5 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, the first annual increase
after six quarters of contraction.  Declining interest on deposits, which was “extremely
high,” and improvement in the country’s credit quality enabled
Raiffeisenbank Bulgaria EAD to cut the cost of lending by half a
percentage point to 5.9 percent on euro loans and 7.5 percent on
lev loans, Andreev said. The level of non-performing loans in
the country will start declining in the course of 2011 as bank
portfolios expand, he said.  Bad Loans  Loans more than 90 days past due rose to 11.24 percent of
total lending in October from 10.61 percent at the end of
September, according to the central bank. Total lending rose 1.4
percent in the third quarter, after a 0.3 percent decline in the
previous three months, while capital adequacy was 17.8 percent
at the end of September and liquidity was at 22 percent.  “International financial institutions provided sizable
credit facilities to major banks, which are suitable for
investment loans,” Andreev said. “There is ample liquidity,
which creates preconditions for more active lending and should
positively impact consumption.”  Andreev downplayed the risk of contagion from the Greek
debt crisis. Analysts at Citigroup and Fitch Ratings have warned
that Bulgarian banks were more susceptible to possible shocks
that may be caused by Greek banks’ funding, as Greek lenders
control some 28 percent of total bank assets in Bulgaria.  Greek Units  “Greek bank units in Bulgaria have to comply with the same
capital adequacy and liquidity standards as all the other
banks,” Andreev said. “From this perspective, they are much
better than their parent companies in Greece.”  Lenders based in other EU countries control 85 percent of
banking assets in the Balkan nation. The five biggest banks are
UniCredit Bulbank AD, the Bulgarian unit of Italy’s  UniCredit
Spa ; DSK Bank, a unit of  OTP Bank Nyrt ., Hungary’s largest bank;
United Bulgarian Bank, owned by the  National Bank of Greece SA ;
Raiffeisenbank Bulgaria and Eurobank EFG Bulgaria. Together they
control 55 percent of the banks’ assets in the country.  Commercial banks’ total profit rose to 516 million lev
($348 million) in October from 476 million lev in September,
according to the central bank.  “We now see improvement in the demand for distressed
assets and all banks have programs in place to help the clients
pass the difficult times,” Andreev said. “In a way, the
banking sector’s success in handling bad loans is dependent on
the legal system and the further improvement of the legal
framework to tackle fraudulent client behaviour including
deliberate insolvencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  