-- California May Proceed With $2.3 Billion Sale of Buildings, Judge Decides
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-12-10T20:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/california-sale-of-11-state-buildings-can-proceed-judge-tentatively-rules.html
California  can proceed with its
planned $2.3 billion sale of 11 government-owned buildings to
help plug a budget deficit, a judge in San Francisco said in a
tentative ruling.  State court Judge Charlotte Woolard said two former members
of the Los Angeles State Building Authority who sued to stop the
deal lacked standing to bring the case and didn’t demonstrate
that the sale to a private buyer was a waste or illegal gift.  “The sale can go forward,” Woolard said in her tentative
ruling posted outside her courtroom today. She held a hearing
today on the matter.  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers included the
sale in a budget enacted in October that counted on $1.2 billion
in proceeds from the properties to help fill a $19 billion
deficit in the year through June. Had the sale been blocked, it
would have worsened a $6 billion hole that has already developed
for the period. In the wake of the recession, the state’s tax
revenue is down about  13 percent  since 2007 and its 12.4 percent
jobless rate in October exceeded the 9.6 percent national
average.  Aaron McLear , Schwarzenegger’s press secretary, declined to
comment until after the ruling is made permanent.  Joseph Cotchett , an attorney for the plaintiffs, said he will file an
appeal of the ruling Dec. 13 and seek expedited processing to
block the sale from going through next week.  October Award  California awarded the sale in October to a partnership led
by Hines, a Houston-based real estate investor; and Antarctica
Capital Real Estate LLC. Proceeds will go to pay $1.09 billion
of debt on the buildings and add $1.2 billion to the state’s
general fund, the  Department of General Services  said at the
time.  California will lease back the offices over 20 years, and
won’t be responsible for maintaining, operating or repairing the
buildings.  The sale was opposed by California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer 
and Controller  John Chiang  after the state’s nonpartisan
Legislative Analyst’s Office estimated it would cost taxpayers
$30 million more than ownership in the first year and eventually
$200 million more annually.  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for Lockyer, said he didn’t have
a comment on the decision. Chiang’s office didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  The case is Epstein v Schwarzenegger, CGC10-505436, San
Francisco Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  