-- China's Trade Surplus Adds Liquidity as Inflation Threatens to Surpass 5%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-10T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/china-s-trade-surplus-adds-liquidity-as-inflation-threatens-to-surpass-5-.html
China’s rebounding  trade surplus 
threatens to make it tougher for policy makers to contain
consumer prices forecast to have climbed by the most in 27
months in November, approaching a 5 percent pace.  The excess of exports over imports was $22.9 billion last
month, the government said yesterday, the fifth reading this
year exceeding $20 billion. The influx of cash from trade has
contributed to a 20 percent jump in money supply in the past 12
months, stoking  liquidity  in the fastest-growing major economy.  The central bank’s third increase in lenders’ reserve
ratios in five weeks, announced yesterday, may be insufficient
to rein in inflation, Credit Suisse Group AG said ahead of
today’s report on consumer prices. The risk to Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government of foregoing a rise in interest rates is an
erosion of households’ purchasing power that impairs efforts to
reduce the nation’s reliance on exports.  “China seems to have fallen behind the process of
normalization,” said  Dong Tao , chief regional economist for
non-Japan Asia at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong. “The central bank
is only keen to move on quantitative tightening, leaving
interest rates little changed for fear of hot money inflows,”
he said, referring to the potential lure for speculative funds.  A report scheduled to be released in Beijing today may show
consumer prices rose at an annual pace of 4.7 percent, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 29 economists,
with seven seeing a pace of at least 5 percent.  ‘Tilted to Overheating’  “The risk is tilted to overheating,”  Stephen Schwartz ,
chief economist for Asia at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA
in Hong Kong, who used to work at the International Monetary
Fund, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. The
central bank will need to raise borrowing costs four times by
the end of next year to achieve a “soft landing,” ensuring
economic growth of 9.2 percent, he said.  Yesterday’s 50 basis point increase in reserve requirements,
effective Dec. 20, may lock up about 350 billion yuan ($53
billion), according to Barclays Capital Asia Ltd.  Exports  rose 35 percent to $153.3 billion from November
2009 and imports advanced 38 percent to $130.4 billion, the
customs bureau said yesterday. Both imports and exports reached
record levels. The median estimate of 30 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News had been for a $21.2 billion surplus.  Separate figures yesterday showed that banks extended 564
billion yuan in new loans in November, leaving the year-to-date
tally at just 50 billion yuan less than policy makers’ ceiling
of 7.5 trillion yuan for all of 2010, according to  data compiled
by Bloomberg .  Case for Appreciation  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards rose 0.2 percent
to 6.51 per dollar late yesterday, reflecting traders’ bets that
the Chinese currency will appreciate 2.2 percent from the spot
rate of 6.6556 in the coming year. Officials have let the yuan
advance less than 3 percent this year.  “What really surprised me is how strong exports have
been,”  Wang Tao , a Beijing-based economist at UBS AG, told
Bloomberg Television. “The case for China to appreciate the
exchange rate is pretty strong,” she said, adding that
appreciation of as much as 10 percent a year compared with less
than 3 percent this year would “still be modest.”  Wang said she anticipates an interest-rate increase over
the weekend. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this month
anticipated a 1 percentage point rise in the benchmark one-year
lending and deposit rates by the end of next year, according to
the median forecasts. The central bank boosted both by a quarter
point, to 5.56 percent and 2.5 percent respectively, in October.  Beijing Conclave  Communist Party leaders are meeting in Beijing to set
guidelines for the economy in 2011 after the Politburo indicated
Dec. 3 that officials will tighten monetary policy.  Commodities  rose yesterday on the strength of Chinese
demand and the absence of more aggressive tightening. The S&P
GSCI index of 24 raw materials climbed 0.6 percent to 611.59 at
10:27 a.m. in London, led by advances in copper and cotton.  Without “firmer” measures such as rate increases and
bigger gains in the yuan, “markets are unlikely to conclude
that China will slow anytime soon,” said Kathleen Brooks,
London-based research director at FOREX.com, a unit of online
currency trading company Gain Capital.  China’s surpluses mean authorities need to buy dollars to
limit the yuan’s gains, and the effort has yielded a record $2.6
trillion in foreign-exchange reserves so far. As authorities
sell yuan for the dollars, they then need to mop up the domestic
liquidity with bill sales. At the same time, demand for longer-
dated debt has diminished on expectation of higher rates.  Bernanke’s Take  The People’s Bank of China refrained from offering three-
year bills on Dec. 9, when it issued three-month bills, halting
bi-weekly auctions of the longer-dated securities amid cooling
demand from banks.  “China can’t have its own independent monetary policy” as
long as it manages the exchange rate, Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in a excerpts of an interview released by
CBS Corp.’s “60 minutes” program Dec. 5.  Persistent trade surpluses and a failure to allow faster
appreciation in the yuan against the dollar also risks pushing
U.S. lawmakers into passing protectionist legislation.  Senate
Foreign Relations Committee  Chairman  John Kerry  said this week
that Congress is growing impatient with China holding down the
yuan and may impose legislation “with teeth” next year.  The Chinese currency gained 0.1 percent in November and 0.3
percent in October, compared with the 1.7 percent pace in
September that U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
signaled he sees as appropriate.  At the same time, U.S. government figures showed yesterday
that China’s demand is helping propel American exports. The
Commerce Department reported yesterday a $38.7 billion trade gap
for October as shipments abroad reached a two-year high. China
bought record amounts of U.S. products.  -- Chinmei Sung ,  Li Yanping . With assistance from  Belinda Cao  in
Beijing, Linzie Janis in London and  Haslinda Amin  and  Jay Wang 
in Singapore. Editors:  Chris Anstey ,  Paul Panckhurst .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  