-- China Credit `Bubble' Set for Bust on Trade Row, Blackhorse's Duncan Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-10T00:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/china-credit-bubble-set-for-bust-on-trade-row-blackhorse-s-duncan-says.html
China’s economy is history’s biggest
bubble and may be headed for collapse, according to  Richard Duncan , chief economist at  Blackhorse Asset Management Pte . who
predicted a credit boom would trigger a global recession.  A more than 50 percent surge in China’s  money supply  since
2008 helped fuel economic growth in excess of 9 percent per
year, even as trading partners sank into recession. The
expansion also saddled the country with factories that produce
three times more goods than can be bought by China’s workers, 80
percent of whom make less than $5 a day, said Duncan.  “China has the greatest economic bubble in history,” said
Duncan, author of “The Dollar Crisis” first published in 2003.
“There’s a real risk it’s going to collapse in a Great
Depression-style scenario.”  The pin that may prick China’s bubble, Duncan said, is a
backlash against free trade among voters in the U.S., where
 unemployment  last month rose to the highest since April. The
U.S. House of Representatives in September enacted legislation
that would let U.S. companies petition for duties on Chinese
imports to compensate for the effect of an undervalued yuan.
Protectionist sentiment could gather steam in the next two to
three congressional election cycles, Duncan said.  To prop up the flagging U.S. economy, the Federal Reserve
last month announced a new round of so-called quantitative
easing, $600 billion in Treasury purchases through June intended
to keep borrowing costs low and deflation at bay. Chinese
central bank adviser Xia Bin said the plan amounted to
“uncontrolled” money printing.  ‘Hugely Hypocritical’  “It’s hugely hypocritical for the Chinese to say anything
about the U.S. doing quantitative easing because they’re the
kings of quantitative easing,” Duncan said in a phone interview
this week from Bangkok.  Premier Wen Jiabao’s government has been creating about
$250 billion worth of yuan each year “out of thin air,” Duncan
said. To keep its currency from appreciating, the People’s Bank
of China has been printing yuan to offset the dollars flowing in
from a  trade surplus  that expanded to $27.2 billion in October,
the most since July.  China’s gross domestic product will by expand by 9.2
percent this year, according to the median estimate of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, poised to overtake Japan
as the world’s second-largest economy.  Central banks in the U.S., Japan and the U.K. have embarked
on quantitative easing this year to spur growth, while Europe
has responded to a sovereign-debt crisis by setting up a $1
trillion bailout fund. The dollar has fallen 9 percent in the
past six months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The pound has declined 1.7 percent and the yen has
risen 0.1 percent.  ‘More Paper Money’  “We’re going to have more paper money creation, so the
dollar is going to continue losing value,” Duncan said. “Right
now, the Fed is in the lead, but given the crisis in Europe, the
European Central Bank may have to step in with another big round
of its own money creation to bail out the banks.”  The dollar will weaken to $1.3600 per euro by the end of
the first quarter in 2011, according to the median forecast of
40 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  As an analyst, Duncan began warning of imbalances in
Thailand’s economy in 1993, preceding a devaluation of the baht
in 1997 and the Asian financial crisis. Before joining
Singapore-based Blackhorse, Duncan was head of investment
strategy at ABN Amro Asset Management. He has also held
positions at Salomon Brothers Inc. and the  World Bank .  Trade Deficits  In “The Dollar Crisis,” Duncan argued that persistent
trade deficits by the U.S. were creating an unsustainable boom
in global credit that was destined to break down, resulting in a
worldwide recession.  Monetary and fiscal stimulus by governments around the
world helped keep the recession from becoming a depression,
Duncan said this week. They don’t address the core problem,
which is the collapse of American manufacturing, he said.  The U.S. government should boost investment in fields such
as nanotechnology and solar energy that could help rebuild the
nation’s export sector, according to the economist.  “The current policy response -- trillion dollar budget
deficits and paper money creation on a mind boggling scale -- is
based on the belief that it’s better to die tomorrow than to die
today,” Duncan said. “There’s no evidence to suggest that it’s
going to correct the root cause of the problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Tokyo at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  