-- China's Sky-mobi Posts Biggest First-Day U.S. Drop Since 2007
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-12-11T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/china-s-sky-mobi-raises-58-million-selling-u-s-ipo-at-bottom-of-range.html
China’s  Sky-mobi Ltd.  and  Bona Film
Group Ltd.  posted the biggest first-day declines since 2007 in
U.S. trading following their initial public offerings this week,
renewing a slump in IPOs by mainland companies.  Sky-mobi , the operator of China’s largest mobile
application store by sales, slid 25 percent in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading yesterday.  Bona Film , the country’s biggest
privately-owned film distributor, fell 22 percent a day earlier.
Those were the steepest first-day retreats on New York exchanges
since Beijing-based  Agria Corp.  sank 27 percent on Nov. 7, 2007,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Beijing-based online companies  Youku.com Inc.  and  E-
Commerce China Dangdang Inc.  surged after their IPOs this week,
six other mainland companies that completed sales from Nov. 17
through yesterday have retreated after the government raised
interest rates and said that it may impose price controls to
combat  inflation , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The chance that they can engineer a soft landing seems
kind of sketchy,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at
Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, which oversees $55 billion.
“You can pretty much sell virtually any U.S. investor on the
China growth story. It’s just a matter of what you’re willing to
pay for it.”  2007 Record  Sky-mobi, located in the city of Hangzhou in Zhejiang
province, sold 7.25 million American depositary receipts for $8
apiece two days ago after offering them for as much as $10 each,
according to its  filing  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and a company statement. The offering pushed the
number of initial sales by mainland companies past the record of
37 in 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bona Film  of Beijing sold 11.7 million ADRs for $8.50 each
on Dec. 8 after offering them for $7 to $9.  While four of the ten best performing U.S. IPOs of 2010
have come from China,  Youku.com  and China Dangdang were the only
ones to post gains of more than 5 percent since the government
said on Nov. 17 that it may impose price controls. China had
already raised interest rates in October to combat the fastest
 inflation  in two years.  Youku.com, the nation’s largest online video company,
jumped 161 percent on Dec. 8, the steepest gain for a U.S. IPO
since Beijing-based  Baidu Inc.  five years ago. China Dangdang,
the country’s biggest Internet book retailer, surged 87 percent
the same day.  ‘Can’t Necessarily Translate’  China had an estimated 420 million Internet users at the
end of June, according to  data  from the government-sponsored
China Internet Network Information Center. The U.S. population
in 2010 ranged from 305.7 million to 312.7 million,  Census
Bureau  data show. China’s economy will grow 9.6 percent next
year, versus 2.3 percent for the U.S., according to estimates
from the Washington-based International Monetary Fund.  “When you put the two themes of China and Internet
together, it creates good conditions to bring a company
public,” said  Walter Todd , co-chief investment officer at
Greenwood, South Carolina-based Greenwood Capital, which
oversees about $900 million. “You can’t necessarily translate
that to other industries.”  One Chinese company,  ISoftStone Holdings Ltd. , is scheduled
to list its shares in New York next week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Beijing-based information technology
services provider will offer 10.8 million ADRs at $11 to $13
each Dec. 13, according to an SEC  filing .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 