-- U.S., China Talks Make ‘Step Forward,’ Pentagon Official Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-12-11T01:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/china-u-s-seek-improved-defense-ties-amid-north-korea-tensions.html
The U.S. and China made progress in
sharing information on military capabilities and in the tone of
discussions, as defense officials resumed high-level talks after
a rift over arms sales to Taiwan, the top Pentagon participant
said.  “We have seen some gradual increases in China’s
transparency and also in their candor with us,” Undersecretary
of Defense for Policy  Michele Flournoy  told reporters at the
Pentagon yesterday. “While I won’t say we agreed on every issue,
where we did differ, we had a very candid and frank and
productive exchange of views.”  The assessment differs from comments by Obama
administration officials in recent weeks. They have criticized
China’s reluctance to pressure North Korea about attacks on
South Korea and the development of a uranium-enrichment plant.
The U.S. has pressed China for more regular contact and openness
about military capabilities, such as its missile arsenal.  Flournoy led the “defense consultative talks” at the
Pentagon with her counterpart Ma Xiaotian, China’s deputy chief
of general staff for the People’s Liberation Army. The two sides
agreed during lower-level negotiations in Beijing in September
to restore the meetings.  The day of discussions was book-ended by dinner at the
Chinese Embassy on Dec. 9 and at the Capitol yesterday.  In an effort to demonstrate openness, the U.S. officials
provided the Chinese with the same briefings about the
administration’s nuclear posture, ballistic missile and space
defense plans “as we gave our closest allies,” Flournoy said.  ‘Interesting Brief’  “They gave us a very interesting brief about their defense
doctrine and how they view the world and the role of their
military in it,” she said. “In that sense, I think it was a
step forward.”  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff Admiral  Mike Mullen  have said they want
military-to-military contacts with China unmarred by the
periodic breakdowns over U.S. arms sales to Taiwan or other
areas of disagreement, such as the South China Sea.  At the Pentagon, the two sides agreed tentatively on a
series of meetings in the coming year, Flournoy said.  “We heard the Chinese also embrace the idea of the value
of having a steady and reliable and sustained dialogue,” she
said. “That was very good news to us.”  Wang Baodong , a spokesman for the Chinese Embassy, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment after normal
business hours.  Regional Tensions  Regional tensions have risen since the U.S. and its allies
blamed North Korea for torpedoing the South Korean warship
Cheonan in March, killing 46 sailors, and shelling South Korea’s
Yeonpyeong island, killing four people, last month.  Mullen criticized China during visits to Seoul and Tokyo
this week, saying Chinese officials were displaying “myopia”
by being “unwilling” to use their influence as North Korea’s
biggest ally.  “China must lead and guide North Korea to a better
future,” Mullen said in Tokyo on Dec. 9. “There is too much at
stake for this sort of myopia.”  Gates will visit China in January, Mullen said. Gates said
earlier this year that he accepted a renewed invitation after
China called off a tentatively planned visit.  Flournoy said the U.S. emphasized in the talks yesterday
the need for North Korea to demonstrate its willingness to pare
its nuclear program. The Obama administration has rebuffed
Chinese calls for resuming six-nation talks with North Korea,
saying that would only reward the regime for dangerous actions.  “It was a very productive comparing-of-notes, if you will,
on the situation,” Flournoy said.  New Round  The talks at the Pentagon are the first in the on-again,
off-again series held since 2007. They continue a round
conducted in Beijing in June 2009 before the suspension earlier
this year prompted by the U.S. announcement in January of a $6.4
billion weapons package for Taiwan. The planned sale includes
advanced  Lockheed Martin Corp.  Patriot missiles, UH-60 Black
Hawk helicopters made by  United Technologies Corp.  and  Boeing Co. 
anti-ship Harpoon missiles.  Flournoy said after the Beijing meeting in 2009 that the
U.S. and China have a “shared objective” in persuading North
Korea to give up its nuclear program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 