-- China Compels Banks to Boost Reserves for Third Time on Inflation Concern
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-10T12:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/china-increases-bank-reserve-requirements-leaves-benchmark-rate-unchanged.html
China ordered lenders to park more
money with the central bank for the third time in five weeks to
counter the threat from inflation after November’s lending and
trade surplus topped analysts’ estimates.  Reserve requirements  will increase 50 basis points starting
Dec. 20, the People’s Bank of China said on its website today.  Policy makers refrained from adding to October’s interest-
rate increase, ahead of data tomorrow that may show inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace since July 2008. The People’s
Bank of China has lagged behind counterparts from Malaysia to
South Korea and Taiwan that boosted rates earlier in the year as
capital flowed into the region leading the global recovery.  An interest-rate increase would be “a more potent weapon”
and is likely this weekend, said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  Today’s move takes reserve ratios to 18.5 percent for the
biggest banks, excluding any additional curbs for individual
lenders not publicly announced. Barclays Capital Asia Ltd. said
this year’s sixth increase in the requirements may lock up about
350 billion yuan ($53 billion).  Commodities  rose on the strength of Chinese demand and the
absence of more aggressive tightening. The S&P GSCI index of 24
raw materials climbed 0.6 percent to 611.59 at 10:27 a.m. in
London, led by advances in copper and cotton.  ‘Firmer’ Measures  Twelve-month yuan forwards climbed 0.2 percent to 6.51 per
dollar as of 7:33 p.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting traders’ bets
that the Chinese currency will appreciate about 2.2 percent from
the spot rate of 6.6556 in the coming year.  Without “firmer” measures such as rate increases and
bigger gains by the yuan, “markets are unlikely to conclude
that China will slow anytime soon,” said Kathleen Brooks,
London-based research director at FOREX.com, a unit of online
currency trading company Gain Capital.  Chinese leaders meeting in Beijing over the weekend to set
economic guidelines for next year have already said that the
nation will shift to a tighter, “prudent” monetary policy.  A report tomorrow may show November’s  inflation  was 5.1
percent, the highest rate since July 2008, according to the
Economic Information Daily, a newspaper affiliated to the
government’s news agency. The  median estimate  in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists is 4.7 percent.  Speculation on Rates  “This doesn’t necessarily rule out an interest rate hike,
there is still a fair chance that rates will be increased over
the weekend,” said  Mark Williams , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London. “Inflation data is released tomorrow
and the PBOC may want to wait until that number is out and the
central economic works conference is over.”  Societe Generale SA, too, said that a rate increase, the
nation’s second since 2007, could follow this weekend’s meeting.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  of stocks has fallen 10
percent from a Nov. 8 high, extending this year’s loss to 13
percent, on concern tighter monetary policy will slow expansion
in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Exports  and imports rose to records in November and the
trade surplus channeled $22.9 billion into a financial system
already awash with cash, a report showed today. Loans were 564
billion yuan ($85 billion), compared with economists’ median
estimate of 500 billion yuan, the central bank said. M2, a
measure of money supply, increased 19.5 percent.  ‘Overheating’ Risk  “Exceedingly strong exports growth amid an already
overheated domestic economy is not good news as it adds to the
overheating pressures which will require the government to take
even more stringent measures to bring down  inflation ,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analysts  Song Yu  and  Helen Qiao  said before the
reserve-ratio announcement.  Exports jumped 35 percent to $153.3 billion from November
2009 and  imports  advanced 38 percent to an unprecedented $130.4
billion, leaving a $22.9 billion trade surplus, the customs
bureau said on its website today.  While Chinese officials also use bill sales to remove cash
from the financial system, demand for longer-dated debt has
diminished on the expectation of higher rates. The People’s Bank
of China refrained from offering three-year bills on Dec. 9,
when it issued three-month bills.  Besides monetary tools, the government is using
administrative measures such as the threat of price controls to
counter inflation so far mainly driven by food costs. McDonald’s
Corp., the world’s largest restaurant chain, raised prices in
China last month.  -- Li Yanping , with assistance from  Nerys Avery ,  Belinda Cao  and
 Zheng Lifei  in Beijing,  Claudia Carpenter  in London and  Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Nerys Avery .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.netPBCZ  <EQUITY> CN 