-- China November Crude Imports Jump by 26% as Refiners Boost Fuel Production
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-10T03:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/china-november-crude-imports-jump-by-26-as-refiners-boost-fuel-production.html
China, the world’s biggest energy
user, increased net imports of crude oil by 26 percent in
November from a month earlier as refineries ramped up processing
rates to ease a diesel shortage.  Net purchases were 20.3 million metric tons, or 5 million
barrels a day, the highest since September’s record of 22.9
million tons, data from the Beijing-based General Administration
of Customs showed today.  China’s largest refiners,  PetroChina Co.  and China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., also known as  Sinopec , boosted oil
processing to a record in October and resumed diesel imports to
help alleviate a shortage of the transport fuel that left at
least 2,000 gas stations without supplies.  “Chinese oil producers are boosting imports on record
processing to ease the fuel supply shortfall,”  Gong Jinshuang ,
an engineer at PetroChina’s parent China National Petroleum
Corp., said by telephone today. “Both fuel and crude
inventories fell last month after crude imports dropped
significantly in October.”  Crude imports were at the lowest in 18 months in October
after refiners turned to inventories and shunned purchases
because of rising global crude prices.  China paid an average $78.68 for each barrel of imported
crude in November compared with $76.12 in October, today’s
customs data showed.  The nation imported 3.52 million tons of oil products
including gasoline and diesel last month and exported 2.08
million tons, the data showed. The customs administration did
not break down the figures by products in today’s release.  “The imports are very likely lots of diesel and possibly
also more fuel oil for independent refiners,”  Brynjar Eirik Bustnes , a Hong Kong-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said
in a message today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  