-- China Coal Gas May Cut Reliance on LNG, Pipeline Imports, Bernstein Says
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-12-10T04:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/china-coal-gas-may-cut-reliance-on-lng-pipeline-imports-bernstein-says.html
China, the world’s biggest energy
user, may meet a quarter of its natural gas demand by gasifying
domestic coal, reducing reliance on imports of the fuel, Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. said in a report.  Domestic coal gasification capacity may be about 50 billion
cubic meters by mid-decade based on plans by companies including
China National Offshore Oil Corp. and China Shenhua Energy Co.,
Bernstein Research said in an e-mail today. Gas consumption may
reach 200 billion cubic meters by 2015 from 89 billion last year.  “If current plans are implemented, coal gasification
capacity could represent almost a quarter of gas consumption and
would be competitive to imported gas,” analysts  Michael Parker 
and  Neil Beveridge  said in the note. “There’s a risk for gas
producers looking to China as a high-priced spot market by 2015
if this capacity is built.”  China’s demand in 2015 may be met by 120 billion cubic
meters from domestic conventional sources and the rest by
imports and unconventional deposits, Bernstein Research said.
Datang International Power Generation Co. is spending more than
50 billion yuan ($7.5 billion) on coal gasification in plants in
Inner Mongolia and Liaoning.  Demand from end users will support city gate gas prices of
about $12 per thousand cubic feet by the end of 2011, making it
viable for producers to extract gas from unconventional sources
such as coal, Bernstein said.  “Given the high price of gas in China and the fact that we
believe prices can and will increase, coal gasification is
viable in China (assuming zero cost of carbon emissions) in a
way that it is not in most of the rest of the world currently,”
the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  