-- China Trade Surplus Tops Estimates, Adding to Tension
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-10T07:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/china-reports-more-than-estimated-november-trade-surplus-of-22-9-billion.html
China’s trade surplus and lending 
exceeded forecasts in November, underscoring the case for 
higher interest rates and a stronger exchange rate to stem
the nation’s escalating inflation.  Exports  rose 35 percent to a record $153.3 billion from
November 2009 and imports advanced 38 percent to an
unprecedented $130.4 billion, leaving a $22.9 billion excess,
the customs bureau said on its website. Loans were 564
billion yuan ($85 billion).  Today’s trade report indicates a sustained rebound in
demand among Chinese consumers and overseas customers,
buttressing the argument for Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government to
remove stimulus measures adopted during the global crisis.
Failure to allow faster gains in the yuan risks pushing U.S.
lawmakers into passing protectionist legislation.  “There is no excuse for China not to allow the renminbi to
appreciate faster, as its international trade has fully
recovered and exceeded pre-crisis levels,” said  Liu Li-Gang , a
Hong Kong-based economist at Australia and New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. who previously worked at the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority and World Bank. “A rate hike is almost certain over
the weekend.”  The median estimate of 30 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
News was for a $21.2 billion trade surplus.  New Loans  November’s new lending left this year’s total about 50
billion short of the government’s target maximum of 7.5 trillion
yuan, according to Bloomberg data. Analysts’ median estimate was
for 500 billion yuan of loans last month. M2, a measure of money
supply, increased 19.5 percent, the central bank said.  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards strengthened,
trading at 6.5113 as of 3:21 p.m. in Hong Kong. The  Shanghai
Composite Index  of stocks closed 1.1 percent higher, before the
release of the lending numbers.  The  surplus  was the nation’s fifth this year in excess of
$20 billion and compared with October’s $27.2 billion,
channeling cash into an economy already beset by quickening
inflation. The government will tomorrow release a report likely
to show gains in consumer prices accelerating for a fifth month.  The consumer price index might have jumped 5.1 percent in
November from a year before, the most since July 2008 and above
economists’ median estimate of 4.7 percent, reports from
Citigroup Inc. and the Economic Information Daily indicated
today.  Property prices  also continue to increase, with a 0.3
percent advance in November from October, a report showed today.  ‘Not Good News’  Communist Party leaders are meeting in Beijing to set
guidelines for the 2011 economy after the Politburo indicated
Dec. 3 that officials will tighten monetary policy. Citigroup
analysts said reserve requirements for banks may rise, along
with interest rates, by month-end.  “Exceedingly strong exports growth amid an already
overheated domestic economy is not good news as it adds to the
overheating pressures which will require the government to take
even more stringent measures to bring down inflation,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analysts  Song Yu  and  Helen Qiao  said in a note.  China’s surplus with the U.S. was about $16.7 billion,
equivalent to about three quarters of the total. The U.S.
Commerce Department may separately report today a $43.8 billion
trade gap for October, the seventh straight monthly total
surpassing $40 billion, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Unexpectedly strong sales in the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday
season for goods such as electronics, may have encouraged
retailers to stock up, according to  Tomo Kinoshita , deputy head
of Asia economics research at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong.  ‘Sellout’ Christmas  Hong Kong-based  Li & Fung Ltd.,  the biggest supplier to
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., told Bloomberg Television today that
retailers will have a “sellout” Christmas and Chinese
factories are “overbooked.”  Today’s figures may exacerbate trade tensions after  Senate
Foreign Relations Committee  Chairman  John Kerry  said this week
that Congress is growing impatient with China holding down the
yuan and may impose legislation “with teeth” next year.  The Chinese currency gained 0.1 percent in November and 0.3
percent in October, less than the 1.7 percent pace in September
that U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  signaled was
appropriate.  Gary Hufbauer , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in Washington, said Dec. 7 that
Geithner has probably told China that “you’ve got to do at
least 1 percent a month” in currency gains against the dollar.  In contrast, Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd.,
China’s third-largest shipyard outside state control, is basing
currency-hedging on the yuan rising 3 percent a year, the
company said in October.  Hu Visit  A group of Republican and Democratic senators told the
Chinese leader in a letter this week that the yuan should be
allowed to appreciate “meaningfully” before President  Hu Jintao  visits the U.S. in January. Ahead of that, Chinese Vice
Premier  Wang Qishan  is co-chairing annual U.S.-China meetings on
commerce in Washington Dec. 14-15.  The senators also said that the Senate could follow the
House of Representatives in passing legislation targeting
trading partners with undervalued currencies. A stronger yuan
could help to narrow trade imbalances by making Chinese products
more expensive overseas.  “China’s rising trade surplus is yet another sign of a
resurgence of global trade imbalances,” said  Eswar Prasad , a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a professor at
Cornell University. “It is becoming increasingly clear that
China has made little progress on rebalancing its economy and
reducing its dependence on exports.”  -- Chinmei Sung ,  Rebecca Christie ,  Li Yanping  with assistance
from  Jay Wang  in Singapore and  Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong.
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  