-- Clinton Meets Mideast Negotiators as Region's Leaders Await Next U.S. Move
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-12-10T22:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/clinton-meets-mideast-negotiators-as-region-s-leaders-await-next-u-s-move.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  continued a series of talks with Palestinian and
Israeli negotiators today as she works to salvage the U.S.
effort to find a Middle East peace agreement within a year.  In a speech this evening, Clinton will lay out the next
steps in that process and urge both parties to focus on
settling core issues, including borders, the fate of
Palestinian refugees, and Israeli construction in the
Palestinian territories, said  Philip J. Crowley , the State
Department spokesman.  “She will discuss the way forward, in particular what we
need the Israeli and Palestinian leaders and negotiation teams
to do in the coming weeks and months,” Crowley said today.
“She will make clear that the United States remains committed
to this process, but that responsibility to end the conflict
ultimately rests with the parties themselves.”  Clinton met yesterday with the chief Israeli negotiator,
Yitzhak Molho, for more than an hour. Her Middle East team
consulted in the evening with chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat , who met with Clinton this morning.  Foreign-policy analysts and Mideast officials will be
looking at her speech for clues on how the U.S. administration
plans to proceed in light of its decision three days ago to
abandon efforts to pressure Israel to renew a moratorium on
settlement construction in the West Bank.  Policy Direction  “The speech will be important because people obviously
want to know in what direction policy will go,”  Shibley Telhami ,  Anwar Sadat  professor for peace and development at the
University of Maryland in College Park, said in an interview.
“The president does not have more than a year. This is it.”  She will address a Washington conference organized by the
Brookings Institution’s Saban Center for Middle East Policy. It
will be to an audience that includes Israeli Defense Minister
Ehud Barak, Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad
and Tony Blair, the Middle East envoy for the Quartet, which is
comprised of the U.S., the United Nations, Russia and the
European Union.  Barak told reporters last night that Israel favors putting
aside the dispute with Palestinians over a settlement freeze
and advancing “into direct negotiations on the core issues.”  Formula Sought  “We hope that a formula of this nature will be found in
the coming few weeks in order to enable us to keep moving
forward,” he told reporters after meeting in New York with UN
Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon .  In bringing the two sides together in September, President
 Barack Obama  and Clinton said they aimed for a peace settlement
within a year. The four main issues to be resolved are the
borders of a Palestinian state, security arrangements for
Israel, the status of Jerusalem and the right of return for
Palestinian refugees.  The U.S. will revert to acting as a go-between for the two
sides, seeking to force them to tackle issues at the heart of
the conflict. Obama is sending envoy George Mitchell back to
the region next week.  “The U.S. has been at this for a while and has a sense of
what’s possible and what’s not,” said  David Makovsky , director
of the Project on the Middle East Peace Process at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, a research group.  ‘Substantive Engagement’  After weeks of diplomacy aimed at persuading Israel to
renew a freeze on settlement-building as a step to face-to-face
negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, the U.S. took
off the table its offer to give Israel 20 additional F-35
fighter jets in return for a 90-day moratorium on construction
in the West Bank.  “We plan to move forward and begin a more substantive
engagement to see how, working on the core issues themselves,
we can begin to move the process forward, perhaps regain some
confidence in the process that has been stalled,” Crowley told
reporters yesterday in Washington.  Clinton’s Friday schedule includes meetings with  Terje Roed-Larsen , the UN Middle East envoy, and  Tzipi Livni , leader
of Israel’s opposition Kadima party.  Direct talks between Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas
collapsed in September after less than a month when a 10-month
Israeli moratorium on settlement construction expired.  Palestinian Objections  “We will not accept negotiations as long as settlement
goes on,” Abbas told reporters yesterday in Cairo after
consulting with Arab leaders, including Egypt’s President  Hosni Mubarak  and  Amre Moussa , secretary-general of the Arab League.  Mitchell, the former Senate Democratic leader from Maine
who helped broker a peace agreement in Northern Ireland, will
look for common ground on some of the stickiest issues, said
analysts including  Jon Alterman , director of Middle East
program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies,
a Washington policy group.  While that will be difficult, it is not impossible,
Alterman said. “It would be a mistake to interpret what
happened as the administration losing interest,” he said “It
has not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at  fjackson@bloomberg.net 
and  Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 