-- BHP Coal Contract Change Spares Consumers Price Surge
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-12-10T01:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/coal-contract-change-may-prevent-price-surge-after-australia-mine-flooding.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s push to set coal
prices quarterly rather than annually may spare steelmakers from
a surge in costs after flooding in Australia disrupted mine
production in Queensland state.  “The market can respond far quicker than with the 12-month
pricing and buyers will be prepared for an increase knowing they
can always renegotiate the next contract,” said  Gavin Wendt , a
senior resource analyst at MineLife Pty in Sydney. “It’s a more
fluid market. You probably won’t see the sorts of huge price
movements that we saw a couple of years ago.”  Steelmakers were hit with a threefold increase in annual
contract prices to about $300 a metric ton in 2008 after heavy
rains and floods affected mining in Queensland. This year, coal
production and deliveries have been disrupted after Australia
had its wettest September-to-November spring on record. BHP, the
world’s biggest mining company, has urged the industry to move
to short-term deals to make prices more responsive to market
changes. It agreed with Japan’s JFE Holdings Inc. to the first
three-month coking coal contract in March.  Coking coal and iron-ore suppliers traditionally held
annual talks with steelmakers to fix benchmark contracts for the
12 months from April 1, the start of the Japanese financial
year. Quarterly accords mean producers can spread price
increases caused by the rain over the course of the year.  “Producers are not compelled to push for higher prices now
to offset lost production, like they have in recent years, most
notably the super-spike of $300 a ton,” UBS AG analysts led-by
Sydney-based  Tom Price  said in an e-mailed note today. “They
don’t have to wait another-12-months like they used to.”  Force Majeure  Production has been disrupted at mines operated by
Macarthur Coal Ltd., Aquila Resources Ltd., Vale SA and  Xstrata
Plc . They have all declared force majeure, a legal clause
invoked by companies when they can’t meet obligations because of
circumstances beyond their control.  “We’ve moved now to quarterly pricing, in the old days we
had annual pricing,”  Keith De Lacy , chairman of Macarthur Coal
Ltd., the world’s largest producer of pulverized coal used in
steel manufacturing, said on Bloomberg Television on Dec. 8.
“The market responds a lot quicker to supply and demand.”  BHP agreed with Japanese steelmakers to cut coking-coal
prices by 7 percent in the three months ending Dec. 31. Kobe
Steel Ltd. will pay $209 a metric ton, from $225 a ton in the
quarter from July to September, Hiroyuki Hashimoto, a spokesman
for Kobe Steel, said Sept. 1. JFE Holdings’ steel unit reached
the same agreement, the company said.  Fiona Martin , spokeswoman for BHP, declined to comment on
what percentage of the company’s coal contracts are settled on a
quarterly basis. BHP Billiton-Mitsubishi Alliance, known as BMA,
is the world’s biggest exporter of coal for steelmaking and
operates seven mines in Queensland’s Bowen Basin.  Consumers Concerned  “All our readings of the consumer side is that they’re
very concerned about making sure that they have enough supply,”
 Andrew Harrington , an analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd. in
Sydney, said Dec. 7. “This year has been unusual because we had
a fair amount of rain up in the inland of Queensland in August
and September, which is usually the dry period.”  Queensland’s coal exports are worth about A$100 ($99
million) a day to the state,  Michael Roche , chief executive of
the Queensland Resources Council, said Dec. 7. “Some open-cut
pits are now looking more like dams than mines,” he said.  Australia is the largest producer of coal used in
steelmaking, contributing more than 40 percent of the global
seaborne trade, Deutsche Bank AG. said Oct. 19. The country is
the second-largest exporter after Indonesia of the commodity
burned for power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Canberra at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 