-- Colors Shimmer as Bridget Riley Confronts Old Masters: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-12-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/colors-sway-curve-as-bridget-riley-confronts-old-masters-martin-gayford.html
Bridget Riley ’s “Arrest 3” (1965)
isn’t recommended viewing for anyone who suffers from motion
sickness. When you look at it, the flat surface of the picture
seems to heave and ripple before your eyes. After a while, the
whole world may start to shift like the deck of a ship at sea.  This is a celebrated example of that fashionable idiom of
the 1960s, Op Art. It might not seem to have much in common with
works by  Mantegna  and Raphael. Yet a succinct and intriguing
exhibition at the  National Gallery  in London, “Bridget Riley:
Paintings and Related Works,” aims to show just how it has.  Putting the work of living artists in Old Master museums is
a high-risk maneuver, the danger being that the contemporary
work is outclassed. In this case, it’s justified because it
helps us understand what Riley’s art is really intended to do
and in the process throws light on Raphael,  Mantegna  and  Seurat 
as well.  Riley, 79, has chosen works by those three artists of the
past to hang in company with a selection of her own paintings
and prints from the past five decades. Among these are a few
murals executed directly on the gallery walls and a brand-new
painting.  The first of her works in the show is a copy of Van Eyck’s
“Man With a Red Turban,” a treasure of the National Gallery,
that she copied as a teenager in 1947. That makes a useful
point. Living painters keep the work of their predecessors in
mind, even though the connections can be hard to see. That’s
true of  Hockney ,  Freud ,  Auerbach  and even  Damien Hirst .  Strange Procession  The old masters in this exhibition suggest just what Riley
has found in the great art of the past. Mantegna’s
“Introduction of the Cult of Cybele at Rome” (1505-6) is a
strange painting that imitates a stone sculpture in relief. It
shows a procession of carved figures against a background of
colored marble slabs.  In this, as explained in the catalog, Riley sees not so
much a recreation of a Roman ceremony as a visual rhythm in a
shallow space. That’s exactly what her “Arrest 3” creates too.
If you have enough sea legs to contemplate it without feeling
queasy, you’ll remark that out of a series of flat black and
gray-blue lines, she has conjured movement. Space seems to exist
between the crests and the troughs of the waves on her Op Art
sea.  That, more or less, is what she always does in different
ways: make shapes and colors pulse and sway in space. Some of
her pictures move fast, some slowly. The vertical bands of color
that make up “Saraband” (1985) won’t stay still. Some come
forward, some retreat. So it constantly shimmers, not unlike the
colored dots of a painting by  Seurat .  Abstract Raphael  Riley’s pictures of the past decade or so are milder in
color and design, suggesting leaves fluttering in the wind or
dancers. These curving, dancing forms -- she points out -- are
much like the red, green, blue and green draperies of Raphael’s
“St. Catherine of Alexandria” (c. 1507).  Those form a complicated arrangement interlocking
undulating folds and contrasting hues, as the saint leans
elegantly against the wheel on which, as it turned out, she
wasn’t martyred after all (it broke miraculously, so her
executioners beheaded her instead). In a way, Raphael was an
abstract artist too, which is an interesting conclusion.  “Bridget Riley: Paintings and Related Works” is at the
National Gallery, London, through May 22, 2011. Information:
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk . The exhibition is sponsored 
by Bloomberg LP, parent company of Bloomberg News.  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by  Lucian Freud .”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 