-- Colombia Has No Plans to Boost Bond Sales After Flood Disaster, Arce Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-12-10T20:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/colombia-has-no-plans-to-boost-bond-sales-after-flood-disaster-arce-says.html
Colombia’s government has no
immediate plans to boost local or international debt sales for
reconstruction financing after floods left thousands homeless
and destroyed roads, Public Credit Director  German Arce  said.  The initial cost for humanitarian assistance may be 1
trillion pesos ($525 million), Arce said today in an interview
in his Bogota office. The government will decide in coming
months whether additional debt sales are needed after evaluating
damage to infrastructure and determining costs, he said.  “We are not considering selling more debt for the first
two stages, which are humanitarian help and rehabilitation” of
roads, bridges and other infrastructure, Arce, 38, said. The
government is considering raising taxes to fund part of the
rehabilitation stage while a $150 million loan from the World
Bank will be used for humanitarian help, Arce said.  Yields on the benchmark peso bonds pared losses after
Arce’s comments. They had climbed this week on speculation the
government may issue more local debt to finance recovery
spending, and on concern that the worst rainfall in 30 years
would push up food prices and add to inflation. The downpours in
recent weeks caused flooding and mudslides,  killing  almost 200
people, destroying roads and damaging crops including coffee.  2011 Financing Plan  The 11 percent bonds due 2020 fell 0.39 centavo to 122.604
centavos per peso at 3:02 p.m. New York time. They declined as
low as 122.298 centavos earlier in the day. The yield climbed 5
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.59 percent. The
peso strengthened 1.4 percent, the biggest one-day gain since
May, to 1,881.85 per U.S. dollar.  Arce said the Finance Ministry won’t announce changes in
its 2011 financing plan this month. The country aims to sell 28
trillion pesos of bonds in the local market next year, 18
trillion pesos of which will be sold at auction. It also plans
to issue $2.24 billion in foreign bonds next year.  The ministry in January will likely issue longer-term
inflation-linked bonds, known as TES UVR, and sell new fixed-
rate bonds, known as TES, Arce said.  In its last auctions this year, the Finance Ministry sold
TES bonds due July 2024, June 2016 and April 2013 and TES UVR
due February 2023 and May 2017.  New Peso Bonds  Colombia plans to have at least three “active points” in
both the TES and TES UVR curves in order to have short-, medium-
and long-term benchmarks, he said.  “We need a longer UVR benchmark bond,” Arce said. He also
said the government would likely replace at least two of the
three TES bonds it sold this year.  “This is something we’re currently discussing with market
makers, but the idea is to start the new year with the new
references,” Arce said.  Arce also said he is considering carrying out “a couple”
debt swaps in 2011.  Starting next year the government plans to reduce the
amount of short-term peso bonds, known as TCOs, it issues back
to the levels it was selling before the debt sales were
increased in October. The increase in TCO issuance between
October and December was carried out to compensate in part for
the dollars the government kept overseas this year to ease the
peso’s rally.  Echeverry said Oct. 29 that the government will keep $1.5
billion overseas “at least for the first months of 2011”
instead of bringing the money into Colombia and converting it to
pesos.  Flood Damage  Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said yesterday the
cost of repairing damage to roadways and aiding victims of heavy
rainfall may surpass 4 trillion pesos. The government said
above-average rainfall will last through the first quarter.  Colombia, the second-largest producer of arabica coffee,
will see its crop output fall at least 7.6 percent next year as
the rainfall hurts plant development, Hector Falla, executive
director for the province of Huila, the nation’s second-largest
growing area, said last week. The National Federation of Coffee
Growers also said output will drop, without providing a figure.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  on Dec. 7 declared an
economic and social emergency which will allow the government
for the next 30 days -- extendable to 90 days -- to seek new
sources of revenue. Options include increasing taxes or issuing
more debt, according to  Andres Pardo , head analyst at
Corporacion Financiera Colombiana SA in Bogota.  Deficit Outlook  Consumer prices rose 0.19 percent last month, almost double
the median forecast for a 0.10 percent increase among 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Brokerage Correval SA said in
a report yesterday it expects monthly inflation to accelerate to
0.3 percent in December due in part to higher food prices.  Annual inflation  quickened to 2.59 percent in November,
within the central bank’s target this year between 2 percent and
4 percent.  Colombia expects the central government deficit to narrow
to 4.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2011 from 4.3
percent this year. The consolidated budget deficit will narrow
to 3.2 percent of GDP next year from 3.6 percent, Echeverry said
last month.  Both Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s rate
Colombia one level below investment grade with a positive
outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  