-- Companies Tap Loans for M&As, Payouts as U.S. Economy Gets Boost From Fed
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2010-12-10T13:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/companies-tap-loans-for-m-as-payouts-as-u-s-economy-gets-boost-from-fed.html
Leveraged loans for acquisitions and
dividends are outpacing the amount raised to repay debt as
companies take advantage of a rally to triple issuance.  The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  gained 8.37
percent this year, extending the record returns of 52.2 percent
in 2009. High-risk, high-yield loan sales rose to $229.3 billion
from $76.6 billion in all of last year, with companies using 53
percent for M&As and payouts, up from 25 percent last year,
according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  Walter Energy Inc. , the steelmaking coal producer that’s
raising $2.73 billion in loans for a takeover, and Novelis Inc.,
which is planning a $1.7 billion dividend, are among companies
shifting their focus to shareholder distributions and growth
from refinancings as economists and investors say the U.S.
economy will expand more than previous forecasts. The Federal
Reserve’s additional monetary easing and President  Barack Obama ’s tax-cut extensions come as default rates drop and
borrowers chip away at a $324.5 billion maturity wall.  “Corporate balance sheets are healing and we’re starting
to see M&A and buybacks pick up again,” said  Mark Okada , co-
founder and chief investment officer of Highland Capital
Management LP with $18 billion in loan investments. “There
really was a resurgence in activity and recovery across U.S.
capital markets, and certainly there is a lot more to be worried
about, but I don’t hear a whole lot of people talking about a
double-dip anymore.”  Tax-Cut Extensions  Obama’s agreement with Republican lawmakers to prolong
income-tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 by the  George W. Bush 
administration may help raise gross domestic product by as much
as half a percentage point to 3.1 percent, according to  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Tom Porcelli , a senior economist at Royal Bank of Canada, is raising
his growth forecast for 2011 by one point, also to 3.1 percent.  The economic boost may also reduce pressure on the central
bank to expand its $600 billion bond-purchase program. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview broadcast Dec. 5
on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” that the economy is barely
expanding and buying more bonds than planned is “certainly
possible.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Chief Executive Officer
 Mohamed El-Erian  said the company is raising its U.S. growth
forecast on “massive amount” of stimulus by policy makers.
Pimco, which manages the world’s biggest bond fund, sees the
economy expanding 3 percent to 3.5 percent in the last quarter
of 2011, up from a previous estimate of 2 percent to 2.5
percent.  ‘Manageable’ Maturity Wall  Since the beginning of 2009, companies tapping lender
appetite refinanced 37 percent of leveraged loans maturing
through 2014, when the maturity wall peaks at $204.1 billion,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Speculative-grade
issuers owe $60.7 billion in loans in 2015 and $80.9 billion the
following year.  “The refinancing cliff will be manageable for the next few
years,” said  Mark Gold , chief investment officer of Hillmark
Capital LLC, which has $1 billion of assets under management.
“In 2015 we may have to start dealing with it again.”  Leveraged loan default rates dropped to 3.3 percent in
November from 3.6 percent in October and 12 percent last year,
Moody’s Investors Service said this week in a report.
Speculative-grade default rate in the U.S. will drop to 3.1
percent in December from 3.5 percent last month, and to 2.1
percent in a year.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Walter Energy Acquisition  The share of refinancing transactions in the loan market
dropped to 38 percent this year from 49 percent in 2009 as
acquisitions picked up, dividend deals jumped to $37 billion
from $880 million and leveraged buyouts increased by 2.5 times
to $176.7 billion, according to S&P LCD and data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Walter Energy agreed to buy Canada’s  Western Coal Corp.  for
C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion) to add reserves and boost
production of the commodity as prices rise.  Morgan Stanley, Credit Agricole SA and Bank of Nova Scotia
agreed to arrange a $600 million term loan A and $375 million
revolving credit line, both due in five years, as well as a
$1.75 billion term loan B maturing in seven years, Tampa,
Florida-based Walter Energy said in a Dec. 2 regulatory filing.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A term loan A is
sold primarily to banks, while so-called B loans are mainly
bought by non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, mutual funds and hedge funds.  Novelis Loan Pricing  Novelis, the U.S. aluminum unit of India’s Hindalco
Industries Ltd., reduced pricing yesterday on a $1.5 billion
term loan it’s seeking to refinance debt and fund a dividend.  Moody’s cut the company’s credit rating by one step to B1,
citing the $4 billion restructuring of Atlanta-based Novelis’s
balance sheet and the increase in leverage to 4 times from 2.9
times. Leverage is the measure of debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  KKR & Co. , Vestar Capital Partners and Centerview Partners,
which agreed to buy  Del Monte Foods Co.  for $5.3 billion, may
raise as much as $4.6 billion of debt to help pay for the LBO.  JPMorgan, Barclays Plc, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America
Corp. and the lending arm of New York-based KKR will provide the
financing, San Francisco-based Del Monte said in a Nov. 30
regulatory filing.  The lenders committed to arrange senior secured loans
consisting of $2.5 billion term debt and a $500 million
revolving credit line, as well as $1.6 billion in senior
unsecured increasing rate bridge financing, the filing shows.  “Next year we’ll see more M&A deals and more LBOs,” said
 George Goudelias , who manages $4.3 billion of high-yield loans
and bonds at Seix Investment Advisors LLC. “Refinancings
probably won’t be as active.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 