-- Connecticut Seeks Street View Data Gathered by Google
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-12-10T17:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/connecticut-seeks-data-google-collected-in-state-for-street-view-service.html
Connecticut issued a civil
investigative demand to  Google Inc.  for data collected by the
company’s Street View cars, Attorney General  Richard Blumenthal 
said in an e-mailed statement.  The demand, the equivalent of a subpoena, is for the state
to gain access to data improperly collected from unsecured
Connecticut business and personal wireless computer networks,
according to Blumenthal. Google has allowed Canadian and other
authorities to review similar data but refused Blumenthal’s
office access, the statement said.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission ended its investigation
of Google’s collection of data over unsecured wireless networks
in October after the company said it would improve privacy
safeguards in its Street View mapping project. Google, owner of
the world’s most popular search engine, uses cars to photograph
streets and houses to update Street View. The company admitted
the cars also collected data from Wi-Fi networks, prompting an
outcry by privacy advocates.  “We are compelling the company to grant my office access
to data to determine whether e-mails, passwords, web-browsing
and other information was improperly intercepted,” Blumenthal
said.  Google apologized in an e-mailed statement for what it
called mistakenly collecting the data.  “We did not want and have never used the payload data in
any of our products and services,” the statement said. “We
want to delete this data as soon as possible and will continue
to work with the authorities to determine the best way forward,
as well as to answer their further questions and concerns.”  Google collected the data in 2008 when its cars were in
Connecticut taking photographs for its Street View service. The
company has until Dec. 17 to provide the information, Blumenthal
said.  Thirty-nine states, including Connecticut, have been among
those investigating the service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  