-- Ryan, Conrad Say Congress Will Approve Obama Tax-Cut Deal With Republicans
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-11T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/conrad-ryan-say-u-s-congress-will-pass-tax-deal-budget-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama ’s tax-cut
deal with Republicans will pass in Congress, budget leaders of
both parties predicted, as they disagreed on whether the plan
might be altered.  Republican  Paul Ryan , who becomes  House Budget Committee 
chairman in January, and Democrat  Kent Conrad , chairman of the
 Senate Budget Committee , said the plan will be sent to Obama’s
desk though Conrad said he hoped House Democrats would change
estate tax provisions he considers too generous to the wealthy.  In interviews airing this weekend on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” both men said they expect
Congress to pivot from tax-cutting to reducing the budget
deficit early next year before a vote that will be required to
raise the federal debt limit.  “There has got to be an agreement to deal with our long-
term debt challenge,” Conrad said he told Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  and White House budget director  Jack Lew  during
a meeting on Dec. 9. Otherwise, “extending the debt limit will
not happen but for short periods of time,” the lawmaker said.  Ryan, of Wisconsin, said he plans lead the Republican push
to cut domestic spending by $100 billion early next year, before
the debt-limit vote.  “The debt ceiling obviously is going to have to be
increased if we’re not going to default,” Ryan said. “So the
question is, what do we get in exchange for that?”  “We want to bring spending back to something like pre-
binge, pre-spending levels of 2008. So that means we want to go
after a good $100 billion,” he said.  Public Opinion  Conrad, of North Dakota, said efforts to cut the deficit
are made more difficult by polls showing the public opposes many
of the tax increases and spending cuts that would be needed. A
Bloomberg News survey this week showed that Americans want
Congress to reduce the deficit without cutting Social Security,
defense or many other programs.  “We’ve got a huge educational job to do with the American
public,” Conrad said. Lawmakers “have to be prepared to
sacrifice their political careers to do what must be done for
the nation.”  “If we fail to get our deficits and debt under control,
America will become a second-class nation,” he said. “We are
going to slip over the abyss into a fiscal crisis that is as
sure as we sit here.”  The Senate plans a Dec. 13 test vote on this week’s
agreement between Obama and Republicans to extend Bush-era tax
cuts for all income levels for two years. Obama and most
congressional Democrats had pushed to limit the tax breaks to
the first $250,000 in family income.  Estate Tax  The deal Obama reached would create a 35 percent top
estate-tax rate that would apply above a tax-free level of $10
million per couple. A 2001 law abolished the estate tax for
2010, and the top levy currently set for 2011 would be 55
percent, with the first $2 million per couple tax free.  Conrad said the administration “went too far” with its
estate tax proposal, calling it “impossible to justify.” “We
just can’t afford that kind of giveaway to the very wealthiest
among us,” he said, saying it would cost an estimated $100
billion if it were continued over 10 years.  Conrad, 62, said he favors setting the top estate tax rate
at 45 percent with a $3.5-million-per-person exemption.  Ryan, 40, said that though House Democrats are “throwing a
fit” over the plan, he doubted it would be changed.  “A deal is a deal -- we have an agreement and that ought
to be honored and it should pass soon so we don’t create this
volatility in the economy,” he said.  The tax cuts enacted under former President  George W. Bush 
are scheduled to expire Dec. 31.  A Second Tax  Ryan said he opposes any estate tax because it represents a
second levy on money that was already subject to income taxes.
He said it makes it too difficult to transfer wealth within
families.  “We’re not talking about, you know,  Bill Gates  here,” he
said. “We’re talking about successful family businesses and
farms that are big employers having to be cut in half or
liquidated in order to pay a tax when the owner dies. This is
not right.”  Conrad and Ryan endorsed proposals to overhaul the tax code
by reducing tax breaks and marginal tax rates. Conrad said a
plan could generate additional revenue to help reduce the
deficit. Ryan said Republicans and Democrats are likely to
disagree on “the proper level of revenues” because “we just
have a different view on the size of government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  