-- Copper May Rise This Week as ETPs Start Trading in London, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/copper-may-rise-next-week-as-etps-start-trading-in-london-survey-shows.html
Copper may rise as the first
exchange-traded products in industrial metals heighten
speculation of a metal shortage, a survey showed.  Ten of 16 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 63 percent, said the metal will gain next week.
Five predicted lower prices and one forecast little change.
Copper for delivery in three months was up 2.8 percent for this
week at $8,972 a metric ton at 3 p.m. yesterday on the London
Metal Exchange.  Prices yesterday rose to a record $9,091 in London ahead of
the launch of the exchange-traded products and as copper
inventories tracked by the LME shrank further. ETF Securities
Ltd. said Dec. 7 products backed by copper, nickel and tin will
start trading on the London Stock Exchange today. JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and BlackRock Inc. have also announced plans to start
similar products holding industrial metals.  “The ETF launch could add another leg,” said  William O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in Upper Saddle River, New
Jersey.  Demand for the metal used in construction and automobiles
will outpace supply by 367,500 tons next year, according to the
median forecast of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. This is
the first shortage since 2007, according to the International
Copper Study Group, which forecast a 435,000-ton deficit in the
refined metal next year. LME copper inventories have shrunk 30
percent this year, on course for the first annual contraction
since 2004, and are at the lowest level since October 2009.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of Dec. 3.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
54 of the past 115 weeks, or 47 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 10  Bearish : 5 Hold: 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 