-- Wheat Advances as Rainfall in Australia Adds to Concern Over Global Supply
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-12-10T11:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/corn-may-advance-on-expectation-usda-report-to-show-tighter-global-supply.html
Wheat rose for a second day in
Chicago and January-delivery milling wheat rose to a lifetime
high in Paris, after rain damaged crops in Australia and amid
concern the U.S. may have difficulty meeting global demand.  Wheat for March delivery advanced as much as 1.1 percent to
$7.97 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and was at $7.9575
at 11:33 a.m. Paris time, adding 2.2 percent this week. Milling
wheat for January delivery traded in the French capital rose to
the highest since the contract was listed in May 2009.  “Weather conditions in the world remain as adverse, with
ongoing rains in the southeast of Australia,” Paris-based farm
adviser  Agritel  said in a commentary today. “Drought persists
in the U.S., particularly in a major region like Kansas.”  Wet weather in eastern Australia this week may cut as much
as 12.3 million metric tons of wheat in New South Wales and
South Australia to feed quality, or 60 percent of the crop,
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a report.  Milling wheat for January delivery rose as much as 1.6
percent to 244 euros a ton in Paris, before trading at 243
euros. The contract has climbed 3.3 percent this week.  The U.S., the world’s largest wheat shipper, may not have
the logistical capacity to meet rising global demand,  Abdolreza Abbassian , senior grain economist at the United Nations’ Food
and Agriculture Organization, said yesterday.  Available stocks of wheat are “located mainly in the U.S.,
which won’t be able to handle the logistics of the combined
world requirements for wheat, corn and soy,” Agritel said.  ‘True Failure’  Dry conditions for winter-grain plantings in the U.S.,
Russia and the Middle East are reducing prospects for next
year’s wheat harvest. Russia banned grain exports this year
after drought destroyed part of its crops, and the lack of rain
continued into the planting period this year.  “Last year’s crop was, for all intents, a true failure and
the conditions presently suggest that this year’s crop may fail
also,” economist  Dennis Gartman  said in his daily newsletter.
“The impact of yet another Russian crop failure shall be huge
and multi-year in effect.”  Middle East wheat production next year is threatened by
drought during the main planting period, with wheat-growing
regions in southern Turkey, Syria, Iraq and northern Iran
receiving less than 20 percent of normal rainfall in the 60 days
through Dec. 7, forecaster Martell Crop Projections said.  Corn Rises  Corn for March delivery rose as much as 0.9 percent to
$5.7925 a bushel before trading at $5.785 a bushel. The contract
has gained 0.9 percent this week.  U.S. ethanol production jumped 6.1 percent last week to a
record 939,000 barrels a day, while stockpiles of the gasoline
additive sank 4.2 percent to 16.4 million barrels, the steepest
decline since Aug. 20, the Energy Department said Dec. 8.  Investors expect that the USDA’s latest forecast on supply
and demand, to be released later today in Washington, will
reflect higher ethanol use for U.S. corn.  “The question is, could supply be much tighter?,”  Peter Rizzo , managing director at FCStone Australia Pty., said by
phone today.  January-delivery soybeans increased as much as 0.4 percent
to $12.87 a bushel in Chicago before trading at $12.855, heading
for a 1.2 percent decline this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ; 