-- Bank, Government Bond Risk Surges on Wagers Crisis Is Spreading
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-12-10T13:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against losses
on bonds of governments and financial companies in  Europe  surged
as negative ratings actions on Ireland and Portuguese banks
spurred speculation the region’s debt crisis will spread.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit iTraxx Financial Index
of banks’ and insurers’ subordinated debt jumped as much as 17
basis points to 337 basis points, the highest level since April
2009, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of swaps on 15 governments posted the
biggest two-day gain since June.  European policy makers have been unable to contain the
deficit crisis since Greece and Ireland accepted central bank
rescues, igniting concerns that banks holding their debt will
suffer losses and need further bailouts themselves. Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday it may downgrade 10 Portuguese
banks, while  Fitch Ratings  cut Ireland by three steps to BBB+.  “It’s a vicious cycle between the financials and the
governments,” said Tim Brunne, a strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “The problems that have been there haven’t been
solved.”  Contracts linked to subordinated bonds of Royal Bank of
Scotland NV jumped 24.25 basis points to 350 basis points, the
highest level since April 2009, according to data provider CMA.
The lender’s parent  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  has the
third-biggest exposure to Ireland among Europe’s largest
lenders, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Sovereign Risk  Swaps tied to Irish  government bonds  gained 8 basis points
to 554, while derivatives on  Portugal  climbed 15.25 to 469,
according to CMA. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index
increased 7.25 basis points to 196 basis points, following a
gain of 12.25 basis points yesterday.  The  European Central Bank  has been buying government bonds
to help calm markets, including 1.97 billion euros last week,
the most since June. ECB Governing Council member  Mario Draghi 
said purchases of government bonds must not compromise the
central bank’s independence, according to a Financial Times
interview.  “In the land of utter delusion, Europe’s political leaders
still think that if sovereign CDS spreads stop widening it means
the euro is safe,” Kit Juckes, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Societe Generale SA in  London , said in a note to clients. “The
ECB is even talking about ‘exit strategies’ again. These people
are having a cocktail party on the edge of a bottomless abyss.”  Corporate Indexes  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the senior debt
of banks and insurers rose 4 basis points to 162. The benchmarks
gauge the cost of protecting bonds against default and an
increase signals deteriorating perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 1 basis point to 107.25,
according to JPMorgan, while the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index
of companies with mostly high-yield ratings fell 1 basis point
to 453, JPMorgan prices show.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($13.3 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  