-- Oil Falls a Second Day as OPEC Keeps Quotas, China's Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-12-10T21:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/crude-oil-fluctuates-as-china-s-imports-increase-banks-increase-reserves.html
Crude oil fell after China took
steps to counter inflation, potentially slowing economic growth
and fuel demand in the world’s biggest energy-consuming country.  Prices slipped 0.7 percent after the People’s Bank of China
required lenders to increase  financial reserves  by 50 basis
points starting Dec. 20. Oil rose earlier as China said November
crude  imports  jumped 26 percent and the International Energy
Agency boosted its 2011 oil-demand forecast for a third month.  “The increase in reserve requirements is probably the
first shot across the bow,” said  Phil Flynn , a Chicago-based
analyst and trader with investment adviser PFGBest. “The market
is concerned that the Chinese will follow this move with an
interest-rate increase over the weekend.”  Crude oil for January delivery declined 58 cents to $87.79
a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since Dec. 1. Futures dropped 1.6 percent this week
and are up 24 percent from a year ago.  Brent crude oil for January settlement fell 51 cents, or
0.6 percent, to end the session at $90.48 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  China said it will release consumer-price-index data
tomorrow, two days earlier than planned, fanning speculation
about an increase in interest rates. The report may show
November’s  inflation  was 5.1 percent, the highest level since
July 2008, according to the Economic Information Daily, a
newspaper affiliated with the government’s news agency.  Chinese leaders meeting in Beijing over the weekend to set
economic policy for next year have said they will shift to a
tighter, “prudent” monetary policy.  Chinese Imports  China increased net imports of crude oil by 26 percent in
November from a month earlier as refineries ramped up processing
rates to ease a diesel shortage. Net purchases were 20.3 million
metric tons, or 5 million barrels a day, the highest amount
since September’s record of 22.9 million tons, data from the
Beijing-based General Administration of Customs showed today.  The International Energy Agency increased its global crude-
oil demand forecast for next year, citing consumption gains in
North America and China. Crude use worldwide will average 88.8
million barrels a day, about 260,000 barrels more than its
previous forecast, the Paris-based adviser said today in its
monthly  Oil Market Report .  “The bullish headlines were undercut by worries about
Chinese economic policy as the country tries to control
inflation,” said  Bill O’Grady , chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in St. Louis.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
accounts for about 40 percent of global supply, will meet
tomorrow in Quito, Ecuador, to review output quotas.  $100 Oil  Oil prices of $100 a barrel may lead the group to act,
 Abdalla El-Badri , the organization’s secretary-general, said in
Quito yesterday. Demand is growing very fast in China and India
and moderately in members of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, he said.  “When the price goes to $100, that means there is
something wrong with the fundamentals, then we have to do
something,” El-Badri told reporters. “If it goes to $100
because of speculation, OPEC could not move.”  There is no reason for OPEC to change quotas at tomorrow’s
meeting, Angolan Oil Minister  Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos 
said in Quito. The “situation is stable,” and oil at $90 a
barrel makes up for a weak dollar, he said.  OPEC raised its forecast for 2011 crude production from
outside the group on increases from Russia and China. Non-OPEC
supply will climb by 410,000 barrels to 52.62 million barrels a
day next year, OPEC said in its monthly report today. That’s
50,000 barrels a day more than previously forecast.  Price Outlook  Oil may decline next week on the potential Chinese moves to
curb inflation, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Eighteen of 39
analysts, or 46 percent, forecast crude oil will fall through
Dec. 17. Thirteen respondents, or 33 percent, predicted prices
will rise and eight estimated there would be little change.  “Oil will probably move lower next week,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that focuses on energy. “Concerns over the extent of
China’s fiscal tightening in response to this weekend’s
inflation reading will undermine confidence about the continued
strength in Chinese energy demand.”  Oil volume on the Nymex was 507,899 contracts as of 3:08
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 742,817
contracts yesterday, 6 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.35 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  