-- Cuba Debt Load May Become `Fatal' to Economy in Two Years, U.S. Cable Says
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-12-10T20:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/cuba-debt-load-may-become-fatal-to-economy-in-two-years-u-s-cable-says.html
Cuba’s economic and financial
situation may become “fatal” within two to three years as the
Communist island-nation has been slow to respond to the global
financial crisis and accumulates foreign debt, a confidential
U.S. diplomatic  cable  said.  The cable, released yesterday by WikiLeaks, cited Italian
diplomats as saying that Cuba may “become insolvent as early as
2011.” It was sent in February before President  Raul Castro 
announced plans to cut more than 500,000 state jobs in a bid to
reduce inefficiencies.  The cable described a breakfast hosted by the U.S.
Interests Section in Havana for diplomats from most of Cuba’s
main trading partners, including China, Spain, Canada, Brazil
and Italy. France and Japan, among the country’s largest
creditors, were also present.  “All diplomats agreed that Cuba could survive this year
without substantial policy changes, but the financial situation
could become fatal within 2 to 3 years,” the cable said.
“Promised structural reforms remain on hold while the Cuban
government wrings its hands in indecision, fearful of the
political consequences of these long-overdue changes.”  Chinese diplomats at the breakfast objected with “visible
exasperation” to what they said was the Cuban government’s
insistence that it have a majority stake in all joint ventures
with foreign businesses on the island, according to the cable.  “This is another one of the famous predictions that the
U.S. government has made for 50 years to try to discredit the
revolution and the Cuban government,” Alberto Gonzalez,
spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, said in
a telephone interview.  Cuba’s economy is suffering its worst slump since the
former Soviet Union ended its support in the 1990s. The
government stopped making debt payments to foreign countries and
companies, according to the cable.  WikiLeaks, an organization that publishes secret documents
on its website, last week began posting what it says are more
than 250,000 State Department cables. Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton said Nov. 29 the disclosures could hurt negotiations and
endanger individuals.  State Department spokeswoman  Nicole Thompson  said Nov. 28
the agency won’t comment on specific documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  