-- Cypress Surges After Ramius Boosts Buyout Offer 29 Percent to $212 Million
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-12-10T21:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/cypress-surges-after-ramius-boosts-buyout-offer-29-percent-to-212-million.html
Cypress   Bioscience Inc.  gained the
most in almost five months in Nasdaq trading after Ramius LLC
increased its offer to buy the company by 29 percent, to $5.50 a
share.  Shares of Cypress, based in San Diego, surged 21 percent,
or 87 cents, to $4.93 at 4 p.m. New York time for the biggest
gain since July 19. The stock has lost 15 percent this year.  The offer values Cypress at about $212 million based on
38.6 million shares outstanding as of Nov. 5, according to
Bloomberg data. Ramius, a closely held investment adviser based
in New York, owns 9.9 percent of Cypress already, and said in a
statement today that it initially offered to buy Cypress for $4
a share in cash in July. The $5.50 offer represents a 120
percent premium over Cypress’s closing price on July 16, the
last day of trading before Ramius’s interest was made public.  “This new price is attractive, but does not fully
incorporate the value of Cypress,” said  Michael Yee , an analyst
with RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York, in a research note
today, citing the company’s cash on hand and royalties from
Forest Laboratories Inc. on the fibromyalgia medicine Savella.
“Some investors may not hold out for a transaction and may take
profits on the run-up.”  Ramius increased its initial bid to $4.25 and went directly
to Cypress shareholders in September with a tender offer, which
was set to expire today, the company said. The raised bid is
conditional to Cypress starting exclusive negotiations today and
starting a definitive merger agreement by Dec. 12, Ramius said.  Drugs in Development  In addition to Savella, approved in the U.S. last year for
the pain disorder, Cypress has medicines in development for
schizophrenia, nicotine addiction and autism, according to its
website. It had cash and equivalents of $96.3 million as of
Sept. 30, according to a Nov. 9 statement.  The company said today it had received Ramius’s revised
offer and that its board, which has been considering strategic
alternatives, will evaluate the bid.  Jefferies & Co. and Perella Weinberg Partners are Cypress’s
financial advisers, while Cooley LLP, Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
and Potter Anderon & Corroon LLP are its legal advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  