-- Czech Policy Maker Holman Sees Earlier Interest Rate Increase on Growth
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-12-10T14:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/czech-policy-maker-holman-sees-earlier-interest-rate-increase-on-growth.html
Czech policy maker  Robert Holman 
expects the central bank to start increasing interest rates
earlier than suggested in its outlook as the economy will
probably grow faster than forecast.  The Ceska Narodni Banka has kept the two-week repurchase
rate at a record-low 0.75 percent since May after cutting it a
total of 3 percentage points in less than two years to counter
the impact of the global crisis that pushed the country into the
worst recession since the end of communism two decades ago.  The central bank signaled in its latest forecast on Nov. 4
that interest-rate increases may be postponed until near the end
of next year from the previously expected start of monetary
tightening about the middle of the year. The bank, which targets
inflation, forecast annual price growth close to its 2 percent
target in the final quarter of 2011.  “Our latest forecast says that the period of interest-rate
increases will probably start near the end of next year, but I
think that it will start earlier, maybe at around the middle of
next year,” Holman, a professor in economic theory, said in an
interview in Prague yesterday. “I think we will start
increasing rates sooner than what our latest forecast assumes.”  Holman’s term on the central bank’s board will end in
February. President  Vaclav Klaus , who named Holman to the board
in 2005, has the sole right to decide whether to reappoint him
for a second term or name someone else to the post.  Czech government bonds maturing in 2020 fell to 99.500
after Holman’s comments, from 99.900. The bonds rebounded to
their opening level as of 3:25 p.m. in Prague. The forward-rate
agreements indicating three-month interbank rate in 6-month time
rose to 1.520 percent, from 1.495 percent in the previous day.  Rising Demand  The Czech  economic  recovery accelerated this year with
growth at 2.8 percent in the three months through September, the
fastest in nine quarters. The rebound was initially led by
rising demand for exports, including cars made by Volkswagen’s
Skoda Auto AS, while domestic demand contributed the most to
growth in the third quarter.  The bank lowered its  forecast  for 2011 GDP growth to 1.2
percent from a previous 1.8 percent, saying the government’s
plan to curb state spending will slow the economy’s expansion.
The Finance Ministry on Nov. 1 also revised its  estimate  for
2011 to 2 percent, from the 2.3 percent rise in GDP that served
as the basis for calculating next year’s budget.  ‘More Pessimistic’  Prime Minister  Petr Necas ’ government, in office since
July, plans to halve the public-finance  deficit  to less than the
European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP by 2013. The Cabinet’s
latest estimate sees the fiscal deficit at 5.1 percent of GDP
this year and it targets a shortfall of no more than 4.6 percent
in 2011.  “Our forecast is more pessimistic than the Finance
Ministry’s expectation because we are more conservative in
estimating investments and consumption,” said Holman. “My
personal view, which is slightly differing from our official
forecast, is that economic growth will be stronger next year. I
wouldn’t be so conservative in estimating investments.”  Holman said he expected a revival in fixed investments next
year. Strong growth in Asia is helping to drive growth in
Germany, the Czech Republic’s main  trading  partner, which should
also help boost the economy, Holman said.  Exploring Markets  “Furthermore, our automotive industry is also quite
flexible in exploring new markets and it is successfully
exporting to Asia,” he said.  Skoda Auto AS, the largest Czech exporter, said on Dec. 9
it will post record sales this year, fuelled by sales growth in
China, India and Russia and further expansion in east Europe.
Sales in the first 11 months rose 12.3 percent to 702,400
vehicles, the company said, which is more than last year’s total
sales of 700,000 cars.  Czech  inflation  was 2 percent in November, the same as in
the previous two months, matching the central bank’s target.
Monetary policy inflation, which is price growth adjusted for
the impact in changes in indirect taxes, was 0.9 percent, the
central bank said.  “Current monetary-policy settings are appropriate,” said
Holman. “There aren’t such inflation risks that would require
an increase in rates at the next monetary  meeting , or at the
beginning of next year, and I don’t think it will happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  