-- Debt Woes No Drag for Europe Stocks as Strategists Say 2011 Will Beat 2010
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-10T17:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/debt-woes-no-drag-for-europe-stocks-as-strategists-say-2011-will-beat-2010.html
European  equities  will climb 12
percent through the end of next year, beating 2010’s gains, as
rising earnings and record-low interest rates help companies
overcome the sovereign-debt crisis, a Bloomberg survey of 13
strategists shows.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the most bullish forecaster, says
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index will rally 20 percent because profits
may expand twice as fast as the 14 percent average rate in more
than 26,000 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and WPP Plc, the world’s biggest advertising
company, may boost income by an average 18 percent next year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “People have issues with continued earnings growth and our
view is don’t be surprised if profit margins continue to
expand,” said JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s London-based strategist
 Mislav Matejka , who predicts European stocks will climb 12
percent by the end of 2011. “We think the pace of earnings
growth expected by analysts could actually be too low.”  Companies in Europe are expanding even as concern mounts
that the region’s weakest economies will struggle to fund
deficits.  BMW  in Munich, the world’s biggest maker of luxury
cars, said Nov. 23 it will shorten Christmas breaks at factories
because of increasing demand for new models. Dublin-based WPP
reported third-quarter revenue in October that topped  analyst 
estimates as advertising recovered.  German Growth  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, raised its 2010 growth
forecast on Dec. 3, three days after the cost of insuring
against default on Spanish, Irish and Portuguese government debt
rose to records. German business confidence surged to a record
in November and retail sales jumped the most in almost three
years in October.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 has advanced 8.8 percent this year
as the U.S. Federal Reserve pledged up to $600 billion of bond
purchases to support the world’s largest economy. The gain
trails the 11 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Europe is forecast to expand by 1.7 percent next year,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  The Stoxx 600 climbed for a fifth day today, rising 0.1
percent to 276.2 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London for its
longest stretch of gains since July. The measure is at its
highest level since September 2008.  The Fed’s policy, below-average bond yields and a “sweet
spot” for European earnings will spur a rally, said  Ian Richards  and  Graham Bishop  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
the third-most bullish forecasters with a 16 percent prediction
for the Stoxx 600.  Zero Inflows  While funds that focus on equities worldwide tracked by the
Investment Company Institute in Washington lured no net
investment in the second quarter, the most recent period for
which data is available, bond funds attracted $106 billion.  “Asset allocation money has deserted the equity market,”
Richards and Bishop wrote in a Nov. 15 report. “The corporate
sector can use the low cost of debt to drive shareholder
returns” even without funds coming into the stock market, they
said.  Analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show annual profit
growth in Europe will average 46 percent in 2010 and 2011, more
than at any time in the previous seven years.  Deutsche Bank AG 
in Frankfurt, Germany’s largest bank, may expand profit by 45
percent in 2011, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Paris-
based Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA, Europe’s biggest supplier of
building materials, might boost earnings by 28 percent, the data
show.  Earnings Yield  The earnings yield for  Stoxx 600  companies, or profit as a
proportion of the share price, is 6.53 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s 3.6 percentage points more than the yield
on 10-year German government bonds. The spread reached 4.81
points in August, the highest since the financial crisis in
2008.  The valuation favors equities, according to Goldman Sachs.
The New York-based bank recommended on Dec. 1 that investors buy
companies with sales in the largest emerging markets and those
in core European economies such as Germany.  Morgan Stanley cited Germany and the U.K. as the best
countries in Europe for investment. Economic growth may exceed
bond yields in both countries, a bullish signal for shares, the
bank wrote in a Nov. 29 report. Ten-year German bunds yield 2.93
percent, compared with estimated 2010 GDP growth of 3.5 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Pushed Around’  UBS AG’s London-based strategists  Karen Olney  and  Nick Nelson  recommended Italy and France last week, countries they
said have been “pushed around by sovereign fear” while having
“improving earnings momentum.” France’s CAC 40 Index and
Italy’s FTSE MIB are trading at or less than 10 times 2011’s
estimated earnings, compared with a valuation of 11 for
Germany’s DAX, according to Bloomberg data.  Strategists’ forecasts for an 11 percent gain in European
equities in 2010 have proved too optimistic as the region’s
government-debt crisis eroded confidence. The  Euro Stoxx 50
Index  of the biggest euro-area companies has lost 4.2 percent so
far this year, while the Stoxx 600, which includes non-euro
nations, has risen 8.8 percent.  Stocks in Europe’s most-indebted countries and increased
price swings pushed Europe’s benchmark gauge of stock-market
volatility to a five-month high last week. Those trends are
likely to continue next year, Goldman Sachs said.  Bailout of Ireland  The  VStoxx Index , which measures the cost of protecting
against a decline in the Euro Stoxx 50, climbed 33 percent in
November for the biggest monthly advance since April as a
European Union-led bailout of Ireland failed to reassure
investors that the debt crisis will be contained. Spain’s IBEX
35 has fallen 15 percent in 2010 and Greece’s ASE has tumbled 31
percent, making them the worst performers among 24 developed
markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Tammo Greetfeld, Frankfurt-based strategist at UniCredit
SpA, says the Euro Stoxx 50 Index may fall to 2,400 by mid-2011,
hurt by the sovereign-debt crisis and cost-cutting measures
within euro-region economies. The benchmark measure for stocks
in the euro area closed at 2,839.53 today.  Government liabilities as a proportion of gross domestic
product climbed in Europe this year on spending to improve the
economy and bail out banks. EU government debt reached 77.5
percent of GDP this year from 58.5 percent in 2007, according to
data from the IMF. The ratio will reach 82 percent in 2012, IMF
data show.  ‘Still Improving’  “Necessary reform measures to stabilize the euro zone pose
short-term risk to growth,” Greetfeld said in a Dec. 3
interview. “Rising tensions within the euro zone and the risk
of a further escalation should weigh on the overall equity
market.”  In Germany, where the DAX has soared 18 percent so far this
year, the Bundesbank last week raised its forecast for 2010
growth to 3.6 percent. The Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development and the IMF both forecast the global economy
will expand 4.2 percent next year.  “Global economic growth is still improving, which
therefore underpins stock markets in the medium term,” said
 Kevin Lilley , a fund manager who helps oversee about $2 billion
at Royal London Asset Management in the U.K. capital. “In all
of the models I run, there is still substantial upside to equity
markets. I am not comfortable with the short-term volatility but
I am sticking with the view that global GDP growth remains
pretty robust.”  Morgan Stanley’s London-based strategist  Graham Secker  said
that while volatility in markets will remain high until a
“comprehensive solution” to the debt crisis is found, he still
sees stocks gaining about 7.3 percent through 2011.  “We don’t think the global bull market is over,” Secker
said at a press briefing in London on Nov. 30. “There will be
an opportunity to sell the market in the next one or two years
but that opportunity is not now.”  The following is a table of strategists who have given 2011
forecasts for indexes. Implied gains from last week’s close are
in parentheses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 