-- Democrats Beat Republicans in Poll With Opposition to Government Shutdown
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-12-10T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/democrats-beat-republicans-in-poll-with-opposition-to-government-shutdown.html
Americans, who voted for a divided
government in November, say they want the parties to work
together, with a majority opposing at all costs any federal
shutdown over budget matters, a Bloomberg National Poll shows.  By a 3-to-2 margin, respondents say they wouldn’t support
the kind of impasse that brought the federal government to a
halt in 1995, when President  Bill Clinton  and congressional
Republicans couldn’t agree on a budget. An even higher 9 out of
10 say they want Democrats and Republicans in Congress to
cooperate to solve the nation’s problems, according to the poll
conducted Dec. 4-7.  The Republican Party, a month after an electoral triumph
that netted 63 seats and control of the U.S. House, gains in the
U.S. Senate, and increases in state offices, remains unpopular,
with a plurality having a negative view. Democrats do slightly
better: A plurality have a favorable impression of that party.  “If Republicans are seen as blocking for the sake of
blocking, they will test the public’s patience,” says J.  Ann Selzer , president of  Selzer & Co. , a Des Moines, Iowa-based firm
that conducted the nationwide survey.  President  Barack Obama  is more popular than either party,
with 52 percent of Americans holding a favorable view, compared
with 44 percent unfavorable. In an October poll, 55 percent held
a positive opinion and 40 percent a negative one.  Even so, respondents are divided over whether the president
deserves re-election in 2012, with 42 percent saying yes, 45
percent saying no, and 13 percent saying they’re unsure or it
depends on the alternatives.  Clinton Numbers  Obama’s re-election numbers are higher than those Clinton
had two years into his first term, in a  Gallup poll . In October
1994, 38 percent said he was worthy of a second term. He won in
1996 with 49 percent of the vote.  The desire to see the parties work together is reflected in
poll respondents’ view of a fight in Congress over a new
 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty  with Russia. More than 6-in-10
say the U.S. should ratify the agreement. Republican leaders
have stalled consideration of the measure, vowing to block
passage of any bill until Congress takes up legislation
extending the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts and a stopgap funding bill
to keep the federal government operating.  While 56 percent say Congress should avoid a federal
government shutdown, 38 percent say they would support it if
lawmakers reach an impasse on budget issues.  ‘Bad Situation’  “If the government shuts down, a lot of things are
affected and a lot of people would be put in a bad situation,”
says poll respondent Ryan Galloway, 30, a wounded Iraq War
veteran who lives in Georgetown, Texas. “If it was just
Congress shutting down, I wouldn’t care about that because they
don’t get anything done anyway.”  In the poll, Republicans are more likely than Democrats to
want lawmakers to stick rigidly to principles instead of
compromising and working with the other party, with 19 percent
supporting that view, compared with 3 percent of Democrats.  This may pose a dilemma for Republicans who ran on a
platform of change and even confrontation. Respondents who
identify with the Tea Party movement were most likely to say
they wanted the parties to keep to their principles, though even
in that group this was the minority view, held by 25 percent.  ‘Solve the Problems’  “Nothing is ever going to be accomplished if everyone just
digs their heels in,” says poll respondent Patricia Jarvis, 52,
an independent voter and middle-school teacher who lives in
Semmes, Alabama. “The whole point of the Congress is for
everyone to come together and solve the problems of the country
and achieve a suitable solution.”  With the exception of U.S. relations with other countries,
more Americans disapprove than approve of Obama’s performance on
virtually every aspect of his job, from dealing with the economy
and creating  jobs  to health care. He receives the lowest marks
on his handling of the budget deficit, where 60 percent
disapprove. Overall, 47 percent approve of his performance as
president, while 48 percent disapprove.  Obama, 49, inherited an economy gripped by the deepest
recession since the Great Depression. While a recovery is taking
hold -- showing 3.2 percent growth over the past year --
unemployment rose to a seven-month high of  9.8 percent  in
November, significantly above the 7.4 percent rate that
prevailed in December 2008, the month before Obama was
inaugurated.  The stock market has performed much better. The  Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index  has risen 45 percent since Jan. 20, 2009,
when Obama was sworn in.  Hillary Clinton’s Popularity  Still, the president has the highest favorability rating
for any politician or political group tested in the poll, with
the exception of Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who is
viewed favorably by 65 percent.  Former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin , a potential Republican
presidential candidate in 2012, is viewed favorably by just 33
percent.  Republican Representative  John Boehner  of Ohio, who will
become House speaker in January, is viewed favorably by 30
percent of respondents, while a plurality -- 48 percent -- say
they don’t know enough about him to render an opinion. As
Boehner has received more media attention, his favorability has
increased while his unfavorability has declined, compared with
the Bloomberg poll in early October, when he had a 26 percent
favorability rating.  Democrat  Nancy Pelosi  of California, the current House
speaker, is viewed favorably by 31 percent, while 48 percent
rate her unfavorably. Those numbers are largely unchanged from
October. Former President  George W. Bush  also continues to be
viewed negatively, with 57 percent holding an unfavorable view.  Unemployment Top Issue  On issues facing the nation,  unemployment  and jobs remains
the top concern for most, with 50 percent naming that as their
top issue.  A quarter of poll participants list the federal deficit and
government spending, with other issues attracting relatively
little attention. The  budget deficit  totaled $1.29 trillion in
the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  Nine out of 10 poll participants say they want the  federal
budget  to be balanced in 20 years. There is greater division
over other possible items on the legislative agendas of both
parties.  The Republican goal of repealing the health-care overhaul
passed earlier this year is supported by 55 percent, the poll
shows. Three-quarters support passage of a comprehensive
immigration law and half want a constitutional amendment to
define marriage as between a woman and man.  Tax Cuts  Two-thirds oppose cutting corporate taxes, though 6 in 10
support cuts to individual taxes. Almost 6 in 10 support the
extension of unemployment benefits to those who have been out of
work longer than 99 weeks, a provision included in a deal to
extend Bush-era tax cuts Obama made with congressional
Republicans this week.  The Tea Party, which helped propel Republicans to their
historic gains last month, is viewed favorably by 37 percent and
unfavorably by 41 percent, with 22 percent unsure. About a
quarter of poll participants say they support the movement.  The majority of Americans -- 57 percent -- expect Tea Party
candidates elected to Congress will start compromising to get
things done, while 32 percent expect them to remain true to
their principles.  The poll, based on interviews with 1,000 U.S. adults age 18
or older, has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  