-- Disney `Tron' Sequel Woos Original's Geeks With $795 Sandals
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/disney-tron-sequel-woos-original-s-geeks-with-795-sandals.html
Three decades after “Tron” turned
cyberspace into a fantasy world,  Walt Disney Co.  is pitching the
3-D sequel to grownups with high-end merchandise such as a
$2,600 Rotenier necklace and $795 spiked sandals from Rousseau.  Disney has rewritten its marketing playbook for “ Tron:
Legacy ,” which opens Dec. 17, to reach fans old enough to
remember the 1982 original. Jewelry and shoes in particular, the
priciest items, reflect an effort to attract women.  “The demographic we got to speak to for this film was a
young adult and the adult consumer who happened to be around”
for the original, said Pamela Lifford, a Disney executive vice
president who oversaw development of the “Tron” fashion goods.
“We knew we had to be creative.”  With the haute-couture flourish, Disney’s marketing machine
is reaching beyond the core science-fiction and fantasy fans who
form the movie’s natural base. More than 6,000 people, mostly
younger men, crowded into the Comic-Con trade show at the San
Diego Convention Center in July for footage and talks by actor
 Jeff Bridges  and “Tron: Legacy” producer  Sean Bailey .  “Our thinking is to play a lot broader,” said Bailey,
Disney’s president of production since January. “We have the
digital whiz-bang wizardry that gets the men in. The No. 1 job
was to put a priority on story and emotion, boy meets girl.”  “Tron: Legacy” picks up where the original left off, with
entrepreneur Kevin Flynn, again played by Bridges, trapped in a
virtual world. Flynn’s son Sam is pulled into cyberspace to join
his father’s battle against a ruthless villain.  Disney’s Investment  The movie, which co-stars Olivia Wilde and Garrett Hedlund,
was produced for about $170 million, according to a person with
knowledge of the situation.  Disney, the world’s largest media company, rose 17 cents to
$36.74 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have gained 14 percent this year, versus the  S&P
500 ’s 11 percent climb.  The company probably spent $20 million to $25 million on a
video game, “Tron: Evolution,” released Dec. 7, estimates
 Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Morgan Securities in
Los Angeles. A “Tron” animated television series and a graphic
novel are also in the works.  “Tron” fits Burbank, California-based Disney’s business
model of picking movie properties that can be spun off into its
television, video-game and theme-park businesses, said Nelson
Gayton, executive director of the Center for Management of
Enterprise in Media, Entertainment & Sports at the University of
California, Los Angeles.  “When you make these kinds of films you have to appeal to
wider audiences, and if you don’t, you’re never going to make
your money back,” Gayton said.  Beyond ‘Cars’  Disney has been venturing beyond the kids’ audiences that
turn out for “Toy Story” and “Cars” pictures. A “Tron”
franchise would fit well with the Marvel Entertainment
 acquisition  that brought Disney Spider-Man, Iron Man and the
Fantastic Four characters, films that appeal to teenagers,
Gayton said.  “Tron: Legacy” is expected to generate as much as $66
million in its opening weekend and $255 million during its run
in theaters in the U.S. and Canada, according to Jeff Hartke, an
independent box-office analyst. The original film, made for $17
million, returned $33 million in domestic ticket sales,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  The development of 3-D played into Disney’s decision to
make the sequel, producer Bailey said. Director Joseph Kosinski
used an updated version of the camera equipment developed by
 James Cameron  for “Avatar” and is aiming for a similar
immersive feel, he said.  Coordinated Tack  Spinoffs and consumer products were also part of the
thinking from the start, Bailey said. The film crew shared
images and video with Disney’s game developers and merchandise
executives as the movie was being made.  “We really tried to spread our creative minds across all
of these platforms,” he said.  Until January, some items are exclusive to the temporary
store Disney set up in Culver City, California, where portions
of the original movie were shot, Disney’s Lifford said. The
store offers $500 Adidas running shoes, a Hurley fleece jacket
for $59 and sunglasses made by  Oakley Inc.  selling for $150.  David Tapia, a “Tron” fan since he saw the original at
age 9, visited the store this week.  “I have friends from other parts of the country who are
calling me to come in to the store and possibly pick up some
things for them,” said Tapia, a casting director for the Fox
reality show “Hell’s Kitchen.”  Tapia planned to buy a $70  Adidas  warm-up jacket and T-
shirts for himself, he said. He also was trying, without luck,
to find a ticket to the Dec. 11 premiere.  “It’s one of the most difficult tickets in Los Angeles to
get,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 