-- Dylan’s ‘Times They Are A-Changin” Fetches $422,500
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-12-10T16:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/dylan-s-times-they-are-a-changin-lyrics-sell-for-422-500-at-sotheby-s.html
  Bob Dylan ’s handwritten lyrics for
“The Times They Are A-Changin’” fetched $422,500 at Sotheby’s
in  New York  today as hedge-fund manager Adam Sender bested five
other bidders for the folk-music artifact.  Bidding by phone, Sender, an avid art collector whose
trophies decorate the Manhattan offices of his Exis Capital
Management, came in well over Sotheby’s pre-sale estimate of
$200,000 to $300,000.  The title track of Dylan’s third album, “The Times They
Are A-Changin’” was first performed at  Carnegie Hall  on Oct.
26, 1963, when the singer was 22.  “He recorded the song right around the March on  Washington , just before the Kennedy assassination,” said Sean Wilentz, author of “Bob Dylan in America” who teaches history
at  Princeton University  and has no connection to the auction.
“It’s Dylan at his most political. It has qualities of an
anthem.”  The civil-rights march was in August that year, and
President  John F. Kennedy  was assassinated on Nov. 22. The song
was recorded shortly before the Carnegie Hall concert.  The sheet of paper features crossed-out and added words on
a yellowish surface. It originally belonged to Dylan’s friend
Kevin Krown. The two young men met in Denver and became buddies
in 1961-62, according to Wilentz, while Dylan shuttled between
New York and his native  Minnesota .  “He is not the best-known of Dylan’s cronies because he
goes back so far,” Wilentz said.  Sender, who previously worked at SAC Capital Advisors LP
for Steven A. Cohen, another big art collector, also owns the
guitar  John Lennon  was playing when he met  Paul McCartney . Last
week, Sender bought pieces by new and established artists at Art
Basel Miami Beach.  ‘Tremendous Output’  “Bob Dylan’s lyrics are not terribly rare,” said Selby
Kiffer, senior vice president and head of the books and
manuscripts at  Sotheby’s . “He has a tremendous output. However
to have lyrics of such a seminal song is unusual.”  Working drafts for more than 90 songs by Dylan, including
most tracks recorded between 1962 and 1966, are in the
collection of the  Morgan Library and Museum .  Sotheby’s was “banking on there being a rich person out
there who came of age in the 1960s for whom this would mean a
great deal,” said Wilentz.  In June, John Lennon’s handwritten lyrics for the Beatles’
“A Day in the Life” sold for $1.2 million at Sotheby’s in New
York.  With reporting by Lindsay Pollock. --Editors: Jeffrey Burke,
Daniel Billy.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 