-- ECB's Nowotny Says Extraordinary Steps Must Be Removed as Economy Rallies
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-10T12:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ecb-s-nowotny-says-extraordinary-steps-must-be-removed-as-economy-rallies.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said the bank’s unconventional
measures have to be withdrawn as the economy strengthens.  “The extraordinary measures can’t become normality,”
Nowotny told reporters in Vienna today. “In my view, the ECB
certainly aims to continue the exit policy as far as the broader
economic environment allows it.” That’s “already the case when
it comes to liquidity provision.”  The ECB’s withdrawal of emergency stimulus is being
complicated by renewed concerns about the fiscal health of
countries like Ireland, Portugal and Greece. While the ECB has
abandoned six- and 12-month loans to banks, it is still lending
them as much money as they need for periods of up to three
months. The Frankfurt-based central bank has also purchased
government bonds to fight the crisis.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  yesterday signaled
European governments should be ready to increase the size and
flexibility of the regin’s bailout fund set up after the Greek
debt crisis earlier this year. ECB council member  Yves Mersch 
said at a press conference today that governments could allow
the European Financial Stability Facility to “broaden the scope
of activities.”  ‘Lack of Action’  “We can’t substitute for the lack of action,” Mersch said
in Luxembourg. “Monetary policy can’t be overburdened. We can’t
blur the line between monetary and fiscal policy.”  Officials are debating their next steps after Ireland’s
bailout last month failed to stamp out fears of contagion
spreading through euro-region bond markets. European governments
have pledged 440 billion euros ($582 billion) to the EFSF.  “This is not correct,” Nowotny said when asked about
suggestions that the rescue program needs to be expanded.
Portugal and Spain won’t need to tap the funds as they are
determined to solve the problems without external aid, he said.  Some countries have indicated that they’re in favor of
joint euro bonds to prevent the crisis from spreading. The
proposal has sparked criticism from Germany and France.  Nowotny said the issuance of euro bonds is “not on the
agenda” and “the topic currently has no relevance.”  The ECB should also normalize its monetary policy over the
medium-term, Nowotny said. “I don’t see immediate changes but
in the long term, it is clear that an interest rate of 1 percent
is not a balanced interest rate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Boris Groendahl  in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  