-- Ecuador May Seek OPEC Investment After Seizing Petrobras, Noble Licenses
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-12-10T13:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ecuador-may-seek-opec-investment-after-seizing-petrobras-license.html
Ecuador may seek investments in new
oil fields from OPEC nations as they meet in Quito this week
after seizing licenses from  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ,  Noble Energy
Inc.  and other companies that declined to alter contracts.  Ecuadorean laws allowing the government to assign oil
licenses to foreign state-owned companies without a bidding
process will likely help lure investments from members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said Jose Luis
Ziritt, head of the country’s oil industry association.  “OPEC members have the advantage of being state companies
and they are able to enter into direct negotiations,” Ziritt, a
57-year old engineer and former oil adviser to the nation’s
President  Rafael Correa , said yesterday in an interview at his
offices in Quito. “There is no Middle Eastern investment here
and OPEC members may see Ecuador as an attractive country.”  Ecuador, the smallest member of OPEC, will offer licenses
for new oil fields in April after forcing companies including
 Repsol YPF SA  and  Eni SpA  to switch to service contracts from
output-sharing accords. The seizure of four concessions from
companies that didn’t agree to switch may discourage investments
from non-government producers, Ziritt said.  Ecuador, which aims to boost production by 1.3 percent to
181 million barrels next year, is hosting its first OPEC meeting
since returning to the organization in 2007. Oil ministers from
the 12-nation group will review its output. The Andean country
joined OPEC in 1973 and voluntarily suspended its membership in
1992, according to Vienna-based organization’s  website .  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  