-- Hedge Funds, Facing Increased Oversight, Say Industry Creates 300,000 Jobs
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-12-10T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/hedge-funds-facing-more-oversight-say-industry-creates-jobs.html
Hedge funds are touting their record
of creating jobs after politicians demanded increased regulation
of the industry and restrictions on bonus payments.  Hedge funds have 100,000 staff globally and lead to the
employment of an additional 200,000 people at companies such
as law and accounting firms, the London-based  Alternative
Investment Management Association  said in a statement today.
About 240,000 of the workers are based in North America,
AIMA said.  “It demonstrates the importance of the industry to the
broader economy,” AIMA Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Baker 
said in the statement. “The hedge-fund industry provides value
not only to its investors and to the markets in which it
operates, but to the communities where employees work.”  AIMA is publishing the jobs report after European lawmakers
in November approved regulations requiring hedge funds to set
limits on their use of leverage and to avoid pay practices that
encourage risk taking. Former Danish Prime Minister  Poul Rasmussen  and other politicians blamed hedge funds for
contributing to the 2008 financial crisis, in which Europe’s
largest pension funds lost $560 billion.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in profits from bets on
whether assets will rise or fall. Funds usually charge investors
2 percent of assets under management and 20 percent of
investment returns.  The employment figures are based on a survey of hedge-fund
managers, the first of its kind, AIMA said.  More Oversight  Of the 300,000 individuals, 50,000 work in Europe and
10,000 are employed in Asia, according to the survey. By
comparison,  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the
biggest U.S. banks by assets, employ a combined 520,810 people.  Pascal Canfin, a French Green party member of the European
parliament, said the survey doesn’t change his view that hedge
funds need more oversight. He proposed legislation last month to
ban traders from short-selling swaps tied to corporate and
sovereign debt if they don’t hold the underlying bonds.  “Reducing fire-arm regulation could also create a lot of
jobs,” Canfin said. “Moreover, we are sure that these 300,000
qualified people could be employed in more useful activities for
society than speculation on markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 