-- Lehman, Nortel Lose British Court Challenge on $3.6 Billion Pension Debt
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-12-10T13:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/lehman-nortel-lose-court-challenge-over-3-6-billion-in-u-k-pension-debt.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s
European unit and  Nortel Networks Corp.  lost their challenge of
a regulator’s order for the bankrupt companies to prop up their
U.K. pension funds with payments totaling about 2.25 billion
pounds ($3.6 billion.)  The High Court in London ruled in favor of the U.K.
Pensions Regulator today, saying its claims have priority ahead
of most creditors. The companies’ administrators argued at a
hearing last month the regulator doesn’t have the power to issue
so called financial-support directions against companies that
are in administration or liquidation.  The regulator in September told Lehman’s unit to cover a
deficit of 148 million pounds and in July sought 2.1 billion
pounds from Nortel to address the underfunding of its plan.  “Parliament has legislated to create financial obligations
applicable to and payable by a company in an insolvency
process,” Judge  Michael Briggs  said in his judgment today. That
could be “an impediment to the achievement of the objectives of
the rescue culture.”  Briggs said that he was bound in his decision by earlier
court rulings, and said an appeals court “may find a way” to
overturn today’s ruling because it is “potentially unfair to
the target’s creditors.”  Vicky Conybeer , a spokeswoman for the Nortel administrators
at Ernst & Young, declined to comment beyond noting that Briggs
had granted the right to appeal.  Stephanie Howel , a spokeswoman for the Lehman
administrators at PwC, declined to immediately comment.  ‘Seriously Underfunded’  The Lehman and Nortel pension programs are “seriously
underfunded” and have more than 43,000 members, the Pensions
Regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  Today’s ruling “confirms an FSD is valid if issued after
an insolvency event,” the regulator said, referring to
financial-support directions. “Where schemes are left with
inadequate financial support, the regulator engages with all who
might have a responsibility to support the scheme to ensure,
where possible and reasonable, that the interests of scheme
members are protected.”  The ruling “means that banks now have less certainty when
lending to businesses in which there are final salary pension
schemes as to whether they will be repaid,” said Nick Moser,
the head of the restructuring practice at the law firm Taylor
Wessing LLP in London. “Administrators will be discouraged from
implementing rescues of businesses because super-priority for
pension schemes could wipe-out any return for any other
creditor.”  Largest Bankruptcy  Lehman Brothers filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history in September 2008, and the U.K. unit is being liquidated
in London. Nortel and affiliates filed for bankruptcy in the
U.S. and Canada in January 2009 while its U.K. operations were
placed in administration.  “The continued uncertainty as a result of this decision
and the judge’s comments is unhelpful to the wider economy, as
the recovery remains fragile, and certainty -- through immediate
legislation or an appeal straight to the Supreme Court -- is
required urgently,” Moser said.  The Nortel case is: In the Matter of Nortel Networks NV,
case no. 271/10, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division
(London).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 