-- EMA to Review Safety of Growth Hormone-Based Medicines After Study
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2010-12-10T16:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ema-to-review-safety-of-growth-hormone-based-medicines-update1-.html
The European Medicines Agency  will
review the safety of medicines containing the growth hormone
somatropin after a study suggested an increased risk of death.  The observational study of patients treated during
childhood found the risk was greater particularly among patients
who took higher-than-recommended doses, the London-based agency
said today in an e-mailed  statement . The research began in
October 2007 in France and examined 7,000 young adults who had
been treated with the hormone between 1985 and 1996.  Three somatropin drugs, Roche Holding AG’s Nutropin AQ,
Novartis AG’s Omnitrope and BioPartners GmbH’s Valtropin, have
been approved by the EMA, and several others were approved by
European Union member countries, the agency said. Others on the
market include Pfizer Inc.’s Genotropin, Novo Nordisk A/S’s
Norditropin, Eli Lilly and Co.’s Humatrope and Merck KGaA’s
Saizen and Serostim.  "The review will look into all available data on somatropin
to reassess the benefit-risk balance of these medicines," the
agency said in the statement.  Phyllis Carter, a spokeswoman for Merck KGaA in Darmstadt,
Germany, and Mike Rulis, a Novo Nordisk spokesman, said their
companies hadn’t had enough time to review the study and
couldn’t comment. Eric Althoff, a spokesman for Novartis, and
Alice Spinas, a Roche spokeswoman, also had no immediate
comment. A telephone message left for Carole Copeland, an Eli
Lilly spokeswoman, wasn’t immediately returned.  Further Studies  The French findings need to be confirmed in further
studies, said the agency, which will release more information
after its Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use meets
next week.  The hormone, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in 1995, is used by abnormally small children and
by adults with a growth-hormone deficiency. It’s also been used
illegally by athletes as a performance-enhancing supplement to
build muscle.  Novo Nordisk and Genentech Inc., now part of Roche, warned
doctors in 1997 not to use their hormones in certain critically
ill surgery patients after Genotropin showed a higher risk of
premature death in a study. Doctors had been using it to speed
up recovery in patients with a certain metabolic condition.  Genentech and  Alkermes Inc.  discontinued their long-acting
version called Nutropin Depot in 2004 because they said it was
too costly to continue making and marketing the product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Connolly  in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 