-- Enel Green Agrees to an EIB Loan of $582 Million for Wind, Solar Projects
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2010-12-10T16:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/enel-green-agrees-to-eib-loan-of-582-million-for-wind-solar-projects.html
Enel Green Power SpA , the clean
energy company that debuted last month on the Milan and Madrid
exchanges, agreed to a 440 million-euro ($582 million) loan with
the European Investment Bank to develop wind and solar projects.  The loan is the first part of a 600 million-euro package to
fund Green Power’s 840-megawatt renewable project plan in Italy,
the EIB said today in a statement.  The loan is for 20 years with an “interest rate well below
the market benchmarks” since Italy’s biggest utility, parent
 Enel SpA , secured the funds, Green Power said in a statement.  The EIB loan covers almost half of Green Power’s 1.3
billion-euro investment plan to build small and medium-scale
wind and solar plants at 50 sites within three years, mainly in
southern Italy.  “The EIB loan will help make the financial structure of
these wind and photovoltaic projects more competitive,” Green
Power said. Further terms were not disclosed. Financing low-
carbon projects is a “priority area” for the EIB, it said.  By 2014 the company plans to spend 5.2 billion euros
increasing installed capacity from 5.9 gigawatts to 9.2
gigawatts of power, it said.  Italy is expected to more than double its total installed
solar capacity this year to as much as 3 gigawatts, making it
Europe’s third-largest market after Germany and Spain, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  At the end of 2009, the country had 4,850 megawatts of wind
installed, said the European Wind Energy Association, the third
largest regional market after Germany and Spain.  Enel Green Power listed in Milan and Madrid in November in
what was Europe’s largest initial public offering since 2007.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  