-- Tenet Credit-Default Swaps Drop to Lowest Since 2007 on Buyout Speculation
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-12-10T22:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/tenet-credit-default-swaps-drop-to-lowest-since-2007-on-buyout-speculation.html
Credit-default swaps on Tenet
Healthcare Corp. fell to the lowest in more than three years as
investors speculated Community Health Systems Inc.’s unsolicited
offer for the company may prompt rival suitors.  The contracts dropped 43.8 basis points to 465.6, according
to data provider CMA. That’s the lowest since July 2007, and
down from this year’s peak of 663.4 basis points, CMA data show.
A benchmark index of credit risk in the U.S. declined for the
eighth day, the longest streak since June.  Community Health’s $7.3 billion bid was rejected as “not
remotely fair value” by Dallas-based  Tenet . The equity offer of
$3.3 billion would represent about a 40 percent premium over
Tenet’s $4.29 closing price yesterday. Community Health also
would take on about $4 billion of  net debt , the Franklin,
Tennessee-based company said in a statement.  Mergers have increased in the industry as hospital patient
admissions slowed in the struggling economy and U.S. regulations
have prompted operators to seek partnerships, said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at CRT Capital Group in Stamford,
Connecticut.  “It remains to be seen if Community is the only bidder
because Tenet is now  in play ,” Skolnick said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Contracts on Community Health climbed 19.9 basis points to
457.9, CMA data show.  Benchmark Gauge  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S.
declined following better-than-estimated reports on consumer
confidence and the American trade deficit.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.3 basis point to a mid-
price of 87.3 basis points at 4:58 p.m. in New York, according
to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, is at the lowest since
Nov. 5, when it ended at 85.6 basis points. Its decline is the
longest since the period ended June 21.  The trade deficit in the U.S. shrank more than forecast in
October as a weaker  dollar  and growing economies overseas
propelled  exports  to a two-year high. The  gap  narrowed 13
percent to $38.7 billion, less than the lowest estimate of 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the smallest since
January, Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.
Exports were the strongest since August 2008.  Consumer Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers increased more than
forecast in December to the highest level in six months at the
same time Americans began stepping up holiday spending. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment rose to 74.2 from 71.6 at the end of
November. Economists projected a December reading of 72.5,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “At the margin it’s probably another positive for growth,
but really markets didn’t move very much,” Morgan Stanley
strategist  Adam Richmond  said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  