-- Merkel, Sarkozy Say Euro Survival `Non-Negotiable' Before EU Crisis Summit
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-12-10T14:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/merkel-sarkozy-urge-euro-non-negotiable-before-eu-debt-summit.html
Germany and France told euro-area
laggards to make their economies more competitive to help
overcome the debt crisis, pledging to do whatever necessary to
defend the currency at a European Union summit next week.  The euro’s survival is “non-negotiable,” requiring budget
vigilance and closer economic cooperation to overcome
“structural weaknesses” within the euro region, Chancellor
 Angel Merkel  and President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said today. They
ruled out joint bonds and rejected any increase in the size of
the 440 billion-euro ($583 billion) rescue fund set up in May.  “If the euro fails, Europe fails,” Merkel told reporters
in the southwestern German town of Freiburg, calling for more
economic “coherence” in the euro region. “We must find a way
to overcome the gap in competitiveness,” she said. “It’s not a
job for next Friday” at the EU summit “but for the future.”  The leaders of Europe’s two biggest economies held a joint
Cabinet meeting as they sought to form a common position before
the Dec. 16-17 summit that aims to halt the spread of the debt
turmoil. Splits between EU governments over the path to take
have already emerged, with Italy, Belgium and Luxembourg
favouring euro-area bonds and Germany opposed.  “Common bonds would make governments less responsible,
when what we want to do is the opposite,” Sarkozy said. Both
leaders also rejected any increase in the rescue fund set up to
stem the contagion spreading from Greece.  Noting that Germany and France are the two largest
contributors to the fund, Sarkozy said that “no one can accuse
the top two contributors of selfishness.”  Euro Drops  “We will do what is necessary to defend the euro,” he
said.  The euro traded at 1.3212, down 0.0027 cents, at 3:37 p.m.
in Berlin. The single currency has fallen 7.8 percent this year.  Spain’s 10-year bonds dropped for the fifth consecutive
day, while the yield on similar-maturity Portuguese debt climbed
14 basis points to 4.63 percent. Irish yields added 12 basis
points to 8.3 percent and the yield on 10-year Belgian bonds
increased four basis points to 4 percent.  Merkel sought to focus on differences in competitiveness
within the euro area. An index of  export  orders at German
manufacturers rose in November, while similar gauges for Spain
and Greece declined, according to EU commission figures. The
euro-area jobless rate increased to 10.1 percent in October, the
highest since July 1998; German  unemployment  dropped to an 18-
year low iin November.  “The problem is not just deficits but there are structural
weaknesses within our economies as well that have to be dealt
with,” Merkel said. Germany and France are “determined to put
them on the table,” she said.  Both leaders said that choosing a successor to  Jean-Claude Trichet  as president of the European Central Bank hasn’t yet
become an issue between them.  “We didn’t talk about ECB succession because the issue
isn’t yet present,” Sarkozy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Patrick Donahue  at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  