-- EU Will `Take Into Account' Cost of Polish Private Pensions, Kotecki Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2010-12-10T21:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/eu-will-take-into-account-cost-of-polish-private-pensions-kotecki-says.html
The European Commission agreed to
Poland’s request to “take into account” the fiscal burden of
private-pension funds when evaluating budget deficits and public
debt, Deputy Finance Minister  Ludwik Kotecki  said.  European Union ministers will negotiate over the next few
months a way to “calculate and include these costs,” Kotecki
said by phone from Warsaw today. The mechanism will be part of
the code of conduct for the Stability and Growth Pact, which
sets fiscal rules for the bloc, and won’t change deficit and
debt statistics compiled by Eurostat, he said.  In October, the Brussels-based Commission rejected a request
by nine EU member states, including Poland, to take into account
the cost of the private-pension plans when calculating debt and
deficit. Hungary in response suspended contributions to the
funds and is directing the savings to the budget. Bulgaria may
also transfer some private accounts to the state.  “It’s no longer a question of if, it’s a question of how”
Poland will get relief from the cost of diverting pension
contributions from the state-run system, Kotecki said. “This is
a big success, because until now the Commission had said there
was no other way to figure the debt.”  Poland’s  budget deficit  may reach 7.9 percent of gross
domestic product this year, almost three times the EU’s 3
percent limit. The costs of the country’s overhaul of the
pension system, which the Commission  said  cuts the demographic
risks to public finances to the lowest among the EU’s 27
members, widens the gap by 2.4 percentage points and increased
public debt by one-third, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said.  ‘Compromise’  Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said on Dec. 7 the country
“doesn’t want to follow” Hungary and sees scope for a
compromise with the EU. One solution may be to allow Poland to
run a budget deficit of as much as 4.5 percent GDP without
sanctions, he said.  The shortfall will narrow to 6.5 percent of economic output
next year, according to government forecasts, and public debt
will come close to the legal limit of 55 percent of GDP, which
would trigger mandatory austerity measures if breached.  Poland is opting for a “middle-of-the-road” approach to
trimming its deficit that rejects a “drift” scenario, which
would potentially trigger a debt crisis and “radical reform,”
hurting ordinary Poles, Tusk said on July 30.  Extra leeway from the EU will help the prime minister
execute that strategy ahead of general elections in 2011,  Ernest Pytlarczyk , chief economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw, said in an
interview on TVN CNBC.  “This removes a lot of the fear and 2011 will be a year
without fiscal adjustment,” Pytlarczyk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McQuaid  in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  