-- European Stocks Climb for a Fifth Day; Standard Chartered Slides
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-12-10T17:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-tomtom-heritage-oil-may-advance.html
European  stocks climbed for a fifth
day, with the benchmark gauge at a two-year high, as investors
speculated that profits will overcome the sovereign-debt crisis
and consumer sentiment rose more than expected this month.  TomTom NV  gained 7.3 percent as UBS AG recommended buying
the shares of Europe’s biggest maker of portable navigation
devices. MorphoSys AG advanced 10 percent after increasing its
sales forecast.  Standard Chartered Plc  lost 2.6 percent after
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research cut its stance on the shares.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.1 percent to 276.2 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the highest level since September
2008 and the first week when the measure climbed every day since
June. The gauge, which posted its first back-to-back weekly gain
since October, rose 1.9 percent this week. The Stoxx 600 has
advanced 8.8 percent so far this year as corporate profits
climbed, the Federal Reserve unveiled a $600 billion bond-buying
program to assist the U.S. economy’s recovery and the European
Union bailed out Greece and Ireland.  “Europe’s debt woes are considered overdone,”  Jonathan Sudaria , a trader at London Capital Group Holdings Plc, said.
“Whilst concerns about nations on the periphery still exist,
they have not been able to dent the trend of improving economic
data from Europe’s larger nations, in particular Germany.”  National benchmark indexes advanced in half of the 18
western European markets. Germany’s DAX Index climbed 0.6
percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 0.1 percent, while
France’s CAC 40 Index slid less than 0.1 percent.  Strategists’ Predictions  European equities  will climb 12 percent through the end of
2011 as rising earnings and record-low interest rates help
companies overcome the sovereign-debt crisis, a Bloomberg survey
of 13 strategists shows. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the most
bullish forecaster, says the Stoxx 600 will rally 20 percent
because profits may expand twice as fast as the 14 percent
average rate in more than 26,000 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment rose in December to 74.2, the
highest since June, from 71.6 at the end of last month.  Economists projected a December reading of 72.5, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The forecasts
of 67 economists ranged from 69 to 76.5.  Another report showed that the trade deficit in the U.S.
shrank more than forecast in October as a weaker dollar and
growing economies overseas propelled exports to a two-year high.  TomTom, MorphoSys Climb  TomTom  climbed 7.3 percent to 7.88 euros as UBS upgraded
the shares to “buy” from “neutral.”  MorphoSys AG advanced 10 percent to 17.45 euros. The
company increased its revenue guidance for 2010 to a range of 91
million euros ($120.4 million) to 94 million euros from a
previous range of 89 million euros to 90 million euros, citing
extra sales from its purchase of Sloning Biotechnology GmbH.
MorphoSys has also signed a long-term alliance with Pfizer Inc.
for the U.S. drugmaker to use its Sloning Technology Platform.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s largest maker of wind
turbines, rallied 7 percent to 171 kroner as U.S. Senate
negotiators approved extending grants to renewable-energy
companies. The full Senate still needs to pass the program,
which gives grants for almost one-third of a project’s value.  Porsche SE ’s preferred shares rose 6.4 percent to 66 euros,
taking a gauge for European automobile stocks higher for the
first day in three.  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and  Bank of Ireland Plc  plummeted 12
percent to 43.9 euro cents and 19 percent to 38.7 euro cents,
respectively. Fitch Ratings downgraded the two banks’ long- and
short-term issuer default ratings following yesterday’s
downgrade of the Irish sovereign.  Standard Chartered Drops  Standard Chartered  fell 2.6 percent to 1,762.5 pence as the
bank was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at BofA Merrill Lynch.  Heritage Oil Plc dropped 1.6 percent to 420.4 pence after
Petroliam Nasional Bhd, Malaysia’s state-owned oil and gas
company, which is also known as Petronas, denied the Daily
Mail’s report from earlier today that it planned to bid 1.71
billion pounds ($2.7 billion) for U.K.-based Heritage.  “Petronas has never made a cash bid for Heritage Oil as
mentioned in the report,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement in Kuala Lumpur today.  Associated British Foods Plc sank 1.3 percent to 1,091
pence. The owner of Primark discount clothes stores’ Chairman
 Charles Sinclair  said the company remains “cautious over the
uncertain economic outlook for western economies and the
possible impact on consumer spending.”  HeidelbergCement AG retreated 1.7 percent to 45.91 euros.
The European Commission is investigating the company along with
seven other cement producers, including Lafarge SA, for possible
antitrust violations. HeidelbergCement said it can refute the
allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 