-- European Stocks Rise for a Second Week; Prudential, Burberry Lead Advance
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-12-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/european-stocks-rise-for-second-week-prudential-burberry-climb.html
European stocks  advanced for a
second week as investors speculated that corporate profits and
improving macro-economic data will overcome the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Prudential Plc led gains as UBS AG recommended Britain’s
largest insurer.  Bank of Ireland  Plc jumped 22 percent as
lawmakers backed the Irish government’s budget.  Burberry Group
Plc  climbed amid takeover speculation.  ASML Holding NV  rose 7.2
percent after the company raised its forecast for bookings in
the fourth quarter.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 1.9 percent
this week, extending a 1.6 percent advance last week. It’s the
first five-day up week since June for the European benchmark.
The gauge has rallied 8.8 percent this year as corporate profits
climbed, the Federal Reserve unveiled a $600 billion bond-
purchase program to assist the U.S. economic recovery and the
European Union bailed out Greece and Ireland.  “In the mid-term it makes sense to be invested in
equities, especially European ones,” said  Markus Steinbeis ,
head of equity portfolio management at the Unterfoehring,
Germany-based unit of Pioneer Investments KGmbH, which oversees
about $221 billion globally. “The valuation of the market is
reasonable. We should see positive returns in 2011 but
volatility will remain.”  European equities will climb 12 percent through the end of
2011 as rising earnings and record-low interest rates help
companies overcome the sovereign-debt crisis, a Bloomberg survey
of 13 strategists shows.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., the most
bullish forecaster, says the Stoxx 600 will rally 20 percent
because profits may expand twice as fast as the 14 percent
average rate in more than 26,000 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Barely Expanding  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy
is barely expanding at a sustainable pace and that it’s possible
the Fed may expand bond purchases beyond the $600 billion
announced last month to spur growth.  The purchase of more bonds than planned is “certainly
possible,” Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in an
interview broadcast by CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program. “It
depends on the efficacy of the program” and the outlook for
inflation and the economy.  European finance ministers ruled out immediate aid for
Portugal and Spain or an increase in the 750 billion-euro ($999
billion) crisis fund, counting on European Central Bank bond
purchases to calm debt-spooked markets. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said they oppose
increasing the rescue fund and also rejected joint euro-area
bonds.  U.K. Manufacturing  In the U.K., a report showed manufacturing expanded in
October twice as much as economists forecast, a sign that the
economic recovery maintained its momentum into the final quarter
of the year. In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, industrial
production rose almost three times as much as economists
forecast in October, led by demand for investment goods such as
machinery.  Fewer Americans filed first-time claims for unemployment
insurance payments last week, showing the labor market is
continuing to improve. Meanwhile, President  Barack Obama  said he
will agree to keep Bush-era tax cuts for high-income taxpayers
in exchange for extending federal unemployment insurance and
cutting the payroll tax by $120 billion for one year.  Confidence among U.S. consumers increased more than
forecast in December to the highest level in six months at the
same time Americans began stepping up holiday spending. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment rose to 74.2 from 71.6 at the end of
November. Economists projected a December reading of 72.5,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western European
markets, except Finland and Sweden. France’s CAC 40 Index surged
2.9 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index gained 1.2 percent, while
Germany’s DAX Index rallied 0.8 percent. Portugal’s PSI 20 Index
and Ireland’s ISEQ Index posted the best performances, both
rising more than 3 percent.  European insurance companies posted the best performance
among 19 industry groups, rising 4.7 percent.  Prudential  surged
9.7 percent as UBS added the stock to its European “key calls”
list.  S&P yesterday lifted its outlook on U.S. life insurers to
“stable” from “negative,” saying the industry may sidestep
downgrades next year after raising funds in stock and bond
sales.  Zurich Financial Services AG , Switzerland’s largest
insurer, climbed 4.4 percent, while  Axa SA ,  France’s biggest
insurer , advanced 8.1 percent.  Irish Banks  Bank of Ireland Plc surged 21 percent, extending last
week’s 22 percent rise. Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  won
the backing of lawmakers in the first votes on his 6 billion-
euro budget to tackle what he called the “worst crisis in our
history.”  Separately, J.  Christopher Flowers , founder of New York-
based private equity firm J.C. Flowers & Co., signaled he is
continuing to look for Irish banking assets.  “If we can find the right opportunity to invest in
Ireland, we would like to do that,” he said in an interview.  Alstom SA  surged 9.2 percent, the biggest weekly gain since
July 2009, as the world’s third-largest power-equipment maker
said it has signed a long-term cooperation agreement with
China’s rail ministry to develop rail infrastructure in the
world’s second-biggest economy and some international markets.  Burberry, the U.K.’s largest luxury retailer, rose 2.7
percent on speculation that  PPR  SA, the French owner of the
Gucci and Puma brands, may make a bid.  “There have been reports that PPR was close to an
agreement with  Steinhoff  to sell Conforama,” said Peter Farren,
an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co. “That would fuel speculation
on Burberry.” Charlotte Judet, a spokeswoman for PPR, declined
to comment.  PPR, ASML  PPR said Dec. 6 it’s in talks with “various” investors
about the sale of its Conforama unit, including Steinhoff
International Holdings Ltd., Africa’s largest furniture maker.  ASML increased 7.2 percent as Europe’s biggest
semiconductor equipment maker said it now expects bookings to be
more than 2 billion euros.  Hochtief AG  increased 8.1 percent as the Financial Times
Deutschland reported that potential new investor Qatar Holding
LLC plans to increase its stake in the German construction
company above the announced 9.1 percent.  Deutsche Postbank AG  lost 7.2 percent. The retail lender’s
stock will leave Germany’s MDAX benchmark index for medium-sized
companies on Dec. 8 after its proportion of shares trading
freely dropped below 10 percent.  Carmakers posted the worst performance as China said it may
end tax incentives for buying passenger cars next year.
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, slumped 4.6 percent,
while Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, dropped 1.8 percent.  Fiat,  De La Rue   Fiat still advanced 6.7 percent as Mediobanca Securities
maintained its “outperform” recommendation for the carmaker,
saying “the separation between Fiat auto and Fiat industrials
could trigger M&A appetite.”  Italian daily MF reported that  Agco  Corp. is interested in
buying Fiat’s tractor-making unit, CNH Global, citing Chief
Executive Officer Martin Richenhagen.  De La Rue Plc jumped 29 percent, the biggest weekly gain
since 2002. The world’s biggest printer of banknotes rejected an
896 million-pound ($1.4 billion) takeover approach from closely-
held rival Francois-Charles Oberthur Fiduciaire SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 