-- Euro-Area Bond Stokes Tempers as Flashpoint for Debt Markets: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-12-10T18:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/euro-area-bond-stokes-tempers-as-flashpoint-for-debt-markets-euro-credit.html
A proposal to sell joint euro-region
debt has emerged as a new flashpoint among European leaders
running out of options to stabilize bond markets.  With a European Union summit set for next week in Brussels,
officials from Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium and Greece said the
proposal should be explored, prompting resistance from Germany,
France and Austria. Economists and analysts from Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and HSBC Holdings Plc said it may end
the euro-region debt crisis.  The plan would establish a European Debt Agency to sell
bonds to finance as much as 50 percent of EU member borrowing,
climbing to as much as 100 percent for countries unable to lure
 investors . Opponents say the proposal would raise interest rates
for stronger nations. The weighted-average five-year borrowing
cost for the 16 euro-region nations was 3.05 percent yesterday,
compared with 1.95 percent on  German debt , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “It’s very important that negotiations continue on the
path of some kind common bond issuance and a more centralized
fiscal policy,” said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income
research at London-based HSBC. “We can’t go on like this with
the ECB doing the heavy lifting. We need a more sustainable
solution.”  A joint euro bond may be the first time one country has
issued debt on behalf of another. In 1989, so-called Brady bonds
were issued by nations, including Colombia, Brazil and
Venezuela, backed by the U.S. government. The bonds are named
after former Treasury Secretary  Nicholas Brady , who helped
create the program.  Credit Agricole  The European Financial Stability Facility, the 440 billion-
euro bailout fund set up by the EU after the Greece rescue,
plans to sell bonds in January to pay for aid to Ireland. While
backed by most of the same nations that would be involved in a
euro bond, it has attracted a AAA rating through a number of
credit enhancements and would therefore likely attract lower
yields than a euro bond, according to analysts at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank.  Politicians are tabling ideas to tackle the euro-region’s
fiscal crisis after the European Central Bank was forced to step
up its buying of government bonds when a bailout of Ireland last
month failed to defend the region’s bond markets against
investors betting on a breakup of the euro.  Irish bonds  fell after the nation said Nov. 21 that it had
asked for a bailout, with the 10-year yield reaching a record
680 basis points more than benchmark German bunds on Nov. 30.
Yields have declined since the ECB stepped up purchases of bonds
from Ireland, Portugal and Greece on Dec. 1, reducing the Irish-
German spread to 503 basis points yesterday.  ‘Intellectually Attractive’  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  and Italian
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  put forward a plan for selling
joint bonds in a Financial Times commentary on Dec. 6,
heightening the current debate. The idea is “intellectually
attractive,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the same day, while Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said it’s time to “seriously discuss” it.  Juncker, who chairs meetings of euro-group finance
ministers, took a swipe at the German opposition, prompting a
riposte from a key ally of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Germany rejected his proposal to create euro-region bonds
too quickly and has shown “simple” thinking on the matter,
Juncker said on Dec. 8, Die Zeit reported citing an interview.
Germany is dealing with European matters “in an unEuropean
way” and the bond proposal was dismissed before Germany had
examined it properly, the German newspaper cited him as saying.  The Debate  Michael Meister , the senior finance and economy spokesman
for Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc, shot back in an
interview later that day.  “We can’t put any more on the table,” Meister said in an
interview. Juncker and Tremonti “can surely say what they want.
They can go ahead with joint bonds if they want,” he said.  The objections may not be final, Major said. Merkel opposed
bilateral loans to Greece on the same grounds, before joining
euro-region nations and the International Monetary Fund in
providing 110 billion euros of loans to the debt-stricken
nation. Merkel also backs a change in the European Union treaty
that allows for the creation of a permanent crisis mechanism.  Merkel’s stance is “a negotiating position,” Major said.
“The worst-case scenario would be more expensive for Germany”
than issuing common bonds, he said.  Euro Falls  The euro fell against most of its major counterparts today
and yields on Spanish and Italian bonds jumped as leaders from
Germany and France said they are against increasing the EU’s 440
billion-euro rescue fund and rejected joint euro-area bonds.  “Common bonds would make governments less responsible,
when what we want to do is the opposite,” French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters after meeting with Merkel today
in the southern German city of Freiburg.  The creation of common bonds or bills for the euro area may
help bring an end to the region’s fiscal crisis by deepening
market liquidity, according to  Sander Schol , a London-based
director at the Association for Financial Markets in Europe.  The AFME’s European Prime Dealers Association wrote a
research paper for the European Parliament on the potential for
a common European Issuance Program. It found “smaller liquidity
premiums, more effective hedging and the removal of the market-
making obligation would lead to lower interest rates,” Schol
said.  ‘Optimal Risk Sharing’  Such bonds might be the “optimal risk-sharing scheme,”
Goldman Sachs rate strategist  Francesco Garzarelli  and economist
 Natacha Valla  said yesterday. Designed correctly, a joint bond
program would create a financial incentive for fiscal prudence
and reduce moral hazard,  Arnaud Mares , an executive director at
Morgan Stanley and former senior vice president at Moody’s
Investors Service, said on Dec. 6.  Compelling theory is unlikely to bring the plan to fruition
anytime soon, according to said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income
analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf.  “For Germany or France it wouldn’t be at all attractive,
because they would end up paying a higher yield,” he said.
“This isn’t a concept you can sell to the German electorate
right now, and probably the same in Austria and France.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  