-- Euro Declines as Merkel, Sarkozy Reject Increase in Euro Zone Rescue Fund
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-10T22:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/euro-declines-as-political-divisions-deepen-over-the-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
The euro fell against most of its
major counterparts as leaders from Germany and France said they
are against increased funding to quell the sovereign-debt crisis
before next week’s summit of European Union leaders.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , in talks today, said they oppose increasing the
European Union’s 440 billion-euro ($581 billion) rescue fund and
rejected joint euro-area bonds. The dollar gained against the
euro and yen after exports from the U.S. rose to a two-year high
in October. The Australian dollar posted a weekly drop against
the greenback on speculation China will tighten monetary policy.  “The bias here for the euro is still lower next week,”
said  Eric Viloria , a senior currency strategist at Gain Capital
in New York. “Merkel has certainly been very vocal on the
stability mechanisms. Rather than talking about what it needs to
be like in the future, they need to take a look at the situation
now and resolve this issue.”  The euro was set for a 1.4 percent decline against the
dollar this week. It fell 0.2 percent to $1.3239 at 5:03 p.m. in
New York. Yesterday it touched $1.3165, the lowest since Dec. 2.
The common currency fell the most versus Norway’s krone,
dropping 0.6 percent to 7.9458, and was little changed at 110.98
yen. The dollar rose 0.3 percent to 83.76 yen.  ‘Structural Weaknesses’  Merkel said that there are “structural weaknesses” in the
euro region that must be addressed. Merkel held talks today with
Sarkozy in Freiburg, Germany, before a Dec. 16-17 European Union
summit.  The leaders of the euro-area’s two largest economies said
the continued existence of the common currency is “non-
negotiable.”  “If the euro fails, Europe fails,” Merkel said.  European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  late
yesterday signaled European governments should be ready to
increase the size and flexibility of their bailout fund as the
ECB urges leaders to do more to fight the fiscal crisis.  Merkel said she is against increasing the size of the fund
and sharing public debt with the euro zone, saying that European
leaders would do what is necessary to defend the euro.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after a new government in Greece said the budget deficit was
twice as big as the previous administration disclosed. The
region’s nations assembled a rescue fund in May, which Greece
and Ireland have tapped.  Europe’s Bonds  Spanish and Italian government bonds fell, increasing the
additional yield investors demand to hold the securities instead
of benchmark German bunds, amid concern government borrowing
costs will rise at debt sales next week.  The euro may decline as low as 108 yen should it break
below a key support level against the Japanese currency, Societe
Generale said, citing technical indicators in a research note
today. A support level is an area on a chart where technical
analysts anticipate orders to buy a currency and its related
instruments. The stronger the support, the more selling is
needed for a drop below that level.  The dollar has fallen 1.1 percent this year in a measure of
the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro has dropped 9.5
percent so far this year and 2.1 percent in the past month. The
yen is up 10.8 percent on the year and up 0.2 percent in the
past 30 days.  Narrower Gap  The trade deficit in the U.S. shrank more than forecast in
October as a weaker dollar and growing economies overseas
propelled exports to a two-year high. The gap narrowed 13
percent to $38.7 billion, less than the lowest estimate of 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the smallest since
January, Commerce Department figures showed.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  rose in December to 74.2, the
highest since June, from 71.6 at the end of last month.  “That’s very good news for the U.S. economy and for the
dollar if it’s sustained,” said  Greg Anderson , a currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “If U.S. yields hold
where they’ve moved to this week, then the dollar ought to
rally.”  Yields on  10-year Treasuries  rose to almost a six-month
high, boosting demand for dollar-denominated assets. The 10-year
note yield rose to 3.28 percent, close the 3.33 percent reached
Dec. 8, which was the highest since June.  The Australian dollar posted a weekly drop on concern
Chinese  inflation  data tomorrow will back the case for the Asian
nation to tighten monetary policy. Australia’s currency was at
98.37 U.S. cents, from 99.31 on Dec. 3.  China Reserves  The People’s Bank of China increased reserve requirements
by 50 basis points starting Dec. 20, the central bank said on
its website today. It’s the third increase in five weeks.  China’s  consumer prices  rose 4.7 percent in November from a
year earlier, a statistics bureau report will show tomorrow,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. That would be the fastest pace since August 2008.
The Economic Information Daily said today the figure may be 5.1
percent.  “The danger is China raises interest rates steeply,
causing a hard landing for the Chinese economy, which would
obviously hurt Australia’s exports,” said  Derek Mumford , a
Sydney-based director at Richford Capital, a foreign-exchange
and rates risk management firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  