-- Ex-Dean at Washington Post Kaplan Unit Convicted of Threats on Web, E-mail
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-12-10T22:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ex-dean-at-washington-post-kaplan-unit-convicted-of-threats-on-web-e-mail.html
A former dean at  Washington Post
Co. ’s Kaplan higher-education unit was found guilty by a federal
jury in Chicago of making threats in e-mails and Web postings.  Bennie Wilcox, former  Kaplan University  dean of law and
legal studies, was convicted on all six counts against him today
by a panel of five men and seven women. He faces as long as 18
years in prison and $1.5 million in fines. U.S. District Judge
 Blanche Manning  set April 5 for sentencing. Wilcox and his wife,
Kari, declined to speak to reporters before leaving the
courthouse.  Wilcox, 45, denied writing the 2007 e-mail messages and
Internet postings underlying the charges and said he was framed
in retaliation for filing a whistleblower lawsuit accusing
Kaplan of committing fraud to get U.S. aid.  “On July 13th 2007 we will take all of KU down and off
line forever,” said a June 11, 2007, message attributed by
prosecutors to Wilcox and sent under another employee’s name.
Another message sent that day threatened Kaplan Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew S. Rosen .  Prosecutors presented evidence that they said tied Wilcox
to the messages, as well as handwritten and videotaped
confessions he disavowed when testifying at the trial.  Six Counts  Wilcox, whom Kaplan hired in 2005 and fired the following
year, was charged with six counts of sending threatening and
harassing communications. Kaplan turned over evidence to
authorities that led to the March 2008 indictment.  “We are pleased with the jury’s verdict,”  Randall Samborn , a spokesman for Chicago U.S. Attorney  Patrick Fitzgerald , said in an e-mailed statement.  “It is our intention to appeal,” Wilcox’s lawyer, Beau
Brindley, told reporters outside the courtroom after the verdict
was read. Brindley said there remained reasonable doubt as to
whether his client was responsible for the messages and whether
Kaplan bore any responsibility for them.  Kaplan Higher Education is based in Chicago. The school
enrolls 110,000 students, with about 70,000 attending classes
online, and has 75 campuses nationwide,  Ron Iori , a company
spokesman, said. Kaplan University derived 87 percent of its
revenue from federal student aid in 2009.  Revenue  Washington Post Co. obtained almost two-thirds of its
third-quarter  revenue  from the Kaplan unit, the Washington-based
company said Nov. 5.  Kaplan faces an investigation by the Florida attorney
general into recruiting practices at for-profit colleges. Kaplan
suspended enrollment at two of its campuses after a U.S.
Government Accountability Office investigation released Aug. 4
found that recruiters were exaggerating how much applicants
could earn from a Kaplan education.  Wilcox, who Kaplan hired in 2005 and fired the following
year, was charged with six counts of sending threatening
communications. Kaplan turned over evidence to authorities that
led to the March 2008 indictment.  Wilcox and two former Kaplan professors filed their federal
False Claims Act complaint in federal court in Tampa, Florida, a
year earlier. That case was later transferred to federal court
in Miami.  Testifying in his own defense, Wilcox said he witnessed
Kaplan executives commit “multiple schemes” to defraud the
U.S. government and taxpayers out of $1 billion, with his
complicity, by inflating grades and increasing enrollment
numbers.  Allegations Denied  The fraud allegations against Kaplan are untrue and the
company “vigorously” denies them, Iori said in a telephone
interview before the verdict.  “Some other judge, some other jury will address whether
the allegations against Kaplan University are true,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Joel Hammerman said in closing arguments on Dec.
9. “You have the evidence to show that Mr. Wilcox’s confessions
were true.”  Wilcox recanted those confessions, testifying that he made
them in an attempt to shield his wife, whom he said he thought
might have written the e-mails and web postings after being
traumatized by an alleged sexual assault by another Kaplan
executive.  “He had every reason to believe that his wife may have
been capable of having done it,” Brindley told jurors. “Ben
Wilcox sincerely believes that Kaplan is responsible. Ben Wilcox
didn’t do it himself.”  Former Chairman  Among those who testified in the trial were Rosen, former
Kaplan Inc. Chairman  Jonathan Grayer , Wilcox’s wife, Kari, and
his civil case co-defendant, Carlos Urquilla-Diaz.  “Justice has been done” Kaplan spokeswoman Michele Pore
said in an e-mailed statement. “We appreciate that the jury did
not allow Mr. Wilcox’s false ‘blame the victim’ allegations to
obscure his personal criminal conduct.  She declined to comment on the still pending Diaz-Wilcox
civil suit allegations.  The case is U.S. v. Wilcox, 1:08-cr-00256, U.S. District
Court, Northern Division of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  