-- Ex-Goldman Programmer Aleynikov Guilty of Stealing Firm's Software Secrets
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ex-goldman-programmer-aleynikov-found-guilty-of-stealing-software-secrets.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
computer programmer  Sergey Aleynikov  was found guilty of
stealing the firm’s trade secrets by appropriating part of a
high-frequency computer source code on his last day at work.  Aleynikov went on trial Nov. 29 in federal court in New
York on charges of violating the Economic Espionage Act and the
Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property Act. He faces as
long as 10 years in prison on the espionage charge and five
years for the interstate transportation charge.  U.S. District Court judge  Denise Cote  set sentencing of
Aleynikov for March 18. He and his lawyer both declined comment.
He will be under home confinement and electronic monitoring,
Judge Cote ruled.  Aleynikov, who is a naturalized U.S. citizen, holds dual
U.S.-Russian citizenship, his lawyer Kevin Marino said in court.  Cote directed that Aleynikov limit his travel to the
Southern and Eastern Districts of New York. Jurors left the
courthouse after the verdict and all declined comment.  Cote also ordered that Aleynikov surrender all travel
documents and directed that three financially-responsible people
come back and sign his bond. He left court accompanied by family
members and declined comment.  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Rebecca Rohr , in her
closing statement on Dec. 9, told jurors that Aleynikov was a
“thief.” On his last day of work at New York-based  Goldman
Sachs  in June 2009, Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of thousands of
lines of source code from the firm’s trading system, she said.  Circumvented Security System  He circumvented Goldman Sachs’s security system, sent the
code to an outside server in Germany, and later compressed and
encrypted the code, Rohr said. Aleynikov took the code with him
to a meeting with his new employers in Chicago in July 2009, she
said.  “He had a cheat sheet -- the codes from Goldman Sachs that
he needed to get started with for a trading system” at his new
employer, Rohr said. “He wanted to make it seem like he’d
written the code himself. He was a programmer who stole the
answers to the test.”  After taking Goldman’s software, Aleynikov executed a
program to cover his tracks, prosecutors said. If he thought the
codes were open source and should be publicly available, “why
did he then encrypt it?,” Rohr asked jurors. “So that no one,
like him, could access the code,” she said.  While Aleynikov may have broken a confidentiality rule of
Goldman Sachs, he didn’t commit a crime, said his attorney,
 Kevin Marino .  ‘Not a Crime’  “He violated the policy, OK, but that’s not a crime,”
Marino told jurors. “A crime is when you act to harm the victim
and benefit yourself.”  Aleynikov had access to all of Goldman Sachs’s high-
frequency trading software and could have easily taken a flash
memory drive and copied the entire trading platform, yet he
didn’t, Marino said. Aleynikov took open-source code he had
written at Goldman Sachs and nothing that was proprietary, he
said.  Waving Notebook  Marino called the government’s case “a silly
prosecution” as he waved a notebook at prosecutors at the
conclusion of his closing arguments.  Aleynikov, who started at  Goldman Sachs  in May 2007, left
his $400,000-a-year job to work for Chicago-based Teza
Technologies LLC, which promised him $1.2 million including
salary, bonus and profit-sharing.  During the trial, prosecutors presented evidence that, on
the night of June 4, 2009, before his last day at Goldman Sachs,
Aleynikov transferred hundreds of thousands of lines of computer
source code related to the firm’s high-frequency trading
business. At about 5:20 p.m. the next day, Aleynikov sent parts
of the trading code to a code-storage website in Europe that
wasn’t blocked by the firm, witnesses said.  Arrest  When he was arrested Aleynikov told Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents that he intended only to copy open source
code that wasn’t owned by  Goldman Sachs , according to the
prosecutors.  Benjamin Goldberg, an associate professor of computer
science at New York University, testified during the trial that
he compared the trading code taken by Aleynikov with what was
publicly available on websites. Goldberg said the source code
was either the same as the publically available or Goldman
Sachs’s was slightly modified.  Marino, saying Goldman Sachs “wasn’t the New York Yankees
of high-frequency trading,” told jurors that prosecutors
exaggerated the value of the firm’s high-frequency trading
platform.  “Sergey knew what Goldman Sachs owned and that lots of it
was open source code,” Marino said.  “If it’s open source code, it’s not Goldman’s just because
it happened at Goldman,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 