-- Ex-Morgan Crucible Chief Gets 18 Months in Prison
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   C h r i s   Y a s i e j k o
-- 2010-12-10T22:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ex-morgan-crucible-chief-norris-gets-18-month-jail-term-in-antitrust-case.html
Ian Norris , the former chief
executive officer of  Morgan Crucible Co. , was sentenced to 18
months in prison for his role in a scheme to fix prices for
carbon and graphite products.  U.S. District Judge  Eduardo Robreno  in Philadelphia also
ordered Norris, 67, to pay a $25,000 fine and serve three years’
probation after his prison term. A federal jury convicted Norris
in July of conspiring to obstruct justice. The same jury
acquitted him of trying to influence others’ grand jury
testimony and of intent to induce the destruction of records.  “Obstruction of justice is an extremely serious crime,”
Robreno said before imposing the sentence. “It strikes at the
heart of the rule of law and it makes other crimes possible. Mr.
Norris has not yet come completely to the realization of his
factual guilt, as far as I can tell.”  Norris was extradited from the U.K. this year, the first
foreign defendant sent to the U.S. to face charges arising from
a criminal antitrust investigation, Justice Department officials
said in March.  Christopher Curran , a defense attorney for Norris, said
today that his client will appeal the conviction.  Norris retired from  Morgan Crucible  in 2002 and was
indicted the following year on charges he ordered subordinates
to destroy files describing secret talks among European makers
of carbon and graphite products about fixing prices.  Carbon Cartel  Prosecutors said the cartel lasted more than a decade,
spreading to the U.S. in 1989 and continuing until 2000. The
group, which included companies such as Germany’s SGL Carbon AG
and France’s Carbone Lorraine SA, at one time controlled about
93 percent of the European market for carbon products used in
manufacturing and steelmaking.  The companies paid millions of dollars in fines and lawsuit
settlements to resolve claims by customers and government
regulators.  Members of Norris’s family, including his wife, Sheila,
wrote letters to the judge on his behalf. Norris, who has
battled prostate cancer and was fitted with two artificial knees
and a hip, is in ill health, his wife said. She pleaded for
leniency, saying the family resides in the U.K. and visiting
Norris in a U.S. prison would be difficult and expensive.  “Society would be better served if he could use his
considerable skills to better the community in which he lives
and enjoy what is left of his retirement with his family who
need him,” Sheila Norris wrote in a letter.  U.K. authorities refused to allow Norris to be extradited
on price-fixing charges because such activities weren’t a crime
in Britain at the time. U.S. prosecutors later pressed
obstruction and conspiracy counts and a London-based court
backed the extradition in February.  The case is U.S. v. Norris, 03-cr-632, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sophia Pearson  in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Yasiejko  in Philadelphia at  yasiejko@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 