-- Ex-Network Associates Finance Chief Wins Reversal in Securities Fraud Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-10T19:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ex-network-associates-finance-chief-wins-reversal-in-securities-fraud-case.html
Prabhat Goyal , the former Network
Associates Inc. chief financial officer convicted in 2007 of
securities fraud and of making false statements to auditors, won
reversal on all 15 counts on appeal.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco today agreed
with Goyal’s argument that, based on the evidence presented by
prosecutors at his trial, no jury should have convicted him.  “Even viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to
the prosecution, no reasonable juror could have found Goyal
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt on any of the charges against
him,” the three-member panel said in its ruling.  Goyal worked at the computer security software maker, now
known as  McAfee Inc. , until 2000. The Santa Clara, California-
based company is being acquired by the chipmaker  Intel Corp.   A federal grand jury indicted Goyal in 2004 for conspiring
to secretly pay distributors to buy more inventory than they
could sell during a given quarter and to hold onto the excess
instead of returning it to the company.  The fraud caused Network Associates to overstate revenue by
more than $470 million and understate losses by about
$330 million from 1998 to 2000, according to the indictment.  “We’re extremely gratified by the court of appeals’
careful and unassailable opinion,” said attorney  Seth Waxman ,
who argued the case on appeal for Goyal.  No Time Served  Goyal, in October 2008, was sentenced to serve one year and
one day in prison for each count, with the terms to run
concurrently, according to the trial court’s electronic docket.
Waxman said his client never served that time and was free on
bail pending the outcome of the appeal.  “We are in the process of reviewing the decision,” said
 Jack Gillund , a spokesman for the office of U.S. Attorney
 Melinda Haag  in San Francisco.  “This is just one of a string of recent cases in which
courts have found that federal prosecutors overreached by trying
to stretch criminal law beyond its proper bounds,” said  Alex Kozinski , the court’s chief judge, in a concurring opinion.  The trial judge should have dismissed the case, Kozinski
said.  “Although we now vindicate Mr. Goyal, much damage has been
done,” he said. “One can only hope that he and his family will
recover from the ordeal. And, perhaps, that the government will
be more cautious in the future.”  The case is U.S. v. Goyal, 08-10436, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The lower court case is
U.S. v. Goyal, 04-cr-00201, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 