-- Ex-Vitesse Chief Tomasetta Charged With Fraud in Options-Backdating Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-12-11T01:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ex-vitesse-chief-tomasetta-charged-with-fraud-in-options-backdating-case.html
Former  Vitesse Semiconductor Corp. 
Chief Executive Officer  Louis Tomasetta  and ex-Executive Vice
President  Eugene Hovanec  were charged by the U.S. with
securities fraud stemming from an options-backdating scheme.  Tomasetta, 62, of Ojai, California, and Hovanec, 60, of
Westlake Village, California, were named in an indictment
unsealed today in U.S. District Court in New York that also
charged them with conspiracy, making false entries with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in a scheme which prosecutors
said ran between 2001 and mid-2006.  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office is prosecuting the case, allege that
Tomasetta, who co-founded the company, and Hovanec “engaged in
an illegal scheme to deceive Vitesse’s auditors, investors and
others” concerning the company’s true financial condition.  Knowing that the company wasn’t going to meet its own goals
for revenue or earnings, Tomasetta, Hovanec and others “devised
a scheme to falsely inflate Vitesse’s revenues,” prosecutors
said.  The two men also backdated numerous stock options granted
to Vitesse employees from 2001 to 2004 by backdating the
options, prosecutors said.  Fair Market Value  Tomasetta and Hovanec chose to exercise a price for the
options that was less than the fair market value of the stock on
the date that the company’s compensation committee granted the
options, the U.S. said.  The two also signed SEC filings falsely stating that
Vitesse hadn’t granted options to employees where the market
price exceeded the exercise price, the U.S. said in the
indictment.  “As this case demonstrates, we will use all of our
resources to ferret out fraud in the board rooms and the
executive suites,” Bharara said in a statement.  “We will prosecute corporate CEOs, CFOs and other high-
level executives who use their positions of power to deceive
investors, auditors and securities regulators,” Bharara said.  Both defendants pleaded not guilty today before U.S.
Magistrate Judge  Michael Dolinger  in New York and were released
on $1 million bond, said Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for
Bharara’s office.  ‘Client’s Acquittal’  “Dr. Tomasetta did not sign, receive or know of any side
agreements with a Vitesse distributor, or know that revenues
from sales were not reported properly,” his lawyers, Lawrence
Gerschwer and  Dan Marmalefsky , said in an e-mailed statement.
“Dr. Tomasetta did not participate in any scheme, did not
commit securities fraud, falsify books and records, or lie to
auditors. We intend to contest these charges vigorously, and
look forward to our client’s acquittal.”  Gary Lincenberg , a lawyer for Hovanec, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Bharara’s office said that on Dec. 3,  Yatin Mody , 47, the
company’s former chief financial officer, of Westlake Village,
California, pleaded guilty to securities fraud, making false
entries on financial records and conspiracy before U.S. District
Judge  John Koeltl  in New York. He is cooperating with the U.S.,
Bharara’s office said.  On Nov. 30,  Nicole Kaplan , 39, of Agoura Hills, California,
and Vitesse’s former director of accounting, pleaded guilty to
securities fraud, making false entries in a corporation’s
financial records and conspiracy before U.S. District Judge
 George Daniels  in New York. She is also cooperating with
prosecutors, Bharara’s office said.  SEC Lawsuit  The SEC filed civil fraud charges in federal court in New
York against the company, Tomasetta, Hovanec, Mody and Kaplan,
Vitesse’s former manager.  The civil suit alleges that Vitesse, through its former
executives, “perpetrated a fraudulent and deceptive scheme”
from 1995 to April 2006 to inflate revenue from shipments of
Vitesse’s products and to backdate employee stock options.  As a result, the SEC said, all four defendants failed to
record “millions of dollars in compensation.”  Tomasetta and Hovanec also engaged in a backdating scheme
from 1995 to 2006, the SEC also alleged in the complaint “for
their own personal benefit and the benefit of other Vitesse
executives and employees.”  According to the SEC, the two men backdated or re-priced 40
option grants to “thousands of employees,” representing 60
percent of the total options that the company awarded between
1995 and 2006 to newly hired and existing employees and
officers.  Tomasetta and Hovanec allegedly “reaped millions of
dollars in illicit profits” from the options-backdating scheme,
the SEC alleged. Tomasetta and Hovanec also engaged in a cover-
up to hide some of their prior option backdating conduct,
regulators said in the civil suit.  Company Probe  Tomasetta and Hovanec were fired in May 2006 during a
company probe over backdating. In December 2006, Vitesse said
former managers backdated stock-option grants and altered
documents to cover it up. The settlement released the company
from agreements to pay legal fees for Tomasetta, Hovanec and
Mody, according to the statement.  The Camarillo, California-based company was delisted on
June 28, 2006. In October 2007, Vitesse, maker of chips for
telecommunications networks, agreed to pay $8.75 million to
settle shareholder lawsuits over backdating of employee stock
options.  Ronda Grech, a spokeswoman for Vitesse, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at her office seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Tomasetta 10-CR-1205, filed in the
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter about this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 