-- Leader of Mexico's La Familia Cartel Killed in Shootout With Authorities
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-12-10T22:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/mexican-drug-cartel-leader-el-chayo-killed-in-michoacan-state-shootout.html
Nazario Moreno Gonzalez, the leader
of Mexico’s La Familia drug cartel, was shot and killed
yesterday by authorities in the western state of Michoacan,
government security spokesman  Alejandro Poire  said today.  Moreno, known as “El Chayo,” was a founder of what the
U.S. government calls “one of Mexico’s newest and most violent
drug cartels.” The Mexican government had Moreno on its  most-
wanted list , offering 30 million pesos ($2.4 million) for
information that could lead to his arrest.  Moreno was killed amid battles between security officials
and gunmen that began Dec. 8 when cartel members traded fire
with police in the city of Apatzingan. Gunmen then burned
vehicles and blocked roads leading to the state capital of
Morelia. The violence this week killed five federal policemen,
three civilians and three gang members, Poire said.  “In recent days we’ve seen a criminal organization
repudiated by the population and debilitated in a significant
manner,” Poire said at a Mexico City news conference. “It’s
the moment to intensify pressure on this organization.”  The government will increase the number of air and ground
troops deployed in Michoacan, Poire said.  La Familia has operated in Michoacan since 2000,
trafficking and producing drugs and committing acts of
extortion, kidnapping and homicide, Poire said.  Religious Outlook  Moreno helped form the ideology of La Familia, which
combines religious fundamentalism with extreme violence,
 according to  newspaper El Universal. “El Chayo” wrote his own
Bible for the cartel, whose doctrine members must follow, the
newspaper said.  The cartel, which specializes in the methamphetamine trade,
also offered consumer loans with lower interest rates than banks
would give, newspaper Ovaciones reported last year.  La Familia claims to protect Mexicans, preaching against use
of methamphetamine in Mexico in favor of sending it to the U.S.,
according to the Drug Enforcement Administration. The cartel
also hands out free toys to children in Michoacan.  In June, 14 federal police officers were ambushed and
killed in Michoacan state. In 2008, a grenade attack at an
Independence Day celebration in Morelia killed eight people.  The U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control said
in February it officially designated members of La Familia as
narcotics traffickers and subjected the group to additional
sanctions.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  