-- Basketball Rules Sell for $4.3 Million at Sotheby's, Topping Custer Flag
-- B y   L i n d s a y   P o l l o c k
-- 2010-12-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/flag-from-custer-s-last-stand-sells-for-2-2-million-at-sotheby-s-new-york.html
A tattered, stained silk flag from
General George Armstrong Custer’s calamitous last stand failed
to generate as much action at Sotheby’s in New York yesterday as
an 1891 two-page typed list of 13 rules for a new game called
“Basket Ball.”  The red-white-and-blue cavalry guidon, or swallow-tail
flag, recovered three days after the 1876 Battle of the Little
Bighorn, sold to an unidentified phone bidder for $2.2 million,
at the low end of its presale estimated range of $2 million to
$5 million. The seller, the Detroit  Institute  of Arts, will use
the funds for future art acquisitions, according to a Sotheby’s
press release.  The rules for the game of basketball, invented by James
Naismith when he was a physical-education teacher in
Springfield, Massachusetts, fetched $4.4 million, more than
double the $2 million presale estimate and a record for sports
memorabilia at auction.  The buyer was David G. Booth, an alumnus of the University
of Kansas and chairman and co-chief executive officer of
Dimensional Fund Advisors Inc. Naismith was the university’s
first professor of physical education and varsity coach for
basketball and track and field.  The document was sold by his heirs to benefit the  Naismith
International Basketball Foundation . The sport’s first game was
played with soccer balls and peach baskets, according to
Sotheby’s.  Also eclipsing the Little Bighorn flag was a copy of the
Emancipation Proclamation signed by  Abraham Lincoln  that sold
for $3.8 million, well above the presale estimate of $1 million
to $1.5 million.  The document, one of only 25 known copies, had belonged to
 Robert  and Ethel Kennedy and hung in their Virginia home.
Abraham Lincoln signed the proclamation in 1863 during the Civil
War, setting the stage for the abolition of slavery.  The late Kennedy, a civil-rights champion who served as
U.S. attorney general under his brother, President  John F. Kennedy , acquired the document in 1964 at an auction.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Lindsay Pollock  in New York at  lindsaypollock@yahoo.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 