-- James Naismith’s Basketball Rules Fetch $4.4 Million
-- B y   L i n d s a y   P o l l o c k   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-12-10T22:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/flag-from-custer-s-last-stand-sells-for-2-2-million.html
The original rules of basketball,
written by  James Naismith  in 1891, were auctioned today for $4.4
million at Sotheby’s in New York.  The 13 rules, a two-page typed document with Naismith’s
handwritten notes, were purchased by  David G. Booth , an alumnus
of the University of Kansas and executive officer of Dimensional
Fund Advisors. Naismith founded the university basketball
program in 1898, staying in Kansas until his death in 1939.  “James Naismith spent 40 years at KU,” said Booth, who
now lives in California. “Even though he posted these papers in
Massachusetts, the birth of the game was at KU.”  Booth funded the Booth Family Hall of Athletics at the
university in honor of his parents and said that he spoke with
Kansas head coach  Bill Self  about the idea of housing the rules
on the Lawrence, Kansas, campus. Booth wants the university to
erect a building close to Allen Fieldhouse to hold the
documents.  “My challenge to the university is, if it’s important
enough to you to where you create a venue that’s appropriate for
displaying these, then we’ll give you the papers,” Booth said.
“That’s the challenge. It’s going to cost a lot to build a
suitable building.”  Ian Naismith, James’s grandson and seller of the document,
said he was happy with the sale and that because of the current
state of the economy “maybe it would have done better a few
years ago, or in a few years.”  Charity Funding  Ian Naismith added that he needed to sell the document
because he lost a substantial amount of funding for his charity,
the  Naismith International Basketball Foundation , which uses the
game to promote sportsmanship and other educational
opportunities to underprivileged children. Proceeds from the
auction went into the foundation.  The document includes James Naismith’s signature, added in
1931, and an afterword noting it was “hung in the gym so the
boys might learn the rules,” according to a  video  on the
Sotheby’s website.  James Naismith, a Canadian-born physical-education
instructor, wrote the rules in Springfield, Massachusetts. The
guidelines later were expanded to form the framework of the
modern game.  The document sold for more than double Sotheby’s $2 million
presale estimate and did better than the anticipated star of the
sale.  Little Bighorn Flag  A tattered, stained silk flag from General George Armstrong
Custer’s calamitous last stand in the 1876 Battle of the Little
Bighorn sold to an unidentified phone bidder for $2.2 million,
at the low end of its presale estimated range of $2 million to
$5 million. The seller, the Detroit  Institute  of Arts, will use
the funds for future art acquisitions, according to a Sotheby’s
press release.  Also eclipsing the Little Bighorn flag was a copy of the
Emancipation Proclamation signed by  Abraham Lincoln  that sold
for $3.8 million, well above the presale estimate of $1 million
to $1.5 million.  The document, one of only 25 known copies, had belonged to
 Robert  and Ethel Kennedy and hung in their Virginia home.
Abraham Lincoln signed the proclamation in 1863 during the Civil
War, setting the stage for the abolition of slavery.  The late Kennedy, a civil-rights champion who served as
U.S. attorney general under his brother, President  John F. Kennedy , acquired the document in 1964 at an auction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;  Lindsay Pollock  in New York at  lindsaypollock@yahoo.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup in New York at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  