-- Flaherty Says U.S. Recovery, Not Dollar, Is Big Risk
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-12-10T21:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/flaherty-says-u-s-growth-not-canadian-dollar-is-biggest-risk-to-outlook.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said weak U.S. growth, not his country’s strengthening
currency, is the biggest threat to Canada’s economic recovery.  Flaherty, the dean of Group of Seven finance ministers,
oversees an economy that Pacific Investment Management Co. calls
a battleground between the “old normal” and “new normal”
forces of the global economy. While Canada’s resources are
fueling an investment boom, slumping exports to the U.S. hinder
its recovery. Canada’s growth slowed to a 1 percent pace in the
third quarter.  “The biggest risk to the Canadian economy now is the risk
rising out of the state of the economy in the U.S.,” Flaherty
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in New York.
“The fact that we’re seeing a sharp increase in the acquisition
of machinery and equipment because of, in part, the strength of
the dollar and tax policy is a good sign in the longer term.”  Canada has registered six straight trade deficits,
including the record C$2.51 billion in July. The U.S. bought 70
percent of Canada’s exports in October, down from 75 percent in
June, and a record of about 85 percent in 2001.  “America is our best customer, and I hope will always be
our best customer,” Flaherty, 61, said in the interview today.  The Canadian currency rose 0.2 percent to C$1.0089 per U.S.
dollar at 3:38 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0106
yesterday. The loonie closed at C$1.0039 on Dec. 3, when it
reached C$1.0003, the strongest level since Nov. 11. One
Canadian dollar buys 99.12 U.S. cents.  ‘Long-Term’ Benefits  The weak U.S. recovery has prompted Canadian officials
including Flaherty and Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  to defend
efforts by the U.S. Federal Reserve to stimulate its economy
with asset purchases, even as other Group of 20 countries have
expressed concern about the effects those measures could have on
the U.S. dollar and global inflation.  Flaherty said he was encouraged by an agreement between the
White House and congressional Republicans to extend tax cuts
through 2012, adding that the reductions for wealthier taxpayers
will have less of a benefit for the economy than those for
lower-income earners.  Canada’s government will use regulation, if needed, to
thwart any asset bubbles that may emerge if the Bank of Canada
is forced to maintain interest rates low, he said.  Housing Market  “We watch the housing market carefully,” Flaherty said,
adding he’s already tightened mortgage rules twice. “Interest
rates are low and lots of people are buying properties.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  left his main interest
rate at 1 percent Dec. 7 and said policy makers will remain
careful about future increases as trade and Europe’s debt crisis
hinder growth. In a Sept. 24 interview on CNBC, Carney said that
“there are limits to the divergence that there can be between
Canada and the United States.”  Flaherty said the European sovereign-debt crisis is a
“serious risk” to the global economy and has the potential to
hurt credit markets if the European Union doesn’t “get ahead”
of investors with a large enough rescue package.  “We can run into another credit challenge around the
world,” Flaherty said, adding that debt restructuring is “one
of the options” European governments can consider. “It’s
important to get ahead of the issue.”  Debt and Deficits  In a separate interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene , Flaherty said the European debt crisis showed the
importance of restoring budget balance and the need to supervise
financial institutions.  “Debts and deficits matter, we’re seeing that in Europe
now,” Flaherty said. “We’re seeing markets go after countries
that have let deficits, debts and banking situations get out of
control.”  European finance ministers this week ruled out immediate
aid for Portugal and Spain or an increase in the 750 billion-
euro ($988 billion) crisis fund, counting on European Central
Bank bond purchases to calm markets a week after handing Ireland
an 85 billion-euro lifeline.  Flaherty defended the country’s record on allowing foreign
investment, and said the country’s rejection of BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
last month was “unique.” Still, Canada doesn’t have any plans
to allow foreign ownership of the  nation’s banks  and insurers,
given how the industry has been able to escape the financial
crisis, he said.  “With respect to financial institutions, I can tell you
the time is not there,” Flaherty said. “It’s a brand for
Canada now, we’re going to maintain the brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net 
 Erik Schatzker  in New York in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 