-- Flaherty Says Europe Crisis Shows ‘Deficits Matter’
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-10T16:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/flaherty-says-resources-are-backbone-to-canadian-economy.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today the European debt crisis shows the
importance of restoring budget balance and the need to supervise
financial institutions.  “Debts and deficits matter, we’re seeing that in Europe
now,” Flaherty said in an interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “We’re seeing markets go after
countries that have let deficits, debts and banking situations
get out of control.”  European finance ministers this week ruled out immediate
aid for Portugal and Spain or an increase in the 750 billion-
euro ($988 billion) crisis fund, counting on European Central
Bank bond purchases to calm markets a week after handing Ireland
an 85 billion-euro lifeline.  Flaherty, who said in October that Canadian deficits will
total C$165.2 billion ($163.5 billion) over the 2009-2014
period, had said repeatedly the country is “on track” to meet
its goal of returning to balance by 2016.  Yields on 10-year U.S. and Canadian government bonds
converged this week for the first time since May as a tax deal
in Washington widened Canada’s fiscal advantage over its
southern neighbor.  ‘Balanced Budgets’  “It’s important that we move toward balanced budgets, that
we have a plan, which we do, that business and individuals can
have confidence in,” Flaherty said. “It’s important in the
financial sector not only that we have strong regulations, which
we have had in terms of quantity and quality of capital, but
that we supervise effectively.”  Flaherty also said natural resources are part of the
backbone of Canada’s economy and that the country’s rejection of
BHP Billiton Ltd’s $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. last month was “unique.”  Canada is relying on business investment to help lead a
recovery that  slowed  to a 1 percent annual pace in the third
quarter. Canadian publicly traded oil and gas companies spent
C$12.6 billion on investment in the latest quarterly filings, up
from C$8.7 billion from the same quarter a year earlier.  Flaherty yesterday touted the country’s energy resources in
a speech to investors in New York.  The BHP rejection “was a unique situation with respect to
a particular resource located in just one of our provinces,”
Flaherty said. “People who invest internationally have taken
note that it’s not something that happens often in Canada and
that it’s unique,” he said.  While resources are important to the economy, Canada has
other economic advantages, including “solid” financial
institutions, he said.  Asked whether the country’s central bank needs to change
its goal to target inflation of 2 percent, Flaherty said he’s
“satisfied” with the current mandate.  (In the U.S., hear Bloomberg Radio on satellite radio:
Sirius Channel 130 and XM Channel 129. In New York City, tune to
WBBR 1130 on the AM dial.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 