-- France Suspends Solar Energy Developments for Less-Than-Expected 3 Months
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-12-10T09:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/france-suspends-solar-energy-developments-for-less-than-expected-3-months.html
France suspended solar-energy
projects for a less-than-expected three months as it studies
potential subsidy cuts and measures to limit growth in the
industry after a surge in developments.  The halt applies to projects with a capacity of more than 3
kilowatts, according to a government statement today. The rules
will allow projects that have agreed on so-called feed-in
tariffs more than nine months ago with Electricite de France SA
to go ahead, as long as output is started within 18 months.  A draft of the rules circulated last week by industry
groups indicated a four-month halt to projects. The groups
called on the government to limit it to two months, saying the
move will lead to lost jobs, canceled projects and financial
difficulties for some companies.  Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  last week announced the
planned halt to quell a “veritable speculative bubble” in the
photovoltaic energy industry. French solar capacity has surged
as costs fell while regulated tariffs EDF pays for the power
have remained relatively high. Capacity is expected to rise to
about 2,150 megawatts at the end of 2011 from 200 megawatts in
2009, according to the energy regulator.  The government is studying rules for the industry expected
by mid-February that could include annual caps on development
and an additional lowering of tariffs after two cuts this year.  “What we don’t want is for EDF’s distribution network to
have total control over which projects go ahead,”  Andre Antolini , head of the French renewable industries organization
Syndicat des Energies Renouvelables, said by telephone. “This
is unacceptable for everyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  