-- Italian and French Industrial Output Unexpectedly Declined in October
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-12-10T13:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/france-italy-industrial-output-falls-underscoring-euro-economic-divide.html
French and Italian industrial
production unexpectedly fell in October, underscoring the divide
between Germany’s surging economy and the rest of Europe as the
sovereign debt crisis threatens the recovery.  Output  from French factories, mines and utilities declined
0.8 percent after gaining 0.1 percent in September, Paris-based
statistics office Insee said today.  Italy’s production  fell 0.1
percent after a 2.1 percent drop in September, Rome-based Istat
said. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent gain in France and 0.7
percent increase in Italy, according to Bloomberg News surveys.  The euro-region recovery is being led by Germany, where
unemployment is the lowest in almost two decades, while other
nations struggle to catch up. The debt crisis, which pushed the
gap between  Italian  and German borrowing costs to the widest in
the euro’s lifetime last month, threatens to further amplify the
divergence between members as high-deficit nations cut spending.  “If you look at the last three months of industrial
production in Germany, and do the same for France and Italy,
which aren’t the weakest, there are quite big differences,”
said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro Bank NV in
Amsterdam. “But as we move into next year, the areas to watch
are government spending and consumer spending as we’re on the
verge of a big fiscal squeeze, and exports and industrial
production are probably the areas where we’ll see some relief.”  Strikes  The euro was little changed at $1.3246 at 1:15 p.m. in
London. The extra yield on Italian 10-year bonds compared with
German equivalents rose to 160 basis points from 159 basis
points yesterday.  French production was hurt by strikes and the blockage of
the country’s main ports as part of protests against President
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plan to increase the retirement age. The
demonstrations, which began Sept. 7 and came to a head at the
end of October, cost the economy 200 million euros ($265
million) to 400 million euros a day at their peak, the finance
ministry estimates.  Separate data today showed Italian economic growth slowed
to 0.3 percent in the third quarter from 0.5 percent in the
previous three months. That compares with an initial estimate of
0.2 percent reported on Nov. 12. The country’s industrial-
production growth slowed to an annual 2.9 percent in October
from 4.4 percent in September, today’s report showed.  “Even assuming a reasonably strong rebound over the next
few months, fourth-quarter output is likely to be at best flat
over the quarter, supporting our call that growth will remain
subdued,”  Luigi Speranza , head of fiscal and inflation
economics at BNP Paribas in London, said in an e-mailed note on
the industrial output data. He also expects growth in
consumption to be “capped by a high level of uncertainty and a
further slowdown in real disposable income growth.”  Italian  unemployment  surged to 8.6 percent in October, the
highest since 2003, according to the European Union’s statistics
office. France’s jobless rate declined to 9.8 percent in October
from 9.9 percent in September and a decade-high of 10 percent in
November 2009. That compares with 6.7 percent in Germany, the
lowest rate since 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  