-- Generic-Drug Makers Get Hearing at U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-12-10T23:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/generic-drug-makers-to-get-u-s-supreme-court-hearing-on-patient-lawsuits.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  will consider
whether generic-drug makers can be sued for not warning patients
about the risk of dangerous side effects, agreeing to hear
arguments from units of  Mylan Inc.  and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd.   The justices today said they will review lawsuits by two
women who say they contracted a severe neurological disorder as
a result of long-term use of metoclopramide, a drug used to
treat stomach conditions. The women say the drug carried
inadequate safety warnings.  One patient, Gladys Mensing, is suing units of Mylan and
Teva and privately held Actavis Group hf, while the second,
Julie Demahy, is suing an Actavis unit. A federal appeals court
let both suits go forward, pointing to a 2009 Supreme Court
ruling that permitted failure-to-warn suits against brand-name
drugmakers.  The companies argue that the 2009 ruling shouldn’t apply to
them because federal law requires generic drugs to include the
same packaging insert as the one used by the brand-name drug
company that produces the medicine. Lower courts across the
country have rejected that contention, so a Supreme Court ruling
in the companies’ favor would mark a change in the law.  The justices previously signaled interest in the issue by
asking the Obama administration for advice. The administration
urged rejection of the company appeals.  Mylan is based in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania. Teva is based
in Petah Tikva, Israel.  The court will likely hear arguments in March or April and
rule by early July.  The cases are Pliva v. Mensing, 09-993; Actavis Elizabeth
v. Mensing, 09-1039; and Actavis v. Demahy, 09-1501.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 