-- GE Raises Dividend 17% as Immelt Draws on Cash Hoard
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-12-10T22:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/general-electric-increases-its-quarterly-dividend-17-to-14-cents-a-share.html
General Electric Co.  raised its
dividend for the  second  time in five months, giving investors a
17 percent boost as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt 
unlocks a war chest of cash hoarded in the financial crisis.  The quarterly payout will jump to 14 cents from 12 cents,
after climbing from 10 cents in July, GE said today. The dual
increases are GE’s first in a single year since 1992.  “Strong cash generation, accelerated recovery at GE
Capital and solid underlying performance in our industrial
businesses” drove the decision, Immelt said in a statement.  The higher dividend, payable Jan. 25 to shareholders of
record on Dec. 27, marks a return to GE’s pattern of announcing
annual increases in the fourth quarter, which the company did
from 1983 through 2007. In February 2009, GE cut its quarterly
dividend to 10 cents from 31 cents, about 68 percent, as the
recession deepened.  The increase takes GE’s prospective dividend yield to 3.2
percent, higher than its multi-industry peers, Nigel Coe, a New
York-based  analyst  with Deutsche Bank AG wrote in a note to
clients.  “Dividend yield is not to be sneezed at in a yield-starved
environment,” wrote Coe, who has a “hold” rating on the
shares.  Discretionary Cash  GE climbed 59 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $17.72 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange  trading,  the most today among Dow
Jones Industrial Average companies and GE’s biggest one-day gain
since Sept. 1. The shares have added 17 percent this year.  GE has projected it will have  $20 billion  in discretionary
cash at year-end, after asset sales including a majority stake
of NBC Universal to a venture run by Comcast Corp.  Immelt, 54, may indicate how some of that money will be
spent, signaling his confidence in GE’s growth prospects, when
he discusses next year’s outlook in an annual meeting with
investors on Dec. 14.  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company reported its
second consecutive  earnings gain  in the third quarter and showed
simultaneous increases in service and equipment orders for the
first time in two years.  The finance unit, GE Capital, forecast full-year profit of
 $3 billion  this week, with further growth next year and in 2012.
Last year, the unit’s earnings dropped about 80 percent to $1.7
billion.  ‘Bolt-On’ Acquisitions  GE no longer provides a per-share forecast, instead giving
investors a framework for calculating their own. The company may
earn $1.12 a share in 2010 and $1.27 a share in 2011, the
 average estimates  from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  In addition to boosting its dividend, GE may spend some of
its cash on “bolt-on”  acquisitions  that fit with existing
businesses, such as Dresser Inc., which the GE Energy unit
agreed to buy for about $3 billion in October. GE said it would
buy Clarient Inc. for about $580 million the same month to add
molecular diagnostics for cancer to its health-care business.  “GE’s financial profile and cash generation is supportive
of the dividend increase, and thusly, we would not expect any
credit-rating activity from the action,” said  Joel Levington ,
who oversees corporate credit at Brookfield Investment
Management in New York. He had projected an increase of 3 cents.  GE cut its shareholder payout from $1.24 a year in February
2009, saying the move would save about $9 billion a year as the
global recession and credit crunch drained profit from the
finance unit.  In March of the same year, Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services trimmed the company’s  credit ratings  to AA+ from AAA,
the highest available. Moody’s Investors Service followed the
same month with a reduction to Aa2 from Aaa, its highest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 