-- General Motors Won’t Repeat Mistakes, CEO Akerson Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-12-10T16:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/general-motors-determined-to-not-repeat-mistakes-after-ipo-akerson-says.html
General Motors Co.  used a government
rescue to transform into an agile business determined not to
repeat its past, Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  said.  Bankruptcy once was unthinkable for GM, which had half the
U.S. auto market, Akerson said in a speech today at the Economic
Club of Washington. “We are humbled by our near-death
experience,” he said.  GM restructured its business in bankruptcy last year with
the help of a federal bailout before a $23.1 billion initial
public offering in November, cutting jobs, closing plants,
renegotiating labor agreements and decreasing the number of
dealers in its U.S. network.  Now that IPO is done, some key executives are leaving
because of government-imposed pay restraints, Akerson said. He
said he’d like to shift toward incentives and variable pay for
management. There won’t be increases in base salaries this year,
he said.  “We have to be competitive,” Akerson said. “We’ve been
able to attract great people. We’re starting to lose them now.”  The remaining government shares amount to about a third of
company ownership, Akerson said. Shares will have to sell in the
“upper 40s or low 50s” for taxpayers to break even, he said.  GM rose 15 cents to $33.89 at 11:28 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Besides cost structures, one of the challenges in turning
GM around has been a corporate culture resistant to change,
Akerson said.  Biggest Surprise  The biggest surprise after joining GM’s board was “too
often things were done intuitively,” he said.  It was “anathema to GM culture” to consider whether to
use another company’s engine, he said. Management had been
arrogant, he said. They underestimated foreign car companies and
their ability to make quality vehicles.  Citing his work in private equity before taking the CEO
post at the Detroit-based automaker in September, Akerson said
few investors would have bet on the company 18 months to 24
months ago.  “Three weeks ago, people by the hundreds of thousands did
just that,” Akerson said. “They saw a new company positioned
to break even at the bottom of the market, not the middle.”  GM sells more cars with its remaining four brands of
Cadillac, GMC, Buick and Chevrolet than it did a year ago with
eight brands, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 