-- Ghana Central Bank Holds Interest Rate at 13.5% on Government Spending
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2010-12-10T14:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ghana-central-bank-holds-interest-rate-at-13-5-on-government-spending.html
Ghana’s  central bank left its key
lending rate unchanged for the second consecutive meeting as the
government uses oil revenue to step up spending, adding pressure
on inflation.  The key lending rate was maintained at 13.5 percent, Bank
of Ghana Governor  Kwesi Amissah-Arthur  told reporters today in
the capital, Accra. All six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast the decision.  Stability in the domestic currency, the cedi, will probably
hold inflation “below 9 percent” in 2011, Amissah-Arthur said.
Still, money injected into the economy through increasing
investments and future petroleum revenue pose challenges for the
West African nation, he said. Spending will rise 15 percent,
partly financed by oil revenue from the Jubilee field, Finance
Minister  Kwabena Duffuor  said Nov. 18.  “Inflationary pressures may build in line with economic
recovery and therefore there is limited room for further
easing,” said  Razia Khan , London-based head of Africa research
at  Standard Chartered Plc , in an e-mail today.  Slowing inflation prompted Amissah-Arthur to make the
central bank’s first rate cut in almost three years in November
2009, lowering it by half a percentage point to 18 percent. A
second cut to 16 percent followed in February, a third to 15
percent in April and a fourth to 13.5 percent in July. The rate
was first left unchanged in September.  Ghana’s budget deficit “needs to be moderated,” Amissah-
Arthur said. The fiscal gap for the year to November was 6.7
percent of gross domestic product, compared with 4.7 percent in
the same period of 2009.  Rising international crude prices may prompt increases in
the price of gas at Ghanaian pumps, a move that would hit
consumers though earn the government more through its own
exports, according to the bank. Crude for January delivery rose
for a second day, gaining 4 cents to $88.41 a barrel by 9 a.m.
in New York.  “We could see a rate hike, especially if inflation moves
back into the double digits,” said Lisa Lewin, head of sub-
Saharan Africa analysis at Business Monitor International, in an
e-mailed note.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 