-- GMAC Can Sell Foreclosed Homes in Maine After Court Ruling
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-12-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/gmac-can-sell-foreclosed-homes-in-maine-u-s-judge-says.html
GMAC Mortgage LLC , after defeating a
bid by homeowners in Maine who sought a federal court order
blocking sales and evictions, can sell foreclosed homes in the
state.  U.S. District Judge  D. Brock Hornby , at a hearing yesterday
in Portland, Maine, declined to grant a temporary restraining
order that a plaintiff’s lawyer said would have kept GMAC from
selling foreclosed homes and evicting residents.  The judge said his decision hinged on the power of federal
courts to stop proceedings in state courts, where foreclosures
take place. He said individual homeowners who face losing their
homes in a foreclosure sale can go to state court to stop the
sales, he said.  “This decision is based on the limited authority federal
courts have,” Hornby said.  The Maine case, filed in state court in October and moved
to federal court by GMAC in November, involves five homeowners
who are suing GMAC, claiming the company relied on defective
court documents in seizing homes. The plaintiffs are seeking to
represent Maine homeowners who are facing foreclosure by GMAC or
who lost their homes in a GMAC foreclosure during the past six
years and whose case relied on false documents, according to
court documents.  GMAC had agreed to suspend foreclosure sales and evictions
in the state until the judge ruled on the request for the
restraining order,  Andrea Bopp Stark , a lawyer for the
plaintiffs said. That agreement expires yesterday.  May Join Suit  Maine Attorney General Janet Mills is considering joining
the GMAC lawsuit, Assistant Attorney General Linda Conti said in
an interview yesterday. The office is also considering filing
its own lawsuit against GMAC, she said.  “I have concerns about the integrity of the state court
process,” said Conti, who attended yesterday’s hearing. “The
attorney general will have to decide whether this matter is so
important to the public interest that we should file our own
proceeding.”  GMAC owned by Detroit-based  Ally Financial Inc. , was sued
by Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray , who is accusing the
company of fraud for submitting false documents in foreclosure
cases in the state, according to the complaint. The attorney
general’s office said it’s seeking a court order to block GMAC
from proceeding to foreclosure in any pending case in Ohio or
selling foreclosed properties in which a false affidavit was
submitted.  No Fraud, Deceit  GMAC said in a statement that there was “nothing
fraudulent or deceitful” about its foreclosure practices and
that it would be “fully vindicated.”  Attorneys general in all 50 U.S. states are investigating
whether mortgage servicers relied on false documents and
signatures to justify foreclosures. The probe, announced in
October, came after banks said they were suspending repossession
efforts to review foreclosure procedures. GMAC said in September
that it was suspending foreclosure sales in 23 states.  GMAC is the fifth-largest residential mortgage servicer in
the U.S., servicing 2.4 million loans,  Tom Marano , chief
executive officer for mortgage operations at Ally, told a
congressional committee last month in  prepared remarks . Marano
said GMAC’s process for preparing foreclosure affidavits was
“flawed” and that it was reviewing foreclosures and submitting
new paperwork when necessary.  Company Statement  “GMAC Mortgage remains confident about its ability to
proceed with foreclosure sales and evictions in cases where all
of the relevant factual information supporting foreclosure has
been confirmed,”  Gina Proia , GMAC spokeswoman, said in a
statement. Yesterday’s court ruling was consistent with that
approach, she said.  The homeowners in the Maine lawsuit are relying on the
deposition of a GMAC employee, Jeffrey Stephan, who said under
oath in June that he signed 8,000 foreclosure documents a month,
according to court papers. Stephan signed papers in Maine
foreclosures without personal knowledge of the cases, lawyers
for the homeowners said.  “This system does not work if GMAC commits abuses and
fraud,” Stark told Hornby during arguments yesterday. “GMAC
has repeatedly abused this process by presenting fraudulent
representations to courts around the state.”  Two of the homeowners in the Maine case are facing
foreclosure and remain in their homes, Stark said in an
interview. GMAC won foreclosure judgments against the other
three plaintiffs, and one of those, Michael Holmes, is still in
his home in Belfast, Stark said.  Suits Nationwide  The Maine case against GMAC is one of at least two dozen
potential class-action lawsuits across the U.S. against banks
and mortgage-services companies over their foreclosure and loan-
modification practices. Banks facing lawsuits include  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. , and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   GMAC said in a Nov. 4 court filing that the Maine
plaintiffs, if allowed to proceed as a class, could seek more
than $2 billion in damages and attorney fees. Since Jan. 1,
2005, it has filed 1,156 foreclosure actions in the state on
mortgages that it serviced, according to the filing.  The plaintiffs in the Maine case hope to move their bid to
stop foreclosure sales and evictions back to state court, where
the lawsuit was first filed, because federal courts can’t
interfere with state court proceedings, Stark said in an
interview. She argued during the hearing that Hornby could issue
a temporary restraining order pending a decision on moving part
of the case to state court.  Federal Court  Hornby said the plaintiffs’ chances of moving part of the
case out of federal court are “very, very slim,” which he said
was the most important of his reasons for not granting the
restraining order.  Thomas Cox, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said after the
hearing that GMAC took advantage of federal legal procedures to
move the case to federal court in a move to block a temporary
restraining order “and deprive these plaintiffs of an
opportunity to have their claims considered on the merits.”  The case is Bradbury v. GMAC Mortgage LLC, 10-00458, U.S.
District Court, District of Maine (Portland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in Portland, Maine, at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 