-- Goldman Executive Fabrice Tourre Files Motion to Dismiss Amended SEC Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-12-10T02:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/goldman-executive-fabrice-tourre-files-motion-to-dismiss-amended-sec-suit.html
Fabrice Tourre , the  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  trader accused of misleading investors in a product
linked to subprime mortgages, asked to have the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s revised lawsuit against him dismissed.  The amended complaint fails “utterly to remedy the fatal
defects in the original complaint,” Tourre said in his motion
filed today in federal court in Manhattan. Because the
transactions involving the collateralized debt obligations
called Abacus 2007-AC1 occurred outside the U.S., Tourre can’t
be hold liability under U.S. securities law, he said.  “The SEC adds an allegation that a closing for Abacus
2007-AC1 took place in New York on April 26, 2007,” Tourre said
in his filing. “As to the closing, the SEC pleads no facts
supporting a plausible inference that the ‘closing’ was anything
more than a ministerial lawyer-driven documentation exercise.”  The SEC, which reached a $550 million  settlement  with
Goldman Sachs in July, included new claims against Tourre in an
amended complaint filed Nov. 22. U.S. regulators accuse the
London-based trader of defrauding investors by not disclosing
that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying
securities for the collateralized debt obligation and planned to
bet against them.  The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in June that U.S. securities
laws don’t apply to claims of foreign buyers of non-U.S.
securities on foreign exchanges. The transactions with the
collateralized debt obligations at issue in the SEC’s complaint
were overseas transactions with a German bank and a Dutch bank,
according to Tourre.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 