-- Gold, Copper, Oil, Corn Will Extend Gains Next year, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-10T13:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/gold-copper-oil-corn-will-extend-gains-next-year-morgan-stanley-says.html
Commodities including copper, gold,
crude oil, corn and soybeans will extend gains next year as
emerging markets drive global demand while supplies tighten,
Morgan Stanley said.  Global gross domestic product will increase by 4.2 percent
in 2011 from almost 5 percent this year, with more than 70
percent of the growth coming from emerging markets, the bank
said today in a report. It said it least favors natural gas,
live cattle and feeder cattle and zinc.  Copper yesterday advanced to a record on the London Metal
Exchange as the bourse’s inventories head for the first annual
contraction since 2004. Gold reached an all-time high this week
as investors sought an alternative to currencies. The S&P GSCI
index of 24 raw materials this week climbed to the highest level
in more than two years.  “Growing demand, together with a tightening supply side,
provides the fodder for our broad constructiveness across the
commodities space,” Morgan Stanley analyst  Hussein Allidina 
said in the report. “Declining inventories will not only lift
spot prices, but will also improve roll returns” as falling
stockpiles move prices into so-called backwardation, when
nearby commodities trade above longer-term contracts, he said.  Copper, Gold  Copper  for three-month delivery traded at $9,051 a metric
ton at 12 p.m. on the LME. The metal will average $7,900 a ton
next year, Morgan Stanley estimates, up from an average so far
this year of about $7,465. Gold for immediate delivery touched
$1,431.25 an ounce on Dec. 7. It will average $1,315 an ounce in
2011, the bank says. Crude oil will average $100 a barrel, corn
will average $5.75 a bushel and soybeans will average $12.50 a
bushel, the bank estimates.  “Corn and soybean prices both need to rise to ration
demand,” Allidina said. “Demand is running too hot given tight
inventories and limited acreage. Gold will benefit from
continued investment demand, stemming from a continued
expansion in global money supply and lingering sovereign
risks.”  Federal Reserve policy makers will meet next week to
discuss a potential plan to extend Treasury purchases beyond the
$600 billion already announced. Fitch Ratings yesterday said the
European Central Bank’s bond purchases may need to be increased
and Europe’s rescue fund expanded to stem contagion from the
sovereign-debt crisis.  The gain in commodity prices may be “volatile,” Allidina
said. “Lingering sovereign risks, fears of policy missteps in
the emerging markets, and bouts of U.S. dollar strength will all
present headwinds.”  Natural gas will be pressured by an “oversupplied
environment,” while zinc will be slower to return to a shortage
than other metals, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  