-- Goldman Sachs's Hylander, Cyzer, Ashdown Said to Leave
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-12-10T19:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/goldman-sachs-s-london-equity-trading-chiefs-cyzer-ashdown-said-to-retire.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , which
makes the most from equity trading of all Wall Street banks, is
losing the head of a unit that invests in securities exchanges
and two senior executives from its London equities division.  Phillip Hylander , 42, who leads the Principal Strategic
Investment Group, will step down at the end of the year,
according to a Dec. 8 memorandum sent to employees and obtained
by Bloomberg News. He will become an advisory director to the
firm on retirement, according to the document.  Matthew H. Cyzer , head of sales trading in Europe, and  John A. Ashdown , 42, head of trading in the region, are retiring,
said a person with knowledge of the matter who declined to be
identified because the departures haven’t been publicly
announced. Cyzer and Hylander joined Goldman Sachs from  Deutsche
Bank AG  in 2002. While Hylander joined the firm as a partner,
the New York-based firm’s highest rank, Cyzer and Ashdown were
promoted to the position in 2004.  “These guys have been doing it for a while, they’ve had
enough time to raise and grow people beneath them,” said  Jason Kennedy , chief executive officer of Kennedy Group, a London-
based executive search firm. “Those who have made enough to
retire like Hylander and Ashdown are seeing a good reason to
step down.”  Falling Revenue  Goldman Sachs’s revenue from equities sales and trading
dropped 32 percent to $5.43 billion in the first nine months of
this year, in part because the firm lost money in the second
quarter on a bet that stock-market  volatility  would drop. The
firm this year also shut down a proprietary-trading division
within equities, called principal strategies, in response to
U.S. legislation that prohibits banks from making such bets with
their own money.  Equities revenue at the largest eight Wall Street firms
dropped an average of 12 percent so far this year, meaning that
pay is likely to suffer and hiring plans have been frozen,
according to Kennedy.  “We’re very similar to 2008 this year on the equities
side,” Kennedy said. “Nobody has budgets for next year.”  Ashdown and Hylander weren’t immediately available to
comment. Cyzer declined to comment.  Sophie Bullock , a
spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in London, declined to comment.  One Delta  Ashdown’s formal title was head of One Delta Trading for
Equities, Europe, while Cyzer was co-head of One Delta Execution
Services in Europe. One Delta is the name of Goldman Sachs’s
equities division, which excludes derivatives.  Hylander, who joined as co-head of pan-European shares,
became head of One Delta as well as co-head of European equities
in 2006 before switching to his current role a year later. The
Principal Strategic Investment Group employs about 20 people
around the world, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Successors for Hylander, Cyzer and Ashdown weren’t named.
The bank said in a July memo that  Brian Levine  would move to
London from New York in his role of co-chief operating officer
of Equities One Delta Trading.  The two memos were signed by  David B. Heller ,  Edward K. Eisler ,  Pablo J. Salame , and  Harvey M. Schwartz , the firm’s four
co-heads of securities sales and trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  