-- Gold May Gain This Week on Demand for Currency Alternative, Survey Shows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/gold-may-gain-this-week-on-demand-for-currency-alternative-survey-shows.html
Gold, which reached a record this
week, may advance as investors seek an alternative to
currencies, a survey found.  Nine of 16 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 56 percent, said the metal will rise next week.
Four predicted lower prices and three were neutral. Gold futures
for February delivery were down 1.5 percent for this week at
$1,384.80 an ounce at 11:30 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in New
York. Futures reached a record $1,432.50 on Dec. 7.  Federal Reserve policy makers will meet next week to
discuss a potential plan to extend Treasury purchases beyond the
$600 billion already announced, while President  Barack Obama 
this week agreed to extend tax reductions to boost growth, a
measure that may widen the $1.3 trillion budget deficit. Fitch
Ratings yesterday cut its rating for Ireland after the country
sought international assistance last month to rescue its banks.  “When trust in both the dollar and the euro is low, there
are few places to go,” said  Filip Petersson , an analyst at
Stockholm-based bank SEB AB. We “consider the current selloff
an attractive opportunity to build positions” in gold, he said.  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of Dec. 3.  The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 195 of 340 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 9  Bearish : 4  Neutral : 3  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 