-- Li & Fung Plans China Acquisitions on Consumer Demand
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g   a n d   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-12-10T09:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/li-fung-s-rockowitz-says-it-will-be-a-sellout-christmas.html
Li & Fung Ltd. , the biggest supplier
to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , said it may increase acquisitions in
China as the country’s consumer spending grows, U.S. demand
rebounds and inflation spurs companies to seek partners.  The Hong Kong-based outsourcer, which has  almost  $1 billion
for acquisitions, may buy Chinese companies in the fashion,
cosmetics and furniture industries in the next three years,
President  Bruce Rockowitz  said in an interview today in Hong
Kong. It also will increase purchases in the U.S., Europe and
Japan, he said.  Retailers are set to “sell out” at Christmas with
inventories tight and factories in China booked up, Rockowitz
said. China’s exports rose to a record last month, helped by
stronger U.S. and European demand, while retail sales grew 19
percent to 1.4 trillion yuan ($210 billion) in October from a
year earlier, the Chinese government said.  “We see opportunities in every jurisdiction right now,”
Rockowitz said, adding that the company will announce its three-
year strategy in March. “We have a huge plan for it.”  Buying China Wholesalers  Li & Fung boosted sales in 17 of the past 18 years,
buying rivals and supplying retailers worldwide with Asian-made
consumer goods from Tommy Hilfiger clothes and Kate Spade bags
to furniture and toys.  The supplier announced  purchases  worth more than $2 billion
in the past year, according to the company and analyst estimates.  Li & Fung completed its HK$7 billion ($901 million)
takeover of Hong Kong-based  Integrated Distribution Services
Group Ltd.  in the second half of this year, giving it full
ownership of a business that distributes consumer goods and
health-care products in eight Asian nations, including China.
Last month, the company became a sourcing agent for Chinese
sportswear maker Li Ning Co.  “The market will react very well in all these product
segments,” said  Aaron Fischer , an analyst at CLSA Asia Pacific
Markets in Hong Kong. “Li & Fung has a solid track record on
signing transactions in growth or complementary segments on
attractive terms.”  Li & Fung is interested in buying wholesalers and
distributors in China because that “helps our network,”
Rockowitz said.  Dominate Middle Class  The supplier plans to target the middle-class market in
China because it is underserved compared with the luxury market,
Rockowitz said. China’s gross domestic product grew by an
average of 10 percent in the past three decades, government
economist  Zhu Baoliang  said in October.  Chinese buyers now account for at least a quarter of
European luxury-goods sales,  Luca Solca , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in London, said last week.  “The mid-tier, there is no place to buy,” Rockowitz said.
“We want to dominate the mid-tier and below.”  Li & Fung plans to bring U.S. and European brands into
China that take into account “the aesthetics of China,” he
said. “That’s the future,” he said.  Li & Fung also will seek acquisitions in the U.S., Europe
and Japan as companies face rising inflation, he said.  “Mild inflation or inflation is not bad for us,”
Rockowitz said. “They need a partner. They need someone with a
strong network and buying power.”  Li & Fung  fell 0.6 percent to close at HK$44.85 in Hong
Kong trading today. The stock has risen 39 percent this year
compared with a 5.9 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net ;
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  