-- Iceland Depositor Agreement Still Faces Hurdles, Sigfusson Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-12-10T10:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/iceland-foreign-depositor-deal-still-faces-hurdles-finance-minister-says.html
Iceland  still faces a number of
hurdles before it can settle a two-year depositor claims dispute
with the U.K. and Netherlands as the government and opposition
say lawmakers won’t be rushed to approve the bill.  “The leaders of the parties will need some time to discuss
the matter and continue on the path the matter has been on so
far,” Finance Minister  Steingrimur J. Sigfusson  said in an
interview yesterday, after his government announced a depositor
claims accord with the U.K. and Netherlands had been reached.  Iceland agreed the terms to compensate the British and
Dutch for about $5 billion in depositor claims stemming from the
failure of  Landsbanki Islands hf  in October 2008. The accord
promises to normalize Iceland’s relations with the two European
Union members and marks a final milestone in settling government
obligations to foreign creditors.  “We’re of course hoping that we can now put this dispute
behind us,” Sigfusson said. “But of course, there’s still some
work that needs to be completed here.”  After party heads have looked through the details of the
agreement, the bill has to go through three rounds of debates in
parliament. Even if it wins majority backing, it will still
require the signature of President  Olafur R. Grimsson .  The U.K. and Netherlands won’t consider a new accord should
this one be rejected during Iceland’s legislative process, said
Johannes Karl Sveinsson, a member of the Icesave negotiating
team.  Final Offer  “It’s clear that if this deal is rejected, the U.K. and
the Netherlands will not negotiate a new deal,” Sveinsson said
at a press conference in Reykjavik yesterday.  Bjarni Benediktsson , the leader of the opposition
Independence Party, said he can’t promise he’ll support the new
deal.  “We don’t believe that we are legally obliged to pay for
Icesave,” as the high-yielding Internet bank accounts were
called, Benediktsson said in an interview. “We’re not going to
make any hasty decisions; it’s ridiculous to suggest the
parliament should rush this in any way.”  The new accord will cost the Icelandic government 47
billion kronur ($409 million), compared with the 162 billion
kronur in costs the state was facing under the previous accord,
according to the negotiating committee representing Iceland at
the Icesave talks. The rest will be covered by the proceeds from
divesting Landsbanki assets, it said.  ‘Defensible Deal’  Iceland will pay an average interest rate of 3.2 percent
until 2016 and the debt will be paid down by 2046, the committee
said.  “There’s no subsidy of one tax payer to another,” said
 Lee Buchheit , lawyer and head of Iceland’s negotiating
committee, in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “At least
on that issue it is a perfectly fair and defensible deal.”  “Without the opposition’s support, it could take months
for the government to pass this deal,” Eirikur Bergmann,
professor in political science at Bifrost University outside
Reykjavik, said in an interview. “If the opposition decides to
filibuster the agreement, this will take a long time.”  A previous Icesave accord agreed between the three
countries’ governments was blocked by Grimsson in January, even
after it won parliamentary backing. The move prompted Fitch
Ratings to downgrade Iceland’s debt to “junk” as a
normalization of international relations grew more remote. The
accord was subsequently rejected by 93 percent of voters in a
March referendum.  Grimsson last month signaled he may refer any new deal to a
plebiscite.  People’s Say  “If the people of Iceland are being asked to pay for the
failure of a private bank, they should also have a say in the
final outcome,” Grimsson said in a Nov. 26 interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Mark Barton . “So I don’t think any deal
that is not in harmony with the Icelandic people is viable.”  Iceland’s debt is rated Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service
and BBB- at Standard & Poor’s, the lowest investment grades.  Moody’s said last month settling claims stemming from
Icesave may lift the island’s credit rating.  Iceland’s government shielded its taxpayers from the cost
of bailing out the island’s banks, leaving creditors struggling
to recoup $85 billion in debt.  Kaupthing Bank hf , Landsbanki and
 Glitnir Bank hf  all failed in October 2008 after they were
unable to secure short-term funding.  Former Prime Minister  Geir H. Haarde  was indicted by
parliament in September for alleged economic mismanagement that
exacerbated the island’s financial crisis. A parliamentary
committee said Haarde’s failure to ensure that Landsbanki
created subsidiaries abroad left Iceland liable for the
depositor losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar Valdimarsson  in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  