-- Osborne Says Iconic Red Budget Box Has Been Empty For Years, Keys Are Lost
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-12-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/iconic-red-budget-box-has-been-locked-and-empty-for-years-osborne-says.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the  iconic red box  held aloft by his predecessors
for decades just before delivering the annual budget has been
empty for years because it is locked and the keys are missing.  “I’ll let you into a terrible truth, which is that the
budget box is locked and the keys were lost years ago,” Osborne
said at a lunch with political journalists in London yesterday.
“So when the chancellor stands up with that old budget box,
there is nothing in it and there hasn’t been for years.”  Osborne went on to reveal that the chancellor’s traditional
robes “went missing” when  Gordon Brown  was in office between
1997 and 2007. He also described his battle with bureaucrats to
prevent the Treasury spending 875 pounds ($1,380) on a Christmas
tree. He was relaying “some of the things” he had learnt about
government since the Conservative-led coalition took office in
May.  Two months ago, Osborne detailed the deepest budget cuts
ever in Britain, which included plans to eliminate more than
300,000 public-sector jobs and a two-year pay freeze. He called
on banks yesterday to restrain bonus payments at a time of
national austerity.  The red leather-clad wooden budget box was made for  William Gladstone  in about 1860 and has been used by every chancellor
except  James Callaghan  in the 1960s and Brown, according to the
National Archives. Chancellors traditionally hold the case,
which until today was presumed to contain secret budget
documents, up to the cameras outside 11 Downing Street as they
set off to deliver the budget in Parliament.  ‘State of Disrepair’  Osborne used the box for the last time during his first
budget in June because of its “advanced state of disrepair,”
the National Archives said.  The chancellor also read from a memo sent by civil servants
after he complained about the amount of money the Treasury was
spending on a Christmas tree. The document sent to his private
office begins by stating “some facts” about the tree.  Civil servants told Osborne that the tree is normally
obtained from Exchequer Partnerships, the company that services
the Treasury under a Private Finance Initiative agreement, and
that there was a choice of trees from its catalogue including
Hollyday, Indulgence, Enchantment, Icicle, Decadence or a
“bespoke tailor-made” tree costing as much as 875 pounds.  When bureaucrats contacted the company asking whether they
could buy a tree from Kingfisher Plc’s B&Q home-improvement
stores for 40 pounds, Exchequer Partnerships sent back a list of
concerns including who would choose the tree from B&Q; how they
would get the tree into the building; who would dispose of the
tree after Christmas and who would decorate it.  Exchequer Partnerships, a consortium led by  Bovis Lend
Lease Ltd.,  Stanhope Plc and  Chesterton Global Ltd . to refurbish
and run the Treasury building, also said it might not lend the
Treasury a ladder to decorate the tree and that it might have to
charge the Treasury to make sure it complied with health-and-
safety regulations.  A Treasury spokesman said Exchequer Partnerships had
eventually given the tree without charge and that officials
bought lights for 36 pounds from Home Retail Group Plc’s Argos
catalogue stores.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  