-- Microsoft Leads U.S. Video-Games November Sales
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-12-10T01:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/microsoft-leads-u-s-video-games-november-sales-update1-.html
Microsoft Corp. ’s Xbox 360, helped by
its Kinect motion-capture controller, was the best-selling
video-game console in the U.S. for the sixth consecutive month,
the company said.  The Redmond, Washington-based software giant sold 1.37
million consoles in November,  David Dennis , group product
manager with Xbox, said today, citing researcher  NPD Group Inc.   Nintendo Co. ’s Wii sales gained 0.8 percent to 1.27 million
units, the company said separately.  Sony Corp. ’s PlayStation 3
sales fell 25 percent to 530,000 units from a year earlier, when
the company cut prices, Morgan Stanley said in a report, citing
NPD data.  Total industry sales of $2.99 billion were the best
November on record, and up 8 percent from a year earlier, NPD,
based in Port Washington, New York, said in a statement. Sales
of software rose 4 percent to $1.46 billion, while sales of
accessories that include Kinect and Sony’s Move motion-
controller jumped 69 percent to $413.3 million.  Xbox 360, which was released in November 2005, is
benefiting from a June console redesign, followed by the Nov. 4
introduction of the Kinect add-on, said  Michael Pachter , an
analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles. Hardware
sales in the video-game industry typically begin to decline five
years after a console is released.  “As long as you continue to keep the experience fresh, you
give people more reason to buy it, more reason to turn it on and
more reason for it to stay relevant,” Microsoft’s Dennis said
in an interview.  Kinect Peripherals  Microsoft remains on track to sell 5 million Kinect
peripherals through the holidays, Dennis said. He declined to
quantify November U.S. sales for the accessory.  The company probably sold in November about 1.5 million
Kinect peripherals in the U.S., Pachter projected in a research
note before the NPD report was released, saying about half were
part of an Xbox 360 console package.  “We expect at least a repeat of these sales in December,
boding well for Microsoft’s performance at holiday,” he said.  Microsoft and Sony have been trying to overtake market
leader  Nintendo , with its Wii console. The Kyoto, Japan-based
company has begun selling red Wii and red DS handheld hardware
bundles to celebrate the 25th anniversary of its Mario
franchise.  Kinect-related purchases fueled 77 percent of total
Microsoft sales in November, while sales related to Sony’s Move
motion-control peripheral were 22 percent of the Tokyo-based
company’s total,  Mia Nagasaka , a Morgan Stanley analyst in
Tokyo, estimated in an e-mailed report.  Nintendo DS  Nintendo DS sales in the U.S. fell to 1.5 million units in
November, an 11 percent decline from a year earlier, according
to the report. The company has said it plans to release a 3D
version of the DS next year.  NPD stopped reporting unit sales of consoles in September.
The industry tracker now reports monthly revenue for video-game
hardware, software and peripherals. Console makers are free to
release their own unit sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  