-- Tiffany Shorts Battered as Valuation Jumps to Highest Premium Since 2003
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-12-10T21:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/tiffany-short-sellers-battered-as-stock-price-jumps-to-highest-since-1987.html
Tiffany & Co.  short sellers are
exiting bets against the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry
retailer as a rebound in consumer spending pushes shares to a
record high.  The New York-based company has more than tripled since
March 2009 to an all-time high of $63.68. At the same time,
short sellers slashed their bearish wagers to 8.3 percent of
shares outstanding from a 52-week high of 15.5 percent on Sept.
20, according to data compiled by Data Explorers, a New York-
based research firm.  Investors pushed up bets Tiffany would decline as slumping
consumer confidence and fear of a relapse into a global
recession convinced them the stock was overvalued, only to see
the strategy backfire when the company raised its profit
forecast in November. The gain boosted the stock’s  price-
earnings ratio  to the highest level in seven years relative to
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s multiple, Bloomberg data show.  “The short sellers must have been in pain,” said  Scilla Huang Sun , who manages about $4 billion as head of equities at
Swiss & Global Asset Management in Zurich. “A lot of people
thought that high-end consumer stocks would not be the right
place, but Tiffany is one of the few great brands in jewelry,
and luxury-brand stocks are benefiting from cyclical trends and
from wealth creation, especially in emerging markets.”  Economic Recovery  Huang Sun’s  Julius Baer Multistock - Luxury Brands Fund  has
4 percent of its assets in Tiffany, the eighth-highest
proportion for any fund, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Huang Sun has added to her position in the $100
million fund during the past two years, betting the company
would benefit from an economic recovery, she said.  Consumer spending is rebounding in the U.S. after declining
during the recession, with personal consumption rising four
straight months, according to the Commerce Department. Consumer
spending in Brazil, Russia, India and China may surpass U.S.
purchases in 15 years and companies that sell to emerging-market
shoppers are some of the best investments “of our lifetime,”
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said in a
Dec. 3 report.  Tiffany shares jumped 5.3 percent on Nov. 24, the most
since July, as the company  raised  its full-year earnings
forecast after new stores and sales of handbags drove a 27
percent increase in third-quarter profit. Income excluding some
items will be as much as $2.77 a share in 2010, compared with
the average analyst estimate of $2.64 a share at the time, the
company said.  At a Premium  The earnings report helped convince investors to buy shares
trading at a price-earnings ratio 57 percent higher than the
multiple on the S&P 500. When the premium reached 63 percent on
Nov. 30, it was the highest since November 2003, when the stock
began a 44 percent drop through August 2004. The jeweler  lost  70
percent between July 2007 and March 2009 when the premium over
the benchmark U.S. equity index was close to the current level.  Mark L. Aaron , a spokesman for Tiffany, declined to comment
on bets against the company’s stock.  The stock rose 1.8 percent after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of  consumer
sentiment  advanced in December to 74.2, the highest since June,
from 71.6 at the end of last month.  Shares Sold Short  The proportion of Tiffany shares sold short was 8.3 percent
on Dec. 7, putting it in the top decile in the S&P 500, which
has an average of 3.1 percent, according to Data Explorers.
Short sales in online competitor  Blue Nile Inc.  amounted to 37
percent of shares, second-highest in the Russell 2000 Index.
Blue Nile is down 10 percent this year, compared with Tiffany’s
48 percent surge. Short sellers profit from price declines by
selling borrowed securities and replacing them with stock bought
at lower levels.  While Tiffany rallied to a record this month, consumers’
willingness to pay more for its products may wane as rivals such
as  Blue Nile  offer similar wares at lower prices, according to
 Harry Rady , who manages $270 million as chief executive officer
of Rady Asset Management LLC in La Jolla, California.  “The concern is that they have too much overhead from all
their stores and that they’re vulnerable to online
competitors,” said Rady, who runs a long-short fund that is
betting against Tiffany. “The world is transitioning to the
Internet, where competitors can buy the same product for a
quarter of the price and diamonds are a commodity in the end.”  Blue Nile  Blue Nile, the Seattle-based retailer founded by  Mark Vadon 
in 1999, had 417,429 unique visitors to its website in October,
up 13 percent from a year earlier, while Tiffany.com saw an
increase of 6.3 percent to 732,445, according to Compete.com, an
online data research company based in Boston.  Tiffany is outperforming because it has expanded its online
business while using its brand to introduce new designs such as
charm bracelets and key-themed jewelry, said  Dorothy Lakner , a
retailing analyst at Caris & Co. in New York.  “It’s not the old Tiffany anymore where you had to walk up
to the case and ask for the price. They’ve also become a lot
more transparent,” said Lakner, who has had a  buy rating  on the
stock since November 2009. “You can talk about price points but
it’s not about price, it’s about design and quality. There’s
just an irreplaceable cache to the brand.”  New Items  The jeweler, led by Chief Executive Officer  Michael Kowalski , introduced its first handbag collection in 20 years in
September to extend the Tiffany brand. Other new accessories
include men’s briefcases, wallets and business-card holders. It
ran 225 stores at the end of the third quarter, 10 more than a
year earlier, with six being added in the Asia-Pacific region.  The Federal Reserve’s attempt to stimulate growth in the
world’s biggest economy has helped drive up the price of
commodities such as gold and silver, which Tiffany buys to make
jewelry. Gold and silver futures have climbed 26 percent and 70
percent, respectively, in 2010. This is hurting Tiffany because
it failed to build enough inventory, said  Jeff Middleswart ,
director of research at Behind the Numbers, which recommends
investors to bet against Tiffany.  “They simply cannot fully offset this with price
increases,” said Middleswart, whose Dallas-based company
identifies short-selling opportunities for hedge funds. “How
does Tiffany triple the price of a ring to reflect gold rising
from $400 to $1,400?”  Gold futures last traded for $400 an ounce in 2004. They
advanced to a record high of $1,432.50 on Dec. 7.  Huang Sun said she’s not concerned about the rising cost of
commodities.  “A big part of it can be passed on to the consumer with a
time lag,” said Huang Sun, whose luxury brand fund has
performed better than 64 percent of peers over the past year.
“The branded companies are less affected than pure commodity
jewelers. They can command a premium because of brand and
design.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 