-- Immelt May Signal Confidence by Raising GE Dividend
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-12-10T15:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/immelt-may-signal-confidence-in-ge-growth-by-raising-dividend-second-time.html
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  may show his confidence in  General Electric Co.’s  growth
prospects next week by outlining investment plans including the
 second dividend increase  in six months.  GE, which amassed cash of about $78 billion through Sept.
30, posted its second consecutive earnings gain last quarter and
showed simultaneous increases in service and equipment orders
for the first time in two years. finance unit, GE Capital,
projected full-year profit of  $3 billion  this week.  The “comfort factor with investors has risen
significantly” for GE Capital, said  Jeffrey Sprague , founding
partner of Vertical Research Partners Inc., who expects a
quarterly dividend increase of 2 cents per share this month.
“To get the stock moving to the next level it will take
stronger industrial earnings growth.”  A boost from the current payout of 12 cents would mark a
return to GE’s pattern of announcing annual increases in the
fourth quarter, which the company did from 1983 through 2007. In
February 2009, GE cut its quarterly dividend to 10 cents from 31
cents, about 68 percent, as the global financial crisis
deepened. The board raised the dividend 20 percent in July and
resumed share buybacks.  1992 Dividend Boosts  GE has projected it will have  $20 billion  in discretionary
cash at year-end, after asset sales. Immelt may indicate how
some of that money will be spent when he discusses next year’s
outlook in an annual meeting with investors on Dec. 14.  Robert Cornell  of Barclays Plc. and  Terry Darling  of
Goldman, Sachs & Co. are also among analysts expecting a
dividend increase, with estimates from 8 percent to 30 percent,
according to notes to investors this month. Cornell and Darling
recommend buying GE, while Sprague rates it “hold.”  A dividend increase of 8 percent would boost GE’s annual
payout to 52 cents from 48 cents, while a 30 percent raise would
mean a yearly dividend of about 62 cents. The last time GE
raised its dividend twice in a year was in 1992, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  A projection based on  Bloomberg research  and analysis
indicates GE probably won’t raise the dividend this month,
boosting it to 14 cents in September instead.  A GE spokeswoman,  Anne Eisele , declined to comment on
potential announcements at the meeting.  Five-Year Streak  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company no longer
provides a per-share forecast, instead giving investors a
framework for calculating their own.  GE may earn $1.12 a share in 2010 and $1.27 a share in
2011, the  average estimates  from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  In addition to the possible dividend increase, GE may spend
some of its cash stockpile on “bolt-on”  acquisitions  that fit
with existing businesses, such as Dresser Inc., which the GE
Energy unit agreed to buy for about $3 billion in October.  “There are good opportunities out there” for
acquisitions, Immelt told investors on an October conference
call. “If we don’t see good opportunities, we’ll increase the
dividend and do more buyback.”  Immelt, 54, is poised to break a five-year streak in which
GE shares have trailed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  GE climbed  13 percent  this year through yesterday, while
the S&P 500 gained 11 percent. The shares rose 12 cents to
$17.25 at 10:28 a.m. today in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  New Products  Immelt has staked GE’s industrial growth on developing and
manufacturing promising technology products, from gearless wind
turbines to cancer-treatment tests. The company will spend $20
billion on technology development in the two years through 2012
and said in May it would  increase research  expenditures 18
percent this year alone.  Equipment orders climbed 9 percent in the third quarter
while the backlog was flat at $172 billion as Immelt shrank the
company’s finance unit and focused on expanding core industrial
divisions. The company is the world’s biggest maker of power-
plant turbines, jet engines, medical-imaging equipment and
locomotives. Other units include appliances, lighting and
factory automation software.  In 2012, Immelt plans to reduce GE Capital’s assets to $440
billion in  ending net investment , a measure used by analysts to
gauge the financial division’s size, from about $489 billion in
the third quarter.  ‘Prudent’ Plan  The finance unit still plans to resume an internal dividend
payment to the parent company that year at its traditional rate
of 45 percent of profit,  Michael Neal , the unit’s chief
executive officer, said this week in a presentation for
investors broadcast on the Internet. That dividend was suspended
in the midst of the financial crisis.  Neal, who called the plan “prudent” amid changing U.S.
and global regulations, didn’t rule out a one-time dividend
payment to the parent company in the meantime.  Neal projected the unit’s earnings will growth further next
year and in 2012. Last year, its profit dropped about 80 percent
to $1.7 billion.  GE will consider opening talks on an early buyback of the
$3 billion in preferred stock bought by  Warren Buffett’s 
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. during the crisis, if Buffett is
agreeable, after the sale of GE’s majority stake in NBC
Universal closes, Chief Financial Officer  Keith Sherin  said in
October. That would save the company an annual 10 percent
special dividend payment, or about $300 million.  Credit Ratings  GE cut its shareholder payout from $1.24 a year in February
2009, saying the move would save about $9 billion a year as the
global recession and credit crunch drained profit from the
finance unit.  In March of the same year, Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services trimmed the company’s  credit ratings  to AA+ from AAA,
the highest available. Moody’s Investors Service followed the
same month with a reduction to Aa2 from Aaa, its highest.  “They need to do something for their stockholders and they
for sure will do whatever they can to keep their AA-plus
rating,” said  Joel Levington , who follows GE as part of his job
overseeing corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management
in New York.  A dividend raise would “find a solution for everybody,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 