-- India's Telecommunications Regulator Recommends Cancelation of 38 Licenses
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-12-10T22:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/india-s-telecommunications-regulator-recommends-cancelation-of-38-licenses.html
India said the telecommunications
regulator has recommended scrapping 38 wireless spectrum permits
held by companies including Aircel Ltd., Dishnet Wireless Ltd.,
Etisalat DB Telecom Pvt. and Unitech Wireless Pvt.  The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India also suggested
“legal examination” of 31 licenses given to Aircel, Allianz
Infratech (P) Ltd., Etisalat DB, Loop Telecom Ltd., Sistema
Shyam Teleservices Ltd. and Videocon Telecommunications Ltd.,
Sachin Pilot, junior telecommunications minister, said in a
 statement  to Parliament posted on the government’s website.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is under fire
from opposition parties and the chief auditor for the way
airwave permits were awarded in 2008. The sale of 157 licenses,
mostly to ineligible bidders at “unbelievably low” prices, may
have cost India’s treasury as much as 1.4 trillion rupees ($31
billion) in revenue, according to the auditor.  The regulator’s “stance is that this is a scarce national
resource and this is the harshest way of punishing these
operators,” said  Naveen Kulkarni , an analyst at MF Global Ltd.
in Mumbai.  Recommendations from the regulator aren’t binding on the
nation’s department of telecommunications, he said. The
department has the power to cancel the licenses.  Gurdeep Singh, chief operating officer at Aircel, couldn’t
be reached on his mobile phone. Shahid Balwa, vice chairman at
Etisalat DB, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  No Communication  Unitech Wireless hasn’t received any “formal
communication” from the government, Sharad Goswami, spokesman
at the company, said in an e-mailed statement. Arif Kumar,
spokesman for Loop Telecom, and Vineet Kumar, a general manager
at Dishnet Wireless, declined to comment.  The telecommunications ministry awarded 85 of the second-
generation licenses to 13 ineligible companies, the Comptroller
and  Auditor  General of India said in a 77-page report on Nov. 16.
Singh has said the government will punish anyone who broke laws.  The licenses were sold for a combined 123.9 billion rupees
in January 2008, according to the auditor. By comparison, the
government raised 677.2 billion rupees selling third-generation
licenses to 11 operators this year.  Telenor ASA  and Emirates Telecommunications Corp. were
among operators that purchased stakes in Indian companies whose
license applications should have been rejected in 2008 because
they were unqualified, according to the auditor’s report.  Minister’s Resignation  Andimuthu Raja , the telecommunications minister when the
licenses were awarded, resigned two days before the auditor’s
report was released. India’s  Central Bureau of Investigation  is
probing the sale of airwave licenses and raided 14 locations
including two of Raja’s residences on Dec. 8.  Raja’s successor  Kapil Sibal  said Dec. 9 that the
government will send so-called “show-cause” notices to
companies holding 85 licenses to prove they’re entitled to keep
offering services.  Satyendra Prakash, a spokesman for the telecommunications
department, declined to comment on the status of the notices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  