-- Industrial Production in India Expands 10.8%, Fastest Pace in Three Months
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-12-10T11:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/indian-industrial-production-increases-10-8-fastest-pace-in-three-months.html
India’s industrial production grew
at the fastest pace in three months, threatening to strain power
and transportation capacities and stoke inflation. Stocks rose.  Output  at factories, utilities and mines rose 10.8 percent
in October from a year earlier after a 4.4 percent increase in
September, the statistics office said in a statement in New
Delhi today. The median estimate of 29 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for an 8.5 percent gain.  Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said this
week that inflation remains above “tolerance level,” as the
country battles rising prices along with China. India may raise
interest rates in January after pausing at the next policy
meeting on Dec. 16 because of a cash crunch at lenders, said
economists at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. and Nomura Holdings Inc.  “This kind of strong growth will accentuate the pressure
on inflation and calls for further monetary tightening,” said
 Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura, Japan’s biggest
brokerage. “We think the RBI is likely to raise rates in the
January to March quarter.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  rose for the
first time in four days, climbing 1.4 percent. Ten-year
government bond yields fell four basis points to 8.08 percent as
of 5 p.m. in Mumbai. The rupee advanced 0.4 percent to 45.05
against the dollar.  Inflation Data  The central bank’s goal is to keep the benchmark wholesale-
price inflation rate between 4 percent and 4.5 percent. It may
slow to an 11-month low of 7.5 percent in November, according to
the median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
commerce ministry is scheduled to announce the data on Dec. 14.  In China, where industrial output rose 13.1 percent in
October from a year earlier, inflation is accelerating following
an unprecedented credit expansion, a result of efforts to
protect the economy from last year’s global recession. Consumer
prices rose 4.4 percent in October from a year earlier, the
fastest pace in two years.  The People’s Bank of China today raised lenders’ reserve
requirements for the third time in five weeks. In October, it
increased the interest rate for the first time since 2007.  The Reserve Bank, which has boosted rates six times in
2010, the most by any central bank in Asia, said Nov. 2 that it
probably won’t raise rates until January, giving itself time to
see the impact of its monetary tightening. India’s benchmark
repurchase rate is 6.25 percent.  Manufacturing Surge  Manufacturing grew 11.3 percent in October after a 4.6
percent gain in September, today’s report showed. Electricity
production climbed 8.8 percent while mining rose 6.5 percent.  A cash squeeze at banks after companies including  Coal
India Ltd.  raised funds from share sales and businesses withdrew
money to pay taxes may also prompt Subbarao to keep borrowing
costs unchanged for now, according to Anubhuti Sahay, an
economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai. Coal India raised
152 billion rupees ($3.4 billion) in October in the nation’s
biggest initial share sale.  Commercial banks borrowed an average 809 billion rupees a
day this quarter using the RBI’s  repurchase-auction  window,
compared with 239 billion rupees in the previous three months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, indicating a shortage
of funds at lenders.  Subbarao said yesterday that the central bank was “deeply
conscious” of the liquidity situation at banks, and that it
“will take some steps as may be necessary.”  Bond Auction  The RBI yesterday conducted an auction to purchase 120
billion rupees of securities to ease liquidity. Deputy Governor
Subir Gokarn told reporters in Kolkata this week that the move
to replenish funds in the banking system isn’t a sign of a
change in the central bank’s monetary policy stance.  “Inflation will remain a problem for a long while,”  D. H. Pai Panandiker , president of the RPG Foundation, an economic
policy group in New Delhi, said before the production data.
“When consumer demand rises amid infrastructure constraints, it
pushes up the cost of doing business.”  India has a power deficit of 10.5 percent during peak
hours, the nation’s  Central Electricity Authority  estimates,
forcing most companies to invest in their own supply back-ups.
The target to add 62,000 megawatts of generation capacity in the
five years to March 2012 may be missed by about 4,000 megawatts,
the government said yesterday.  The average turnaround time for ships unloading and loading
cargo at India’s major ports is almost four days, compared with
10 hours in Hong Kong, India’s finance ministry estimates.  “There is a real risk of inflation accelerating in the
coming months due to strong growth,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi , a
Mumbai-based economist at Crisil Ltd., the local unit of
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. “The RBI may consider
raising rates in January.”  Foreign manufacturers, meanwhile, are investing more in
India to benefit from growing demand in the nation of 1.2
billion people, the most populous after China.  Daimler AG this week announced plans to invest as much as
3.5 billion rupees by 2012 to expand its India factory that
builds Mercedes-Benz cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  