-- Ireland’s Fix Too Harsh for Rest: David Blanchflower
-- B y   D a v i d   B l a n c h f l o w e r
-- 2010-12-10T14:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ireland-s-medicine-too-harsh-for-others-commentary-by-david-blanchflower.html
(Corrects percentage figures in eighth paragraph.)  Last year during a cab ride in
Dublin, I asked my driver how things were going in Ireland.  He told me that life wasn’t so bad because, even though
growth had slowed, things were so much better than they were
before Ireland joined the euro.  That resonated with me on Monday, when the Irish government
unveiled its austerity package of 6 billion euros ($8 billion)
of cuts in welfare benefits, public pensions and capital
projects. Ireland is even going to tax Internet betting.  But Ireland, which accepted an 85 billion-euro bailout last
month, is in better shape to withstand a squeeze than the other
euro-area peripheral countries such as  Portugal ,  Greece ,  Spain 
and even  Italy . Ireland is a good deal wealthier than these
countries, and it has seen income rise more from euro
membership. Even after the cuts the odds of people taking to the
streets in large numbers are lower than in the other countries.  The Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan , whom the Financial
Times recently voted the worst in the European Union,
optimistically is forecasting that the spending cuts and tax
increases aren’t going to affect growth much at all. The
forecast now calls for gross domestic product growth of 0.3
percent this year, rising to 3 percent in 2013.  On the same day, in contrast with Ireland, the Republicans
and President  Barack Obama  agreed to a welcome deal in the U.S.
to reduce payroll taxes and renew the Bush tax cuts for two
years to raise growth and lower unemployment. So we have an
interesting economic experiment on our hands. My bet is that
cutting taxes rather than raising them is better for growth. I
am with Obama.  Growth in Europe is going to slow, especially in the
peripheral countries, which will certainly not reassure the bond
markets. International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , visiting Greece this week, said that “the problem
is growth, growth, growth. No one would be talking about a debt
crisis in Europe if there was high growth in  Europe .” Isn’t
that the truth.  Little Ireland with its 4 million inhabitants has done well
from its euro membership. The worry is that others on the
periphery haven’t and have less of a margin for cutting back.  As the table below shows, between 1990 and 2010 GDP per
capita in Ireland rose by 107 percent, which was faster than
Greece (53 percent), Italy (14 percent), Portugal (32 percent)
or Spain (38 percent). By 2010 Ireland had higher per-capita
income than any of the euro-area peripheral countries.  Data from a Eurobarometer  survey , conducted by the European
Commission across all member states between August and September
2009, suggests that the Irish are markedly happier -- scored on
a scale where 1 means very dissatisfied and 10 means very
satisfied -- than residents of these other countries. Whether
this continues in the future is an open question, as austerity
bites.  Sources: European Commission,  International Monetary Fund   The other peripherals are poorer and less happy than the
Irish, and haven’t benefited as much, especially in terms of
income growth, from membership in the euro. This may well imply
greater domestic opposition to any externally imposed austerity
program. In the future, social unrest is likely to be a bigger
issue in these countries.  The  International Monetary Fund  has even urged the EU to
pump more resources into its bailout program, and also to buy up
more government debt. Otherwise, the IMF warned, the crisis
could escalate, threatening the stability of the euro.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s interventions have given
the crisis some legs. She ruled out the possibility of euro-wide
bonds and a bigger bailout fund. This, combined with her earlier
suggestion that bondholders should take larger haircuts, doesn’t
help the countries that are struggling to soothe the markets.  There are obvious reasons for Merkel’s stand. The Germans
benefit from having a lower  exchange rate  than they would have
outside the euro, making their exports less expensive. Any euro-
bond would mean their costs of borrowing would rise.  German banks have major investments in the peripheral
countries so it is hard to understand why they are being left to
flounder. Unless the Germans are prepared to pitch in with lots
of bailout money, the Irish and the Greeks will have to
restructure or even default on their debt. The bond vigilantes
would then have a field day.  It is difficult to see how forcing an expensive loan onto
an over-indebted country like Ireland is supposed to contain the
European debt crisis. Maintaining the low corporate  tax rate 
there will obviously help. Living standards will inevitably be
hit hard there for years to come. My cabbie was probably right.
My worry is that a number of these other peripheral countries
aren’t so well placed. I fear worse is to come.  (David G. Blanchflower, a former member of the  Bank of
England ’s Monetary Policy Committee, is a professor of economics
at  Dartmouth College  and the  University of Stirling . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 David Blanchflower  at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  