-- Italian Output Unexpectedly Falls for Second Month
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-12-10T11:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/italian-industrial-output-unexpectedly-drops-for-second-month-in-october.html
(Corrects economist forecast in second paragraph.)  Italian industrial output
unexpectedly fell for a second month in October, adding to signs
that the  export -led economic recovery is losing momentum in the
fourth quarter.  Production  declined 0.1 percent from September, when it
fell 2.1 percent, the biggest drop in 12 months, Rome-based
 statistics office Istat  said today. Economists forecast a 0.7
percent gain in October, according to the median of 19 estimates
in a  Bloomberg survey . Output rose 2.9 percent from a year
earlier, less than 4.4 percent the previous month.  Europe’s fourth-biggest  economy  is relying on exports to
grow as domestic demand remains weak amid a jobless recovery.
New car registrations fell 21 percent in November, with domestic
sales of  Fiat SpA , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, slumping 28
percent.  Still, Italy’s  business  and  household  confidence climbed in
November to the highest in more than two years amid optimism
that the country’s  recovery  from its worst recession since World
War II may gain pace after slowing in the third quarter. The
Finance Ministry  forecast  in September that  gross domestic
product  will expand 1.2 percent this year, up from the 1 percent
it  predicted  in May.  The increase in household confidence wasn’t reflected in
today’s manufacturing report. Production of consumer-related
goods, which make up almost 28 percent of the index, fell 1
percent from previous month, according to today’s report.  The output fall in Italy mirrored a decline in neighboring
France in the same period. Industrial production unexpectedly
fell in October after protests blocked ports, triggering the
shutdown of refineries and petrochemical plants, Paris-based
national statistics office Insee said in a separate report
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  