-- Ivory Coast Faces Higher Prices, Shortages Amid Election Crisis
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-10T11:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ivory-coast-faces-higher-prices-shortages-as-political-crisis-deepens.html
Since Ivory Coast’s disputed
presidential election on Nov. 28, prices have soared at
Abidjan’s Treichville market, fuel has been in short supply and
an evening curfew has damped business at clubs and restaurants.  “Everything has become more expensive,” said Mariam Kone,
a food seller at Treichville.  The economic cost of the crisis is mounting, with no end in
sight to the political deadlock that has seen two rival
candidates sworn in as president. Cocoa farmers have slowed
delivery to processing plants because of safety fears, while
 Newcrest Mining Ltd. , Australia’s largest gold mining company,
said on Dec. 6 that it had suspended operations at its Bonikro
mine.  Opposition candidate  Alassane Ouattara  was named winner of
the vote with 54.1 percent by the country’s electoral commission
on Dec. 2. A day later, the Constitutional Council annulled the
win by canceling votes in some northern regions over allegations
of irregularities, and named incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo 
the victor.  “We need to know who our new president is so prices can go
down again,” Kone said.  The United Nations, the European Union, the U.S. and the
African Union have all called on Gbagbo to cede power to
Ouattara. The Economic Community of West African States and the
African Union suspended Ivory Coast from their regional blocs
this week.  Growing Discontent  “The medium-term risk for Gbagbo is growing socio-economic
discontent if shortages become protracted, inflation accelerates
and economic stagnation returns,” said Rolake Akinola,
principal consultant for sub-Saharan Africa with VoxFrontier
Consulting, based in London.  Companies have closed their doors or reduced their hours
because of a nighttime curfew, according to a statement from the
Confederation Generale des Entreprises de Cote d’Ivoire, an
Abidjan-based business association.  “I haven’t increased my own prices, because otherwise I
won’t have any more customers,” said Kouraogo Savane, a cafe
owner in Abidjan. If the crisis continues, “I won’t have any
other option.”  Transporting food to markets has been hindered by concerns
over security on the roads of the West African nation, a fear
that is also keeping cocoa from leaving the farms of the world’s
top producer.  “Truck owners are refusing to rent their trucks,” said
Blanchard Allo, an accountant at a farmers’ cooperative in the
central town of Gagnoa, the hometown of Gbagbo, who has ruled
the country for a decade. “There is a lot of cocoa right now,
but we can’t move it to Abidjan,” he said by phone yesterday.  First Shipments  Another cooperative in the coastal town of Grand-Lahou made
its first cocoa shipment since the election on Dec. 7 -- some 20
metric tons of beans -- Theodore Konan, the head of the group,
said by phone on Dec. 8.  “Now everybody is working again, but not at full speed,”
he said. “The country is in bad shape.”  Concern over supply shortages, which have pushed cocoa for
March delivery up 7 percent since the election, have abated with
prices of the beans falling 55 pounds, or 2.8 percent, to 1,937
pounds per ton by 10:49 a.m. on the NYSE Liffe in London, the
fourth consecutive decline.  Economic growth in cocoa-dependent Ivory Coast has averaged
1.1 percent in the eight years since a military uprising in 2002
left the country divided between a rebel-held north and
government-controlled south. During this time, the country
missed out on the wave of foreign investment in Africa from such
nations as China.  The current crisis has put a $3 billion debt cancellation
plan “under threat,” said Akinola. Ivory Coast was due to
complete the International Monetary Fund and World Bank Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries’ debt-relief program next year, she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 