-- Jacobi’s Power-Crazed Lear Chills With Whispers of Rage: Review
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-12-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/jacobi-s-power-crazy-king-lear-whispers-at-storm-chills-with-rage-review.html
Christmas shows traditionally
involve a beanstalk or glass slipper, not terror, madness and
destruction. When the yuletide performance is  Derek Jacobi ’s
monumental and soul-stirring “King Lear” in London, the
baubles aren’t missed.  In a bare-box set made of slatted gray planks daubed with
whitewash, Jacobi (known for “I, Claudius” and “Gosford
Park”) begins by showing Lear as a pompous and exuberant soul
as he divides his kingdom between his daughters.  Authority and power crackle from his very fingertips. The
certainty of his place in the world is so strong that he’s even
capable of petulance. “I loved her most,” he says of the
disgraced Cordelia, emphasizing “her” with a childish whine.  He’s equally seigniorial with the Fool. “Ha, ha, ha,” he
replies to one of the Fool’s jokes, as he swishes his riding
crop. His sarcastic tone sounds like “har, hardy, har”.  Director  Michael Grandage  offers the chance for some
startling experiments too. Over a quiet rumbling white noise,
Jacobi, 72, delivers the famous storm speech “Blow, winds, and
crack your cheeks!” in a whisper, as if he’s the calm eye of a
destructive hurricane. It’s febrile, disturbing stuff.  The more pompous he is at first, the greater the effect of
his humility and need for forgiveness after the madness of the
storm. Where other great theatrical knights like  Michael Gambon 
and  Ian McKellen  have given us complex and tortured Lears,
Jacobi’s is most moving for its unforced compassionate dignity
in the later scenes.  Sudden Rages  He’s helped by a superb cast. Gina McKee (Goneril) and
Justine Mitchell (Regan) watch Lear’s every move like hawks.
They’ve learned to survive his sudden rages, just as the
children of alcoholics do: by treading on eggshells. Their path
from sympathetic underdogs to power-crazed murderers is
presented step by terrifyingly reasonable step.  Pippa Bennet-Warner makes a wonderful Cordelia too. There’s
nothing arch in her innocence, nothing forced in her love for
Lear. Her tenderness lends a cathartic sorrow to the final
scenes.  The subplot is handled beautifully. Alec Newman is a virile
and powerful Edgar, and Paul Jesson a sympathetic Gloucester.
His reconciliation to his blinded state, “Henceforth I’ll bear/
Affliction” touches greatness.  Grandage’s production keeps everything simple and, bar the
occasional sword or letter, there are almost no props. The
pacing is excellent, from the energy and urgency of the opening
expositional scenes, to the calm and quiet of the father-
daughter reconciliation. The elegant costumes mix medieval-style
black robes with heavy Victorian overcoats.  “We’ll take upon’s the mystery of things/ As if we were
God’s spies” says Lear to comfort Cordelia. If the gods happen
to turn their spyglasses on all this greatness, they won’t be
disappointed.  Rating: ****.  “King Lear” is at the Donmar Warehouse until Feb. 5. It
will be broadcast worldwide to 22 countries on Feb. 3 as part of
National Theatre Live. There is also an 8 week national tour
Feb.22 thru April 16.  http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  or +44-844-
871-7624  The production is sponsored by Liz & Simon Dingemans and
Anda Winters, and the Donmar Warehouse receives support from
principal sponsor Barclays Capital.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 