-- Jim Morrison Freed of Indecent Act Against Him: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-12-10T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/jim-morrison-freed-of-indecent-act-against-him-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Jim Morrison , poet, songwriter and
lead singer for the legendary rock band the Doors, may or may
not have exposed himself to thousands of fans packed into a hall
in Miami on a hot night in 1969.  The lack of clear proof and the politically charged context
of the times persuaded outgoing Florida Governor  Charlie Crist 
that an injustice might well had been done when a jury convicted
him of indecent exposure and profanity, both misdemeanors.  So, at Crist’s urging, the Florida clemency  board 
posthumously pardoned Morrison yesterday.  It comes 40 years after Morrison’s conviction and 39 years
after Morrison died in a Paris bathtub at the age of 27 of an
apparent heart attack, even as the verdict was on appeal.  But at least it comes. It puts Morrison in company with
comedian  Lenny Bruce , pardoned posthumously 37 years after his
obscenity conviction.  It also gives Morrison something in common with America’s
only pardoned president,  Richard Nixon . Morrison’s offense
against decency occurred early in Nixon’s presidency, years
before he’d be run out of office on allegations of
constitutional crimes.  But before  Nixon  faced his own downfall, he put himself
firmly on the side of those who condemned Morrison’s apparent
lack of morals, as you will see.  Morrison’s case bore all the signs of a political
prosecution, a rebuke from the cultural right to punish a symbol
of Dionysian rebellion.  Drugs, Sex, Rock  Traditional standards of decency and order seemed to be
falling apart all over America in the 1960s. Civil rights and
political leaders were getting assassinated. Urban  riots  were
setting cities on fire while young folks were protesting war and
getting high.  And they were listening to drug and sex-themed rock and
roll that their parents found deeply disturbing, when they could
understand the lyrics. Rock concerts, including some of the
Doors’, had broken into riots.  This was the background when, on March 1, 1969, Morrison’s
drunken, verbally abusive and sexually provocative  performance 
produced near riotous chaos.  Morrison sang very little but he did a lot of ranting and
invoking of four-letter words. He harangued the audience,
calling them “idiots” and “slaves.” He cuddled a lamb
someone had brought to the concert.  Drenched in champagne, he took off his shirt and urged the
audience to strip. He teased them as if he was going to haul out
his manhood, saying that was what they had come to see, after
all. And he acted as if he had given them what they wanted.  Some would later say they saw it. Some, even those close
enough to tell, swore it never happened. Either way, it wasn’t
Morrison’s finest hour.  ‘Hypnotically Erotic’  However objectionable, the performance probably would have
passed as a footnote in rock history had it not been for a
scathing  Miami Herald  review, and the outrage the article
inflamed.  “The hypnotically erotic Morrison flaunted the laws of
obscenity, indecent exposure and incitement to riot,” the
newspaper reported, “appearing to masturbate in full view of
his audience, screaming obscenities and exposing himself.”  The article slammed police for not intervening, according
to a Morrison biography, “Break on Through: The Life and Death
of Jim Morrison,” by James Riordan and Jerry Prochnicky. The
book is the chief source of my description of the concert and
its aftermath.  Thus, the Doors and, more specifically,  Morrison  and the
Miami show became a battle cry for conservatives in the culture
war of the late 1960s.  Rally for Decency  Politicians claimed Morrison was out to poison and pervert
America’s youth. Some 30,000 people poured into the Orange Bowl
for a Rally for Decency. Celebrity headliners included singer
 Anita Bryant , long before she mounted her anti-homosexual
campaign in the 1970s.  President Nixon, then in office for about three months,
called the rally’s organizers to congratulate them. He had been
elected on a law-and-order campaign, and there was no question
which side of the cultural war he occupied.  The head of the Greater Miami Crime Commission called for a
grand jury investigation into what he called “a conspiracy to
corrupt the morals of our youth.”  There was no such criminal statute, of course, but the
grand jury did what it could with what it had.  At trial,  testimony  was mixed as to whether Morrison had
actually pulled out his penis for viewing or only pretended to.
He denied it, and of the many photos taken that night, none
showed it exposed.  Coda  With that kind of evidence, you’d expect reasonable doubt.
What resulted looks a lot like a compromise verdict. The jury
acquitted Morrison of a felony and other charges, but convicted
of two misdemeanors.  Miami was supposed to have been the opener of a 20-concert
tour for the  Doors , but city after city cancelled. Radio
stations stopped playing their records, at least for a while.
Morrison’s relationships with other band members soured.  For Morrison and for the Doors, the conviction was the
beginning of their end.  Yesterday’s action pardons Morrison for what he may or may
not have done without drawing a conclusion.  It doesn’t pardon those people who, in their drive for
decency, accomplished an indecent act.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  