-- Jobless Rate May Decline Below 9% Over Next Year, Trennert Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-12-10T19:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/jobless-rate-may-decline-below-9-over-next-year-trennert-says-tom-keene.html
The  jobless rate  in the U.S. may
drop below 9 percent over the next year as employers regain
confidence in the White House’s policies, said  Jason Trennert ,
chief investment strategist at Strategas Research Partners.  “If they get some sort of sense that they know what the
rules of the game are, I think that will result in a much better
employment picture,” New York-based Trennert said in an
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“There’s a very good chance you get a cyclical improvement in
the unemployment rate from 9.8 to something with an eight handle
in the next year.”  The unemployment rate jumped to 9.8 percent in November
from 9.6 percent the previous month, the Labor Department
reported on Dec. 3, as employers added fewer jobs than forecast.
It’s at the highest level since April. The rate has held above
9.5 percent for 16 straight months.  President  Barack Obama  said Dec. 6 he would accept a
compromise with congressional Republicans that would keep
current tax rates for high-income taxpayers in place for two
more years in exchange for extending federal unemployment
insurance for the long-term jobless and cutting the payroll tax
by $120 billion for one year.  The economy is “on the precipice” of a jobs recovery,
said Trennert, who is also managing partner of the research
firm.  “Up until a week ago, people thought it was virtually
impossible for President Obama to move to the center,” Trennert
said. “If President Obama gets the sense that this is getting
him through the night, where this actually works, then he may
surprise everyone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  