-- JPMorgan Seeks to Put $1.55 Billion KB Home Nevada Project Into Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-12-10T16:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/jpmorgan-seeks-to-put-1-55-billion-kb-home-vegas-project-into-bankruptcy.html
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA is trying to
force a $1.55 billion Las Vegas-area development into
bankruptcy, saying affiliates of builders  KB Home ,  Beazer Homes
USA Inc. , and  Toll Brothers Inc.  mismanaged the project.  JPMorgan filed an involuntary bankruptcy in Las Vegas
yesterday accusing the three builders and five other investors
in South Edge LLC of employing a “hostage-ransom strategy” to
avoid liability for a $585 million loan.  A unit of KB Home owns 48 percent of South Edge, which
controls the 2,000-acre Inspirada residential and commercial
development in the Las Vegas suburb of Henderson, according to
court documents. The rest of South Edge is owned by the other
investors, including units of Toll Bros. and Beazer.  JPMorgan asked the U.S. Bankruptcy Court to appoint a
trustee to take control of South Edge and the project. The eight
owners are refusing to put $270 million into the project as they
promised, the bank said in court papers.  “These insiders are sacrificing the project and
repudiating debtor’s obligations in a quest for great profits at
the expense of not only approximately 39 lenders to whom the
insiders seek to shift their losses, but also to the city of
Henderson,” JPMorgan said in court papers filed yesterday.  Calls today to Los Angeles-based KB Home before business
hours; Toll Brothers, based in Horsham, Pennsylvania; and Beazer
Homes, based in Atlanta, weren’t immediately returned.  The case is in re South Edge LLC, 10-32968, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 