-- Junk Bonds Buck Debt Slump With Tightest Spreads Since '08: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-12-10T21:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/junk-bonds-buck-debt-slump-with-tightest-spreads-since-07-credit-markets.html
Junk bonds are becoming a haven for
fixed-income investors roiled by mounting losses in government,
investment-grade corporate and municipal debt.  Gains of 0.8 percent this month on high-yield, high-risk
bonds compare with losses of 1.9 percent for Treasuries, 1.5
percent on high-grade company notes and 1.4 percent on state and
local debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Relative yields on junk bonds versus higher-rated
corporates narrowed to 388 basis points, or 3.88 percentage
points, a level that hasn’t been breached in three years.  “Junk bonds have benefited greatly by the fact that
they’re the only place in the fixed-income world you can get
some nice return,” said  Dan Sheppard , a New York-based director
in fixed-income at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management
unit, where he helps oversee $12 billion.  Bonds of borrowers from credit-card processor First Data
Corp. to Camp Hill, Pennsylvania-based  Rite Aid Corp.  are
gaining as Pacific Investment Management Co. raises its forecast
for U.S. growth next year. Other debt is tumbling after
President  Barack Obama  agreed this week to extend tax cuts
enacted under his predecessor and  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may expand bond purchases,
spurring speculation inflation will accelerate.  “If you have a rising interest-rate environment, that’s a
great environment for high yield,” said  Zane Brown , fixed-
income strategist at Jersey City, New Jersey-based Lord Abbett &
Co., which manages $53 billion of debt.  Issuance Doubles Average  Novelis Inc. , the Atlanta-based aluminum unit of India’s
Hindalco Industries Ltd., and Australia’s  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd.  led $12 billion of junk-rated corporate bond issuance in
the U.S. this week, the most since September, and more than
double the 2010 weekly average of $5.65 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point to 171 basis points, down
from this year’s high of 201 in June, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.936 percent.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S.
declined for the eighth straight day, the longest such streak
since June. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.2 basis point to a mid-
price of 87.3 basis points as of 4:09 p.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  Junk Bonds Gain  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, is at the lowest since
Nov. 5, when it ended at 85.6 basis points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The Barclays Capital Global Aggregate Index of bonds has
lost 0.43 percent this month, trimming this year’s gain to 3.73
percent.  The gain on junk bonds brings returns for the year to 14.1
percent, after soaring a record 57.5 percent in 2009, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s US High Yield Master II
Index. Returns on the riskiest junk bonds, rated CCC or lower by
S&P, have surged this month, gaining 1.9 percent.  Bonds from Atlanta-based First Data have gained 5.56
percent this month and drugstore chain Rite Aid added 2.65
percent, index data show.  The difference between spreads on junk and investment-grade
debt last reached 388 basis points in June 2008 and fell below
that level on Dec. 28, 2007, when it was 370 basis points, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. It was as wide as 1,531
basis points in December 2008 as credit markets froze after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  High-Yield Forecast  High-yield debt may return 6 percent next year, assuming a
75 basis-point rise in “risk-free rates,” Morgan Stanley
analyst  Adam Richmond  wrote in a Dec. 8 report. If interest
rates remain the same, the New York-based bank sees speculative-
grade bonds earning 9.5 percent.  Junk bonds are likely to be the best performing fixed-
income asset class next year, said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income
strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia.  “Now that we’re through 2010, when falling yields drove
increased prices across the bond spectrum, many investors are
really looking towards higher spreads as the only way to earn
outsized returns for 2011,” LeBas said. “You simply can’t get
the kinds of returns investors are used to in investment-grade
or Treasuries or other products.”  Tax Cuts  Government bonds tumbled for two days after Obama agreed on
Dec. 6 to a two-year extension of current tax rates in exchange
for another 13 months of federal unemployment insurance for the
long-term jobless and cutting the payroll tax by $120 billion
for one year.  Pimco, which manages the world’s biggest bond fund, sees
the economy growing 3 percent to 3.5 percent in the fourth
quarter of next year from the same period of this year. That
compares with its previous estimate for 2 percent to 2.5 percent
growth and the 2.2 percent gain forecast for this year by the
International Monetary Fund.  “The U.S. is using fiscal and monetary policy to try to
attain escape velocity for the economy,” Chief Executive
Officer  Mohamed El-Erian  said in a telephone interview from his
office in Newport Beach, California. “What we don’t know yet is
whether that will be enough not just to change the economy’s
trajectory for one year but to place it on a medium-term
sustainable path.”  The average yield on junk debt of 7.93 percent compares
with 4.12 percent on investment-grade bonds and 3.26 percent on
the benchmark  10-year Treasury .  Sales Surge  Novelis issued $2.5 billion of notes in a two-part
offering, the biggest since Oct. 6, and Fortescue Metals sold
$1.5 billion through a unit after almost doubling the size of
its transaction from $800 million, Bloomberg data show.  Speculative-grade debt sales this week surged to the most
since the period ended Sept. 24, Bloomberg data show. Issuance
fell to $1.56 billion, the lowest in almost three months, during
the week ended Nov. 26 amid growing investor concern that
Ireland’s debt crisis would spread to other European countries.  Companies continue to sell bonds to push back debt
maturities rather than to reward equity holders, boosting the
appeal of junk bonds, said  George Goudelias , a director at Seix
Investment Advisors LLC who co-manages the $1.8 billion
 Ridgeworth Seix Floating Rate High Income Fund .  “Even in the worse credits out there, everyone has bought
time,” said Goudelias, who estimates high-yield spreads will
tighten a further 50 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  