-- King Says He Had No Talks With Political Parties in U.K. Election Campaign
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/king-denies-advising-british-politicians-on-fiscal-policy-around-elections.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
denied he tried to advise politicians on fiscal policy after two
weeks of accusations that comments he made on deficit-reduction
plans were overly political.  “There are substantial limitations” on what the central
bank governor can say while a government is formed, King said in
a letter dated Dec. 8 to a U.K. Parliament committee. He said
his actions were “wholly consistent with them” during
political talks on the formation of the government in May.  King was replying to a request from Political and
Constitutional Reform Committee Chairman  Graham Allen  for
information on his role in the formation of the Conservative-
Liberal Democrat coalition on May 11 after the inconclusive May
6 election result. A committee spokesman said Allen’s letter
won’t be published.  The comments keep King in the political spotlight after
policy maker  Adam Posen  told a panel of lawmakers on Nov. 25
that he was “uncomfortable” with the bank’s support for the
government’s deficit-reduction measures in the bank’s Inflation
Report published on May 12. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said Dec. 8 King should be free to express his views on
fiscal policy.  In the days after Posen’s comments, former Chancellor
 Alistair Darling  cautioned the bank against getting too close to
any political party, while former policy maker  David Blanchflower  called on King to quit.  No Advice  King said of meetings he had with opposition politicians in
2009 and early 2010 before the election campaign that “at no
stage did I offer any advice on the composition of any measures
designed to reduce the government deficit, in terms of spending
and taxation.” During the campaign, King held no talks or
meetings with party representatives, he said in the letter.  In the days following the election, King said he spoke with
Darling, the then chancellor, who asked him to take a phone call
from Osborne to discuss the U.K.’s position at a meeting of
European finance ministers on the Greek debt crisis. King said
this was his only conversation with any member of the coalition
until it was formed. He also spoke about Greece with then Prime
Minister  Gordon Brown  on May 9, he said.  After the coalition was formed, King spoke with Osborne on
May 12, and the chancellor “outlined the contents of the
coalition agreement on economic matters,” the governor said. In
a conversation with Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  three days
later, King “said nothing in that call that I had not already
said in public.”  Before the campaign, King said his meetings with opposition
parties were “to provide technical advice on aspects of their
programs relevant to the responsibilities of the bank.”  ‘22 Days’  King also responded to a query from Allen on comments that
appeared in “22 Days in May,” a book by  David Laws  about the
formation of the coalition.  One remark in the book said King shared the view that “the
achievement of a further spending reduction of 6 billion pounds
($9.5 billion) in 2010 would be regarded by the financial
markets as a test” of whether the government could implement
its  deficit-reduction  plan.  Another passage in Laws’ book quoted Osborne as saying that
King and  Nick Macpherson , permanent secretary to the Treasury,
“are very supportive of what we want to do.”  King wrote in the letter to Allen that the comments do not
suggest that a meeting had taken place.  “My views on the need for a credible deficit-reduction
plan had however been made very clear, and in public, as far
back as March 2009,” he wrote. “I said nothing in private
meetings that went beyond those comments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  