-- KPMG Plans to Sell Powerfuel's Coal, Carbon Capture Businesses by March
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2010-12-10T17:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/kpmg-may-sell-powerfuel-coal-carbon-capture-businesses-by-march.html
KPMG International, administrator
for  Powerfuel Plc , said it may sell the mining and power
businesses within three months.  “We’ll run a normal sale of the business to get the best
price,”  Richard Fleming , U.K. head of restructuring at KPMG,
said in a phone interview from London. “The existing
shareholders may make an offer on the businesses and we’d take
the best offer,” Fleming said.  Powerfuel is owned by Chief Executive Officer  Richard Budge 
and former Russian billionaire  Mikhail Abyzov , according to a
company presentation last month. The company “has too much
debt,” Fleming said. Assets include a coal mine and a project
to build a power station in northern England that captures
carbon-dioxide from gasified-coal and buries it underground for
storage, according to information on its website.  The coal mine needs about 30 million pounds ($47 million)
to raise production, KPMG said in a statement. The company has
permission to build a power station at the site and won 180
million euros ($239 million) of European Union funding to
demonstrate the capturing and storage of CO2. Powerfuel is 653
million pounds short of the investment needed to develop the CCS
project, according to KPMG. The funding will be available if new
owners can raise the additional investment needed for the
project, Fleming said.  Fund Demonstration  Britain’s coalition government adopted a former Labour plan
to fund the first demonstration to capture carbon emissions and
pipe them underground for storage in depleted North Sea gas
fields on a commercial scale. They also promised subsidies to
three other so-called CCS projects via a levy on electricity
bills. CCS has already been tested on a small scale.  Powerfuel’s CCS plans are “one of the more progressed
projects in Europe,” said Kieron Stopforth, a CCS analyst for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London. The project may apply
for additional EU funding from the sale of carbon permits, he
said. They may also benefit from the U.K.’s subsidy plans. “If
they secure funding from these incentives they should have
little difficulty bridging the funding gap.”  U.K. baseload power for the six months through September
2011 has risen 8.8 percent this year to 46.80 pounds a megawatt-
hour. The government has said it plans to consult on a way to
tax consumers of electricity from high-emitting sources to help
make investments in low-carbon technologies more attractive. CO2
is one of the greenhouse gasses blamed for global warming.  “It’s a very high risk for a developer to take that
construction risk given current power prices and uncertainty
over the levels of subsidy,”  Meg Brown , a London-based analyst
at Citigroup Inc., said by telephone. A power price of about 160
euros a megawatt would be needed to make CCS viable on a new
power station, she said.  Powerfuel’s Budge couldn’t immediately be reached by
Bloomberg News. The company “is working with administrators to
ensure the best possible outcome,” Michael Turner, a London-
based spokesman for Powerfuel, said by telephone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  