-- Gas to Climb in 2011 as 5-Year Output Gain Ends: Energy Markets
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-12-10T20:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/natural-gas-prices-may-advance-in-2011-on-lower-production-energy-markets.html
Natural gas prices may rebound next
year as producers cut output for the first time in six years
amid record stockpiles and an expanding U.S. economy.  A 21 percent drop in prices this year will contribute to a
decline in drilling for the fuel sold to factories, power plants
and homeowners, the Energy Department said in its monthly  Short-
Term Energy Outlook  on Dec. 7. Output will average 62.01 billion
cubic feet a day in 2011, down from a record of 62.09 billion
this year, the department estimated.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. , the second-largest U.S. gas
producer after Exxon Mobil Corp., said last month it will reduce
gas drilling and focus on oil until gas prices rise. The fuel
may average $5 per million British thermal units in 2011, up 13
percent from current prices, according to the median of 15
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg since September.  “Production will flatten out in the next several months
and then potentially start to decline after that, probably in
the second half of the year,” said  Jonathan Wolff , a New York-
based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, which is predicting an
average price of $5.25 in 2011. “We don’t see it as being
exciting to drill a gas well at these prices.”  Natural gas for January delivery fell 1.8 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $4.417 per million Btu today on the New
York Mercantile Exchange.  Factory Fuel Use  Industrial demand for gas will rise as the U.S. economy
recovers from the worst recession since the 1930s. Purchases by
manufacturers, steel mills and chemical plants will gain 1.1
percent in 2011 to an estimated 18.09 billion cubic feet a day,
according to Energy Department estimates.  A tax-cut package proposed by President  Barack Obama  may
bring inflation-adjusted growth in the U.S. economy to a 4
percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of 2011, Deutsche Bank
Securities economists said in a note to clients dated Dec. 7.
Growth this quarter is an estimated 2.5 percent, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “Industrial demand is coming back already,” said  Jason Schenker , president of Prestige Economics, an energy consulting
company in Austin, Texas. “Storage withdrawals have been a bit
larger than historical numbers even though new supplies are
coming to market, which implies that demand is going up.”  Stockpiles of gas  have climbed to records for two
consecutive years, reaching 3.843 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended Nov. 12, according to the Energy Department. Supplies
decline during the cold-weather months, when demand exceeds
production and imports.  Chesapeake’s Plans  Chesapeake, based in Oklahoma City, will cut the gas
portion of its drilling program to a third by 2012, down from 90
percent last year, according to Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey K. McClendon .  “If gas prices rebound and the country says we need more
gas, we can absolutely respond to that very quickly,” McClendon
said in a conference call on Nov. 4. “But right now the focus
is on oil because it’s three or four times more profitable.”  Chesapeake projected that gas prices may average $4.50 in
2011 and $5.50 in 2012.  “Production will start to tail off in the latter part of
next year,” said  Scott Hanold , an energy analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in Minneapolis, who forecasts a 2011 average price of
$5. “More than half of the plays out there are probably not
making the economic rate of return.”  Output from shale wells  rose 71 percent in 2008 to 2.02
trillion cubic feet, accounting for 17 percent of U.S. supply.
Gas output has been rising since 2005.  Shale Gas  Production from the  Haynesville shale  in Louisiana and East
Texas, which produces “dry” natural gas without oil or
liquids, may tumble as producers fulfill the terms of leases
that required them to drill within a certain time frame, said
 Ray Deacon , an analyst at Pritchard Capital Markets in Warren,
Rhode Island, who predicted gas will average $5 next year.  The Energy Department “expects drilling activity to
decline in 2011 because of relatively lower natural gas
prices,” the government said in the Dec. 7 outlook.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Societe Generale SA say
prices will keep dropping.  Merrill analysts led by  Francisco Blanch  in New York cut
their forecast to $4.60 per million Btu from $5 previously,
citing a “well-saturated” market and higher-than-expected
drilling rates.  “Rigs need to fall by at least 20 to 25 percent over the
course of 2011 in order to significantly slow the pace of new
supply and thus support prices,” the bank said in a report
dated Dec. 3.  Onshore gas production will create a supply glut in places
including the northern Rockies, Louisiana and Pennsylvania,
Societe Generale said in a research note Dec. 8. The bank on
Nov. 3 lowered its 2011 price forecast to $3.56 per million
British thermal units from $3.75.  The number of U.S. gas drilling rigs rose eight to 961 in
the week ended Dec. 3, up 28 percent from a year earlier,  Baker
Hughes Inc. data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Moming Zhou} in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
{ Christine Buurma } in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  