-- Navratilova Stops Fundraising Climb of Mount Kilimanjaro After Illness
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-10T17:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/navratilova-stops-fundraising-climb-of-mount-kilimanjaro-after-illness.html
Martina Navratilova , the 18-time
Grand Slam tennis singles champion, is recovering in a Nairobi
hospital after she was forced to give up climbing  Mount
Kilimanjaro , organizers of the fundraising event said.  Navratilova, who had been helped down Africa’s highest peak
by porters after feeling unwell on the fourth day of the charity
climb, is suffering from high altitude pulmonary edema, an
accumulation of fluid in the lungs, the Laureus charity said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The nine-time Wimbledon champion had initially been driven
to the Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre for assessment,
where doctors decided she should be flown to Nairobi for further
tests as a precaution, Laureus said.  “Basically this is fluid in the lungs related to high
altitude,” said Dr. David Silverstein, a consultant in
cardiology and internal medicine at the Nairobi Hospital. “It
is potentially dangerous when someone is at high altitude, but
once brought down, recovery is quick. Martina is doing well and
will continue to do well.”  Navratilova, 54, will have to spend “two to three days,”
in the hospital for treatment, Silverstein said. “There will be
no effects to long-term health and patients get back to full
fitness in due course. Martina’s acute condition is not
reflective of her health or fitness. It occurs in some people in
conditions of low oxygen.”  Navratilova, who was diagnosed with breast cancer in
February, had been leading a team of 27 climbers to raise money
for the  Laureus Sport for Good Foundation . The charity supports
community sports projects around the world.  She had been forced to stop the climb when the expedition
reached an altitude of 4,500 meters (14,800 feet), Laureus said.  ‘Disappointed’  “I’m disappointed not to be able to complete this amazing
journey,” Navratilova said in the statement “It was something
that I have wanted to do for so long, but it was not to be.”  The climbers headed for the 5,895-meter peak had
encountered “unseasonal weather of blizzards and mists over the
last few days,” Laureus said.  After her cancer diagnosis, Navratilova had radiation
therapy in Paris during the French Open in May, while also
working as a commentator for the Tennis Channel. The Czech-born
American said in the same month she had no trace of the disease
after surgery. She had spent most of the year training for the
climb.  The climbers, who started on Dec. 6, are scheduled to reach
the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania on Dec. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 