-- New Jersey's Debt Grew by $1.4 Billion to $36.9 Billion Last Fiscal Year
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-10T15:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/new-jersey-s-bonded-debt-said-to-grow-by-1-4-billion-in-past-fiscal-year.html
New Jersey’s bonded debt rose by
$1.4 billion to $36.9 billion outstanding in the year ended June
30, according to a state Treasury Department report.  The state’s total long-term obligations, which include
another $18.4 billion in pension and post-retirement health
expenses accrued last budget year, increased to about $58
billion from $51 billion a year earlier, according to the report
released today. New Jersey has borrowed another $1 billion for
highway construction since June, it said.  “State bonded indebtedness grew at the slowest pace in
three fiscal years during fiscal 2010,” Andrew Pratt, Treasury
Department spokesman, said in a statement. “This administration
was in office for only six months of the fiscal year, yet that
was time enough to show how restraint and common sense budgeting
could ease the growth in the state’s debt burden.”  New Jersey , which has the highest per-capita income of all
U.S. states except  Connecticut  according to Commerce Department
 reports , had the third-largest total net tax-supported debt,
according to the 2010 State Debt Medians Report by Moody’s
Investors Service. Only California and New York had more.  ‘Crazy on Debt’  New Jersey will be slow to borrow for projects outside of
school construction and transport infrastructure, Governor  Chris Christie , a first-term Republican, told reporters at a press
conference yesterday.  “We’ll be very, very cognizant of incurring any new
debt,” he said. “It’s a balance, but we also recognize that
the state, over the past dozen years or so, under both
Republican and Democratic administrations, went crazy on debt.”  The annual report, prepared by state Public Finance
Director  James Petrino , includes for the first time an
accounting of the total unfunded liabilities for pension and
health benefits. Those amounted to $87.5 billion as of June 30,
2009, the most recent year for which figures were available, an
increase of 11 percent from a year earlier, according to the
report.  Moody’s cited New Jersey’s debt load and pension
underfunding as reasons for its negative outlook on the state’s
Aa2 rated general-obligation bonds, the third-highest investment
grade.  “Strengths are balanced against a below-average debt
profile including sizable unfunded long-term liabilities related
to pensions and other post-employment benefits, high bonded-debt
levels and significant swap exposure,” Moody’s said in a Sept.
23 report on borrowing by the state Transportation Trust Fund
Authority.  Repaying the obligations is scheduled to cost taxpayers
$2.8 billion in the current budget year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  