-- Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Al-Naimi Says No Need for OPEC Output Increase
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-12-10T22:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/no-need-for-opec-production-increase-at-meeting-saudi-oil-minister-says.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al- Naimi  said there is no need for an oil production increase at a
meeting tomorrow of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  OPEC, which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
hasn’t changed quotas since late 2008, when it announced the
biggest-ever reduction in output as global demand collapsed.  Crude oil rose 3.3 percent last month on the New York
Mercantile Exchange and exceeded $90 a barrel on Dec. 7 for the
first time in more than two years.  “You guys really worry too much about prices,” al-Naimi
told reporters as he arrived in Quito, Ecuador, for the producer
group’s meeting. “They go up, they go down. What’s new?”  Oil may reach $100 a barrel next year as demand from Europe
and the U.S. picks up, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst  Jeffrey Currie  said last month.  “Demand is up, supply is up,” said al-Naimi, whose
country is OPEC’s biggest producer. Asked if $100 a barrel for
oil would be acceptable to producers and consumers, he said,
“What else do you have?”  Angolan Oil Minister  Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos  said
earlier today that there’s no reason for OPEC to change
production.  “The situation is stable right now,” and oil at $90 a
barrel makes up for a weak dollar, he said.  Crude oil for January delivery declined 58 cents to $87.79
a barrel today in New York, the lowest settlement since Dec. 1.
Futures dropped 1.6 percent this week and are up 24 percent from
a year ago.  The 12 members of OPEC are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota
system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Quito at  mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  