-- Nobel Winner's Imprisonment Shows China Weakness, Jagland Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-12-10T15:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/nobel-peace-prize-winner-s-imprisonment-shows-china-weakness-jagland-says.html
The imprisonment of Nobel Peace
Prize Winner and activist  Liu Xiaobo  illustrates the fragility
of China’s political system, the chairman of the Nobel Committee
said at today’s award ceremony.  “Many will ask whether China’s weakness is not manifested
in the need to imprison a man for 11 years merely for expressing
his opinions on how this country should be governed,”
 Thorbjoern Jagland  said, according to the text of a speech
delivered today in Oslo.  Liu, awarded the prize on Oct. 8 “for his long and non-
violent struggle for fundamental human rights,” was sentenced
to prison last year on a charge of plotting to subvert the
ruling Communist Party. President  Barack Obama , last year’s
winner, has called on China to release Liu and today praised the
54-year-old writer as “far more deserving” than himself.  “We respect China’s extraordinary accomplishment in
lifting millions out of poverty, and believe that human rights
include the dignity that comes with freedom from want,” Obama
said in a statement. “But Mr. Liu reminds us that human dignity
also depends upon the advance of democracy, open society, and
the rule of law.”  In Isolation  Liu was one of the organizers of Charter 08, an open letter
signed by more than 300 Chinese academics, lawyers and activists
calling for direct elections and freedom of assembly. He is kept
in isolation in a prison in northeast China.  Liu’s absence was marked in Oslo City Hall with an empty
chair on the podium and Norwegian actress  Liv Ullmann  read from
a statement Liu made in court on Dec. 23, 2009, entitled “I
have no enemies: My final statement.”  “There is no force that can put an end to the human quest
for freedom and China will in the end become a nation ruled by
law, where human rights reign supreme,” Liu said in the text.  No medal was awarded as neither Liu, his wife Xia, nor any
close relative was able to attend. “This fact alone shows that
the award was necessary and appropriate,” Jagland said.  It was the fifth time in the award’s 109-year history that
a winner was prevented from attending for political reasons. The
others were German pacifist Carl von Ossietzky in 1935, Soviet
dissident and physicist Andrei Sakharov in 1975, Polish
Solidarity founder  Lech Walesa  in 1983 and Burmese opposition
leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  in 1991. With the exception of
Ossietzky, the laureates were represented by family members at
the award ceremony.  Clowns  “I regret that Mr. Liu and his wife were denied the
opportunity to attend the ceremony that Michelle and I attended
last year,” Obama said in the statement.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  derided the
award as a “farce” bestowed by “clowns” in comments in
Beijing on Dec. 7. Nineteen countries, including Russia, Saudi
Arabia and Argentina, weren’t represented at the ceremony.  The prize, along with literature, physics and medicine
honors, was created by Swedish industrialist  Alfred Nobel  and
first awarded in 1901.  Liu, who New York-based Human Rights in China said was one
of the last to leave Beijing’s Tiananmen Square protests in
1989, wants the prize to be dedicated to “the lost souls from
the 4th of June,” when the Chinese military ended
demonstrations at the square, according to Jagland.  Liu is the “very symbol” of the struggle for human rights
in China, Jagland said, calling for his release from prison.  Scuffles  There were scuffles today between supporters and opponents
of the award outside Norway’s parliament, a block away from City
Hall, newspaper VG said. About 40 people demonstrated with signs
saying Liu was a criminal who had done nothing for peace.  An torchlight procession this evening through the streets
of the Norwegian capital will end at the Grand Hotel, where the
laureate traditionally greets the crowd from the balcony of the
136-year-old establishment. This year, a picture of Liu will be
projected on the facade of the hotel.  Amnesty International in Norway yesterday delivered 100,000
signatures to the Chinese embassy calling for Liu’s release.  “His views will in the long run strengthen China,”
Jagland said in the conclusion of his speech. “We extend to him
and to China our very best wishes for the years ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  