-- Nokia Siemens Can’t Meet Indian Demands, Finland Says
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2010-12-10T14:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/nokia-siemens-can-t-meet-india-s-demand-for-telecom-source-code.html
 Nokia Siemens Networks, the
network-equipment joint venture of  Nokia Oyj  and  Siemens AG ,
finds India’s demand to get access to hardware and software
design documents “impossible to meet,” Finland’s Communication
Minister  Suvi Linden  said.  “We can understand that India wants to be careful with
network security, but it’s important that restrictions are not
too tough so that companies can’t be here,” Linden said today
in New Delhi.  India amended phone-license rules this year, requiring
equipment vendors to allow authorities to inspect
telecommunication source code in design documents for security
threats. Escrow accounts were proposed as a mechanism for this.
The country this year blocked Chinese companies Huawei
Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp. from selling equipment to
domestic phone carriers, citing espionage concerns.  “The escrowing of our source code is unacceptable to us as
an option for meeting security concerns in India,” Nokia
Siemens spokesman  Ben Roome  said by e-mail. “We have suggested
alternate means and are hopeful that the Indian government will
consider those suggestions.”  Home Secretary  Gopal Krishna Pillai  said in September that
the Indian government was in talks with European producers.
Nokia Siemens and  Ericsson AB  said at the time that they welcome
having a dialogue with the government.  According to the new license rules, released in July,
mobile phone companies would face a penalty equivalent to the
value of their equipment contracts if inspectors find security
breaches.  ‘Profound Issue”  “Nokia Siemens says this demand is impossible,” Finland’s
Linden said today. “It is such a profound issue, we’re not sure
how it is going to work. Some of the rules are not acceptable.”  Nokia Siemens, based in Espoo, Finland, and Ericsson, the
world’s two largest wireless-network equipment makers, are the
top vendors in India’s $9.2 billion phone-network market, with
shares of about 23 percent each, according to the latest annual
survey by trade publication Voice & Data. Huawei has a 17.6
percent market share and ZTE has 13.7 percent, according to the
survey.  Nokia Siemens is “hopeful that any policy formation would
happen as a result of open dialogue and consultative approach
with the industry players” and be in line with international
best practices, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The government wants this issue off the table, so I’m
optimistic that it will be resolved, but there will likely need
to be some drastic changes somewhere,” Linden said.  With assistance from Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki.--Editors:
Simon Thiel, Tom Lavell, David Risser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net 
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  