-- Obama's Presidential Drama Calls for Muscle: Michael Waldman
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W a l d m a n
-- 2010-12-10T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/obama-s-presidential-drama-calls-for-muscle-commentary-by-michael-waldman.html
Glum Democrats should note that
President  Barack Obama  still has ample means to advance a
progressive agenda. He can take bold executive actions even when
Congress balks. The unpalatable tax deal with Republicans
underscores that the White House should find ways to advance
goals on its own.  Does this mean Obama should get in touch with his inner
 Dick Cheney ? Not quite. But like all presidents, he has a
bulging toolkit: executive orders, regulations, spending
decisions, the bully pulpit and more. Obama has lots of power,
and he should wield it. Liberals must learn to cheer.  Already, the Center for American Progress, a think tank
headed by former Clinton White House Chief of Staff  John Podesta , has issued an excellent  first draft  of an activist
presidential agenda.  Consider energy policy, where congressional gridlock seems
inevitable, with many conservatives insisting climate change is
a myth and taxes are a nightmare. The Center’s experts say Obama
could impose a $2-per-barrel fee on imported oil with proceeds
steered toward energy research. Or he could direct that half the
federal auto fleet use alternative fuels by 2015, thus creating
a new huge market for clean vehicles. And he could use the new
financial consumer protection agency to introduce strong
protections for consumers.  Beyond those proposals, the Justice Department can press
states to modernize voter registration systems and register
millions of voters while curbing the potential for fraud. Some
economists argue Obama could boost wages among employees of
government contractors. And while a president can’t order
independent agencies to act, a public request can give policies
a big boost.  Presidential Power  There’s no little irony here. Lately it has been
progressives who worried most about unaccountable presidential
power, while conservatives celebrated robust chief executives.
The parties sometimes seem to be swapping clothes. But there’s a
difference between strong executive action to protect the
environment or advance clean government, and actions carried out
in secret that stretch the bounds of the law.  Of course, a strong presidency was first envisioned by
those who wanted an activist government, which would come,
predicted  Alexander Hamilton , only from “energy in the
executive.” Whether it was  Thomas Jefferson  buying Louisiana
without consulting Congress, or  Abraham Lincoln  freeing the
slaves by  proclamation , the rise of a powerful presidency was
synonymous with a growing federal presence.  Liberal Scars  But Cold War abuses, Vietnam and Watergate scarred
liberals. In the 1940s and 1950s, historian  Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr . wrote “The Age of Jackson” and “The Age of
Roosevelt” trilogy to celebrate strong chiefs. By the 1970s, he
warned of excessive executive authority in “The Imperial
Presidency.”  Meanwhile, conservatives grew enamored of presidential
might. Cheney waged a decades-long crusade to recover what he
saw as neutered executive power. As vice president, he proudly
pointed to his 1987 statement that the president has
“monarchical notions of prerogative.” (George III would surely
approve, even if George Washington might not.)  By the end of the Bush years, among many Republicans, it
seemed that support for a strong presidency had become a
euphemism for “I back  waterboarding .”  Legitimate Tools  Yes, there’s plenty of hypocrisy to go around. But it
doesn’t require torture -- or torturing the Constitution -- to
see that presidents have developed many legitimate tools to
advance their agenda that go beyond waiting for Congress to act.  That’s as it should be. We have had divided government for
all but 13 of the past 40 years. And Senators have staged more
filibusters in the past decade than in the rest of the country’s
history put together. Congress seems institutionally frozen.
Little wonder that presidents and their aides have found ways to
push policy and prod the bureaucracy without waiting for
congressional approval that will never come.  All this will require a new mindset in the White House.
Obama has vetoed only two bills so far. He will need to learn to
think presidentially, to seek ways to press forward without
worrying about Congress. Executive actions convey strength when
the president announces them with a flourish. No drama Obama, as
his campaign staffers called him, needs a bit more drama.  With  George W. Bush  gone, rambunctious new conservatives
may scream tyranny should Obama wield the presidential pen. Some
worries are well placed. Recall that the first draft of the Bush
administration’s Troubled Asset Relief Program bank rescue
stipulated that the Treasury secretary’s decisions “may not be
reviewed by any court of law or any administrative agency.”
That shocking sense of unaccountability helped spur the Tea
Party movement.  Crazed Adversaries  Self-confident claims of executive authority may well drive
Obama’s adversaries into a frenzy -- perhaps yet another
political plus for the president.  Of course, it is important that the executive branch stay
within the spirit and letter of the law. There’s no excuse for
secrecy. And there is a more potent argument for a strong check
and balance on matters of war and peace than on routine
regulatory actions.  White House aides seeking a road map can find it in an
article written a decade ago by a young tenure-seeking law
professor who had worked for President Clinton. “Faced for most
of his time in office with a hostile Congress but eager to show
progress on domestic issues, Clinton and his White house staff
turned to the bureaucracy to achieve, to the extent it could,
the full panoply of his domestic policy goals ... whether the
subject was health care, welfare reform, tobacco, or guns.”  The professor was  Elena Kagan  -- and she got tenure. Her
treatise reminds us that even when Congress swings to the other
party, a gutsy and determined president can continue to make
“change we can believe in.”  ( Michael Waldman , former head speechwriter for President
 Bill Clinton , is executive director of the Brennan Center for
Justice at New York University School of Law and the author of
“My Fellow Americans.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael.Waldman@NYU.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  