-- Obama Directs His Staff to Analyze Options for Overhaul of U.S. Tax System
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-12-10T17:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/obama-directs-his-staff-to-analyze-options-for-overhaul-of-u-s-tax-system.html
President Barack Obama has directed
his economic team to begin analyzing options for overhauling
the U.S. tax code as part of an effort to trim the long-term
deficit, an administration official said.  No decisions have been made about what options to pursue
or a timeline for presenting a plan to lawmakers, said the
official, speaking on condition of anonymity because no formal
action has been taken. Any changes likely would take years to
implement.  Obama said this week that revamping the nation’s tax
system will have to be considered to deal with budget deficits
and make the tax code more “fair” and “efficient.”  “The idea is simplifying the system, hopefully lowering
rates, broadening the base,” Obama said in an interview
yesterday with NPR News. “What I believe is, is that we’ve got
to start that conversation next year.”  The administration is focusing on the issue as Congress
debates measures to extend tax cuts set to expire at the end of
the year and the president considers a report by his commission
on reducing the  federal deficit , which included recommendations
to change tax laws.  The New York Times reported the review of options on its
website last night.  The commission’s report heightened interest in tax policy,
which has been part of the president’s broader agenda, White
House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said.  Administration Priority  “The president has long said that reforming the tax
system is a priority and the bipartisan fiscal commission
recently made recommendations that he will consider as part of
the budget process,” Psaki said in a statement. “But he is
not considering specific policy proposals, and no decisions
have been made about whether this is a priority he will push
for in the near future.”  Obama’s deficit commission proposed $1 trillion in tax
increases by 2020 by scaling back or eliminating hundreds of
deductions, exclusions or credits such as those allowing
homeowners to write off interest on their mortgage payments. It
also would cut individual and corporate income tax rates.  The panel proposed Social Security benefits be cut, the
gas tax raised by 15 cents, discretionary spending to be
reduced by $1.6 trillion and Medicare pared by $400 billion.  Options With Appeal  The plan, which didn’t get enough votes on the 18-member
commission to be presented to lawmakers, would have reduced the
annual deficit to about $400 billion in 2015, from $1.3
trillion in fiscal 2010, and begin cutting the debt, according
to the report.  Austan Goolsbee, chairman of the president’s Council of
Economic Advisers, said the panel’s proposal to broaden the tax
base and lower corporate rates “holds a lot of appeal.”  Obama has said that exploring an overhaul of the tax code
should be considered once the economic recovery accelerates.
The gross domestic product expanded at a 2.5 percent annual
rate in the third quarter, half the pace in the last three
months of 2009. The nation’s  unemployment rate  in November was
9.8 percent.  White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  told reporters
today the administration is interested in a “broad-based look
at our tax system, and that any overhaul would take several
years to complete.  “This will take quite a bit of time,” he said.  Tax Debate  Right now, the administration is mounting a campaign to
garner support from congressional Democrats for an agreement
Obama struck with Republicans to extend tax cuts passed under
President George W. Bush’s administration in exchange for a 13-
month extension of unemployment aid for the long-term jobless,
a one-year cut in payroll taxes and tax breaks for small
businesses that were part of his economic package.  Democrats are registering objections to keeping tax cuts
for the wealthiest Americans and to an estate-tax provision
that would set the top rate at 35 percent after a $5 million
tax-free allowance per individual.  House Democrats yesterday voted to block a floor debate on
Obama’s tax deal with Republicans. The non-binding resolution
was aimed at forcing changes in the proposal to extend the
Bush-era tax cuts for all income levels.  Obama has defended the tax compromise as being necessary
to protect middle-class families from facing a tax increase
when the cuts expire at the end of the year.  He said on Dec. 8 that future changes to the tax code
should have a similar focus “that looks after the interests”
of the middle class.  “I don’t think anybody thinks the tax code right now is
fair or efficient,” he told reporters the next day. “We’ve
got to make sure that we don’t just paper over those
problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  