-- Obama Says He's Confident Compromise Tax Deal Will Pass U.S. House, Senate
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-12-10T11:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/obama-says-he-s-confident-tax-deal-will-pass-house-senate.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’s
“confident” that a compromise tax deal he agreed to with
Senate Republicans will pass Congress largely intact, overcoming
dissent from House Democrats.  “My sense is there are going to be discussions between
both House and Senate leadership about all the final elements of
the package,” the president told  NPR News  in an interview
broadcast today. “I’m confident that the framework is going to
look like the one we put forward.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  introduced the
legislation based on the agreement late yesterday. The measure
would add $857 billion to the  federal debt  over 10 years,
according to government analysts.  The plan would sustain Bush-era tax  rates  through 2012, set
the estate tax at the lowest rate in 80 years, extend jobless
aid to the long-term unemployed and cut payroll taxes by 2
percentage points.  The legislation includes some provisions favored by
Democrats such as renewed ethanol and commuter subsidies.
Others, such as an extension of the Build America Bonds program,
didn’t make the cut.  House Democrats have objected to extending the tax rates
for the wealthiest Americans -- which Obama previously opposed -
- and the estate-tax provision.  “The issue here is not whether I think that the tax cuts
for the wealthy are a good or smart thing to do,” Obama said,
according to a transcript released by NPR. “The problem is, is
that this is the single issue that the Republicans are willing
to scotch the entire deal for.”  Obama’s Choice  Obama said his choice was accepting the two-year extension
of the top rates or giving up the extra 13 months of federal aid
for people who are  unemployed . Otherwise, all taxpayers would be
hit with higher rates, he said.  “Nobody -- Democrat or Republican -- wants to see people’s
paychecks smaller on Jan. 1 because Congress didn’t act,” he
said.  Obama said that while he’s still determined to bring down
the budget deficit, adding to the shortfall now is necessary
because of the fragile economy.  He cited forecasts by private economists that project an
increase of about 1 percent in gross domestic product as a
result of the tax package because it would spur consumer
spending, which makes up about 70 percent of the economy.  “It actually makes sense for us not do anything that
contracts the economy right now because the single most
important thing we can do for deficit reduction is actually
expand economic growth,” he said.  Economic Recovery  The U.S. economy is struggling to recover from the worst
recession since the Great Depression. The economy expanded at a
2.5 percent annual rate in the third quarter, half the pace in
the last three months of 2009.  The jobless rate rose to 9.8 percent in November even as
other statistics showed the economy picking up. Sales at
retailers rose by the most in eight months in November while
manufacturing expanded for a 16th month.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the
world’s biggest bond fund, is raising its forecast for U.S.
growth next year based on the tax plan.  Pimco sees the economy growing 3 percent to 3.5 percent in
the fourth quarter of next year from the same period of this
year. That compares with its previous estimate for 2 percent to
2.5 percent growth and the 2.2 percent gain forecast for this
year by the International Monetary Fund.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.4 percent yesterday
to 1,233.00, closing at its highest level since September 2008.  Next Budget  Obama said he’s preparing an austere fiscal 2012 budget
that he will send to Congress in February. He said spending cuts
in foreign aid or earmarks for pet projects won’t be enough to
balance the budget. The  deficit  in fiscal 2010 was $1.3
trillion, the second highest ever.  “We’ve got to look at a whole range of things,” he said,
and that includes “entitlements; that includes defense; that
includes a whole host of discretionary spending where we can
probably do more and do it smarter with less money.”  Obama said the budget debate also will be an opportunity to
begin discussions about overhauling the tax code to eliminate
deductions and credits while lowering rates.  “We’ve got to start that conversation next year. I think
we can get some broad bipartisan agreement that it needs to be
done. But it’s going to require a lot of hard work to actually
make it happen,” he said.  Obama also said the administration has an agreement with
Senate leaders to get a vote on the Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty with Russia after the tax plan vote.  “The START treaty is something that I absolutely think has
to get done before Congress leaves for Christmas vacation,” he
said. “It is good for our national security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  