-- Obama Meets With Bill Clinton as President Maps Agenda for Next Two Years
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-12-10T20:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/obama-to-meet-with-former-president-bill-clinton-at-white-house.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  met with
former President  Bill Clinton  today at the White House as he
begins focusing on an agenda for the next two years.  Obama, 49, invited Clinton, 64, to the White House several
weeks ago, White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  told
reporters at a briefing today. They met in the Oval Office at
about 3 p.m. Washington time.  Gibbs said it was an opportunity for Obama to talk with one
of the “very few” people who “have done the job.” Former
presidents have insights on “working with a Congress that
contains a House or Senate that is controlled by a party other
than their own,” he said.  “You could talk with either  George W. Bush  or Bill Clinton
and discuss what happens when full control changes, as happened
in both of their administrations,” Gibbs said.  Obama and Clinton, whose wife Hillary serves as secretary
of state, likely would also talk about “a whole host of
domestic and foreign issues,” Gibbs said.  The meeting is Obama’s first with Clinton since last
month’s congressional elections when Democrats lost control of
the House of Representatives and saw their majority narrowed in
the Senate. Clinton faced a similar setback in the 1994 mid-term
elections.  ‘Unique Bond’  Gibbs described the relationship between Obama and Clinton
as “very warm” and he said the two have a “unique bond
between those that have done this job.”  During the 2008 presidential campaign Clinton went on the
campaign trail on behalf of his wife, who was battling with
Obama for the Democratic presidential nomination. Gibbs said any
elements of that fight have been diminished by the former
president’s support for the administration.  Clinton “was as robust in his support for candidate Obama
after he was the nominee, as robust a supporter as anybody you
could name,” said Gibbs.  Clinton’s efforts in the 2010 midterm elections on behalf
of Democratic candidates is “right behind” campaigning by Vice
President  Joe Biden  “in terms of the amount of places that he
went and the number of things that he did,” Gibbs said.  Gibbs declined to give further details of the agenda for
today’s discussion. The president “greatly values” candid
advice from his predecessors and “wants to keep those
conversations appropriately private,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  