-- Occidental to Buy Texas, Dakota Fields, Exit Argentina
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-12-10T21:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/occidental-agrees-to-purchase-oil-gas-properties-in-u-s-for-3-2-billion.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp ., the
largest onshore crude producer in the continental U.S., agreed
to pay $3.2 billion to expand oil and gas holdings in Texas and
North Dakota as it announced a separate deal to exit Argentina.  The U.S. purchases, from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and an
unnamed seller, eventually will add the equivalent of 100,000
barrels of daily crude  production , Los Angeles-based Occidental
said in a statement today. China Petrochemical Corp. agreed to
buy Occidental’s Argentine oil and natural-gas subsidiary today
for $2.45 billion.  “This puts them in a better position to meet their
production targets,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst for New
York-based Argus Research Corp. who has a buy rating on
Occidental’s shares and doesn’t own any. “I’d certainly rather
see them own these assets than the ones they’re selling in
Argentina.”  The combined purchases in North Dakota and Texas are
Occidental’s largest since 2006, when it bought Vintage
Petroleum for $4.46 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Excluding the deals announced today, Occidental Chief
Executive Officer  Ray Irani  has spent more than $10 billion on
acquisitions in the past five years that have helped boost
production by more than a third.  The company also said today it was adding to its stake in a
U.S. oil-pipeline company and becoming the sole owner of a power
plant in California.  ‘Predominantly Mature’ Fields  As part of its output additions, Occidental agreed to pay
$1.8 billion for “predominantly mature” fields in south Texas
that currently produce 200 million cubic feet of gas a day, the
Hague-based Shell said in a statement.  The North Dakota acquisition, valued at $1.4 billion,
involves 180,000 acres owned by an unnamed private seller,
Occidental said. Those assets produce about 5,500 barrels of oil
equivalent a day from the Bakken formation.  Occidental is exiting Argentina amid price controls on gas
that make it harder to earn profits in Latin America’s second-
largest economy, Weiss said.  Occidental acquired the Argentine fields when it bought
Vintage, along with assets from the Gulf of Mexico to Yemen. The
company got 49 percent of its net daily oil production and 58
percent of its gas from the U.S. during the first half of this
year,  according to company data . Argentina contributed about 5
percent of worldwide output.  It’s the first investment in Argentina’s oil and gas
industry for the Chinese refiner, known as  Sinopec Group . The
fields produced more than 51,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
last year and held 393 million barrels of proven plus probable
reserves as of the end of 2009, according to Sinopec.  Doubling Reserves  Irani, who is retiring in May, has more than doubled
Occidental’s oil reserves and quadrupled crude and gas
production since succeeding  Armand Hammer  as CEO in 1990. The
company’s focus has been on improving output from neglected oil
fields in places such as California and Texas.  Occidental also said today it plans to increase its stake
in the general partner of pipeline operator  Plains All American
Pipeline LP  to about 35 percent, from 23 percent. It’s adding to
its holdings as Vulcan Capital, the investment group for
 Microsoft  Corp. co-founder  Paul Allen , sells its share in the
general partner.  Plains All American, based in Houston, agreed on Nov. 15 to
buy pipelines that gather and ship crude from the Bakken area
for $210 million. The Bakken formation, located in North Dakota
and Montana, holds an estimated 4.3 billion barrels of
technically recoverable oil, according to a  2008 report  by the
U.S. Geological Survey.  Elk Hills Plant  In addition, Occidental will pay an undisclosed amount to
buy the other half of the  Elk Hills power plant  from  Sempra 
Energy. The gas-fired power plant is located in the middle of an
Occidental oil and gas field near Bakersfield, California.  The purchases will contribute to earnings as soon as they
are completed, expected to be by the end of March, Occidental
said.  Buoyed by an improved outlook for cash flow, Occidental’s
board agreed to boost the company’s dividend by 21 percent, to
46 cents a quarter from 38 cents, effective as of the April 15
payment.  Occidental  rose  $1.97, or 2.2 percent, to $93.04 at 4 p.m.
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares
have risen 14 percent this year, outpacing gains by  Exxon Mobil
Corp . and  Chevron Corp ., the largest U.S. energy companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  