-- Molecular Insight Seeks Bankruptcy After Bondholders Reject Restructuring
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   J e r a n   W i t t e n s t e i n
-- 2010-12-10T05:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/molecular-insight-seeks-bankruptcy-after-bondholders-reject-restructuring.html
Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals
Inc. , a developer of therapeutic and imaging
radiopharmaceuticals for cancer treatment, filed for bankruptcy
protection after  bondholders  rejected a restructuring plan.  The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company listed debts of
$199 million and assets of $36 million in its Chapter 11
petition, filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Boston.  Savitr Capital LLC, a private equity firm, agreed to
provide $45 million to the biopharmaceutical company in exchange
for stock representing 90 percent of the outstanding shares,
Molecular Insight said in a statement. The investment depends on
the replacement of $195 million of existing bonds with $90
million of secured notes, a plan rejected by bondholders.  “We are disappointed that the bondholders have not
accepted the Savitr proposal,”  Joseph Limber , chairman of
Molecular Insight, said in the statement. “As a result, we are
required to commence Chapter 11 proceedings to protect our
company’s ongoing business.”  Daniel Peters , Molecular Insight’s chief executive officer,
and  Charles Abdalian , the chief financial officer, resigned as
part of the reorganization, according to the statement.  Harry Stylli , a director, was named chief restructuring
officer, the company said.  Molecular Insight  on April 13 climbed the most since the
shares began trading in 2007, more than doubling to $3.43, after
a study showed its Onalta drug improved symptoms associated with
metastatic carcinoid tumors. The stock fell 1.3 percent to 74
cents yesterday.  The case is: re Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals. 10-bk-
23355. United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  