-- London Bankers to Spend $1.6 Billion of Bonus Payout on Homes
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-12-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/london-bankers-will-invest-1-6-billion-of-bonuses-in-homes-savills-says.html
London bankers and other financial-
services employees will spend about 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) of their 2010 bonus money on homes in the U.K. capital,
17 percent less than last year,  Savills Plc  said.  The purchases may not stop prices of London luxury homes
from falling next year, though the drop probably won’t exceed 1
percent, Savills said in a statement. Values rose about 2
percent this year, helped in part by approximately 1.2 billion
pounds of 2009 bonus money, the broker estimates.  This year’s payments won’t trigger a “measurable price
rise as seen in the past,”  Yolande Barnes , head of residential
research at the London-based property adviser, said in the
statement. “Rather, we anticipate that bonus money will be fed
into the market over a longer time period.”  Bonus-earners typically account for half of the buyers of
London homes costing more than 1 million pounds, according to
Savills. Record payouts in 2006 and 2007 -- which the  Centre for
Economics & Business Research  says totaled 11.5 billion pounds
each year -- sent property values surging to all-time highs in
neighborhoods such as Chelsea, Belgravia and Kensington.  The CEBR expects bonuses for the 300,000 financial-services
workers in London to total 7 billion pounds before taxes in 2010,
about 5 percent less than in 2009, according to Savills’s report.  Companies have slashed bonuses to weather the global
financial crisis. They’re also now deferring payments or
offering shares in response to pressure from politicians and
regulators. Since April, the tax rate for incomes exceeding
150,000 pounds increased to 50 percent from 40 percent.  Deferred Payments  “General caution and the method and timing of the payouts
mean that only a portion will be invested in property,” Barnes
said. That means home sales in the second quarter, which is
usually when bonuses for the previous year get paid, are
unlikely to jump, she said.  Though the amount of 2010 bonus money expected to be spent
on property has shrunk, deferred bonus payments from previous
years or money from increased salaries may also go into real
estate, Barnes said.  Lindsay Cuthill, head of Savills’s southwest London sales
offices, said the broker has started receiving the first offers
from purchasers anticipating bonuses after viewings in November
increased fourfold from October.  “We’re seeing buyers circling properties” in the 2.5
million-pound price band, he said.  Battersea, Chiswick  Changes in bonus pools have the most effect on real estate
in southwest London. Owner-occupiers employed in banking and
financial services tend to favor neighborhoods such as Battersea,
Wimbledon and Chiswick because of the relatively high proportion
of family homes and good schools.  Prices in this part of London rose 12 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the biggest gain in Britain,
Savills estimates. Prime property here costs an average of about
1.3 million pounds, less than the 2 million pounds or more
needed to buy a similar home in central London.  Bonuses have been less of a driving force for prime
residential property values in central London. Overseas buyers
have been lured to those neighborhoods by the  pound’s weakness 
and price declines during the height of the financial crisis.  Savills estimates that 60 percent of prime central London
property purchases are made by people outside the U.K.  Competition for a limited number of luxury homes for sale
has limited the price decline since the peak to 5 percent, said
 Liam Bailey , head of residential research at competitor Knight
Frank LLP. The number sold in the second and third quarters was
30 percent less than the same periods in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  