-- ONGC Rises After Bidding for Exxon Mobil's 25% Stake in Angola Oil Field
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-12-10T03:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ongc-rises-after-bidding-for-exxon-s-25-stake-in-angola-field.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , India’s
biggest energy explorer, rose in Mumbai trading after the
government said the company submitted a binding bid for  Exxon
Mobil Corp. ’s 25 percent stake in Angola’s Block 31.  The shares rose 0.1 percent to 1,323 rupees at 9:23 a.m.
local time after gaining as much as 0.6 percent, compared with a
0.2 percent fall in the benchmark Sensitive Index. The stock has
climbed 12 percent this year.  State-owned ONGC leads India’s push to secure energy
supplies overseas as fuel demand rises in Asia’s second-fastest-
growing major  economy . The government has ordered the explorer
to make at least one big acquisition in the year ending March 31
after Indian companies lost out to China in bids for at least
$12.5 billion of assets in the year ended June 30.  “This property can boost ONGC group’s oil and gas
production by 3 percent and overseas output by by 23 percent”
at peak rates, said Nipun Sharma, an analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Overseas acquisitions are
essential for ONGC as they have not been able to significantly
grow their oil and gas reserve base significantly for the last
10 years.”  The offshore Block 31 may start production in 2012 and
output may reach a peak of 150,000 barrels of oil a day, junior
oil minister  Jitin Prasada  said in parliament in New Delhi
yesterday, without giving more details.  Prasada didn’t mention the value of the bid. ONGC may pay
$2 billion for Exxon Mobil’s stake in the block, the Economic
Times reported Nov. 1. ONGC chairman  R.S. Sharma  declined to
comment.  Exxon Commitment  Margaret Ross, a spokeswoman for Exxon Mobil, declined to
say whether its stake in the block is for sale or comment on the
minister’s statement. The Irving, Texas-based  company  remains
“committed to Angola and to ongoing operations,” she said in
an e-mail.  Exxon Mobil, through a subsidiary, operates Block 15, the
single largest producing block in Angola, she said. Exxon Mobil
has stakes in four blocks in the country, according to the
company’s  website .  ONGC Videsh Ltd. , ONGC’s overseas unit, is studying a
proposal from bankers offering Exxon Mobil’s stake in Block 31,
Managing Director  R.S. Butola  said Nov. 1, without identifying
the bankers.  India’s federal government plans to sell a 5 percent stake
in the state-run explorer in a secondary public offering by mid
February, Chairman Sharma said Dec. 8. The sale may raise  $3.1
billion , based on the stock closing price yesterday, according
to Bloomberg calculations.  Block Partners  BP Plc  owns 26.7 percent of Block 31 and is the operator,
Prasada said. Its partners include  Statoil ASA , Total SA,
Marathon Oil Corp. and Angola’s state-run oil company, Sonangol
SA, he said.  Some companies in Block 31 are leaving and Sonangol has the
responsibility to find new partners, Angolan Oil Minister  Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos  said in New Delhi Nov. 1.  India is encouraging national oil companies to invest in
overseas oil and gas projects, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
said Nov. 1. The nation’s demand for oil and gas will increase
40 percent in the next 10 years, he said.  Indian companies are considering assets in African
countries, including Nigeria, Sudan, Ghana, Uganda and Angola,
Prasada said in a separate statement in parliament yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 