-- Ratings by Moody's, Fitch, S&P Ruled to Be Protected Speech
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-12-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/moody-s-fitch-s-p-ratings-are-protected-speech-california-judge-rules.html
Ratings by  Moody’s Investors Service
Inc. ,  Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch Ratings Ltd. described as
“wildly inaccurate” in a $1 billion lawsuit are protected
speech, a California judge said in a tentative ruling.  Judge  Richard Kramer  in San Francisco state court said
yesterday that the companies’ ratings of three structured
investment vehicles that the California Public Employees’
Retirement System lost money on are a form of speech about an
issue of public interest that is protected under a state law
designed to fend off cases meant to chill public debate.  The law aims to protect “good guys” trying to exercise
free speech from their adversaries who seek to quell the speech
by filing meritless lawsuits, Kramer said.  “There is a public interest in the country’s economy and
the types of investment opportunities that exist,” Kramer said
at a hearing yesterday. “They are potentially good guys here.”  Calpers sued the three bond-rating companies in July 2009
for losses it said were caused by their “wildly inaccurate”
risk assessments on three structured investment vehicles. The
so-called SIVs, after receiving the companies’ highest ratings
in 2006, collapsed in 2007 and 2008, according the Calpers
complaint.  Anti-SLAPP  Moody’s and the two other ratings companies are seeking to
have the case dismissed under California’s anti-SLAPP statute.
The 1992 law was passed in California in response to lawsuits
filed by real estate developers and other businesses against
people opposing their projects. SLAPP stands for “strategic
lawsuits against public participation.”  The ruling doesn’t end the case, Kramer said. Calpers, the
largest U.S. pension fund, can attempt to show that it’s likely
to win on the merits of its lawsuit. In May he rejected the
ratings companies’ request to dismiss the case, saying that the
issuance of SIV ratings isn’t a matter of public concern but an
“economic activity designed for the limited purpose of making
money” that isn’t protected by the First Amendment.  Kramer said that his earlier rulings “have absolutely
nothing to do with this hearing.” The earlier ruling on
dismissal didn’t take into account whether the ratings were
protected speech under the terms of the anti-SLAPP law.  The companies all gave their highest ratings to Cheyne
Finance LLC, Stanfield Victoria Funding LLC and Sigma Finance
Inc., prompting Calpers to invest $1.3 billion in them in 2006,
the fund said in its complaint.  Specific Buyers  The SIVs, unregistered securities, could only be sold to
specific classes of buyers. The assets underlying the SIVs were
known only to the SIVs and the ratings companies, which
published the ratings in offering materials, on their websites
for a brief period and on private financial reporting services,
the Calpers complaint said. The underlying assets of the three
SIVs consisted primarily of risky subprime mortgages, the
complaint said.  Joseph Tabacco , an attorney for Calpers, told Kramer that
the ratings companies were working “hand and glove” with
clients who structured the SIVs and couldn’t have sold them to
investors without ratings.  Kramer said it doesn’t matter that there was limited
dissemination of the ratings to select investors who could buy
them. He said that making predictions about the economic
performance of investment vehicles is protected speech and it’s
up to Calpers to show that its claims have substance.  ‘Doesn’t Shelter Behavior’  The anti-SLAPP law “doesn’t shelter behavior,” said
Kramer. Calpers can now seek information from the ratings
companies to back up its claims, he said.  Tabacco said Calpers would examine its options and expects
to prevail.  “We are happy that once the judge had the opportunity to
look beyond the plaintiff’s bare allegations, he reaffirmed that
ratings are a form of protected speech,” said  Michael Adler , a
spokesman for Moody’s in New York.  “We are very pleased with this decision, which reaffirms
the long-held precedent that credit opinions be regarded as
protected speech,”  Daniel Noonan , a Fitch spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  Edward Sweeney, an S&P spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a call.  The case is Calpers v. Moody’s, 09-490241, Superior Court
of California, County of San Francisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 