-- Oprah's Hard Sell Bolsters Discovery's Effort to Raise OWN Fee
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-12-10T05:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/oprah-s-hard-sell-to-form-own-helps-discovery-fight-carriers-resisting-fee.html
Oprah Winfrey ’s endorsement usually
makes any product successful. As the Oprah Winfrey Network
prepares to start Jan. 1,  Discovery Communications Inc.  is
betting the talk-show host’s pull extends to cable TV.  “This channel will have her name on it,” said  Christina Norman , the former MTV president who is now OWN’s chief
executive officer. “It’s something that she doesn’t want to be
anything but great.”  OWN could be profitable in three years, Norman said. The
network, which Oprah’s Chicago-based  Harpo Inc.  will own jointly
with Discovery, is not a sure bet, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Dec. 13 edition. Some cable and satellite
operators are resisting Discovery’s demands for fees triple what
they pay for Discovery Health, the channel converting to OWN.
Advertisers coaxed aboard with a personal call from Oprah will
want to see healthy ratings.  “No one has ever created a whole channel with original
programming from scratch,”  Ron Schneier , chief operating
officer of online advertising service MyVideoRights and a former
executive at A&E Channel, said in an interview. “It has its
share of risks.”  Viewers won’t see Oprah 24/7. The 56-year-old host to 7.2
million TV viewers can’t have a daily talk show on the cable
channel until September, after her syndicated program ends its
25-year run. For now, she’s committed to appear on OWN 70 hours
a year, and will be seen on specials and a reality show
chronicling her program’s final season.  Programmer-In-Chief  Oprah has also become her network’s programmer-in-chief. To
close a deal for a talk show by  Rosie O’Donnell , Winfrey hopped
on a jet with Norman and former  Viacom Inc.  CEO  Tom Freston , her
consultant on the channel, for a sit-down at the comedian’s New
York-area home. She convinced Duchess of  York Sarah Ferguson  to
do a six-part series of documentaries by e-mail.  “You don’t say no very easily to Oprah,” Freston said in
an interview.  Discovery, which has agreed to loan OWN $189 million, is
pressing cable and satellite TV systems to pay three times the 7
cents per subscriber it was getting monthly for Discovery
Health.  DirecTV  has so far refused, waiting for its existing deal
with Discovery to expire in more than two years, said a person
with knowledge of the talks. Norman said some operators who are
waiting out their existing Discovery Health contracts may end up
paying more.  “I say, sign on now,” she said. “I’m betting on OWN.”  ‘Tough’ Transition  Translating a single show into an entire TV channel is
“tough,” said former BBC Worldwide America President  Garth Ancier . The key, said Ancier, also a former NBC and Fox
programming chief, is finding the right people and shows to
complement Oprah’s tone. He said he’s confident OWN will work.  So are advertisers, who are counting on the channel’s
“Live Your Best Life” slogan and inspirational programming to
win viewers, said Catherine Warburton, executive vice president
at the Universal McCann ad agency.  OWN will generate $101.7 million in ad revenue its first
year, up from $18 million at Discovery Health last year,
estimates  Derek Baine , an analyst with researcher SNL Kagan. He
forecasts Oprah and Discovery will spend more than $162.3
million next year on programming, a fivefold increase from
Discovery Health’s spending.  At the outset, the channel will air a mix of new shows and
reruns of “The Best of Dr. Phil,” advice programs from the
likes of Dr.  Mehmet Oz  and  Suze Orman , movies, and “Mystery
Diagnosis,” a Discovery Health leftover.  Network Drama  Oprah’s channel has already produced plenty of drama. OWN’s
president and two programming executives have departed, and the
network is starting a year behind schedule. In August, Discovery
nearly doubled its original $100 million investment, while
Winfrey doubled the 35 hours she had committed to be on-air.  “We were just starting and really didn’t know all the
things we wanted to do,” said  Peter Liguori , Discovery’s chief
operating officer. Winfrey and executives at Harpo declined
comment for this story.  Discovery has been telling advertisers to expect an
audience size similar to Discovery’s TLC, ranked sixth among
women aged 25 to 54 -- the same demographic OWN targets. OWN
also is asking for the same lofty ad rates, said  Brad Adgate ,
director of research at Horizon Media Inc.  General Motors Co. ,
 Procter & Gamble Co. , and retailer  Kohl’s Corp.  have signed on.  “We think OWN has a very substantial opportunity,” CEO
 David Zaslav  told analysts on Dec. 7.  Lifetime, Bravo  Star power doesn’t always guarantee success.  Martha Stewart ’s daily block of programming on  Crown Media Holdings
Inc. ’s Hallmark Channel was pared this year to five hours from
eight.  OWN also faces competition from A&E Television Networks
LLC’s Lifetime and NBC Universal’s Bravo, two of the top cable
outlets among Oprah’s demographic.  “It will take time for the audience to find her,”  Bill Abbott , president and CEO of Hallmark Channels, said in an
interview.  OWN’s backers are counting on the power of the Oprah brand.  “Martha is a personality,” Liguori said. “Oprah is a way
of life.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ; or
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ellis at   jellis27@bloomberg.net  or
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  