-- Most Asian Stocks Fall on China Policy Concern, Ireland Credit-Rating Cut
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-10T10:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/most-asian-stocks-fall-on-ireland-rating-cut-china-interest-rate-concerns.html
Most Asian  stocks  fell after
Ireland’s credit rating was cut and amid speculation Chinese
policy makers would raise interest rates to slow inflation in
the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Toyota Motor Corp., a Japanese carmaker that gets about 70
percent of its sales abroad, lost 1.4 percent after the euro
weakened against the yen, damping the outlook for export profits.
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. retreated 0.5 percent
in Hong Kong.  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-biggest mining
company, dropped 0.7 percent in Sydney as copper prices
decreased from a 31-month high yesterday in New York.  About twice as many stocks declined as advanced on the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index , which was little changed at 133.44 as of
7:42 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge is unchanged this week, keeping it
near a one-month high.  “Uneasiness around Europe’s sovereign-debt issues and the
potential for further monetary-policy tightening by Chinese
authorities has led investors to a more cautious stance,” said
 Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in Melbourne at
Pengana Capital Ltd. “Investors will probably want to adopt a
wait-and-see attitude given the good gains in stock markets over
recent months.”  The MSCI index slid 0.6 percent in November after jumping
11 percent the previous two months as concern grew that China’s
anti-inflation measures, Europe’s debt crisis and tensions on
the Korean peninsula may derail a global economic recovery.
Consumer stocks  led declines  today.  Equity Indexes  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 0.7 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index, Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index and South
Korea’s Kospi Index were little changed. Taiwan’s Taiex index
decreased 0.4 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index advanced
1.1 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.3
percent today. The index climbed 0.4 percent yesterday to a two-
year high after Pacific Investment Management Co., the operator
of the world’s largest bond fund, raised its forecast for
economic growth and the U.S. Labor Department said applications
for  unemployment benefits  fell.  Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, lost 1.4 percent to
3,230 yen in Tokyo. Honda Motor Co., Japan’s second-biggest auto
producer, lost 1.4 percent to 3,140 yen in Tokyo. Sony Corp.,
the maker of Bravia televisions and Cyber-shot cameras, declined
1.6 percent to 2,993 yen.  Carmakers Lead Declines  The group that includes Toyota, Honda and Sony had the
biggest percentage drop among the 10 industries in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. Toyota was the  heaviest single drag  on the gauge
by index points.  Fitch Ratings cut its credit rating on Ireland by three
levels to the lowest grade among the major rating companies
after the country sought international assistance last month to
rescue its banks. The euro depreciated against 12 of its 16
most-traded counterparts following the rating reduction.  “Investors are concerned European debt issues will
worsen,” said  Juichi Wako , a senior strategist at Tokyo-based
Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage. “Investors may
sell exporters, which led market gains in November, on the
weaker euro against the yen.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 11 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 11 percent by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 8.7 percent by the Stoxx Europe
600 Index. Shares in the Asian benchmark valued at 14.7 times
 estimated earnings  on average at yesterday’s close, versus 14.5
times for the S&P 500 and 12.3 times for the Stoxx 600.  Commodities Drop  Rio Tinto fell 0.7 percent to A$87.36 in Sydney.  OZ
Minerals Ltd. , an Australian copper and gold miner, sank 2.4
percent to A$1.63. Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd., the
nation’s biggest producer of the metal, lost 1.1 percent to
HK$7.03 in Hong Kong.  Copper prices for March delivery fell in New York on
speculation that China, the world’s biggest metal consumer, may
raise interest rates to slow economic growth and inflation. The
 London Metal Exchange Index  of six metals including copper and
aluminum slipped 0.8 percent yesterday, the first drop this week.  In Tokyo, Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s biggest commodities
trader, retreated 0.7 percent to 2,162 yen.  Fanuc Ltd. , which is
the country’s No. 1 maker of industrial robots and gets more
than half its sales in Asia outside Japan, lost 1.9 percent to
12,350 yen. It was the heaviest drag on the Nikkei 225.  China Economy Summit  China’s leaders will in coming days lay a course for policy
in 2011 that will help determine whether the world’s fastest-
growing major economy will succeed in reining in  inflation 
without hobbling the nation’s expansion.  President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  convene the so-
called Central Economic Work Conference, a three-day conclave in
Beijing, starting today, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Dec. 13 edition. Attendees include the heads of the top
government ministries and China’s largest state enterprises.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, the world’s largest
bank by market value, sank 0.5 percent to HK$5.83 in Hong Kong.
 China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. , the Hong Kong-listed
developer controlled by China’s construction ministry, declined
1.2 percent to HK$15.02. PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest
oil and gas producer, retreated 1.3 percent to HK$9.83.  Shangri-La Asia Ltd. , which is Asia’s biggest luxury-hotel
operator and gets 60 percent of sales from China and Hong Kong,
slumped 4 percent to HK$19.88 after saying it will sell shares
at a discount to existing shareholders.  After the close of Asian stock trading, China’s central
bank said it will raise the amount the nation’s lenders must
hold as reserves by 50 basis points.  Sapporo Surges  Among stocks that rose, Sapporo Holdings Ltd., Japan’s
fourth-largest beer brewer, jumped 8.9 percent to 367 yen in
Tokyo, the  biggest increase  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.
Warren Lichtenstein’s Steel Partners further reduced its stake
in the company after losing a shareholder vote.  “This may signal an end to Steel Partners’ battle with
Sapporo,” said  Tsuyoshi Segawa , a strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho
Securities Co. “The brewer can now focus on its main business,
instead of spending time to deal with the fund.”  Hanjin Shipping Co., South Korea’s largest container line,
advanced 2.7 percent to 34,900 won in Seoul after saying that it
plans to increase rates on trade to Europe from Asia next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 