-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Slump Following U.S. Economic Reports; Euro Weakens
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-10T17:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/most-asian-stocks-fall-euro-trades-near-week-low-on-china-rate-concerns.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell, pushing
the yield toward its biggest weekly increase this year, and U.S.
stocks gained as better-than-estimated reports on consumer
confidence and the American trade deficit boosted optimism about
the economy. The euro fell against most major counterparts.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose eight basis points to
3.28 percent at 12:55 p.m. New York time, up from 3.01 percent a
week ago. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4 percent. The
euro dropped versus the Swiss franc and pound as leaders from
Germany and France said they are against increased funding to
quell the sovereign-debt crisis before next week’s summit of
European Union leaders.  S&P GSCI index  of 24 raw materials
dropped 0.7 percent after advancing up to 0.9 percent.  U.S. government bonds have tumbled this week amid
speculation President  Barack Obama ’s agreement with Republicans
to extend tax cuts enacted under his predecessor,  George W. Bush , will spur growth in the world’s largest economy and drive
down unemployment from the highest levels since the early 1980s.
The S&P 500 is poised to post its second straight weekly gain.  “Animal spirits are starting to come back,” said  Hank Smith , chief investment officer at Haverford Trust Co., which
manages about $6.5 billion in Radnor, Pennsylvania. “That’s
part of a strengthening economy. The latest figures, including
consumer confidence, indicate that. It’s certainty replacing
uncertainty.”  Consumer Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers increased more than
forecast in December to the highest level in six months at the
same time Americans began stepping up holiday spending. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
 consumer sentiment  rose to 74.2 from 71.6 at the end of
November. Economists projected a December reading of 72.5,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The U.S. trade deficit shrank 13 percent to $38.7 billion,
less than the lowest estimate of 78 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and the smallest since January, Commerce
Department figures showed today. Exports were the strongest
since August 2008 as Mexico and China bought record amounts of
U.S. products.  The U.S. reports tempered concern about the global economy
spurred by China’s decision to require lenders to park more
money with the central bank for the third time in five weeks to
counter the threat from inflation.  GE, Tenet  The S&P 500 climbed after closing at a two-year high
yesterday. General Electric Co. advanced 3 percent, the most in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average, after raising its dividend for
a second time in sixth months. Tenet Healthcare Corp. soared 54
percent as Community Health Systems Inc. made an unsolicited
offer of $7.3 billion. Beckman Coulter Inc. surged 27 percent as
people familiar with the matter said it’s exploring a sale.  Gold futures fell, heading for a weekly loss, as concern
that China may tighten monetary policy eroded demand for
precious metals. Silver, palladium and platinum dropped. Copper
futures gained, nearing a 31-month high, after imports by China
rebounded from the lowest level in a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nick Baker  in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 