-- House Democrats' Fuming Over Tax Talks Lash Out at Deal With Republicans
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-12-10T18:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/house-democrats-fuming-over-tax-talks-lash-out-at-obama-s-deal.html
House Democratic leaders left a Dec.
6 White House meeting assured that President  Barack Obama  hadn’t
sealed a deal with Republicans that would betray nearly a decade
of campaign promises not to extend tax cuts for the wealthy.  That was about to change.  Shortly after Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the
House Democrats’ chief negotiator, left the White House meeting,
he learned of a “tentative deal” from the news website Daily
Caller, according to Democratic aides.  Democratic anger over the deal -- and how it was reached --
has grown since then. And two years of frustration among House
Democrats who have backed politically risky legislation only to
see it weakened or stymied in the Senate boiled over yesterday
with a call to block a House vote on the president’s tax deal.  On issues including climate-change legislation and
overhauling the U.S. health-care system, House Democrats have
been forced to accept changes dictated by the ability of Senate
Republicans to block action. For many of these Democrats,
Obama’s willingness to reach a deal in private with Republicans
was too much.  “The need is great” to settle the issue of expiring tax
cuts, “but we do not have to capitulate to just any deal that
is offered,” Representative  Lloyd Doggett  of Texas said
yesterday after House Democrats adopted a non-binding resolution
calling for changes before the chamber votes on a package.  Reid Announcement  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  last night announced a
Dec. 13 procedural vote on the bill to extend Bush-era income-
tax cuts for two years for all taxpayers, including the highest-
earning Americans. Obama had been seeking to limit the tax
reductions, which expire Dec. 31, to the first $200,000 for
individuals and $250,000 for couples filing jointly.  The measure Reid, a Nevada Democrat, introduced as he
scheduled the vote to move forward on it remained essentially
the same as the one the administration worked out with
Republicans on Dec. 6.  On that day, House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland
Democrat, had returned to his office from the White House
meeting shortly before 5 p.m. and told reporters “nothing is
final at this point.”  At 5:30 p.m., Biden told Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky that Obama had approved the deal that they
had discussed the day before to extend current tax rates for all
Americans for two years, according to a Senate Republican aide.  No Calls  Neither Van Hollen, Hoyer nor House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of
California, who all had been at the White House for formal talks
on a deal, got the same consideration. The White House never
called the three Democrats to tell them the president would
announce the agreement on television that night, according to
leadership aides.  Presidential spokesman  Robert Gibbs  called the level of
anger “understandable” in remarks to reporters today.  Outrage among House Democrats brewed during two caucus
meetings as the week progressed. Yesterday, it resulted in the
near unanimous support for the resolution pushing for changes to
the deal before Pelosi schedules a floor vote.  A group of lawmakers chanted “just say no!” during debate
on the resolution.  The resolution is intended to empower Pelosi to bargain
with the Senate as it debates the tax-extension legislation in
the coming days, lawmakers said.  “We’ll have to establish the priorities, go through our
process” and “bring something to the floor,” Pelosi told
reporters after yesterday’s caucus.  Midterm Vote  Many House Democrats point to the politically difficult
votes they’ve taken to advance Obama priorities as key reasons
the party suffered a net loss of 63 seats in November’s midterm
elections. That gave Republicans control of the chamber in the
new congressional session that convenes in January.  In June 2009, the House passed legislation to set up a
“cap-and-trade” system to reduce emission of global-warming
gases. The measure was denounced by Republicans as economically
onerous, and a Senate version never got out of committee.  Many House Democrats were irate over changes the Senate
made to the health-care overhaul bill that did become law,
particularly the decision to strip from it a publicly run
insurance plan.  Yesterday, Senate Republicans blocked a House-passed effort
to repeal the ban on gays and lesbians serving openly in the
military.  “The problem is the United States Senate,” said
Representative  G.K. Butterfield , a North Carolina Democrat.  Biden Visits  Since Obama’s announcement of the tax deal, Biden visited
Capitol Hill twice to sell the package to Democrats in both
chambers. During his Dec. 8 meeting with House Democrats “Biden
said ‘take it or leave it,’ and we said ‘leave it,’” Doggett
told reporters yesterday.  Administration officials continued their defense of the tax
deal, releasing a study showing how it would reduce taxes for
families. Obama said yesterday that failure to pass the
compromise could result in “smaller paychecks” and “fewer
jobs.”  The inclusion of a Republican proposal to set a 35 percent
top rate for estate taxes that would apply after a tax-free
allowance of $10 million per couple is exhausted was “the straw
that broke the camel’s back” for most House Democrats, said
Representative  Joe Courtney .  The Connecticut Democrat said that in passing yesterday’s
resolution, “the caucus is saying we want to be part of”
continuing negotiations and telling the Senate “don’t just hand
us a hot, steaming ‘take it or leave it.’”  Republican Position  Senate Republicans said altering the estate-tax provision
would be unacceptable.  “I wouldn’t agree to that, and I am sure I wouldn’t be the
only one,” said Senator  Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican. “I
would expect there would be a strong majority that feel the same
way.”  Deal supporters among Democrats said the party risks losing
a chance to extend unemployment insurance and cut payroll-tax
withholding by 2 percent. Those are elements of the accord that
the White House has promoted as an aid to economic growth.  Representative  Shelley Berkley , a Nevada Democrat who said
she cast the lone vote against yesterday’s resolution, cautioned
that when Republicans assume the House majority, “you are going
to have a dickens of a time getting unemployment benefits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington   llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  