-- Toyota Loses Bid to End Speed-Up Injury, Death Suits
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2010-12-11T04:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/toyota-loses-bid-to-end-sudden-acceleration-injury-death-suits.html
A federal judge denied  Toyota Motor
Corp. ’s bid to dismiss lawsuits claiming personal injuries or
deaths allegedly caused by incidents of sudden acceleration,
making final a tentative ruling.  Lawyers for injured customers and families of those killed
in accidents provided enough support for their claims to allow
the cases to go forward, U.S. District Judge  James V. Selna  in
Santa Ana, California, said in a ruling posted today on the
court’s website. Selna earlier denied Toyota’s motion to dismiss
class-action, or group, suits claiming economic losses related
to sudden acceleration.  The automaker is accused in the lawsuits of failing to
disclose or warn of a defect in its vehicles that could cause
sudden acceleration. Toyota said in court filings that the
plaintiffs didn’t offer specific allegations of an actual defect
and that the company didn’t conceal anything.  “Toyota demands a level of specificity that is not
required at the pleadings stage,” Selna wrote in his 34-page
ruling. “The defect is identified: plaintiffs’ cars suddenly
and unexpectedly accelerate and do not stop upon proper
application of the brake pedal.”  Selna denied Toyota’s motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’
claim of fraudulent concealment. “The court finds that the
plaintiffs have sufficiently pled fraud” under federal rule of
law “to survive a motion to dismiss,” he said.  The judge granted Toyota’s request to have some portions of
the case dismissed. He gave lawyers 45 days to refile those
claims, according to the ruling.  8 Million Vehicles  The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, has recalled more
than 8 million vehicles for repairs related to sudden unintended
acceleration. In September 2009, the automaker announced a
recall of 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus vehicles because of a
defect that may cause floor mats to jam accelerator pedals. The
company later recalled vehicles over defects involving the
pedals themselves.  “The point of Toyota’s motion to dismiss was to request
that Judge Selna require the plaintiffs’ attorneys to provide
more specific detail about the accidents and claims, rather than
relying on virtually identical boilerplate allegations,”
 Celeste Migliore , company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “It
is unusual for a court to dismiss a complaint totally in
response to a first motion to dismiss.”  Selna’s rulings on motions to dismiss “come at a stage of
the legal proceedings in which the judge has to accept that what
the plaintiffs allege are true, even though they are unproven,”
Migliore said yesterday. “We are confident that as the facts
develop in this case they will show that there are no defects in
these Toyota vehicles.”  Toyota faces about 400 lawsuits alleging lost vehicle value
or injury or death from sudden acceleration.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at 
 callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 