-- Panasonic to Beat Annual TV Sales Target of 21 Million Sets, Ohtsubo Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 2010-12-10T04:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/panasonic-expects-to-beat-annual-tv-sales-target-president-ohtsubo-says.html
Panasonic Corp. , the world’s largest
maker of plasma televisions, expects to beat its full-year TV
sales target, helped by sales in the Japanese market, President
 Fumio Ohtsubo  said.  TV sales in the year ending March 31 are poised to exceed
the 21 million sets the company had anticipated, Ohtsubo said in
an interview in Tokyo today. The Japanese government’s "eco-
point"  incentives  for purchases of energy-saving electronics
boosted sales at home, its biggest market, while demand in the
U.S. has been in line with the company’s expectations, he said.  Japanese consumers rushed to buy TVs before the government
scaled back incentives for energy-efficient TVs and appliances
this month. Shipments of flat-panel sets in Japan jumped
fivefold last month from a year earlier, according to
electronics-research firm  BCN Inc.  in Tokyo.  “Panasonic benefited a lot from the subsidies as Japan
accounts a large portion of its sales,” said Nobuo Kurahashi,
an  analyst  at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. “But it’s inevitable
sales in Japan will decrease next year and Panasonic will have
to compensate the decline with revenue from developing countries
or Europe and the U.S.”  Panasonic fell 0.7 percent to 1,186 yen at  1:47 p.m. in
Tokyo trading. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
dropped 0.5 percent.  Year-end  The company expects year-end revenue of audio and visual
 products  in Europe and the U.S. to increase by 1 percent to 2
percent, Ohtsubo said. The U.S. TV market “lacks forcefulness,
but sales there haven’t gone down below our estimate.”  Panasonic, the first major TV maker to sell 3-D sets in the
U.S., has said it’s aiming to boost TV sales 33 percent to 21
million sets this fiscal year, including 1 million 3-D models.  For 3-D, meeting the target will be "difficult" because of
the scarcity of content, the executive said. Panasonic plans to
release more Internet-enabled TVs to boost demand, he said.  Panasonic expects a stronger yen will continue eroding its
 earnings  next year, the president said. The maker of Lumix
cameras aims to increase the proportion of overseas production
to 60 percent in the year to March 2019, from less than 50
percent currently, Ohtsubo said.  The company is shifting plasma-display panel facilities
from Japan to Shanghai as part of its effort to turn around the
money-losing TV operation. The TV operations, which are expected
to lose money in the six months to Sept. 30, may turn profitable
in the second half,  Yoshiiku Miyata , the head of Panasonic’s TV
business said in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 Mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 