-- Pimco's El-Erian Says U.S. Must Do More Beyond Stimulus, Raises Forecast
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2010-12-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/pimco-s-el-erian-says-u-s-needs-to-do-more-raises-forecast.html
The U.S. needs to take action to
enhance its long-term competitiveness and reduce its medium-term
budget deficit after using a “massive amount” of stimulus to
boost economic growth next year,  Mohamed El-Erian , chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said.  “The U.S. is using fiscal and monetary policy to try to
attain escape velocity for the economy,” El-Erian said in a
telephone interview yesterday from his office in Newport Beach,
California. “What we don’t know yet is whether that will be
enough not just to change the economy’s trajectory for one year,
but to place it on a medium-term sustainable path.”  Pimco, which manages the world’s biggest bond fund, raised
its forecast for growth next year in response to the stimulus,
he said. It now sees the economy growing 3 percent to 3.5
percent in the fourth quarter of next year from the same period
of this year. That compares with its previous estimate for 2
percent to 2.5 percent growth and the 2.2 percent gain forecast
for this year by the International Monetary Fund.  U.S. stocks extended gains on news that Pimco had raised
its U.S. growth forecast for 2011. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.4 percent to 1,233.00, closing yesterday at its
highest level since September 2008.  Pimco began using the term “new normal” almost two years
ago to describe the changed state of the world economy after the
worst recession since the Great Depression. Under the new
normal, the U.S. is seen as being saddled with sluggish growth
and high unemployment for years as it struggles to overcome the
fallout from the crisis.  ‘Unconventional’ Strategies  U.S. policy makers are reacting to the new normal by
pursuing “increasingly unconventional” strategies to aid the
economy, El-Erian said. The Federal Reserve intends to purchase
$600 billion of longer-term U.S. Treasury securities by the
middle of 2011 to help spur growth. President  Barack Obama  has
reached agreement with Republican lawmakers on a budget package
that includes a $120 billion payroll-tax cut.  “The new normal is still here,” El-Erian, 52, said.
“What the policy makers are doing is kicking the can down the
road in response to the symptoms of the new normal, but they’re
not yet changing the medium-term dynamics.”  While the U.S. economy is recovering -- it expanded 3.2
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier --  unemployment 
has remained close to a 26-year high, rising to 9.8 percent in
November from 9.6 percent in October.  Tax-Cut Package  The key objective of the tax-cut package between Obama and
the Republicans -- to generate long-lasting jobs -- will only be
possible if it is part of a broader policy program, El-Erian
wrote in a Dec. 8 commentary for Bloomberg News.  “We need a more meaningful push to improve America’s long-
term competitiveness, which has been compromised by our lagging
behind in infrastructure improvements and education, as well as
resource misallocations,” he wrote.  Europe, too, is struggling with the fallout from the new
normal as the region has been hit with a sovereign-debt crisis.
Pimco expects the euro area’s economy to grow by 0.5 percent to
0.75 percent next year, El-Erian said. The Washington-based IMF
has forecast growth for the region of 1.9 percent this year.  “Europe is on a completely different track than the
U.S.,” El-Erian said. “It is trying to achieve sustainable
growth by getting its economic house in order through fiscal
austerity.”  The trouble is that some countries there -- Greece, among
them -- might not be able to deliver either fiscal consolidation
or economic growth, he said.  ECB Purchases  Europe’s debt crisis has prompted rescues of Greece and
Ireland this year, and European leaders are now debating plans
for a permanent financial backstop. The European Central Bank
has stepped up buying bonds from the region’s most-indebted
countries to prevent the market rout from spreading.  The ECB is “basically providing liquidity support for a
solvency issue,” El-Erian said. “The question is whether the
market will cooperate with that,” he added. “If it doesn’t,
you will get disorderly restructurings in some peripheral
countries and even more economic contraction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rich Miller  in
Washington   rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  