-- Pimco Total Return Among Biggest Losers as Bond Rally Fizzles
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-12-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/pimco-s-250-billion-total-return-is-among-biggest-losers-as-rally-fizzles.html
Bill Gross ’s  Pimco Total Return
Fund , the world’s largest mutual fund, was the second-biggest
decliner among the largest U.S. bond managers in the past month
as clients pulled money for the first time in two years amid a
selloff in Treasuries.  The $250 billion Pimco Total Return fell 3 percent in the
30 days through Dec. 8, trailing all but one of the 10 largest
bond mutual funds, which lost an average of 2 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only the $33 billion  Vanguard
Inflation-Protected Securities Fund  declined more, falling 3.9
percent in the period.  Benchmark 10-year  Treasuries  had their biggest two-day
slump since September 2008 this week after tax cuts, signs of an
economic recovery and asset purchases by the Federal Reserve
fueled expectations inflation will accelerate. The losses may
surprise investors who poured $267 billion into fixed income
funds this year through October, ignoring warnings by Gross that
the 30-year bond rally may have run its course.  “This is a very violent move we had this week,” said
 Richard Saperstein , managing director at Treasury Partners in
New York, which oversees $10 billion in assets. “I think we’re
going to have a very volatile bond cycle here over the next two
years.”  Assets in Pimco Total Return declined by $5.75 billion last
month as the fund  fell  1.4 percent. It has declined another 1.2
percent this month through yesterday, which would translate into
a loss of $3 billion before any investor deposits or
withdrawals. The assets are reported monthly.  The fund gained 8.1 percent per year in the five years
through Dec. 8, better than 98 percent of peers, Bloomberg data
show.  Raising Forecast  Pimco Total Return, which became the biggest mutual fund in
history last year, had its first net withdrawals in two years in
November as investors pulled $1.9 billion, Chicago-based
 Morningstar Inc . said yesterday.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the fund,
yesterday raised its forecast for U.S. economic growth next year
as policy makers pump a “massive amount” of stimulus into the
economy, Chief Executive Officer  Mohamed El-Erian  said.  Pimco sees the economy growing 3 percent to 3.5 percent in
the fourth quarter of next year from the same period of this
year. That compares with its previous estimate for 2 percent to
2.5 percent growth and the 2.2 percent gain forecast for this
year by the International Monetary Fund.  “The U.S. is using fiscal and monetary policy to try to
attain escape velocity for the economy,” El-Erian said in a
telephone interview from his office in Newport Beach,
California. “What we don’t know yet is whether that will be
enough not just to change the economy’s trajectory for one year
but to place it on a medium-term sustainable path.”  ‘Lifeline’  Pimco, Vanguard Group Inc., and  Franklin Resources Inc. 
attracted the most money into their bond funds this year through
November, Morningstar data show. Pimco pulled $57 billion into
its bond funds this year through Nov. 30. Vanguard, based in
Valley Forge, Pennsylvania got $33.4 billion, and Franklin,
based in San Mateo, California, received $23.7 billion.  “Fixed income has been the lifeline for a lot of these
firms,” said  Douglas Sipkin , an analyst with Ticonderoga
Securities in New York, in a telephone interview.  A drop in deposits into bond funds in the past month
doesn’t mean investor’s love affair with fixed-income is over,
said  Russel Kinnel , director of fund research at Morningstar.  “It takes more than one month to reverse a trend as big as
this one has been,” he said in a telephone interview.  ‘Tax Goodies’  Bonds have tumbled this week after President  Barack Obama 
agreed on Dec. 6 to a two-year extension of Bush-era tax cuts in
exchange for an additional 13 months of unemployment insurance
and cutting the payroll tax by $120 billion for a year. The
yield on the 10-year note was at 3.20 percent yesterday, after
touching 3.33 percent on Dec. 8, the highest since June 4. Bond
prices fall as interest rates rise.  Obama’s moves to extend tax cuts and “adding other tax
goodies” will increase federal deficit levels, economist  Edward Yardeni  said by telephone in a Bloomberg Television “Inside
Track” interview from London.  The federal deficit totaled $1.3 trillion in the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30, according to the Congressional Budget
Office. The White House budget office projected the federal
deficit this year will exceed $1.5 trillion, or 10.6 percent of
gross domestic product.  ‘Ponzi Scheme’  Gross, who reduced holdings of government debt in the Total
Return Fund for a fourth month in October, has said that asset
purchases by the Fed will probably signify the end of the 30-
year rally in bonds.  “Check writing in the trillions is not a bondholder’s
friend,” Gross wrote in monthly investment outlook on Pimco’s
website on Oct. 27. “It is in fact inflationary, and, if truth
be told, somewhat of a Ponzi scheme. It raises bond prices to
create the illusion of high annual returns, but ultimately it
reaches a dead end where those prices can no longer go up.”  Pimco Total Return reduced its holdings in government debt
to 28 percent in October from 33 percent the previous month,
according to the firm’s website.  U.S. bond funds have taken in more money than stock funds
every month since the end of 2007, data from the Washington-
based  Investment Company Institute  show. For the first 10 months
of this year, bond funds attracted an average of $27 billion per
month. Over the past four weeks investors pulled a total of $1.7
billion from bond funds, led by $8 billion in withdrawals from
municipal bond funds.  Muni Bond Selloff  Tax-exempt bonds had their worst monthly returns of 2010 in
November as rising U.S. Treasury yields and record state and
local fixed-rate debt sales sparked withdrawals from mutual
funds investing in municipal securities. Taxable bond funds have
continued to draw money, ICI data show.  “I think it is premature to say we have seen the peak in
bond sales,” said Geoff Bobroff, a consultant based in East
Greenwich, Rhode Island, in a telephone interview. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury would probably have to reach 4 percent, he
said, before investors are ready to change their behavior.  The yield on the 10-year will average 3.53 percent in 2011,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Stein in Boston at  
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  