-- Pulling Plug on Grandma Puts Obamacare Opponents on Defensive
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-12-10T05:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/pulling-plug-on-grandma-puts-obamacare-opponents-on-defensive-in-arizona.html
Randall Shepherd, a 36-year-old
father of three who needs a new heart after childhood battles
with rheumatic fever, is one of 98  Arizonans  no longer eligible
for state-paid transplants after Governor  Jan Brewer  and the
Legislature eliminated funding.  Shepherd, a plumber from Mesa who no longer can work, said
he was next on the list to receive a heart of his size and blood
type when the transplant program was eliminated Oct. 1, cutting
him off from the $600,000 procedure. Now, “I wouldn’t even be
notified,” he said in a telephone interview, his breathing
labored.  The Republican governor’s elimination of transplants to
save $800,000 toward a $3 billion budget deficit makes Arizona
the only state to do so in the past two years, according to a
 report  from the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit
health-care researcher in Menlo Park, California.  “Our concern is that patients will die,” said Maryl
Johnson, a cardiovascular specialist at the University of
Wisconsin Hospital in Madison and president of the  American
Society of Transplantation , a professional group based in Mount
Laurel, New Jersey. “We want to make sure the state is making
decisions based on accurate information.” Patients in
Shepherd’s condition have a 50 percent chance of living 11 more
years if they have the surgery, she said.  ‘Brewercare’ Decision  Brewer’s transplant cutbacks have become a rallying cause
for Democrats, who call her decision “Brewercare.” It’s
hypocritical for Republicans to support the program’s end while
opposing President  Barack Obama’s  health-care legislation on the
ground it would create death panels run by bureaucrats, said
 Anna Tovar , a Democratic state representative from Tolleson.  “We are the only state that has cut transplant care,”
said Tovar, 36, who said her insurance paid for bone-marrow
transplants in 2000 and 2001 as she fought leukemia.  “What the governor calls Cadillac care, optional service,
we’re talking a life-or-death decision,” Tovar said in a
telephone interview.  Equating Arizona’s cutback with death panels is “utterly
absurd,” said Paul Senseman, a spokesman for Brewer. Every
state and the federal government decides which patients and
treatments are eligible for funding, he said in a telephone
interview.  Health-care costs have soared because Arizona offers
services to residents with higher incomes than other states do,
Senseman said. Its enrollment in Medicaid, the joint federal-
state health program for the poor, jumped 19 percent from
December 2008 to December 2009, the fourth-highest growth rate
of any state, according to the  Kaiser  foundation.  Arizona’s unemployment  rate  rose to 9.2 percent from 7.6
percent in the period, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics
data. The rate was 9.5 percent in October.  ‘Unsustainable’ Costs  The transplant cuts indicate what other states will face
because the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
of 2010 expands coverage for the uninsured, he said.  “Arizona has been doing what Obamacare has promised,”
Senseman said. “It’s unsustainable. Neither the states nor the
federal government have the ability to pay for it.”  Arizona’s Republican-controlled Legislature voted in March
to join 19 other states in suing the U.S. departments of Health
and Human Services, Treasury and Labor challenging the
constitutionality of the Obama health-care bill. The state’s
Democratic attorney general,  Terry Goddard , who unsuccessfully
challenged Brewer’s re-election this year, declined to do so.  ‘Unconstitutional Encroachment’  “We must defend against unconstitutional encroachment upon
our core right to govern ourselves, rather than be at the mercy
of an overreaching president and a Congress so eager to please
him,” Brewer, 66, said in a March  statement . The governor also
signed legislation authorizing police to check the citizenship
of people suspected of being illegal immigrants.  Arizona’s health-care costs were increased by a 2000 ballot
measure designed to use money from a tobacco-lawsuit settlement
to expand coverage for the poor, according to  John Kavanagh , a
Republican who chairs the appropriations committee in the state
House of Representatives.  The state is one of only six that provides health-care
benefits to childless adults whose income is at or equal to the
federal poverty level of $903 a month, said Jennifer Carusetta,
chief legislative liaison for the  Arizona Health Care Cost
Containment System , which administers Medicaid.  Brewer’s transplant cuts were part of $5.3 million shaved
in March from what the federal government calls optional
services, said Carusetta. The cuts included payments for most
dental care, podiatry and insulin pumps, according to a fact
 sheet  on the system’s website.  $2.2 Million Saving  Transplant savings would account for $800,000 this year and
$1.4 million next year, Carusetta said in a telephone interview.  Tovar, the Democratic state legislator, said funding for
transplants could have come from $185 million in federal
stimulus funding the state received. She said Brewer didn’t
identify how $30 million of the cash -- more than enough to
finance transplants -- was spent.  The state used $1.7 million of stimulus funding for roof
repairs at the Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Phoenix, according
to a  press release  from Brewer. An additional $2 million went to
study the use of algae as fuel, according to a news release from
Brewer.  Using federal grants this year for transplants wouldn’t
have solved the longer-term issue of funding the procedures,
Senseman said. All $185 million in stimulus money has been
allocated for education, public safety, job creation and other
programs, he said. The roof of the coliseum, which is the home
of the revenue-generating state fair, needed repair, while the
fuel-research program is a job creator, he said.  Sales-Tax Increase  Arizona closed a $3 billion budget deficit this year by
raising the sales tax, selling public buildings such as its
legislative offices and taking money from a rainy-day fund,
Kavanagh said,  The transplant cuts were made public before the Legislature
voted, and were based on information from the Arizona Health
Care Cost Containment System that said the procedures were not
effective, Kavanagh said. Treatments with less risk have similar
outcomes, the system said in a report.  “When there’s not a protocol that works, it’s
irresponsible,” Kavanagh said in a telephone interview. “The
Democrats want to give everybody everything and call us
executioners.”  Surgical Alternatives  Nick Papas, a spokesman for Obama, declined to comment.  Alternatives to transplants such as medication and “less
radical” surgeries are as effective as heart transplants for
treating Shepherd’s illness, nonischemic cardiomyopathy,
according to a  report  on the Arizona health-care system’s
website.  Shepherd said his doctor told him he’s taking all the
medicine he can tolerate.  Carusetta, the legislative liaison for Arizona Cost
Containment, said she couldn’t comment on Shepherd’s case
because of privacy laws. The system’s analysis was validated by
an external consultant, she said.  Stimulus Expiration  Arizona faces an additional $825 million deficit for this
fiscal year and a shortage of more than $1 billion for the one
that begins July 1, according to Kavanagh. The expiration of
$651 million in federal stimulus money for Medicaid is one
reason for the widening deficit.  Federal law limits states in how they deal with financial
pressures on their Medicaid programs, said  Joy Johnson Wilson ,
health-policy director for the National Conference of State
Legislatures, in Washington.  The 2008 economic-stimulus package and this year’s health-
care overhaul each forbid states from reducing eligibility for
Medicaid if they want the extra money those laws provide for the
program. States are responding by cutting benefits and payments
to providers, Wilson said.  Lingering effects of the recession, which was the longest
since the 1930s and increased the number of people seeking
government assistance, will force health-care cuts in other
states this year, said Kathleen Gifford, a principal with Health
Management Associates, a consulting company in Indianapolis.  ‘Hit Hard’  “We’re coming into a very difficult budget session,”
Gifford said in a telephone interview. “Arizona got hit hard
earlier than a lot of states.”  California in the past fiscal year eliminated dental,
speech, podiatry and other services, she said. The cuts saved
the state $110 million, said Anthony Cava, a spokesman for
California’s Department of Health Care Services.  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  on Dec. 6 proposed capping
prescriptions to six a month and increasing payments for
hospital stays to $100 a day, said  Anthony Wright , executive
director of Health Access California, an advocacy group in
Sacramento, the state capital.  “That’s a lot if you’re earning $1,000 a month,” he said.  In Arizona, Shepherd is waiting for contributors to help
raise money for his operation.  Shannon McMonagle, communications coordinator for the
National Transplant Assistance Fund, a Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based group, said it has received donations totaling more than
$130,000 since November for Shepherd and another Arizonan who
has been waiting for surgery.  While legislators are “trying to do the right thing” by
reducing the state’s deficit, eliminating organ transplants
isn’t the answer, Shepherd said.  “It was the wrong place to start cutting,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  