-- U.S. Trade Gap Drops as Exports Rise to Two-Year High
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-10T14:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/trade-deficit-narrows-more-than-forecast-as-exports-rise-to-two-year-high.html
The trade deficit in the U.S. shrank
more than forecast in October as a weaker  dollar  and growing
economies overseas propelled  exports  to a two-year high.  The  gap  narrowed 13 percent to $38.7 billion, less than the
lowest estimate of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
the smallest since January, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. Exports were the strongest since August
2008 as Mexico and China bought record amounts of U.S. products.  3M Co.  and  General Dynamics Corp.  are among companies that
will probably benefit from growing demand in markets like China,
Brazil and South Korea, which this year are among the top-10
buyers of American-made goods. Imports stagnated in October as
U.S. demand for crude oil plunged, an outcome that may prove to
be temporary as the world’s largest economy picks up.  “Exports will continue to do well as the generally weaker
dollar and strong growth in emerging markets are helping,” said
 Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at IHS Inc. in Lexington,
Massachusetts, who projected the trade gap would narrow.
“Things are improving in the economy so we expect to see
imports pick up as well. We’ll have export-led growth in the
U.S. next year as exports grow faster than imports.”  Stocks rose, led by rising shares of commodity producers on
growing evidence that global demand was improving. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,235.82 at 9:44 a.m.
in New York. Treasury securities fell, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 3.27 percent from 3.21 percent late
yesterday.  Rising Costs  Another report showed the cost of goods imported into the
U.S. rose in November by the most in a year, led by gains in
commodity prices such as fuels, agriculture products and metals.
The 1.3 percent increase in the import-price index exceeded the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey and followed a revised 1
percent gain in October, Labor Department figures showed.  The trade gap was  projected  to be little-changed at $43.8
billion from an initially reported $44 billion in September,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed.
Estimates ranged from deficits of $39.5 billion to $46.6
billion. The Commerce Department revised the September shortfall
up to $44.6 billion.  After eliminating the influence of prices, which are the
numbers used to calculate gross domestic product, the trade
deficit fell to $45.2 billion, the lowest since April, from
$50.3 billion. The figure was smaller than the third-quarter
average, indicating trade will contribute to growth this
quarter.  Sales Overseas  Exports increased 3.2 percent to $158.7 billion, boosted by
sales of foods, automobiles, engines and industrial supplies
like fuel oil and natural gas.  Since reaching a one-year high on June 7, the dollar has
fallen 6.6 percent against a trade-weighted  basket  of
currencies. The drop makes American goods cheaper to buyers
abroad and will keep spurring manufacturing, which expanded for
a 16th consecutive month in November.  Growing overseas economies are also contributing to demand
for U.S. goods. China, set to become the world’s second-largest
economy this year, had a 9.6 percent gain in third-quarter gross
domestic product from a year ago. Singapore, in the running to
be the world’s fastest-growing economy this year, expanded 10.6
percent while Brazil, South America’s biggest economy, grew 6.7
percent.  Manufacturers Benefit  General Dynamics, based in Falls Church, Virginia, is
seeing “strong international order activity and interest,
particularly in the emerging markets,” Chief Executive Officer
Jay Johnson said in a Dec. 2 industry conference presentation.  St. Paul, Minnesota-based 3M, the maker of Scotch tape and
films to brighten television screens, is expanding in emerging
markets, which make up one-third of its sales and may climb to
as much as 45 percent by 2015, according to company estimates.  “These opportunities continue to grow,”  George W. Buckley , chief executive officer, said in a Dec. 7 conference
call. Overseas sales will benefit from “India and Latin
America, gathering momentum in sort of China-like style.”  President  Barack Obama  is seeking to double American
exports over the next five years. The Commerce Department has
asked industry groups to review its proposal to relax export
controls for technology items with military uses, covering sales
to 37 allies including Germany, Japan and Canada.  Less Crude Oil  Imports fell 0.5 percent to $197.4 billion from $198.4
billion in the prior month. The value of crude oil purchases
fell to $18.9 billion from $21 billion in September as the
lowest volume since February swamped an increase in the fuel’s
cost.  The trade gap with China shrank to $25.5 billion from $27.8
billion.  China’s trade surplus with the U.S. remains a thorny issue
as some members of Congress accuse the Asian nation of keeping
its currency too low in order to boost sales overseas. The
renminbi’s advance of 0.1 percent last month and 0.3 percent in
October fell short of the 1.7 percent climb in September that
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner signaled was appropriate.  China today reported a monthly trade surplus of $22.9
billion for November, exceeding the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. The excess of exports to America over
imports was about $16.7 billion, equivalent to about three
quarters of the total.  Improving U.S. demand and the need to restock inventories
led to gains in imports that swamped the rise in exports over
the past two quarters. A widening deficit subtracted 1.76
percentage points from GDP in the third quarter as the economy
expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate.  Imports will probably grow at a slower pace as inventories
are now better aligned with sales, indicating the deficit will
stabilize and trade may no longer be an obstacle to GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  