-- U.S. Trade Gap Was Probably Little Changed in October
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-10T14:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/trade-deficit-in-u-s-was-probably-little-changed-as-exports-imports-grew.html
(Corrects China trade figures in third-to-last paragraph.)  The U.S. trade deficit was probably
little changed in October as gains in  exports , reflecting a
weaker  dollar  and growing economies overseas, kept pace with
rising imports, analysts said before a report today.  The projected $43.8 billion  gap  would follow a $44 billion
shortfall in September, according to the median estimate of 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other reports may show
consumer  confidence  climbed this month and the cost of imported
goods rose in November.  3M Co.  and  General Dynamics Corp.  are among companies that
will probably benefit from growing demand in markets like China,
Brazil and Singapore, which this year are among the top-10
buyers of American-made goods. Accelerating growth in the
world’s largest economy may also lift imports, indicating the
trade gap will stabilize near current levels.  “We’re looking for exports to be a big plus as our major
trading partners are doing well,” said  Mike Englund , chief
economist at Action Economics LLC in Boulder, Colorado. “We
don’t see much improvement in the trade deficit next year” as
imports also climb.  The Commerce Department trade figures are due at 8:30 a.m.
in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
deficits of $39.5 billion to $46.5 billion.  Import Prices  Also at 8:30 a.m., a Labor Department report may show the
import-price index rose 0.8 percent last month, reflecting
higher costs for crude oil and metals, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. Estimates ranged from gains of 0.3
percent to 1.6 percent.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary
household sentiment index rose to 72.5 this month, the highest
level since June, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The
gauge averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the recession
that began in December 2007. The report is due at 9:55 a.m.  Since reaching a one-year high on June 7, the dollar has
fallen 6.6 percent against a trade-weighted  basket  of
currencies. The drop makes American goods cheaper to buyers
abroad and will keep spurring manufacturing, which expanded for
a 16th consecutive month in November.  Growth overseas is contributing to demand for U.S. goods.
China, set to become the world’s second-largest economy this
year, had a 9.6 percent gain in third-quarter gross domestic
product from a year ago. Singapore, in the running to be the
world’s fastest-growing economy this year, expanded 10.6 percent
while Brazil, South America’s biggest economy, grew 6.7 percent.  International Orders  General Dynamics, based in Falls Church, Virginia, is
seeing “strong international order activity and interest,
particularly in the emerging markets,” Chief Executive Officer
Jay Johnson said in a Dec. 2 industry conference presentation.  St. Paul, Minnesota-based 3M, the maker of Scotch tape and
films to brighten television screens, is expanding in emerging
markets, which make up one-third of its sales and may climb to
as much as 45 percent by 2015, according to company estimates.  “These opportunities continue to grow,”  George W. Buckley , chief executive officer, said in a Dec. 7 conference
call. Overseas sales will benefit from “India and Latin
America, gathering momentum in sort of China-like style.”  President  Barack Obama  is seeking to double American
exports over the next five years. The Commerce Department has
asked industry groups to review its proposal to relax export
controls for technology items with military uses, covering sales
to 37 allies including Germany, Japan and Canada.  China’s Surplus  China’s trade surplus with the U.S. remains a source of
tension as some members of Congress accuse the Asian nation of
keeping its currency too low in order to boost sales overseas.
The renminbi’s advance against the dollar of 0.1 percent last
month and 0.3 percent in October fell short of the 1.7 percent
climb in September that Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
signaled was appropriate.  China today reported a monthly trade surplus of $22.9
billion for November, exceeding the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. The excess of exports to America over
imports was about $16.7 billion, equivalent to about three
quarters of the total.  Improving U.S. demand and the need to restock inventories
led to gains in imports that swamped the rise in exports over
the past two quarters. A widening deficit subtracted 1.76
percentage points from U.S. GDP in the third quarter as the
economy expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate.  Imports will probably grow at a slower pace as inventories
are now better aligned with sales, indicating the deficit will
stabilize and trade will no longer be an obstacle to GDP.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  