-- Treasury 10-Year Note Yield Rises Most in 16 Months on Tax Cut Extension
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-12-10T22:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/treasuries-gain-as-china-rate-outlook-europe-concerns-boost-debt-demand.html
Treasury 10-year notes dropped,
pushing the yield toward its biggest weekly  increase  this year,
as increases in U.S. exports and consumer confidence sapped
demand for the safety of government debt.  Yields approached the highest level in six months on
speculation President  Barack Obama ’s agreement this week to
extend tax cuts will help spur the economic recovery. Government
yields extended their gains as stocks rose.  “The narrowing trade gap and the consumer-confidence print
provide some optimism for the growth picture and is weighing on
Treasuries some,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist
at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  The  yield  on the 10-year note rose 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 3.32 percent at 5:11 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data.  The 30-year bond yield increased three basis point to 4.43
percent after dropping six basis points yesterday, when the $13
billion U.S. sale of the debt drew the highest demand since
August. The yield increased to a seven-month  high  of 4.5 percent
on Dec. 8, buoying the government bond auction.  Bonds tumbled this week after Obama agreed on Dec. 6 to a
two-year extension of current tax rates in exchange for another
13 months of federal unemployment insurance for the long-term
jobless and cutting the payroll tax by $120 billion for a year.  Pimco’s Outlook  Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the
world’s biggest bond fund, is raising its forecast for U.S.
growth next year as policy makers pump a “massive amount” of
stimulus into the economy, Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-
Erian said in a telephone interview yesterday from his office in
Newport Beach, California.  “The market will be under pressure as people raise their
growth estimates,” said  Thomas Tucci , head of U.S. government
bond trading in New York at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets, one of the 18 primary dealers that trade directly with
the Federal Reserve. “People were hoping the market would hold
in here today, but we are not through the tax-policy shift.”  The trade deficit narrowed 13 percent to $38.7 billion,
less than the lowest estimate of 78 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and the smallest since January, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. Exports were the
strongest since August 2008 as Mexico and China bought record
amounts of U.S. products.  Consumer Sentiment  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  increased to 74.2 in December from
71.6 in the previous month. The median forecast of 67 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for an advance to 72.5.  U.S. government debt has lost 1 percent this week, paring
this year’s return to 5.8 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. The 10-year note  yield  has climbed 31
basis points this week, the most since a 27 basis point increase
during the five days ended Dec. 25, 2009.  A slump in Treasuries earlier this week over the tax-cut
extension pushed 10-year note yields up 35 basis points in two
days, the most since September 2008, when markets were in
upheaval after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The  Fed  is preparing to gather Dec. 14 after announcing
last month a $600 billion second round of U.S. debt buying
through June to support the economy under quantitative easing.
The central bank expects to reinvest $250 billion to $300
billion of proceeds from mortgage-backed debt and agency
securities into Treasuries during that time.  Fed Debt Buying  The central bank will purchase about $105 billion of
Treasuries during the next month, the New York Fed said in a
schedule posted on its website.  Treasury 30-year  bonds  advanced today in Asian trading as
China ordered lenders to deposit more money with the central
bank to prevent inflation from accelerating.  China’s statistics bureau moved forward the release of
economic data including figures on inflation to Dec. 11 from
Dec. 13, which fueled speculation the nation was preparing to
boost borrowing costs.  Consumer prices increased 4.7 percent in November from a
year earlier, accelerating after a boost of 4.4 percent in the
previous month, according to the median forecast of 29
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  At yesterday’s U.S. 30-year bond auction, the bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of debt offered, climbed to 2.74, the most since the Aug.
12 sale. The bonds were sold at a yield of 4.410 percent,
compared with the average forecast of 4.477 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of primary dealers.  The $32 billion 3-year note auction on Dec. 7 attracted the
lowest bid-to-cover ratio since February. The Treasury sold $21
billion of 10-year notes on the following day at a yield of 3.34
percent, the highest in seven months. There won’t be another
round of note offerings until the Treasury sells 2-, 5-and 7-
year debt starting Dec. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  