-- RHI Entertainment Files for Bankruptcy Saying it May Owe Up to $1 Billion
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y ,   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i k e   B a t h o n
-- 2010-12-10T21:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/rhi-entertainment-files-for-bankruptcy-saying-it-may-owe-up-to-1-billion.html
RHI Entertainment Inc ., the parent
of producers and distributors of made-for-television movies and
mini-series, sought bankruptcy protection with a restructuring
plan that will reduce debt by more than half.  The company, based in New York, listed $834.1 million in
debt and $524.7 million in assets as of Sept. 30 in Chapter 11
documents filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York. RHI,
joined by sixteen affiliates in the filing, said it plans to
keep operating as usual.  “We are delighted to receive the support from our lenders,
which will allow us to quickly move forward with our pre-
packaged restructuring plan,” RHI Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Halmi Jr.  said in a statement.  RHI has distribution rights to a library of about 1,000
titles, has been nominated for 464 Emmy awards, winning 105,
according to its  website . The company has produced TV series
such as “Lonesome Dove” and the film “Moby Dick,” and said
it worked with the Hollywood stars including  Angelina Jolie ,
 Courtney Cox , and  Toby Maguire  before they were household names.  The company was taken private by New York leveraged-buyout
firm Kelso & Co. in 2006, and went public in June 2008 with
$675.4 million in debt.  RHI said it expects to exit bankruptcy by the first quarter
of 2011, under the plan, which is to reduce RHI’s debt by
51 percent, or $309 million.  Loan for Operations  The plan includes a $15 million loan to fund operations in
bankruptcy. The so-called debtor-in-possession loan is funded
through JPMorgan Chase Bank NA and other first-lien lenders, the
company said in a statement.  RHI also expects to have a $25 million revolving credit
loan upon exit from Chapter 11 to fund its business.  First lien creditors holding 99 percent of the debt voted
in favor of the plan, and all creditors holding second lien debt
voted in favor, the company said in a statement.  RHI will seek permission from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  to pay employees and priority vendors so it can keep
producing movies during the course of confirming its Chapter 11
plan, the company said.  KRH Investments LLC owns about 42 percent of RHI’s equity,
court papers show.  The case is In re RHI Entertainment Inc., 10-16536, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net ;
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 