-- Roche's Avastin Didn't Beat Chemotherapy as Early Breast Cancer Treatment
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2010-12-11T00:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/roche-s-avastin-fails-to-beat-chemotherapy-in-early-breast-cancer-patients.html
Roche Holding AG ’s Avastin failed to
eradicate tumor cells better than standard chemotherapy in women
with early stage breast cancer, a finding that could limit the
efforts to expand use of the oncology drug.  The 1,190-patient trial found 15 percent of women on
chemotherapy had no signs of disease when they underwent
surgery, compared with 17.5 percent of those also given Avastin.
The difference wasn’t statistically meaningful, researchers said
yesterday at the  San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium .  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is due to decide by
Dec. 17 whether to revoke Avastin’s marketing clearance for
breast malignancies. Outside advisers in July voted to rescind
an accelerated approval after Avastin failed to show as much of
a benefit when added to chemotherapy as hoped. The agency will
rule on Avastin’s use with various chemotherapies. Results from
four more Avastin trials in early breast cancer are pending.  “We’re still waiting for the results of the definitive
trials, but it’s a little concerning,” said  Eric Winer , chief
of the division of women’s cancer at the Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute in Boston. “I don’t think people are thinking
necessarily so positively.”  The goal of the trial was to wipe out even microscopic
signs of disease in an effort to cure more women. The study,
funded by Roche, of Basel, Switzerland, and Paris-based  Sanofi-
Aventis SA , provides the first results from late-stage testing
of Avastin in women with early breast cancer, according to
Gunter von Minckwitz, managing director of the German Breast
Group, which ran the study.  $6.3 Billion Revenue  Avastin generated 6.2 billion Swiss francs ($6.3 billion)
in revenue last year. The medicine was developed by Roche’s
South San Francisco, California-based Genentech unit, fully
acquired by the European drugmaker last year for $46.8 billion.  The drug is approved in several other cancer types,
including colorectal, lung and brain tumors. Avastin is the
first medicine to fight cancer by blocking the growth of blood
vessels that feed tumors, a process called angiogenesis. Roche
has said it expected U.S. sales of Avastin in breast cancer to
be about $600 million this year.  There are more studies under way with the use of Avastin in
early breast cancer after surgery, said  Sandra Horning , global
head of clinical development hematology and oncology at Roche’s
Genentech unit. Little is known about how Avastin will work when
it is given before surgery, known as the neoadjuvant setting,
where the company has one study, she said.  “We felt that it was important, given the results we’ve
seen in the advanced stage, to study it in the early stage as
well,” Horning said in an interview. “There is more
information coming. We still have a lot to learn.”  Previous Studies  Two previous studies of Avastin as a treatment for early-
stage colorectal cancer also failed to meet their main goals.
Roche is seeking to boost sales of the drug by testing it in
more tumor types and in earlier stages of the disease.  European regulators said Sept. 24 they would review
Avastin’s use in metastatic breast tumors. A clinical trial that
Roche says supports expanded use of the treatment was
inconsistent with results from previous studies, particularly in
terms of efficacy, according to the  European Medicines Agency .  The FDA’s 2008 clearance overruled an advisory panel that
concluded the benefit of slowing the spread of breast tumors
wasn’t worth the risk of side effects including high blood
pressure and death. Approval was accelerated, and done on the
condition that later research confirmed Avastin’s benefit for
breast cancer patients.  Decision Delayed  The FDA in September delayed its decision on whether to
allow wider use of Avastin in breast cancer or rescind clearance
for this use. The agency is set to decide by Dec. 17. The  FDA 
usually follows panels’ advice, though it isn’t required.  Previous studies showed Avastin slowed the disease, said
 Edith Perez , deputy director of the Mayo Clinic Comprehensive
Cancer Center in Jacksonville, Florida.  “For my patients, I think it’s good if we can delay
progression,” she said in an interview. “I like to be able to
tell a woman she will have a statistically significant better
chance of being alive without cancer at one year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 Ddoherty9@bloomberg.net . 