-- Ron Paul Doubts Bernanke Can Curb Inflation `in 15 Minutes' After Stimulus
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2010-12-10T21:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/ron-paul-doubts-bernanke-can-curb-inflation-in-15-minutes-after-stimulus.html
Representative  Ron Paul , a Texas
Republican who next month will take control of the House
subcommittee that oversees the Federal Reserve, said he’s
concerned the central bank won’t be able to prevent an outbreak
of inflation.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during an interview
broadcast Dec. 5 on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” he was “100
percent” confident the Fed could keep inflation below 2 percent
and reverse its accommodative monetary policy when necessary.
Policy makers “could raise interest rates in 15 minutes,” if
needed, he said.  “This optimism of Bernanke who says that when the prices
start to go up, he can turn that off in 15 minutes, I don’t
think he fully understands the subjective theory of value and
how prices have a psychological reason for going up, too,” Paul
said today on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with
 Kathleen Hays . “When people lose confidence, prices go up, and
you can’t turn that psychology off in a minute”  The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index excluding food and energy, rose
0.9 percent in October from a year earlier. Including all items,
the index increased 1.3 percent.  Paul said he believes prices are increasing at a faster
pace.  “If you look at private sources that measure prices with
the old consumer price index, it’s more like 5 percent,” he
said. Paul did not provide further details on the 5 percent
inflation estimate.  Weak Dollar  The 75-year old congressman, who wrote the 2009 book “End
the Fed,” said the odds of a weak dollar “bringing the Fed
down are much greater than me bringing the Fed down.”  Earlier today, in an interview on Bloomberg Television,
Paul said that he will “not really, not right up front” push
for an end to the U.S. central bank.  “But obviously that’s the implication,” Paul said.  House Financial Services chairman-elect  Spencer Bachus , an
Alabama Republican, selected Paul to lead the panel’s domestic
monetary policy subcommittee when their party takes the House
majority next month.  As chairman of the Fed oversight committee, Paul said he
will “push for debating” whether the central bank should focus
solely on policies that promote price stability, foregoing the
dual mandate by Congress that it also pursue maximum employment.  To contact the report on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  