-- Rubber Futures Advance for Second Week Amid Concerns About Thai Supply
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-12-10T07:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/rubber-futures-advance-for-second-week-amid-concerns-about-thai-supply.html
Rubber gained, booking second weekly
increase, amid concern that supply from Thailand, the largest
exporter, may tighten further on seasonal decline in output.  May-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
advanced 0.4 percent to settle at 381.9 yen per kilogram ($4,563
a metric ton) after climbing to 383 yen, matching a 30-year high
reached on Nov. 11. The contract advanced 3.1 percent this week.  Cash rubber prices climbed to a record after heavy rain and
flooding reduced output in Thailand and other Asian producers,
according to the  Rubber Research Institute of Thailand . The
price will likely extend gains as latex production in the
country starts a seasonal decline as early as next month, said
 Hisaaki Tasaka , an analyst at Tokyo-based broker ACE Koeki Co.  “The market is fundamentally bullish as shipments from
Thailand will decline further,” he said by phone today.  Cash rubber  was at 137.05 baht ($4.56) per kilogram
yesterday, matching a record reached on Dec. 8, the  Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand  said on its website. The Thai
market is closed for holiday today.  Gains in futures were limited amid concern that China may
end tax incentives for cars, weakening demand for the commodity
used in tires, and as the nation may raise interest rates to
curb inflation, Tasaka said.  China, the world’s biggest car market, may end tax
incentives for buying passenger cars next year, said  Xiong Chuanlin , vice secretary-general of the China Automobile
Industry Association. Passenger-car deliveries to dealers rose
to a monthly record in November.  China Car Sales  The Chinese government cut a 10 percent tax on car sales to
5 percent in 2009 and then raised the rate to 7.5 percent this
year. The policy, along with subsidies for car sales in rural
areas and incentives to trade-in older models, will expire at
the end of this month.  Sales of passenger cars including multipurpose and sport-
utility vehicles increased 29.3 percent to 1.34 million last
month, higher than the previous record of 1.32 million in
January, according to the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers . The pace of growth was the fastest since April.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai closed up 2.1 percent at
33,805 yuan ($5,081) a ton. It climbed to a record 38,920 yuan
Nov. 11.  Speculation grew that the Chinese central bank will
increase rates this weekend as the statistics bureau brought
forward the release of November economic data on inflation,
retail sales, industrial output and fixed-asset investments by
two days to Dec. 11.  China’s central bank last month ordered banks to set aside
larger reserves for the second time in two weeks after raising
interest rates in October for the first time since 2007.  China will shift to a “prudent” monetary policy next year
from a “moderately loose” stance as the government seeks to
combat accelerating inflation, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  