-- Rubber Climbs to 30-Year High as Rains Threaten Thailand Output, Shipments
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-12-10T10:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/rubber-advances-to-30-year-high-as-rains-threaten-production-in-thailand.html
Rubber advanced to the highest level
since February 1980 as rains in Thailand, the largest exporter,
curbed production, potentially disrupting shipments.  May-delivery rubber gained to as high as 385.50 yen per
kilogram ($4,612 per ton) on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange before
ending the so-called night session at 384.50 yen. Trading in
this session is settled on Monday.  Cash rubber prices climbed to a record after heavy rain and
flooding reduced output in Thailand and other Asian producers,
according to the  Rubber Research Institute of Thailand . The
price will likely extend gains as latex production in the
country starts a seasonal decline as early as next month, said
 Hisaaki Tasaka , an analyst at Tokyo-based broker ACE Koeki Co.  “The market is fundamentally bullish as shipments from
Thailand will decline further,” he said by phone earlier today.  Cash rubber  was at 137.05 baht ($4.56) per kilogram
yesterday, matching a record reached on Dec. 8, the Thai
research institute said on its website. The Thai market is
closed for holiday today.  Gains in futures were limited amid concern that China may
end tax incentives for cars, weakening demand for the commodity
used in tires, Tasaka said. China, the world’s biggest car
market, may end tax incentives for buying passenger cars next
year, said  Xiong Chuanlin , vice secretary-general of the China
Automobile Industry Association. Passenger-car deliveries to
dealers rose to a monthly record in November.  China Car Sales  The Chinese government cut a 10 percent tax on car sales to
5 percent in 2009 and then raised the rate to 7.5 percent this
year. The policy, along with subsidies for car sales in rural
areas and incentives to trade-in older models, will expire at
the end of this month.  Sales of passenger cars including multipurpose and sport-
utility vehicles increased 29.3 percent to 1.34 million last
month, higher than the previous record of 1.32 million in
January, according to the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers . The pace of growth was the fastest since April.  After the market closed, China ordered lenders to park more
money with the central bank for the third time in five weeks to
counter the threat from inflation after November’s lending and
trade surplus topped analysts’ estimates.  Reserve requirements will increase 50 basis points starting
Dec. 20, the People’s Bank of China said on its website today.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai closed up 2.1 percent at
33,805 yuan ($5,081) a ton. The most active contract reached a
record 38,920 yuan on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  