-- HSBC Names Assaf Head of Investment Banking in Second Overhaul by Gulliver
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-12-10T11:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/hsbc-appoints-samir-assaf-as-ceo-of-global-banking-and-markets.html
HSBC Holdings Plc  named  Samir Assaf 
as head of investment banking, the second management shakeup
following a succession battle at Europe’s biggest bank.  Assaf, 50, previously head of Global Markets, the
investment bank’s biggest division, will start on Jan. 1 when
predecessor  Stuart Gulliver  takes over as chief executive
officer, London-based HSBC said in a statement today.  Gulliver won the CEO post in September after  Michael Geoghegan  resigned and Chairman  Stephen Green  stepped down. HSBC
last month named  Paul Thurston  to a new role as head of consumer
banking and wealth management. Like Gulliver, Thurston will be
Hong Kong-based.  “I have worked with Samir for the last eight years and I
know his exceptional talent and experience mean that I leave the
business in hugely capable hands,” Gulliver, 51, said in the
statement.  Robin Phillips , 52, head of Global Banking, will become co-
head of an expanded division that will incorporate equity
capital markets, leveraged and acquisition finance and project
finance execution.  Kevin Adeson , head of Global Capital
Financing, was named co-head of the enlarged Global Banking
division.  Jose-Luis Guerrero  and Spencer Lake, 50, were appointed co-
heads of Global Markets, which is expanded to include debt
capital markets and asset and structured finance, HSBC said.  “We have built a world-class wholesale banking operation
over the last decade, one of the few to emerge from the
financial crisis with its reputation and market position
Enhanced,” Gulliver said in the statement.  Biggest Contributor  Global Banking and Markets employs 22,000 people and made
$10.48 billion of pretax profit in 2009, the biggest contributor
to  HSBC ’s total profit in the period.  Assaf has worked for HSBC and CCF, acquired by HSBC in
2000, for 16 years. In 2006, he became head of global markets
for Europe, Middle East and Africa and in 2007 was promoted to
be deputy head of Global Markets. He named head of Global
Markets in January 2008. He began his career at  Total SA , where
he was head of Treasury.  Assaf, who was born in Lebanon, will remain London-based,
the bank said today. He speaks French, Arabic, English and
Spanish and was educated at L’Institut d’Etudes Politiques in
Paris and gained an MBA in Economics from La Sorbonne
University, said HSBC. He is a keen reader and his favorite
writer is  Haruki Murakami , author of Kafka on the Shore. Assaf
is married with four children.  HSBC declined to make Assaf available for interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 