-- Lions Gate, HSBC, Madoff, Goldman, BA in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-12-10T11:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/hsbc-madoff-goldman-ba-ebay-kbr-bofa-in-court-news.html
  Carl Icahn ’s hostile bid for  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp . was set back by a  New York  judge’s
decision to let a board member vote shares acquired in a deal
that diluted the billionaire investor’s stake in the company.  Icahn asked the court to block director  Mark Rachesky  from
voting the shares he acquired on July 20 at the independent film
studio’s Dec. 14 annual meeting as he sought the election of
five directors he nominated. New York state Supreme Court
Justice James Yates yesterday denied Icahn’s request for a
preliminary injunction.  Icahn, 74, who is attempting to buy the studio for $7.50 a
share, sued Vancouver-based  Lions Gate  in Canada and New York in
July to reverse an equity-for-debt swap that increased
Rachesky’s stake to almost 29 percent. Icahn argued that
management conspired with large shareholders to thwart his bid.
He owns about 33.5 percent.  The denial of the motion will permit existing shareholders
to vote on Dec. 14 “while giving Icahn, if he loses the proxy
fight on that day, and should he prevail in the ensuing
litigation, an opportunity for a new election” with the votes
to be counted in less than 10 months as sought, Yates wrote in
his ruling.  The judge said an important factor in his determination was
that Lions Gate’s lawyers told him another shareholder’s meeting
would be held in September 2011.  Icahn said in a Dec. 6 interview that he needed a favorable
ruling to prevail at next week’s shareholders’ meeting.  “We need the court’s ruling,” Icahn said. “If we get
that, Rachesky will go down from 29 percent to 20 percent.”  An attorney for Icahn, Joseph DiBenedetto, declined to
comment immediately after the decision was released.  Lions Gate said in a statement it was pleased with the
ruling and believes “the transaction, which resulted in the
reduction of Lionsgate debt by approximately $100 million,
supported the best interests of the company.”  Attorney Andrew Rossman, who represents Rachesky, said in a
telephone interview, “We look forward to the annual meeting.”  The case is Icahn v. Lions Gate, 651076/2010, New York state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Three Ex-UBS Executives Indicted in Muni Bid Probe  The former co-head of  UBS AG ’s municipal derivatives group
and two colleagues were indicted in the U.S. government’s
multiyear investigation of bid-rigging on investment contracts.  Peter Ghavami, Gary Heinz and Michael Welty were charged
with six counts in U.S. District Court in New York, the Justice
Department said in a news release.  “The individuals charged today allegedly participated in
complex fraud schemes and conspiracies that subverted
competition in the market for municipal finance contracts and
deprived municipal bond issuers of the benefits of their
investments,” said Christine Varney, the department’s antitrust
chief.  The Justice Department’s antitrust division has ramped up
its more than four-year criminal investigation of the $2.8
trillion municipal bond market in the past few weeks. On Dec. 7,  Bank of America Corp . agreed to pay $137 million in restitution
for its involvement in the bid-rigging conspiracy.  Ghavami, a Belgian citizen living in Moscow, was arrested
Dec. 1 after arriving at John F. Kennedy International Airport
in New York. A former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker, James Hertz,
pleaded guilty Nov. 30.  “Peter Ghavami will plead not guilty and fight this
case,” said James Mitchell, his lawyer, in a telephone
interview.  Heinz couldn’t be reached for comment, and Welty hung up on
a reporter. Kelly Smith, a UBS spokeswoman in New York, declined
to comment.  The Justice Department didn’t identify which company
employed Ghavami, Heinz and Welty. Records filed with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority show they worked for
UBS.  For more, click here.  Bank of America Wins Order, Ex-Workers Can’t Take Data  Bank of America Corp. won a court order blocking four
former employees from using and sharing the bank’s client
records at their new employer, New York-based Dynasty Financial
Partners.  Bank of America alleged Dec. 8 in a complaint in New York
state court that taking the records from the bank’s U.S. Trust
unit to Dynasty Financial amounted to trade-secret theft. The
employees claimed in their resignation letters that they were
allowed to take the records under a voluntary recruiting
agreement among brokers, according to the complaint.  Michael C. Brown, formerly a Bank of America financial
adviser with $5.9 billion in client assets, and the other three
defendants are temporarily blocked from “using or disclosing in
any manner the customer lists and any other property or trade
secret information taken at the time” of their resignation from
U.S. Trust, according to a copy of the order signed by Justice
Melvin L. Schweitzer and provided yesterday by Bill Halldin, a
Bank of America spokesman.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Dynasty Financial, said in
an e-mailed statement that Schweitzer denied “the majority of
Bank of America’s claims,” including a request to prevent Brown
and his team from continuing to work with some clients.  The suit is unnecessary and “a blatant legal tactic in
an attempt to portray Mr. Brown and his team in a negative
light,” Goldberg said in the statement.  The order directs the former employees to return customer
lists and any other property to U.S. Trust. It also blocks them
from “soliciting, inviting, encouraging, requesting” customer
accounts that may have been “wrongfully solicited,” according
to the filing.  Halldin declined to comment.  The suit names as defendants Dynasty Financial, Brown,
Charles F. Britton, Marcus Wilson and Amanda Kerley.  The case is Bank of America v. Michael C. Brown, 030283,
New York Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  HSBC Sued By German Investors Over Madoff Fund Losses    HSBC Holdings Plc ,  Europe ’s biggest lender, was sued by a
group of 650 German investors in Luxembourg seeking compensation
for losses they suffered through a fund that placed assets with
convicted conman  Bernard Madoff .  The group of mainly private investors is seeking about 25
million euros ($33 million) in damages, alleging the London-
based bank is liable for losses through Herald (Lux) US Absolute
Return Fund, said Edouard Fremault, a senior analyst at Deminor
International, which filed the lawsuit on behalf of investors.  “HSBC was responsible for the safekeeping of the assets of
Herald (Lux) and, despite very clear regulation to the contrary
in Luxembourg, HSBC fully delegated custodial functions to
Madoff,” Fremault said by telephone yesterday. “HSBC was aware
there was risk associated with Madoff because it had received a
report from KPMG showing this.”  The Dec. 6 Luxembourg lawsuit was filed a day after Irving
Picard, the U.S. trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm, sued HSBC in
New York for $9 billion, alleging the bank enabled Madoff’s
fraud. HSBC also faces separate Madoff-related lawsuits in
Ireland and Luxembourg.  “HSBC is party to a number of proceedings in various
jurisdictions” and “believes it has good defenses and shall
defend itself vigorously,” a spokesman for the lender said by
telephone.  HSBC’s Luxembourg unit was custodian for the Herald (Lux)
fund, which had assets of $225.7 million as of Oct. 31, 2008,
according to Bloomberg data. The fund was forced to dissolve
because of Madoff-related losses.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Fabrice Tourre Seeks to Dismiss Amended SEC Lawsuit  Fabrice Tourre, the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . trader accused
of misleading investors in a product linked to subprime
mortgages, asked to have the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s revised lawsuit against him dismissed.  The amended complaint fails “utterly to remedy the fatal
defects in the original complaint,” Tourre said in his motion
filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. Because the
transactions involving the collateralized debt obligations
called Abacus 2007-AC1 occurred outside the U.S., Tourre can’t
be held liable under U.S. securities law, he said.  “The SEC adds an allegation that a closing for Abacus
2007-AC1 took place in New York on April 26, 2007,” Tourre said
in his filing. “As to the closing, the SEC pleads no facts
supporting a plausible inference that the ‘closing’ was anything
more than a ministerial lawyer-driven documentation exercise.”  The SEC, which reached a $550 million settlement with
Goldman Sachs in July, included new claims against Tourre in an
amended complaint filed Nov. 22. U.S. regulators accuse the
London-based trader of defrauding investors by not disclosing
that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying
securities for the collateralized debt obligation and planned to
bet against them.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  Venezuelan Corruption Cases in U.S. Spotlight Chavez Officials  Venezuelan corruption cases are surfacing in U.S. courts
with civil and criminal allegations involving judges, financial
regulators and senior military officers in President Hugo
Chavez’s government, Bloomberg News’ David Glovin and Charlie
Devereux report.  Since October, U.S. prosecutors have brought an extortion
case against an official of Venezuela’s  securities regulator , an
arms trafficking case tied to engine shipments for Venezuela’s
air force and a cocaine smuggling case against an accused drug
kingpin who implicated Venezuelan military figures. A civil suit
alleging money laundering by seven top Venezuelan officials is
on appeal after a trial judge dismissed it in August.  “There’s so much corruption that has washed ashore from
Venezuela,” said Joel Hirst, an international affairs fellow at
the Council on Foreign Relations in  Washington . “More and more
criminal activity is having its source in Venezuela. It’s
spilling into the public and into the U.S. courts because a lot
of Venezuelans have fled to the U.S.”  Venezuelan officials say corrupt businessmen are using U.S.
antagonism toward Venezuela to protect themselves and tarnish
the international reputation of Chavez’s self-described
revolutionary, socialist government.  “Those speculating businessmen should show their faces in
Venezuela and stop running away and accusing our officials in
the United States,” Finance Minister Jorge Giordani told
reporters in Caracas on Nov. 3, referring to charges brought
against a securities regulator official, Rafael Ramos de la
Rosa. Ramos was indicted last month for conspiracy to commit
extortion and launder money as the government-appointed receiver
of Caracas brokerage Uno Valores Casa de Bolsa CA. He pleaded
not guilty in federal court in Miami on Dec. 3.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-Goldman Sachs Programmer Was ‘Thief,’ Prosecutor Tells Jury  Former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. programmer Sergey Aleynikov
is a “thief” who on his last day of work took some of the
company’s proprietary trading code to use at his new firm, a
prosecutor told jurors.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Rebecca Rohr said in closing
arguments yesterday that Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of
thousands of lines of source code from Goldman’s trading system
on June 5, 2009.  He circumvented Goldman’s security system, sent the code to
an outside server in  Germany , and later compressed and encrypted
the code, Rohr told jurors in federal court in Manhattan.
Aleynikov took the code with him to a meeting with his new
employers in Chicago in July, she said.  “He had a cheat sheet -- the codes from Goldman Sachs that
he needed to get started with for a trading system” at his new
employer, Rohr said. “He wanted to make it seem like he’d
written the code himself. He was a programmer who stole the
answers to the test.”  Aleynikov’s attorney, Kevin Marino, argued that his client
may have broken a confidentiality rule of New York-based Goldman
and didn’t commit a crime. Jurors began deliberations yesterday.  Aleynikov is charged with violating the Economic Espionage
Act and the Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property Act. If
convicted, he faces as long as 15 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  British Airways Says Hong Kong Staff Can’t Bring U.K. Lawsuit    British Airways Plc  told a London court that a group of 16
Hong Kong-based former cabin crew shouldn’t be allowed to sue
the airline in the U.K. for age discrimination.  British Airways had the right to make the workers retire at
the age of 45 because U.K. discrimination law doesn’t apply to
them, Thomas Linden, a lawyer for the carrier, told a panel of
judges at the Court of Appeal yesterday.  “Parliament did not legislate to protect employees across
the world,” he said. “It protects employees who are employed
at an establishment in  Great Britain .”  Two lower courts have already ruled against British Airways
and allowed the former Hong Kong-based employees to bring a
claim. Linden said the lower courts erred.  During their employment with the airline, the flight
attendants flew into the U.K. around 28 times a year spending up
to three days in the country on each occasion.  Melanie Tether, lawyer for the Hong Kong crew, said that
the earlier rulings were correct and that all employees on U.K.
aircraft operated by a British business are entitled to
protection under the age discrimination laws.  The case is British Airways Plc v. Mak and Ors, Appeal of
Appellant from the order of The Employment Appeal Tribunal.  EBay May Be Liable for L’Oreal Trademark Breaches    EBay Inc . can be held liable for trademark breaches on its
auction site if it has been notified of continuing infringement,
a European Union court aide said in a dispute involving  L’Oreal
SA .  While EBay isn’t liable for potentially infringing
information posted by users on its site in general, the owner of
the second most-visited U.S. e-commerce site can be held liable
for any infringements from the moment it’s notified of a
trademark breach and also for content it transfers to search
engines, such as Google and Yahoo. EBay uses L’Oreal trademarks
as sponsored links to lead users to infringing perfumes and
other cosmetics, L’Oreal has said.  “Whilst EBay is generally exempted from liability for
information stored by its clients on its website, it still
remains liable for the content of data it communicates as an
advertiser to a search engine,” Advocate General Niilo
Jaeaeskinen of the  EU’s Court of Justice  said yesterday in a
non-binding opinion. No exemption applies either “if EBay has
been notified of the infringing use of a trademark.”  L’Oreal has argued EBay is liable for trademark breaches
due to its active involvement in the pre-sale, sale and after-
sale processes on its online platform. The case was referred
from the U.K. to the EU’s top court in Luxembourg for guidance.  A ruling by the EU court, which in most cases follows its
advisers’ opinions, may help settle pending trademark disputes
between the two companies in France, Belgium and Spain.  “The Advocate General retained the possibility of
prohibiting the sale of testers and unpackaged products,”
Paris-based L’Oreal said in an e-mail. “This balanced opinion
is overall consistent with the stance that L’Oréal has held for
several years.”  The case is C-324/09, L’Oreal SA, Lancome parfums et beaute
& Cie SNC, Laboratoire Garnier & Cie, L’Oreal (UK) Ltd. v. EBay
International AG, EBay Europe SARL, EBay (UK) Ltd.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Afghanistan Contractor Gets 41 Months for Bribery  A former  KBR Inc . employee in Afghanistan was sentenced to
41 months in prison for accepting bribes for steering work to
companies doing business with the U.S. military.  Daniel Freeman of Hempstead, New York, pleaded guilty to
taking $200,000 while working in Afghanistan from 2007 to 2009.
He also admitted he laundered the money by sending cash back to
the U.S. in concealed transactions.  “I just made a horrible decision, your honor,” Freeman
told U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  yesterday in New York.  McMahon rejected pleas from Freeman’s lawyer to impose a
sentence of less than the 41 to 51 months called for in
nonbinding federal sentencing guidelines.  “It is very necessary to send a message loud and clear
that this type of behavior will not be tolerated,” McMahon
said.  The judge called Afghanistan a “murky part of the world”
where representatives of the U.S. have to operate “completely
and totally on the up and up.”  The case is U.S. v. Freeman, 10-cr-00766, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Bank of America Swaps Lawyers After $590 Million Lehman Ruling  Bank of America Corp., ordered by a bankruptcy judge to pay  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . $590 million after taking its
deposits, substituted law firm Bingham McCutchen LLP for
Shearman & Sterling LLP as its representative in the continuing
case, according to a Dec. 6 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan.  Cuomo Reaches Pension Probe Deal With His Father’s Former Aide  Andrew Cuomo, New York’s attorney general, reached an
agreement in his pension-fund probe with a one-time aide to his
father and the state’s former three-term governor, Mario M.
Cuomo.  The  agreement  with Albany, New York, attorney and lobbyist
Gerald A. “Jerry” Weiss was disclosed yesterday on the
attorney general’s official state  website  and in an e-mail.
Weiss, who had no securities license and wasn’t affiliated with
a broker-dealer, got $52,000 for introducing an investment firm
to the New York City Comptroller’s Office, according to the
agreement.  Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat who was elected New York’s
governor last month, also announced yesterday that he had
recouped $1.5 million for the state and its  Common Retirement
Fund  from a Dallas investment firm and from a lobbying firm led
by a Weiss partner, Patricia Lynch.  “Gifts, favors and campaign contributions are not a
legitimate basis for government contracts or special
treatment,” the attorney general said in a statement announcing
the accords with  Patricia Lynch Associates Inc.  and the Dallas
firm, Aldus Equity.  Weiss and Lynch are partners in another Albany lobbying
firm, LW Strategies LLC, according to an online New York City
 directory  of registered lobbyists.  Weiss is also a partner in the Syracuse, New York-based law
firm Hiscock & Barclay LLP, which in July contributed $45,900 to
Andrew Cuomo’s gubernatorial campaign, according to New York
State Board of Elections on-line  data . The firm donated $10,000
to the campaign in January 2008.  Gabriel Nugent, a partner in the Hiscock & Barclay firm who
is identified in the settlement papers as counsel for Weiss,
declined to comment on the agreement or discuss the
contributions made to the Cuomo campaign.  “We’re pleased to put this matter behind us,” Darren
Dopp, a Lynch firm partner and spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  Weiss didn’t admit any wrongdoing in his agreement with
Cuomo. According to the agreement, he and his lobbying firm
divided $104,000 in fees received from an investment firm which
got pension business from the New York City Police and Fire
pension funds.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 