-- Senate Tax-Cut Plan Would Add $857 Billion to U.S. Debt
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2010-12-10T17:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/senate-tax-cut-extension-plan-would-add-857-billion-to-debt.html
Senate leaders released an agreement
crafted by the White House and Republicans to sustain Bush-era
tax  rates  through 2012, set the estate tax at the lowest rate in
80 years, extend jobless aid and cut payroll taxes by 2
percentage points.  The legislation would add $857 billion to the  federal debt 
over 10 years, government analysts said.  President  Barack Obama,  in an interview with  NPR News 
broadcast today, said he’s “confident” the tax deal will pass
largely intact to keep the tax cuts from expiring at the end of
the year. “Nobody -- Democrat or Republican -- wants to see
people’s paychecks smaller on Jan. 1 because Congress didn’t
act,” he said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  introduced the
legislation late yesterday after three days of lobbying by
Democrats to include measures excluded from the framework
announced Dec. 6 by Obama. The measure includes some provisions
favored by Democrats such as renewed ethanol and commuter
subsidies. Others, such as an extension of the Build America
Bonds program, didn’t make the cut.  Reid scheduled a procedural vote on the bill for Dec. 13.  The congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, which
estimates the revenue effects of tax legislation, said the
provisions would cost the government $801.3 billion in forgone
revenue over 10 years. Extending unemployment benefits for 13
months, another feature of the package, would cost $56 billion,
the Obama administration has said.  The proposal would extend Bush-era tax cuts for all levels
of income. A two-year extension of those rates would cost $407.6
billion, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.  Capital Gains, Dividends  The measure would keep the reduced tax rates enacted in
2001 and 2003 on income, capital gains and dividends from
expiring on Dec. 31. That would preserve the current 15 percent
rate for most dividends and capital gains as well as the 10, 15,
25, 28, 33, and 35 percent income-tax rates.  The $1,000 child credit would avoid being cut in half, the
abolishment of the so-called marriage penalty would be retained,
and tax credits subsidizing adoption, higher education and child
care would be extended.  The bill includes provisions from last year’s economic-
stimulus law that Democrats favor, including a Treasury grant in
lieu of tax credits for solar, wind and renewable energy
conversion. The change helps companies that are unprofitable and
couldn’t take advantage of the credits.  Long-Term Jobless  The bill would extend federal unemployment insurance for
the long-term jobless for 13 months, covering all of 2011, and
cut workers’ share of Social Security taxes to 4.2 percent. It
would temporarily index the alternative-minimum tax, rolling
back a $136.7 billion tax increase set to affect an estimated 21
million Americans this year and next.  “If this compromise passes, all taxpayers are going to
win,” said Kathy Pickering, executive director of the Tax
Institute at H&R Block in Kansas City, Missouri. “First, by
being able to take advantage of the credits that were expiring
and by not having the increase in the tax rate.”  A provision many Democrats call the most objectionable
would create a 35 percent top tax rate on estates that would
apply after a tax-free allowance of $10 million per couple is
exhausted. The 2001 law temporarily abolished the estate tax for
2010 only, and the levy is scheduled to return in 2011 with a
top 55 percent rate and a $2 million per-couple tax-free
allowance.  House Democrats cited the provision, advocated by Arizona
Republican Senator  Jon Kyl , as one of the main reasons they
yesterday approved a non-binding resolution to block
consideration of the White House-Republican framework “in its
current form.” House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, said she may still bring a bill to the floor.  Business Deductions  For businesses, the measure grants a one-year opportunity
to deduct the cost of investments such as software, equipment
and entire factories rather than depreciate those acquisitions
over time as current rules require. The provision would be
effective for purchases after Sept. 8, the day Obama first
proposed the idea.  Businesses also would benefit from a retroactive two-year
reinstatement of dozens of tax breaks, many of which expired a
year ago. Among them: a research tax credit claimed by thousands
of companies including  Harley-Davidson Inc.  and  Microsoft Corp. 
Tax deferral on profits associated with foreign lending
activities by companies such as  General Electric Co . and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  would again be allowed.  A 45-cent per gallon tax credit for ethanol production, due
to expire at year’s end, would be extended for one year.  Bonds Program  The measure doesn’t extend some features of the 2009
economic stimulus law that expire at year’s end. The legislation
allows the Build America Bonds program to lapse, for example.
The program has been the fastest-growing segment of the U.S.
municipal bond business and has been a source of underwriting
fees for companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  Bank
of America Corp.   Also excluded from the package was a renewal of a tax break
sought by timber-state lawmakers. Established by the 2008 farm
bill, it created a 15 percent capital-gains tax rate for
corporate-owned timber sales. The provision, which would cost
$339 million to renew through next year, lapsed in mid-2009.  The measure omits an extension of the advanced energy
manufacturing program, which has provided tax credits to
companies investing in battery technology. The administration
has been seeking a $5 billion infusion into the program.  Companies including  Dow Corning Corp. , EI DuPont de Nemours
& Co., GE and  United Technologies Corp.  took advantage of an
initial $2.3 billion for the program in the stimulus law.  The tax agreement lacks revenue-raising offsets. It doesn’t
include higher taxes on the carried interest earned by private-
equity fund managers and certain real estate investors. Many
Democrats had been seeking to tax this compensatory income as
ordinary income, not capital gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 Rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  