-- Serbia Plans to Index and Issue New Dinar Debt, Finance Minister Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-12-10T15:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/serbia-plans-to-index-and-issue-new-dinar-debt-finance-minister-says.html
Serbia plans to issue new six-
month dinar debt this month and link it either to inflation or
the euro to ensure smooth financing of its 2010 budget, Finance
Minister  Diana Dragutinovic  said.  With dinar-denominated debt issues undersold and yields on
the rise since June this year, the government needs to raise
another 20 billion dinars ($248.17 million) to 25 billion dinars
for liquidity financing of the budget.  “I want to be sure when it comes to the liquidity of the
budget,” Dragutinovic said in a telephone interview. “The
first option I am looking at, if possible at all, is to index
the debt to inflation.”  Her preference for inflation-indexed debt is motivated by
“dinarization” efforts designed to increase the share of the
dinar in all banking transactions, still dominated by the euro.  Serbia’s consumer price inflation is seen at 9.6 percent in
November, up from 8.9 percent in October and above the central
bank’s target of 4 percent to 8 percent at the end of the year.  Linking the new debt to the euro “is my last option,”
Dragutinovic said, adding that her ministry is also looking into
linking the debt to “a trigger, such as a certain depreciation
level of the dinar.”  The Finance Ministry will decide early next week, she said.  The government is expected to approve new debt issues at
its session on Dec. 16, allowing the Treasury to call two new
debt auctions on Dec. 22 and Dec. 29, the head of the Debt
Management Agency Branislav Toncic told Bloomberg News.  The decision to amend the December borrowing calendar came
after yields on dinar Treasury bill issues approached 14
percent, still attracting little investor interest amid the
central bank’s policy tightening cycle, launched in late August
to clamp down on inflation fuelled by soaring food prices and
weak dinar.  The National Bank of Serbia raised its benchmark interest
rate by a full percentage point to 11.5 percent yesterday, as it
tries to make sure inflation returns to the target range at the
end of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  