-- Singapore Air A380 Delivery Delayed as Japanese Seatmaker Misses Deadline
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-12-10T09:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/singapore-air-a380-delivery-delayed-as-japanese-seatmaker-misses-deadline.html
Singapore Airlines Ltd. , the
world’s second-largest carrier by market value, said the
introduction of its 12th Airbus SAS A380 has been delayed
after Koito Industries Ltd. failed to deliver business-class
seats on time.  The plane had been due for delivery this quarter and
“has been delayed as a result of the issues that Koito has
faced,”  Nicholas Ionides , a spokesman for the carrier, said
in an e-mail reply to Bloomberg queries. He said the delay
isn’t affecting the airline’s current operations and he
expects the plane to arrive before the end of March.  The postponement is the second time Singapore Air has
pushed back introduction of an A380 because of late Koito
seat deliveries. Rivals  All Nippon Airways Co. ,  Continental
Airlines Inc.  and Thai Airways International Pcl have also
suffered delays after  Koito  in February admitted it falsified
test results and made unauthorized design changes to its
seats for at least a decade.  “We are working closely with Airbus, Koito and the
relevant regulatory authorities and expect the issues to be
resolved soon,” Ionides said in the e-mail.  Koito Industries spokesman Hidetsugu Matsudaira had no
comment on the Singapore Air statement.  Koito rose 3.5 percent to 150 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
Tokyo trading. Parent Koito Manufacturing Co., part-owned by
Toyota Motor Corp., advanced 0.2 percent to 1,270 yen.
Singapore Air fell 0.6 percent to S$15.70 at the 5 p.m. close
in Singapore trading.  Seat Glitch  Singapore Air’s A380, configured to carry 471 passengers,
is fitted with 60 business-class seats on the second level of
the double-decker aircraft, according to its  website . The
carrier received its 11th superjumbo in July, six months late
because of the seat glitch.  The airline plans to operate its 12th A380 between
Singapore and Los Angeles, via Narita, Japan, when it’s
delivered, Ionides said today. The aircraft will replace the
Boeing Co. 747-400 currently used on the route.  Koito said in April it would stop taking orders for
plane seats for as long as three years to focus on
maintenance, including checking about 1,000 commercial planes
in which its seats are installed. The Yokohama-based seat
manufacturer paid 3.6 billion yen ($43 million) in
compensation in the year ended in March and expects to pay
another 3.3 billion yen this fiscal year.  Thai Airways, Thailand’s largest carrier, said in
October it’s seeking as much as $180 million in compensation
from the seatmaker.  Koito also makes business-class seats for Singapore
Air’s Airbus A340-500s, as well as first-class seats for its
Boeing Co. 777-300ERs, according to Ionides.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Sue Ling  in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  