-- Sinopec Agrees to Acquire Occidental's Argentina Unit for $2.45 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-10T07:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/sinopec-agrees-to-purchase-occidental-s-argentina-unit-for-2-45-billion.html
China Petrochemical Corp., Asia’s
biggest refiner, agreed to buy  Occidental Petroleum Corp. ’s
Argentine oil and gas unit for $2.45 billion, signaling the
country’s appetite for energy assets shows no sign of easing.  The purchase marks the Beijing-based company’s first
investment in Argentina’s oil and gas industry, the Chinese
refiner known as Sinopec Group said in an e-mailed statement.
The deal is subject to government approvals.  The acquisition takes Chinese bids for overseas energy
assets to a record $38.8 billion this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Prior to today’s deal, companies
including Sinopec Group and Cnooc Ltd. had invested more than
$13 billion in the South American oil industry in 2010 to meet
demand in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “Chinese companies are interested in acquiring energy
assets that China needs in developing countries like Argentina
because they are seen as having less competition from the big
established oil majors,” said  Shi Yan , an analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Ltd. in Shanghai. “We’ve seen a lot of interest in Latin
America from Chinese companies recently.”  A venture half owned by Beijing-based Cnooc bought a stake
in Argentina’s Pan American Energy LLC last month for $7.06
billion. In October, Sinopec Group agreed to pay $7.1 billion
for a 40 percent stake of Repsol YPF SA’s Brazilian unit. That
was China’s largest overseas oil  deal  since Sinopec Group bought
Addax Petroleum Corp. for C$8.3 billion ($8.2 billion) last year
to gain reserves in Iraq’s Kurdistan and West Africa.  Expanding Reserves  “This deal seems a little bit expensive,” Shi said.
“They are paying about $6.20 a barrel, but it seems to be
partly for probable reserves not proven reserves. Cnooc recently
paid about $9.10 per barrel for assets in Argentina, but that
was for proven reserves.”  Sinopec Group may have paid about $6.90 a barrel for the
reserves, said  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong.  The  Occidental  unit, Occidental Argentina Exploration &
Production Inc., holds an interest in 23 production and
exploration concessions in Santa Cruz, Mendoza and Chubut
provinces, of which 19 are operating. As of the end of 2009, the
concessions held proven plus probable reserves of 393 million
barrels of oil equivalent, according to Sinopec Group.  The Chinese company would gain access to fields that
produced more than 51,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day last
year, or about 1 percent of China’s daily crude imports.  Argentina’s proven oil reserves were 2.5 billion barrels as
of the end of last year, while China had 14.8 billion barrels,
according to BP’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Energy Demand  China’s oil demand may rise to 11.63 million barrels a day
by 2015 from 9.16 million barrels a day this year, according to
the International Energy Agency. Crude imports reached 4.1
million barrels a day in 2009.  “The attraction is that Argentina is open to doing
business with China, we saw that with the recent Cnooc deal,”
Beveridge of Sanford C. Bernstein said. Sinopec Group is
acquiring “mature, onshore oil and gas assets, which is
Sinopec’s area of expertise in that it has similar assets in
China,” he said.  Sinopec Group’s listed unit  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. 
has climbed 3 percent in Hong Kong trading this year, compared
with the 5.4 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng Index. The
stock fell 0.4 percent to HK$7.11 at 3:15 p.m. local time.  Occidental Petroleum  Occidental  has advanced 12 percent in New York, compared
with the 9 percent increase in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
The  stock  gained 0.2 percent to close at $91.07 yesterday.  Occidental Chief Executive Ray Irani has sold assets in
Pakistan and Russia to focus on prospects in the U.S. including
Texas and the Middle East. According to the company’s 2009
annual  report , 13 percent of Occidental’s oil and gas output
comes from Latin America and 58 percent from the U.S.  The company plans to add 380,000 acres in California and an
interest in 100,000 acres in other producing areas, President
Stephen I. Chazen said in October.  Calls made to Occidental’s offices in Los Angeles out of
office hours were unanswered.  -- John Duce  in Hong Kong and  Wang Ying  in Beijing. With
assistance from  Chua Baizhen  in Beijing. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Amit Prakash .  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net ;
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 