-- Soybeans Drop as Rain Aiding Brazil, Argentina Crops; Corn Little Changed
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-12-10T21:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/soybean-futures-drop-in-chicago-as-rain-may-aid-crops-in-brazil-argentina.html
Soybeans declined, capping the first
weekly drop in three weeks, on speculation that rain will
improve crop development in Brazil and restore soil moisture in
Argentina. Corn was unchanged.  Parts of Brazil, the biggest grower and exporter after the
U.S., received as much as 1.9 inches (4.8 centimeters) of rain
in the past 24 hours, and more is expected in the next two days,
 World Weather Inc.  said in a report today. In Argentina, the
third-biggest exporter, 70 percent of the fields will get 0.6
inch to 3 inches of precipitation over the next three days,
reducing crop stress, the private forecaster said.  “Rain this weekend will be very timely,” said  Don Roose ,
the president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in West Des Moines, Iowa.
“There is little incentive to hold long positions without a
threat to South American crops.”  Soybeans for January delivery fell 8.5 cents, or 0.7
percent, to close at $12.73 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The most-active futures fell 2.1 percent this
week, after gaining 8.2 percent the prior two weeks. Soybeans
touched $13.485 on Nov. 12, the highest since August 2009, as
Chinese demand surged on concerns that dry weather would hurt
South American crops.  Corn Erases Losses  Corn prices erased losses in Chicago today to close
unchanged on speculation that Congress will pass a bill next
week that extends tax credits for blending grain-based ethanol
with gasoline, said  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst for
Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in Minneapolis.  Corn futures for March delivery closed at $5.7425 a bushel
in Chicago, after dropping as much as 1.2 percent. For the week,
futures advanced 0.1 percent, a third straight gain.  The USDA left unchanged its estimate of corn used to make
ethanol in a monthly report today, even after U.S. production of
the fuel additive jumped 6.1 percent last week to a record
939,000 barrels a day, Schultz said.  Corn demand for ethanol will total 4.8 billion bushels, up
from 4.568 billion last year, the government said.  “We think demand for ethanol could rise to 5 billion
bushels this year,” Schultz said.  A 45-cent-per-gallon tax credit for ethanol production, due
to expire at year’s end, would be extended for 12 months in a
Senate tax cut plan crafted by the White House and Republicans
yesterday.  Gasoline is trading at 17 cents a gallon above ethanol,
making it more appealing to use the biofuel, said  Sal Gilbertie ,
the president of Teucrium Trading LLC, which in June launched an
exchange-traded  product  that invests only in corn futures.  “Extending the tax credits won’t make a difference in
ethanol demand,” because the fuel still sells at a discount to
gasoline, Gilbertie said. “Demand is going to go up.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  