-- Spanish Bonds Fall on Concern Over Coming Sale, Widening Spread Over Bunds
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-10T17:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/spanish-bonds-fall-for-a-fifth-straight-day-amid-auction-bank-speculation.html
Spanish bonds fell for a fifth
straight day after European Union leaders disagreed on extra
funding to ease the region’s sovereign debt crisis and before
auctions next week that may push the cost of borrowing higher.  Spain’s 10-year  losses  widened the yield premium over
German bunds, and Portuguese securities slid amid concern
contagion is infecting banks across the region. European Central
Bank Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said emergency
liquidity measures will have to be withdrawn as the economy
strengthens. German bunds declined in the week.  “We’ve got a lot of supply next week in Spain, and that’s
making investors a little bit wary,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
fixed-income strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd., a broker for money managers. “The market is looking for
action there to tackle the banking problems, particularly the
regional banks.”  The yield on the Spanish 10-year bond rose 13 basis points
to 5.44 percent at 5:25 p.m. in London, up from 5.08 percent on
Dec. 3. The 4.85 percent securities maturing in October 2020
fell 0.925, or 9.25 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,320) face amount,
to 95.59. That increased the yield premium investors demand for
the bonds instead of benchmark German bunds to 244 basis points,
the most in more than a week.  Spain is due to sell bonds maturing in 2020 and 2025 on
Dec. 16.  The yield on similar-maturity Portuguese debt climbed 20
basis points to 6.49 percent and Irish yields added 11 basis
points to 8.29 percent.  Wider Spreads  The cost to insure against losses on bonds of financial
companies in Europe surged. Credit-default swaps on the Markit
iTraxx Financial Index of banks’ and insurers’ subordinated debt
jumped as much as 17 basis points to 337 basis points, the
highest level since April 2009, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may downgrade 10
Portuguese banks. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
swaps on 15 governments had the biggest two-day gain since June.  The ECB said yesterday that some lenders in the euro area
are “excessively reliant on central bank liquidity.” Governing
Council member  Mario Draghi  said in a Financial Times interview
that officials are discussing “concrete proposals” to deal
with banks overtly reliant on ECB funding.  Nowotny told reporters in Vienna today that “the
extraordinary measures can’t become normality.” The central
bank “certainly aims to continue the exit policy as far as the
broader economic environment allows it,” he said.  Irish Bank Funding  International and domestic institutions in Ireland
increased their reliance on ECB funding to 136.4 billion euros
on Nov. 26, from 130 billion euros at the end of October,
according to statistics published on the Irish central bank’s
website today. The  central bank  updates the ECB funding position
of domestic lenders at the end of every month.  Spanish banks reduced their borrowings from the ECB in
November, a Bank of Spain official said on Dec. 2. The liquidity
situation that Spanish lenders have to contend with is
“serious,” though not “dramatic,” said the official, who
asked not to be identified, without giving a figure of the
borrowings.  Fitch Ratings, which said yesterday that ECB bond purchases
may need to be increased to stem contagion from the sovereign-
debt crisis, published a report today saying it expects negative
bank-rating actions in the coming year “to be concentrated in
peripheral euro-zone economies.”  Draghi Comments  Draghi, who is also Governor of the Bank of Italy, said in
the FT interview that bond buying must not compromise the
central bank’s independence. The ECB’s bond purchases were
necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of markets.  “I’m only too aware that we could easily cross the line
and lose everything we have, lose independence, and basically
violate the treaty” that set up the ECB, the newspaper cited
Draghi as saying.  The difference in yield, or spread, between German bonds
and Spanish and Italian securities widened this week as policy
makers set out their positions on the possibility of selling
joint euro-region debt to help resolve the region’s financial
crisis. With a European Union summit set for next week in
Brussels, officials from Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium and Greece
said the proposal should be explored, prompting resistance from
Germany, France and Austria.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said today that “common
bonds would make governments less responsible.”  The bund yield rose two basis points to 2.96 percent today,
and is up from 2.86 percent a week ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  