-- Russia-U.S. Arms Treaty Has Votes for Senate Ratification, Lugar Aide Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-12-11T05:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/start-treaty-has-votes-for-ratification-aide-says-update1-.html
Backers of a new U.S.-Russia
nuclear-arms treaty negotiated by President  Barack Obama  said
they have the votes required for Senate ratification after two
more Republican lawmakers announced their backing.  Mark Helmke, a spokesman for Indiana Senator  Dick Lugar ,
the leading Republican supporter of the New Strategic Arms
Reduction Treaty, or New START, said yesterday that enough
senators are prepared to vote for the pact’s ratification. The
treaty needs two-thirds support in the Senate to be approved.  Maine’s two Republican senators,  Susan Collins  and  Olympia Snowe , said in separate statements that they support
ratification.  “We’ve got enough Republican support to pass the treaty,”
Helmke said, declining to name the backers because some haven’t
registered their support publicly. “We are hopeful that Senator
Reid sets” a vote “as soon as possible,” he said, referring to
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.  Reid plans to bring up the treaty for a vote before
Congress adjourns for the year, spokesman  Jim Manley  said. The
Senate first plans to finish debates on pending legislation to
extend expiring tax cuts and a measure to finance government
operations.  Kyl’s Concerns  The treaty, signed in April to replace a 1991 accord that
expired in 2009, would reduce each nation’s deployed nuclear
warheads by about one-third to a maximum of 1,550. Senate
Minority Whip  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, has delayed a
ratification vote while seeking assurances that Obama would
modernize the nation’s remaining nuclear-weapons arsenal.  Kyl’s fellow Arizonan, Senator  John McCain , said in a
speech in Washington yesterday that he hoped the Senate “will
be able to bring this up next week, and a lot of work is being
done to that effect.”  “We are very close” to resolving concerns about whether
the treaty curbed missile-defense systems, McCain, a Republican,
said at the  Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International
Studies.  Kyl is “doing a tremendous job working with the
administration to resolve the issues associated with nuclear
modernization,” McCain said.  Two-thirds of senators present and voting are required to
ratify a treaty, or 67 if all 100 lawmakers are in the chamber.
Democrats have 58 votes in the chamber, Republicans 42.  Next Session  Ratification in the new congressional session that convenes
in early January could be more difficult because the November
election narrowed the Democrats’ majority to 53-47.  Supporters such as Lugar argue that the treaty is needed to
restore nuclear-weapons inspection of the Russian arsenal.  Snowe, a member of the Senate Select Committee on
Intelligence, said in a statement she is “confident” the
treaty “will provide predictability in our relationship with
Russia and thus enhance global stability and most importantly
our national security.”  Snowe said she would support the treaty if there is
“sufficient” opportunity for debate and amendments to the
ratification resolution. She said concerns about “our ability
to verify Russian compliance” and “to develop and deploy
effective missile defenses, and to modernize our nuclear weapons
complex, have been satisfactorily resolved.”  Assurances to Collins  Collins said in a statement she will support the treaty’s
ratification after Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  assured her in writing that the
administration was also committed to reducing Russia’s estimated
3,800 tactical nuclear weapons.  Besides Collins, Snowe and Lugar, New Hampshire Republican
 Judd Gregg  told MSNBC he favors the treaty’s ratification.
Senator  Robert Bennett , a Utah Republican who like Gregg is
leaving the Senate, said in an interview that he was “generally
disposed” to back the treaty.  Two other Republican senators,  Johnny Isakson  of Georgia
and  Bob Corker  of Tennessee, voted for the ratification
resolution when it was approved by the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  at  vgienger@bloomberg.net  or;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  