-- Stiglitz Says Fed Stimulus Poses `Considerable' Risks for Emerging Markets
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2010-12-10T21:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/stiglitz-says-fed-s-qe2-creates-considerable-risks-for-emerging-markets.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to
boost purchases of bonds poses “considerable” risks by
increasing capital inflows to emerging markets, Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said in Santiago today.  “All this liquidity that they’re creating is not going
back to grow the American economy and is going to Asia and other
emerging markets where it’s not wanted,” Stiglitz said. “Most
of the countries around the world have begun to react. They put
in capital controls, exchange rate interventions, taxes on these
capital flows -- a variety of interventions.”  The Fed will buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries
through June in a program dubbed quantitative easing two, or
QE2. The program is designed to boost U.S. economic growth, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a Nov. 3 opinion article for
the Washington Post.  Banks will invest money provided under the Fed’s program in
Asian and other emerging markets where economies have recovered
faster than the U.S. and Europe from last year’s recession,
Stiglitz said at an economic seminar in the Chilean capital
hosted by  Banco de Credito e Inversiones .  Increased capital inflows could cause emerging market
currencies to appreciate and could create asset bubbles, he
said.  Net private capital flows to emerging market economies will
rise 42 percent to $825 billion in 2010 compared with $581
billion in 2009, according to an October report from the
Institute of International Finance, a trade group that
represents more than 400 financial institutions.  Regional Response  Brazil in October raised the so-called IOF tax on
foreigners’ fixed-income purchases to 6 percent -- triple the
level from a year earlier -- to help depreciate the real, which
has gained 1.5 percent against the U.S. dollar so far this year.  The country’s finance minister,  Guido Mantega , as recently
as yesterday said that Brazil is open to taking additional
measures if needed.  Countries like Chile that have opted not to implement
capital controls or intervene in currency markets could suffer
from an unwanted increase in capital flows, Stiglitz said.  Chile’s peso has appreciated 6.6 percent against the U.S.
dollar in 2010, the seventh-best performance among 26 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The country last
intervened in the peso market in 2008 when the central bank
bought $5.75 billion in pre-announced daily auctions of $50
million.  The South American country will want to consider
intervening in the peso market again and could need to consider
implementing capital control measures, Stiglitz told reporters
after his speech.  “Unintentionally, QE2 is leading to a fragmentation of
global financial markets because each country takes actions to
protect itself,” he said during the seminar. “As more and more
do that, it puts more and more pressure on those that don’t, and
they will eventually be forced to take some form of action.” 