-- Syria to Have `No Problem' in First Bond Sale, Central Bank Governor Says
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-12-10T12:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/syria-will-have-no-problem-selling-first-treasury-bonds-central-bank-says.html
Syria, seeking financing for
development projects as oil revenue declines, will have “no
problem” finding buyers in its first sale of treasury bills and
bonds on Dec. 13, Central Bank Governor  Adib Mayaleh  said.  The government will sell 1 billion Syrian pounds ($21
million) each of five securities with maturities ranging from
three months to five years, Mayaleh said in a phone interview
late yesterday.  The notes are “all conventional paper” rather than
Islamic-finance instruments, and the rates will be fixed by the
Finance Ministry, not determined by the market, he said. Only
banks registered in Syria will be eligible to bid.  The sale, delayed for at least three years, will open a new
financing source as the Arab country seeks to boost energy
capacity and improve infrastructure to help attract tourists.
The country relies on oil revenue to fund as much as 25 percent
of its budget, yet output has fallen to about 380,000 barrels a
day this year from a 1996 peak of 583,000 barrels.  The sale will help develop financial markets and “give the
authorities an alternative source of financing,” said  Nassib Ghobril , head of research at Lebanon’s  Byblos Bank SAL , which
operates in Syria. The government is currently “relying on the
central bank to finance its fiscal needs, and this isn’t really
healthy in the long term.”  About 63 percent of Syria’s public debt is denominated in
local currency, and of that about 90 percent is owed to the
central bank and other state banks, according to a September
report by Cyprus-based credit rating company  Capital
Intelligence .  ‘Underdeveloped’  Syria has “comparatively strong solvency and liquidity
indicators and a demonstrable commitment to gradual economic
reform,” Capital Intelligence said. Still, the country’s
“economic structure and institutional frameworks are relatively
weak, and the financial system underdeveloped.”  Syria’s $60 billion economy will grow 5.5 percent next year
and its budget deficit will narrow to 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product from 4.3 percent this year, according to
 International Monetary Fund  forecasts. The fund has urged Syria
to accelerate its transition to a more open, market-based
economy and reduce dependence on oil.  Selling bonds is “definitely a step in the process” and
will “provide a benchmark for companies to start issuing
bonds,” said Rory Fyfe, an analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit in London. “The banks are limited in terms of
the financial instruments they have access to in Syria, so this
will be good for them, as they have excess liquidity.”  Foreign Investment  Syria aims to attract as much as $55 billion in foreign
direct investment over the next five years, Deputy Prime
Minister for Economic Affairs  Abdallah Dardari  said Sept. 24.  Projects include construction of 5,000 megawatts of power
generation capacity and a new terminal at Damascus airport, as
Syria seeks to expand tourism.  About 6.5 million tourists visit Syria a year and the
government wants to increase that to 14 million by 2015, Dardari
said. Syria earned about $5.2 billion in revenue from tourism
last year, the state-owned Sana news agency said in April.  Syria announced plans to sell bonds three years ago, and
conducted its first test auction of three-month treasury notes
in July 2008, receiving bids of 23 billion pounds, or 1.6 times
the amount on sale.  The government may “auction additional notes as the need
requires,” Mayaleh said. Asked whether Syria may consider
selling Eurobonds like neighboring Jordan and Lebanon, he said:
“Let us first work with the Syrian pound, and internally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 