-- Pound Rises as U.K. Housing Gain Stokes Bets That Recovery Is Sustainable
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-12-10T16:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/u-k-gilts-set-for-weekly-decline-on-expectations-recovery-is-sustainable.html
The pound rose to its strongest
level this month against the euro as a report showing house
prices advanced added to signs the U.K. recovery is gathering
pace while Europe struggles with its debt crisis.  Sterling also climbed to its strongest level in more than
two weeks against the dollar. House prices rose to the highest
in more than two years in November, a report indicated today.
The Bank of England yesterday kept its benchmark interest rate
steady and government data showed record imports in October.
Government 10-year bonds headed for a weekly decline.  “There’s more gloom elsewhere,” said  Chris Furness , head
of foreign exchange strategy in London at 4Cast Ltd., a research
company that counts central banks among its clients. Sterling
will probably advance to 81 pence per euro by June, he said.  The pound gained 0.3 percent to 83.72 pence per euro as of
4 p.m. in London, leaving it 1.5 percent stronger this week. It
earlier reached the strongest level since Dec. 1. It was up 0.1
percent at $1.5793, after strengthening to $1.5862.  The average price of a home in England and Wales climbed
for a seventh month, gaining 0.2 percent, research company
Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said in an
estimate released today. U.K. producer prices increased for a
second month in November, the Office for National Statistics
said today in London.  Gilt Yields  The 10-year gilt yield rose four basis points to 3.52
percent, after climbing yesterday to 3.58 percent, the most
since June 15. The two-year note yield was at 1.10 percent, from
1.06 percent yesterday and 1.02 percent on Dec. 3.  Gilts fell this week with U.S. Treasuries after President
 Barack Obama  agreed to extend U.S. tax cuts for two years on
Dec. 6. Demand for the securities also fell as the FTSE 100
Index of stocks jumped 1 percent this week.  “We’ve seen a bit more calm in the markets and that’s
reduced demand in the safer countries,” said  Elisabeth Afseth ,
an analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “Gilts have
been dragged along with that. The economic data has been
generally decent,” reducing demand for bonds, she said.  Sterling has gained 0.1 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which track a basket of 10 developed-country currencies. Since
the end of 2009, Britain’s currency has lost 3.7 percent,
compared with a 9.5 percent decline by the euro.  The Bank of England yesterday kept its main interest rate a
record low 0.5 percent and held its asset-purchase program
unchanged at 200 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  