-- U.K. Producer Prices Increase for a Second Month in November
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-10T09:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/u-k-producer-prices-rose-for-second-month-in-november-on-food-gasoline.html
U.K. producer prices increased for a
second month in November as higher food and gasoline costs kept
up inflation pressures in the economy.  The cost of goods at factory gates rose 0.3 percent on the
month, compared with 0.6 percent in October, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. That matched the
median forecast of 13 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. On
the year, prices climbed 3.9 percent.  Bank of England policy makers yesterday refrained from
increasing their emergency bond purchase program after inflation
remained above its 3 percent limit for eight months. Governor
 Mervyn King  has said that consumer-price gains will stay
“elevated” next year.  Prices “certainly are a little bit stronger than everyone
would like,” said Peter Dixon, an economist at Commerzbank in
London. “The private sector recovery is still in place” though
“It’s unclear how much spare capacity there is and now is not
the time to slam on the brakes.”  The pound was little changed at $1.5809 as of 9:43 a.m. in
London. The yield on the benchmark two-year bond was up 2 basis
points at 1.083 percent.  Prices rose in eight out of 10 categories, led by food and
petroleum products, the statistics office said. From a year
earlier, all components of the producer-price index increased.  So-called core producer prices, which don’t strip out costs
of food, beverages, tobacco and petroleum rose 0.2 percent on
the month. From a year earlier, they increased 3.3 percent, the
statistics office said.  Manufacturing Strength  Manufacturing growth unexpectedly accelerated to the
fastest pace in 16 years in November as export orders climbed,
and an index of services stayed close to a four-month high,
surveys last week showed.  Companies have raised prices to offset higher raw-material
costs. “Notwithstanding continued increases in input costs,
trading in the second half to date is progressing well,” DS
Smith Plc, the owner of the Spicers office-products brand, said
in a statement yesterday. The company’s profit for the six
months ended Oct. 31 rose 17.5 percent.  The statistics office today delayed the release of input-
price data for November until Dec. 13.  “Quality assurance by ONS revealed potential errors in
some input prices in the producer prices dataset,” the
statistics office said. “To allow time to ensure the statistics
fully meet national statistics standards, ONS has decided
reluctantly to postpone publication.”  Inflation accelerated to 3.2 percent in October, forcing
King to write his fourth letter of explanation to the government
this year. Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has argued for an
interest-rate increase since June, citing the risk inflation
expectations may become dislodged.  The Bank of England yesterday kept its emergency bond-
purchase plan unchanged at 200 billion pounds ($316 billion).
Policy makers also left the benchmark interest rate unchanged at
a record low 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  