-- U.K. House Prices at Two-Year High, Acadametrics Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-10T13:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/u-k-acadametrics-house-price-estimate-rises-to-two-year-high.html
U.K. house prices increased to the
highest in more than two years in November as the market showed
signs of reaching a peak, research company Acadametrics Ltd. and
LSL Property Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in England and Wales climbed
for a seventh month, gaining 0.2 percent to 224,758 pounds
($354,200), they said in an e-mailed report today. Values rose
5.9 percent from a year earlier and are now at the highest since
June 2008.  Acadametrics’s estimate of increases in recent months has
contrasted with data from mortgage lenders including  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc ’s Halifax division, which said yesterday that
prices fell 0.1 percent. With banks unlikely to loosen lending
criteria in the medium term and a possible increase in interest
rates to combat inflation next year, housing market values may
soon come under pressure, today’s report said.  “Given that growth is marginal, we may see prices begin to
fall slightly,” David Brown, LSL’s commercial director, said in
a statement. “It’s unlikely that any dip will be dramatic.”  The Acadametrics report showed the number of transactions
dropped 4.6 percent from October. That’s a decline of 5.3
percent from a year earlier.  Values in London rose 0.5 percent to 383,243 pounds in
October, the month with the latest available regional data,
while the biggest price drop was in East Anglia, where values
fell 0.6 percent.  ‘Flat Market’  “Overall, 2010 has seen a flat market, but one with some
significant regional and local variations of which buyers and
sellers need to be aware,” Acadametrics Chairman  Peter Williams 
said in the report. “Going forward, we expect to see a similar
pattern in 2011.”  The U.K.’s seven most watched indexes only agreed on the
direction of the market in five of the 22 months through
October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The last time
was in January, when all indicated a price rise.  The previous report from Acadametrics, on Nov. 12, showed
that home prices climbed 6.1 percent in October from a
year earlier. That was the biggest increase indicated by any of
the seven indexes. At the other end of the scale, Hometrack
recorded a 0.1 percent decline.  Acadametrics combines initial housing transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures to
produce an estimate for the most recent month. That number is
then revised in following months.  The Bank of England yesterday kept its emergency stimulus
program unchanged after recent data suggested the economy may be
strong enough to weather the government’s spending cuts,
undermining the case for more aid. Policy makers held their
 bond-purchase plan  at 200 billion pounds and their main interest
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  