-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Rises to a Six-Month High
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-10T15:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/u-s-consumer-sentiment-rises-more-than-forecast-to-74-2-in-michigan-index.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
increased more than forecast in December to the highest level in
six months at the same time Americans began stepping up holiday
spending.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  rose to 74.2 from 71.6 at the end of
November. Economists projected a December reading of 72.5,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The increased optimism may be tied to rising  stock  prices
and an agreement between President  Barack Obama  and Republicans
to keep tax rates from rising next year. Higher confidence is
being reflected in increased holiday sales that are benefiting
retailers such as  Target Corp.   Expectations are “a good indication of where the consumer
is going to be in the new year,” said  Jennifer Lee , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “Two months in a
row of increased sentiment is definitely more hopeful.”  Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey of 67 economists ranged
from 69 to 76.5. The sentiment index averaged 89 in the five
years leading up to the recession that began in December 2007.  Stocks were little changed and Treasury securities fell
after the report. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose less than
0.1 percent to 1,233.15 at 10:16 a.m. in New York. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note, which moves inversely to price,
increased to 3.26 percent from 3.21 percent late yesterday.  January 2008  The survey’s measure of  current conditions , which reflects
Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and whether
it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars, increased
to 85.7, the highest since January 2008, from 82.1 a month
earlier.  Consumer  expectations  for six months from now, which more
closely projects the direction of consumer spending, increased
to a six-month high of 66.8 from 64.8, today’s confidence report
showed.  Higher stock prices and signs tax rates will be kept from
increasing may have lifted Americans’ spirits. The S&P 500  has
gained 4.5 percent since the end of November and is up 11
percent this year.  Obama’s agreement this week to prolong income-tax cuts put
in place by former President George W. Bush may raise gross
domestic product next year by as much as half a percentage
point, to about 3.1 percent, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  Inflation Expectations  Consumers in today’s survey said they expect an inflation
rate of 2.9 percent over the next 12 months, compared with 3
percent projected in November. Over the next five years, the
figures tracked by Federal Reserve policy makers, Americans
expect a 2.7 percent rate after a 2.8 percent rate projection
last month.  U.S. central bankers have their final policy meeting of
2010 on Dec. 14 and are likely to reaffirm their strategy to
purchase $600 billion in Treasury securities by June to help
bolster an economy restrained by joblessness.  Unemployment  rose to 9.8 percent last month, the highest
since April and close to a 26-year high, Labor Department
figures showed Dec. 3. The economy generated 39,000 jobs in
November after 172,000 a month earlier, indicating companies
lack the appetite to expand their payrolls.  Limited job growth helps explain why retailers such as
Target, Limited Brands Inc. and Costco Wholesale Corp. have used
discounts to bring in shoppers, particularly during the
Thanksgiving weekend. Results of their efforts show sales
increased more than analysts estimated in November.  December Sales  The National Retail Federation forecast November to
December sales will rise by 2.3 percent from the same time in
2009, making it the best holiday shopping season in four years.
The ICSC said it expects December sales to rise as much as 3.5
percent compared with last year.  Teen retailer Abercrombie & Fitch Co. reported a 22 percent
increase in November sales at stores open at least a year, while
J.C. Penney Co., the third-largest U.S. department store chain,
said sales climbed 9.2 percent. The holiday season “has gotten
off to a strong start,” Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney said in
a Dec. 2 statement.  Home Depot Inc ., the world’s largest home-improvement
retailer, increased its full-year profit forecast on stronger
fourth-quarter demand for plumbing and electrical items and
Christmas trees.  “As we look at November into December, we see strength
across the store,” Chief Financial Officer  Carol Tome  said Dec.
8 by telephone from an analysts’ meeting in Boston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  