-- U.S. Special Envoy Holbrooke in Intensive Care After Falling Ill at Office
-- B y   I n d i r a   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-12-10T21:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/u-s-special-envoy-richard-holbrooke-is-taken-to-hospital-spokesman-says.html
Richard Holbrooke , the U.S. special
envoy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, is in the intensive care
unit at George Washington University Hospital in Washington,
according to a hospital official who asked not to be identified.  Holbrooke, 69, has spent the last two years traveling to
Afghanistan and Pakistan, and seeking support from allies to
help promote economic development and stabilize the neighboring
countries that have been plagued by terrorism.  Holbrooke felt ill while working today on the seventh floor
of the State Department headquarters, where Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton ’s office is located, said  Philip J. Crowley , the
department spokesman.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  was also admitted today
to George Washington University Hospital in northwest Washington
for surgery to remove a kidney stone.  Holbrooke is a veteran diplomat who, as an assistant
secretary of state under President  Bill Clinton , was the chief
architect of the 1995 Dayton accords that ended the war in
Bosnia in the 1990s. He later served as the U.S. envoy to the
United Nations.  He was a diplomat in President  Jimmy Carter ’s
administration and was in charge of U.S. relations with China
when the U.S. normalized ties in December 1978.  Over the last several months, Holbrooke has been preparing
a report for President  Barack Obama  on the current state of
governance and development in Afghanistan. The U.S. and allies
have a combined force of about 150,000 troops to turn back
Taliban advances and train Afghan soldiers and police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bob Drummond at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net  