-- UN Climate Talks Risk `Hissy Fit' as Richer, Poorer Nations Remain at Odds
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-12-10T18:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/un-climate-talks-face-zombie-future-as-treaty-remains-elusive-in-cancun.html
Envoys at United Nations climate
talks were locked in negotiations during the final day of a two-
week conference as 193 nations remained divided about how to
curb global warming.  “There’s a real danger that if we don’t get a successful
outcome that this becomes a zombie process,”  Chris Huhne ,
Britain’s Cabinet minister in charge of energy, said today in
Cancun, Mexico. “There is potentially nothing to stop one or
more countries from having a hissy fit and throwing all of their
toys out of the pram.”  After last year’s push for a legally binding agreement to
limit emissions collapsed in Copenhagen, the UN scaled back
ambitions. Disputes over how to reduce greenhouse gases may kill
a deal aimed at protecting forests and giving as much as $100
billion a year in aid to vulnerable countries by 2020.  China, India, Brazil and South Africa pressed industrial
nations to agree to new restrictions on fossil fuel emissions
after current ones in the Kyoto Protocol expire in 2012. Japan,
Canada and Russia refused, saying the accord excludes the
world’s two biggest polluters, the U.S. and China.  ‘Nothing Cut in Stone’  “Everything is still being negotiated,” Connie Hedegaard,
the European commissioner in charge of climate policy, said at a
briefing today. “There is nothing cut in stone. If we do not get
things done in Cancun, it’s very difficult to see how you get
from A to B.”  Huhne said last night’s negotiations ran until 3:30 a.m. as
envoys “found a potential way through” difficult issues,
foremost among them the continuation of the emissions-limiting
Kyoto Protocol and how to bring greenhouse gas pledges by all
nations under formal scrutiny.  Mexican organizers are working to “build bridges with all
the countries,” Environment Minister Juan Elvira said today in
an interview. It’s a “good sign” delegates are prepared to
talk day and night, he said.  A meeting of all parties scheduled to start at 8:30 a.m.
was postponed to the afternoon the UN said. Mexico has said it
intends to conclude the meeting at 6 p.m. today, though the
gatherings in previous years often ran overtime.  “There isn’t a conclusion,” Pablo Solon, lead negotiatior
of Bolivia, which is pressing richer nations to renew
commitments under Kyoto instead of working on a new treaty.
“Everyone wants to live in a better home, but no one would
demolish their home without having a new one done.”  Copenhagen’s Collapse  Last year, Bolivia joined Venezuela, Sudan, Cuba, Nicaragua
and Tuvalu in blocking the Copenhagen Accord, an agreement
brokered by about 30 leaders, including U.S. President  Barack Obama  and China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao , from being adopted as a
formal UN text.  A failure in Cancun to reach agreement may lead to a loss
of confidence in the UN-led international effort to curb global
warming. A dispute about the future of the Kyoto Protocol, which
set out the world’s first program of emissions limits, marred
the two weeks of talks.  Christiana Figueres , the UN diplomat
leading the discussions, said countries were so far apart that a
solution wasn’t on the agenda for this meeting.  “Kyoto is the lynchpin,”  Alden Meyer , who has attended
the UN talks for the U.S.-based Union of Concerned Scientists
for more than a decade, said in an interview. “If the message
out of here is that Kyoto is dead or on life support with no
chance of resuscitation then the developing countries will block
anything going forward that the U.S. needs for a new treaty.”  U.S. Position  U.S. negotiators seek an agreement that brings all the
world’s major emitters into a single treaty. Kevin Conrad,
special climate change envoy for Papua New Guinea, said the U.S.
position that all elements of a deal must be negotiated together
rather than separately hinders progress.  “They are playing the same position that Saudi Arabia is
playing which is when you don’t want progress to move then you
say everything has to move at the same pace,” Conrad said in an
interview. “Then by definition the whole process moves at the
pace of the slowest.”  UN envoys in Cancun are working with a text that isn’t
“very progressive” Hedegaard of the EU said today. Yesterday,
Japanese Environment Minister  Ryu Matsumoto  said his country’s
opposition to a new commitment period, stemmed from the fact the
Kyoto Protocol “only covers 27 percent of global energy-related
CO2 emissions.”  Observers at the talks from the development charity Oxfam
said Japan may compromise.  “It seems Japan is moving in the right direction, and the
focus is now on Russia,” Tim Gore, climate change policy
advisor to Oxfam said in an interview. “Everyone’s on
tenterhooks about the Kyoto Protocol.”  ‘Watered Down’  A Cancun agreement needs to be “building blocks for a new
universal agreement,” Alexander Frolov, deputy head of the
Russian delegation, said today in an interview in Cancun. “From
our point of view there’s not any sense to just continue because
only a few limited countries have obligations.”  Delegates were working on language that would aim to keep
temperature gains to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit).
Current emissions reduction pledges could lead temperatures to
rise 2.5 to 5 degrees by 2100, the UN Environment Program said
Nov. 23. Small island nations grappling with rising seas are
pushing for a limit of 1.5 degrees.  “I’m really disappointed, because we’re toying around the
edges,”  Bharrat Jagdeo , president of Guyana, said in an
interview. “Positions are watered down. The greenhouse gases
are being pumped into the atmosphere.”  Final Package  As the talks enter the final scheduled day, some delegates
said they are holding out hope for an agreement on forests and
aid, as well as setting up an advisory body for adapting to
climate change.  “We have differences, but they can be bridged,” Brazilian
Environment Minister  Izabella Teixeira , who along with the U.K.
was tapped by the UN to find a consensus, said in an interview.  The deals being negotiated in Cancun include:  -- A fund to channel as much as $100 billion a year by 2020
to help developing countries clean up industries and adapt to
rising temperatures. How it will be managed and who will sit on
its board will be worked out next year.  -- A forest protection program known as Reducing Emissions
from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, or REDD. It would
fund forestry projects and may allow developing nations to earn
money from carbon markets by setting aside forests to absorb
greenhouse gases.  -- An “adaptation committee” to advise nations on how to
prepare for and adapt to climate change.  -- A package of details on how to monitor, report and
verify emissions reductions by developed countries and climate
protection actions taken by poorer ones, or MRV in UN jargon.  With details still to be arranged, and today’s schedule
already running more than three hours late, delegates expect to
work into the night again.  “Today’s going to be a difficult day, and a very, very
long day,” the EU’s Hedegaard said. “I’ll dare to invite
everybody to dinner if we really finish at 6 p.m. as
scheduled.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Cancun, Mexico at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in Cancun, Mexico, at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  