-- Hungarian Junk Rating Would Be `Ridiculously Harsh,' RBC's Rendell Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-12-10T14:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/hungarian-junk-rating-would-be-ridiculously-harsh-rbc-s-rendell-says.html
Hungary’s plans to narrow its budget
deficit means rating agencies won’t cut the country’s rankings
below investment grade, RBC Capital’s  Nigel Rendell  said.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Hungary’s credit rating
two levels to Baa3 on Dec. 6, the lowest investment-grade
ranking, on concern that the government’s policy of plugging
budget holes with “temporary measures” such as levying special
taxes on the banking and energy industries and taking over
private pension assets isn’t sustainable.  “I don’t think there is any justification for putting
Hungary into junk status,” Rendell, a London-based strategist
with the bank, said today in an interview. “That would be
ridiculously harsh.”  Hungarian lawmakers earlier this week approved the
framework of the 2011 budget, which targets a reduction of the
deficit to below the EU’s 3 percent limit for the first time
since the country joined the bloc. The most indebted eastern
member of the EU, Hungary’s  deficit  has declined from 9.3
percent of gross domestic product in 2006 to a targeted
shortfall of 3.8 percent for this year.  The euro area’s deficit was 6.3 percent of GDP as of
December 2009, with Spain, Ireland, Greece and the United
Kingdom with gaps of more than 10 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Moody’s downgrade brought the ratings company in line
with Standard & Poor’s, while Fitch Ratings ranks Hungary one
step higher at BBB. Moody’s has a negative outlook for the
country, meaning it is more likely to reduce the rating to junk
than it is to raise or keep it unchanged.  The Hungarian government plans to cut the budget deficit to
2.94 percent of gross domestic product in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andras Gergely  in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  