-- Turkey's Economy Grew at Annual 5.5% in Third Quarter, Missing Estimates
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-12-10T10:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/turkish-economy-expanded-5-5-in-3rd-quarter-extending-boom.html
Turkey’s  economy  expanded 5.5
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, prolonging a
boom that has helped the government reduce borrowing and
approach investment-grade credit ratings.  Growth slowed from a revised 10.2 percent in the previous
three months, the state statistics institute in Ankara said
today on its website. The median estimate of nine economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg was 6.5 percent. The economy expanded 1.1
percent from the previous quarter after seasonal adjustment, the
sixth consecutive quarter it has grown.  Record-low interest rates are fuelling domestic demand,
driving a faster recovery from the global crisis than any other
economy in Europe, and attracting foreign investors including
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA . Growth for the whole year
may reach 8 percent, Trade Minister  Zafer Caglayan  said today
after the figures were released.  The third-quarter figure “is slightly lower than expected
but still pretty good,” said  Haluk Burumcekci , chief economist
at Fortis Bank AS in Istanbul. “It’s still supportive of full-
year growth of 8 percent or fractionally above.”  Yields on  benchmark  two-year bonds rose 3 basis points to
7.69 percent at 11:30 a.m. in Istanbul. The lira gained 0.3
percent to 1.504 per dollar.  Consumer credit has surged more than 30 percent this year
as Central Bank Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  kept the  benchmark one-
week repo rate  at a low of 7 percent. Yilmaz yesterday
reiterated his goal of keeping it there for about another year.  Consumption Boom  Domestic demand grew an annual 7.6 percent in the third
quarter and investment spending increased 31 percent, according
to the statistics agency.  The consumer-driven boom has helped push the National 100
share  index  in Istanbul up 31 percent in dollar terms in the
third quarter, almost double the increase on the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index . It is also attracting foreign companies. Last
month BBVA, Spain’s second-biggest bank, agreed to pay $5.8
billion for 24.9 percent of  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS .  The economy’s revival comes as Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  prepares to seek a third term in office in elections due
in June. The country survived the global crisis without bailing
out any banks and this year Erdogan ended loan talks with the
International Monetary Fund, saying Turkey can meet its
borrowing needs without external assistance.  Credit rating services have endorsed Erdogan’s optimism.
Fitch Ratings upgraded the outlook on its BB+ rating for Turkey,
one step below investment grade, to positive from stable on Nov.
24. Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Turkey two levels
below investment grade, made a similar change in October.  Debt Burden  Turkey’s rapid rebound is helping reduce its debt burden.
The government projects that the ratio of debt to GDP will
decline to 42.3 percent this year from 45.5 percent in 2009.  Still, rising consumption, combined with weakness in
Turkey’s main export markets in the European Union, is also
widening the  current-account deficit . The gap in the 12 months
ending September was $32.5 billion, more than triple the
shortfall a year earlier and equal to about 4 percent of gross
domestic product.  Net exports shrank 2 percent in the third quarter, the
agency said today. The country’s main auto industry group
yesterday reported a 7 percent annual drop in exports in
November, though overall output increased 17 percent on domestic
purchases.  Economic growth is likely to further in the fourth quarter,
said  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for the Middle East, Turkey
and North Africa at Morgan Stanley in London. Part of the reason
is the relatively strong performance in the fourth quarter of
last year, when Turkey returned to annual growth after the
financial crisis. The economy contracted 4.7 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  