-- Venezuelan Bill Seeks Regulation of Internet Providers, Electronic Media
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-12-10T00:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/venezuelan-bill-seeks-regulation-of-internet-providers-electronic-media.html
Venezuelan Vice President  Elias Jaua 
presented a proposal to the  National Assembly  today to regulate
internet service providers and electronic media, opposition
lawmaker Juan Jose Molina said in a phone interview.  The bill, which will  expand rules  that already apply to
television and radio, would prohibit messages that create alarm
in the population, ignore public authorities, incite violence
and use subliminal messages, according to a copy of the bill
provided by Molina.  The proposed changes also call for internet providers to
block “prohibited” messages from internet sites or face
government sanctions. Digital media sites and providers
responsible for transmitting the banned messages will be fined
10 percent of annual income, article 29 of the bill says.  President  Hugo Chavez , who lost his two-thirds majority in
congressional elections in September, has until Jan. 5 to push
through new legislation under the current assembly. Chavez has
called for sanctions against websites in the past for publishing
anti-government material and refused to renew the broadcasting
license of an opposition television network in 2007.  The bill, which wasn’t discussed by lawmakers today, was
approved in a meeting of President Hugo Chavez’s ministers on
Dec. 7, according to the text.  The bill isn’t intended to restrict internet use, rather to
bring the sending and receiving of digital information on
servers and digital media in line with rules for television and
radio, Manuel Villalba, head of the congressional media
commission, said today in an e-mailed statement from the
 Information Ministry .  Villalba made the comments to counteract the
“manipulation” that the opposition media will give to the
issue, the statement said.  The bill will first be discussed in the congressional media
committee before being voted on in the assembly, Villalba said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  