-- Vietnam's BIDV Seeks Government Approval for Gold Exchange as Demand Jumps
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-10T05:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/vietnam-s-bidv-seeks-government-approval-for-gold-exchange-as-demand-jumps.html
Bank for Investment and Development
of Vietnam, a state-owned lender, is seeking approval from the
government to establish a national gold exchange in an attempt
to boost protection for investors, a company official said.  The exchange would be regulated by the country’s central
bank, said Do Thi Phuong Trang, an officer at the treasury
department at BIDV, as the bank is commonly known. BIDV is the
country’s second-biggest state-owned bank by total assets.  Demand for gold in Vietnam has jumped as investors seek
protection from a declining currency and inflation that has
accelerated to the highest level in at least 20 months. Vietnam
consumes more gold per head than India, the biggest overall
user. Spot gold touched an all-time high of $1,431.25 this week
on investor demand for an alternative to debasing currencies.  “A standard exchange is required,” said Dinh Nho Bang,
chairman of the Vietnam Gold Traders Association. It would be
“the first official trading floor, which would create a fair
playing field for investors,” he said. The country used to have
more than 20 gold-trading floors that operated “spontaneously”
with no government regulation, according to Bang.  Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung ordered the
closure of all gold-trading floors by March 30 this year on
concern that they posed risks to investors and the financial
system.  “The closure of these trading floors was essential because
they operated separately without reflecting the real supply-
demand situation, and investors were the ones who suffered the
most,” said the BIDV’s Trang in an interview yesterday.  Gold Gains  Gold for immediate delivery gained 0.3 percent to $1,391 an
ounce at 1:12 p.m. in Singapore and has climbed 27 percent this
year, heading for a 10th annual gain.  In Vietnam, the metal traded as high as 35.85 million dong
($1,838) per tael, according to an information service run by
state-owned Vietnam Posts & Telecommunications. It reached a
record 38.2 million dong on Nov. 9. A tael is a traditional
measure equal to about 1.2 ounces.  The dong, which has dropped 5.2 percent this year, traded
at 19,490 per dollar today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News. It was trading as low as 21,070 per dollar in
the so-called black market in Hanoi, according to a telephone-
information service run by state-owned Vietnam Posts &
Telecommunications.  The State Bank of Vietnam weakened the dong’s reference
rate by 2 percent to 18,932 per dollar on Aug. 18, the third
devaluation since November last year.  Vietnam’s consumer price index climbed 11.09 percent in
November from a year earlier, the fastest pace since March 2009.
The benchmark  VnIndex  of equities has dropped 6.7 percent since
June 30, trading at 9.5 times estimated earnings, making it
Asia’s second-cheapest after Pakistan.  “Investors have been waiting for an official trading floor
because they want to be protected,” said Vo Thanh Tam, vice
general director of Asean Gold Joint-Stock Co.  To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
 Nguyen Kieu Giang  in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  