-- Vietnam One-Month Dong Forwards Surge This Week as Exporters Sell Dollars
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-12-10T09:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/vietnamese-dong-forwards-slump-this-week-as-bets-increase-for-devaluation.html
The Vietnamese dong’s one-month
offshore forwards headed for the biggest weekly gain since
January as companies sold dollars.  “The dong’s improvement in the forwards was because
exporters have been selling dollars and demand for the greenback
from multi-national corporations was weaker,” said  Thio Chin Loo , a senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA in Singapore.  Vietnam’s central bank has kept the dong in a range of
19,060 to 19,500 in the spot market since the start of August,
which according to the International Monetary Fund has depleted
the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves. The dong is in “extreme
trouble” and is at risk of depreciation, Stewart Newnham, Asian
currency strategist at Morgan Stanley, told a conference in Ho
Chi Minh City yesterday. He cited a deteriorating balance of
payments, a weak economy and a widening trade deficit.  One-month non-deliverable forwards rose 1.2 percent this
week to 21,080 per dollar as of 5:10 p.m. in Singapore, and show
traders are betting the currency will decline 7.5 percent from
the spot rate of 19,490, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The contracts reached 21,560 on Dec. 7, the lowest level since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1998.  The dong’s spot rate will fall to 20,500 by the end of
March 2011, Thio said. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  Devaluation Odds  In the black market, the dong traded at between 21,030 and
21,070 at money changers in Hanoi today, according to the 1080
telephone-information service run by state-owned Vietnam Posts &
Telecommunications. The currency reached a record low of 21,500
in mid-November, the telephone service said.  The International Monetary Fund warned on Dec. 7 that
foreign reserves at end-September were at a “low” level and
covered only 1.8 months of imports.  “We are expecting a devaluation anytime soon and the
forward market has priced that in already,” said Thio. “They
are fighting the market. But we are still expecting a 2 to 3
percent devaluation before the end of the year.”  Speculative forces that surfaced in mid-November are no
longer evident, the supply of foreign currency in the banking
system is “relatively improved” and companies are prepared to
sell dollars, the State Bank of Vietnam said in a statement on
its website yesterday.  The central bank set today’s  reference rate  at 18,932, a
level that has stayed unchanged since it weakened the currency
by 2 percent on Aug. 18, the third devaluation since November
last year. The dong is allowed to fluctuate up to 3 percent on
either side of the daily fixing.  Vietnam’s government bonds dropped this week. The yield on
the five-year note rose five basis points to 11.44 percent,
according to a daily fixing price from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  