-- Vivendi to Pay $89 Million to Settle Fraud Allegations Over Brazil's GVT
-- B y   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2010-12-10T15:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/vivendi-to-pay-89-million-to-settle-fraud-allegations-over-brazil-s-gvt.html
Vivendi SA  agreed to pay a record
150 million reais ($87.8 million) to settle allegations by
Brazil’s securities regulator that it fraudulently misled
investors in its 7.2 billion reais purchase of telephone carrier
 GVT Holding SA .  Paris-based Vivendi was accused of providing incomplete
information that led investors to believe it had enough GVT
shares to fend off rival bids for the company, according to e-
mailed statement announcing the accord by Brazilian securities
regulator CVM.  Vivendi, the owner of the world’s largest music and video-
game companies, outbid Telefonica SA late last year for control
of GVT, raising its initial bid to top the Spanish rival.
Vivendi, which operates France’s second-largest mobile-phone
company SFR together with  Vodafone Group Plc , has said it will
use GVT to expand into pay television in Brazil.  GVT delivered a 42 percent increase in revenue in the first
nine months of the year. French mobile-phone unit SFR’s revenue
rose 1.6 percent and Universal Music Group’s sales declined,
Vivendi said Nov. 15.  Wrongdoing  Vivendi  fell  0.5 percent in Paris to 20.46 euros as of
10:24 a.m. New York time. The shares have fallen 1.6 percent
this year.  The French company said in an e-mailed statement today that
the payment didn’t imply the acknowledgment of wrongdoing. The
payment concludes the investigation, Vivendi said.  Vivendi had initially proposed paying 5 million reais to
settle the GVT case, according to CVM. The settlement was the
largest ever agreed with Brazil’s CVM.  The Vivendi settlement is the largest on record, according
to the Brazilian regulator. Credit Suisse International on Nov.
30 agreed to pay 22.7 million reais to settle allegations of
insider trading related to Terna Participacoes SA, a Brazilian
power company.  Vivendi started a mandatory tender offer for GVT on Nov. 13
at 56 reais a share, saying it had purchased 37.9 percent of
GVT’s outstanding voting share capital and had a right to buy
19.6 percent of GVT’s voting outstanding share capital through
call options. That would amount to a total of more than 57
percent of GVT’s voting outstanding share capital, Vivendi said
at the time.  GVT expects revenue to rise by 40 percent this year. The
company is benefiting for the growth in Brazil’s economy, which
will expand 7.54 percent this year, its fastest pace in more
than two decades, according to the median forecast in a Dec. 3
central bank survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helder Marinho  in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  