-- Volcker Says Fed Will Need to Head Off Inflation After Record Stimulus
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-12-10T17:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/volcker-says-fed-will-eventually-need-to-act-to-avert-inflation.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who is head of President  Barack Obama ’s Economic
Recovery Advisory Board, said the Fed will eventually need to
act to avert inflation after providing record monetary stimulus.  “The Federal Reserve will have to act in a timely way to
head off inflationary consequences,” Volcker said today during
a panel discussion in Washington. “I think they understand the
problem.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said he prefers inflation
of “2 percent or a bit below,” is leading the central bank in
a program to purchase $600 billion in longer-term Treasury
securities to boost growth and prevent too-low inflation.
Republican lawmakers say the policy may fuel a surge in prices.  The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index excluding food and energy, rose
0.9 percent in October from a year earlier. Including all items,
the index increased 1.3 percent.  While inflationary pressures are “not a problem right
now,” Volcker said he’s concerned about the commitment of
central banks to 2 percent inflation.  “The popular rule for central banks now is somehow price
stability, but price stability interpreted as 2 percent
inflation,” said Volcker, 83. Over the course of a generation
this rate of inflation cuts purchasing power in half, he said.  “It is not exactly my definition of stability but that is
the rule that has become central to central banks around the
world,” he said.  Tamer of Inflation  While Fed chairman from 1979 to 1987, Volcker raised
 interest rates  as high as 20 percent to tame an annual inflation
rate approaching 15 percent.  Asked about the legislative overhaul of U.S. financial
regulation, Volcker said, “there is some danger if the Federal
Reserve kind of becomes all powerful.’  The legislation creates a consumer bureau housed at the
Fed, places the Fed chairman on a council of regulators to
monitor firms for systemic risk to the economy and gives the Fed
responsibility for overseeing ‘‘systemically important’’ firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  