-- Wall Street Bonuses Show `We Still Have a Problem,' Obama Aide Warren Says
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-12-10T15:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/wall-street-bonuses-show-we-still-have-a-problem-obama-aide-warren-says.html
Wall Street banks reaping profits
and paying bonuses while the rest of the country struggles shows
“we still have a problem” with economic disparity, said
 Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser responsible
for setting up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  “This just staggers me; I mean, I just don’t have words to
describe what this means,” she said in an interview for
Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations With  Judy Woodruff ” that
will be broadcast this weekend. “For me, what an economic
recovery is about is about what happens to American families.
It’s what happens in the real economy. It’s whether or not
families are building up wealth in their homes or whether or not
their homes are dragging them over an economic cliff.”  “It isn’t meaningful to talk about profits and a growing
economy until American families are stabilized,” she said.  Warren, a Harvard University law professor, was appointed
in September as an adviser to President  Barack Obama  and U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to help set up the
consumer bureau created by the Dodd-Frank financial-regulation
overhaul enacted in July. The bureau, which will have power to
impose rules on mortgages, credit cards and layaway plans, was
proposed by Obama after lawmakers said existing regulators
failed to protect borrowers against lending practices blamed for
fueling the credit crisis.  Mortgage Regulations  Warren, 61, said financial companies could benefit from new
mortgage regulations that would allow them to abandon the 
lengthy disclosure forms now required under two housing finance 
laws.  The Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement
Procedures Act require mortgage companies to give extensive
information to borrowers, but do little for either consumers or
lenders, she said.  “What if we dump both of those forms and in its place we
have a one-page mortgage shopping sheet that gives the consumer
the key information that the consumer needs?” she said. “They
overlap by about 80 percent in terms of content, but because
they use different terms, they have to be calculated in
different ways, so they’re costly for the banks to fill out.”  On credit cards, Warren said her team is “getting
creative, new ideas” about how to formulate credit-card
disclosure rules that will clarify costs and enable borrowers to
do comparison shopping, A simple label for credit cards, similar
to Food and Drug Administration-mandated nutritional
information, is one possible model for  credit cards , she said.
“We’re getting good ideas from all sorts of places,” Warren
said. “I like the food labeling idea as at least one to take a
look at and we’re getting more.”  Republican Opposition  Republican lawmakers who opposed creation of the consumer
bureau and Warren’s appointment to help organize it have said
they will increase scrutiny and attempt to implement
congressional control over the agency’s funding, which Dodd-
Frank stipulated would come from the Federal Reserve.  “We’re trying to build an agency here, and we’re trying to
do it on behalf of the American people,” Warren said. “We
didn’t get this agency because there was $100 million of
lobbying money in favor of it. In fact, the lobbying money, the
big dollars, were against this agency.”  “We got this agency because the American people want it,
and they want a voice in Washington,” she said. “And that’s
what I’m here to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carter Dougherty  in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 