-- West Ham Wants to Buy Newcastle's Joey Barton, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-12-10T10:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/west-ham-wants-to-buy-newcastle-s-joey-barton-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Buying Barton  West Ham wants to buy Newcastle’s  Joey Barton  during next
month’s transfer period, the  Daily Mirror  said.  The Hammers feel the feisty Barton could help them avoid
relegation as the team sits at the bottom of the Premier League,
the Mirror said. They plan on offering the 28-year-old a five-
year contract, the newspaper said.  Barton’s future at Newcastle is in doubt following the
recent firing of manager Chris Hughton, who was a big supporter
of the midfielder.  Malaga for Manuel?  Spanish club Malaga has joined the race for Arsenal
goalkeeper  Manuel Almunia , the  Daily Mail  said.  Almunia has fallen out of favor with Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger , who tried to sign Fulham’s  Mark Schwarzer  last off-
season. The Spaniard has also been linked with Villarreal and
Atletico Madrid, the Mail said.  Return Trip  Blackburn manager  Sam Allardyce  is contemplating bringing
Tottenham’s  David Bentley  back to Ewood Park,  the Sun  said.  Bentley moved to Spurs from Rovers for 15 million pounds
($24 million) in 2008, but has slipped down the pecking order of
manager  Harry Redknapp , who would allow the 26-year-old to leave
next month either on loan or permanently, the Sun said.  Biggest Challenge  Manchester United winger Nani feels Arsenal, not Chelsea,
is his club’s biggest challenger for the Premier League title,
the  Daily Star  said.  Chelsea has fallen to third place, two points behind
Arsenal and one back of United. The Gunners visit Old Trafford
in three days.  “Chelsea have lost a few games and drawn some and their
confidence looks a bit low,” Nani was quoted as saying. “But
Arsenal have been winning and being top of the league give you
great confidence.”  Top Candidates  Fabio Capello  believes that Allardyce or Redknapp head the
list of his potential successors as England coach, the  Daily
Mail  said.  Capello will step down as England boss after the 2012
European Championships and the Football Association has said
they intend his replacement to be English, the Mail said.  “In this moment Allardyce and Redknapp are doing very well
because they have different players, they have good style and
get results with them,” the Mail quoted Capello as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 