-- Wheat Slumps Most in Three Weeks as U.S. Agency Boosts Supply Forecasts
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-10T20:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/wheat-falls-for-third-day-in-four-after-u-s-raises-forecast-of-inventory.html
Wheat futures fell the most in three
weeks after a government report showed increasing U.S. and
global stockpiles.  Worldwide  inventories  will be 176.72 million metric tons by
May 31, up 2.4 percent from last month’s estimate, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said today. Stockpiles were higher
than any of the forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of 17
analysts. The USDA raised its crop estimate for Australia by 6.3
percent, even after heavy rains threatened output.  “We had been looking for ending stocks to come in lower
last month, and then USDA increased it,” said  Brian Hoops , the
president of Midwest Market Solutions in Yankton, South Dakota.
“We had been rallying on supply fundamentals, and now we’re
pulling back a little today, which is justified because the
report didn’t include any production losses in Australia.”  Wheat futures for March delivery fell 13 cents, or 1.6
percent, to settle at $7.755 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest drop since Nov. 16. Earlier,
the price gained as much as 1.2 percent. The grain declined 0.4
percent this week.  The commodity has jumped 61 percent since the end of June
as drought hurt crops in Russia and dry weather in the U.S.
Great Plains threatened winter crops.  Rains this month followed Australia’s wettest September-to-
November period on record, according to the country’s Bureau of
Meteorology. The USDA raised its forecast for Australia’s wheat
production to 25.5 million tons, while also cutting its
projection for the country’s exports by 6.3 percent.  The U.S. currently is the world’s largest wheat exporter,
followed by France, Canada and Australia, according to estimates
by the International Grains Council and FranceAgriMer.  Favorable weather early in eastern Australia’s growing
season spurred the country to boost its domestic-production
forecast to a record 26.8 million tons on Dec. 7.  Southern Harvest  The impact of recent rains, which delayed harvesting and
cut crop quality, won’t be known until more of the harvest is
completed in the south, the Australian Bureau of Agricultural &
Resource Economics & Sciences said.  “The USDA was stuck between a rock and a hard place coming
into this report” after the Australian government
“surprisingly lifted its national estimate,”  Luke Chandler ,
 Keith Flury  and  Erin FitzPatrick , analysts at Rabobank
International in London, said today in a report. “Both the
ABARE and USDA estimates are too high and in fact moving in the
wrong direction.”  As much as 10 million tons of Australia’s crop may be
downgraded to feed wheat, and harvests are running up to a month
behind normal, Rabobank said.  U.S. inventories at the end of May will be 858 million
bushels (23.4 million tons), up 1.2 percent from the November
estimate, the USDA said. Analysts expected 842.3 million.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  