-- World Wheat-Supply Estimate Raised by U.S. on Australia, Canada Crop Gains
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-10T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/world-wheat-supply-estimate-raised-by-u-s-on-australia-canada-crop-gains.html
World wheat inventories will be 2.4
percent larger than forecast a month ago, as output increased
from Australia and Canada, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
said.  Global stockpiles will total 176.72 million metric tons at
the end of the marketing year on May 31, up from 172.51 million
forecast last month, the USDA said today in a report. Seventeen
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey estimated that inventories
would drop to 171.3 million, on average.  Previous projections may have “overstated” the impact of
floods in Canada and Australia, the third- and fourth-largest
wheat exporters this year, said  Shawn McCambridge , the senior
grain analyst for Prudential Bache Commodities LLC in Chicago.
The USDA said Canada may produce 23.17 million tons, up 4.4
percent from last month’s estimate, and Australia may harvest
25.5 million, up 6.3 percent.  “When we have very poor conditions, we have a tendency of
overstating damage,” McCambridge said. “Then when the crop
comes out of the field and we can assess and measure it, we
start getting to the real number.”  Ample precipitation early in eastern Australia’s growing
season spurred the country to boost its domestic production
forecast to a record on Dec. 7. The impact of recent excessive
rains, which delayed harvesting and cut crop quality, won’t be
known until more of the harvest is completed in the south, the
Australian Bureau of Agricultural & Resource Economics &
Sciences said.  Eastern Australia’s “production potential was really good
for most of the growing season because they were getting good
rain and everything was looking great,”  Mike Tannura , the
president of T-Storm Weather in Chicago, said before today’s
USDA report. “What’s happened now is that it hasn’t stopped
raining during harvest.”  Australia’s September-to-November spring was the wettest on
record, the country’s Bureau of Meteorology has said.  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 4.5 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $7.885 a bushel yesterday on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The most-active contract has surged 64 percent
since the end of June, after drought slashed crops in Russia and
dry weather in the U.S. Great Plains threatened winter crops.  U.S. Inventories  Unsold U.S. supplies at the end of May will total 858
million bushels (23.4 million tons), up 1.2 percent from a
November estimate, the USDA said. Analysts expected 842.3
million bushels.  The U.S. is projected to be the largest exporter this year,
followed by France, according to data from the International
Grains Council and FranceAgriMer.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 