-- Yields Converge With Treasuries on `Great' Fiscal Outlook: Canada Credit
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-12-10T14:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/yields-converge-with-treasuries-on-great-fiscal-outlook-canada-credit.html
Yields on 10-year U.S. and Canadian
government bonds converged this week for the first time since
May as a tax deal in Washington widened Canada’s fiscal
advantage over its southern neighbor.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 3.27 percent on
Dec. 8, or 1 basis point higher than the equivalent Canadian
bond. The U.S. 10-year bond yield has increased 26 basis points
this week as President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Republicans agreed to extend Bush-era tax cuts, including cuts
for the wealthy.  “The Canadian fiscal situation looks great on a
comparative basis. Europe, Japan and the U.S. are in much more
dire straits,” said  Pascal Gauthier , senior economist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank. “In the government bond space, Canada
stands out as a very safe place to invest.”  The 10-year Treasury had dropped 37 basis points below its
Canadian equivalent in October as investors feared the prospect
of U.S. deflation. Treasury yields began to increase in advance
of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s announcement of a $600 billion
 asset-purchasing program .  On Dec. 6, Obama agreed to support an extension of tax cuts
due to expire on Dec. 31 in exchange for a 13-month extension of
unemployment benefits and a one-year cut in payroll taxes. The
rise in U.S. bond yields since the agreement indicates investors
expect the tax cuts will spur the U.S. recovery, Gauthier said.  “The payroll-tax cut is the biggest bang for the buck,”
Gauthier said. “That certainly helps the near-term prospects.”  Narrowing Deficit  Canada’s budget deficit  in fiscal year 2010 equaled 3.6
percent of gross domestic product, compared with an estimated
 8.9 percent  for the U.S. Canada’s government says it expects to
eliminate its budget deficit by the 2015-16 budget, while the
U.S. Congressional Budget Office projects deficits of at least
$438 billion each year through at least 2020.  Canada should be able to balance its budget, TD’s Gauthier
said. “The initial part is the cyclical rebound in revenues,
and we’re seeing that. Then you get some drop-off in spending
that was stimulus-related.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Quebec sold an additional C$500
million in 5 percent bonds maturing in December 2041, priced to
yield 88 basis points over government debt.  Quebecor Media Inc., the owner of the Toronto Sun newspaper,
had its long-term credit rating raised to BB from BB- by
Standard & Poor’s, which cited “the company’s sufficient
deleveraging in the past few quarters” and “the strength of
QMI’s maturing cable operations.” Quebecor Media is a unit of
Quebecor Inc.  Trade Figures  Canada’s trade deficit fell to C$1.7 billion in October
from a revised C$2.3 billion in September, Statistics Canada
said today.  Economists had forecast  a deficit of C$2.1 billion,
according to the median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of Canadian
investment-grade corporations rather than the federal government
widened to 143 basis points yesterday from 142 the day before,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. Yields were
unchanged at 4.03 percent. Corporate bonds have declined 0.82
percent this month.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields were
unchanged at 55 basis points. Yields fell to 3.31 percent. The
securities are down 1.4 percent this month, compared with a 0.94
percent decline in Canadian government bonds.  The elimination of the spread between Canadian and U.S.
yields also shows that investors expect it will be harder for
the U.S. to balance its budget.  “Market participants are now left with the impression that
fiscal discipline in the U.S. will have to wait for the next
presidency,”  Paul-Andre Pinsonnault , senior fixed-income
economist at National Bank of Canada, said in a note Dec. 8.
“Canadian bond investors look well-positioned to benefit.”  Gap Narrows  The six-month period in which the U.S. 10-year government
bond traded at a higher yield than its Canadian equivalent was
the longest since February 2005. In May 2006, the 10-year
Treasury’s yield exceeded that of the Canada bond by 77 basis
points.  U.S. 30-year bond yields are trading higher than equivalent
Canadian notes, while Canadian two-year yields are higher than
U.S. notes, reflecting higher benchmark rates set by the Bank of
Canada.  Canadian government bonds declined 1.1 percent over the
past month, compared with a 2.1 percent drop for U.S. bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 