-- Zimbabwe’s Political Elite Profited From Gems, WikiLeaks Says
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-12-10T13:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-10/zimbabwe-s-political-elite-profited-from-illicit-diamonds-wikileaks-says.html
Members of Zimbabwe’s political
elite ranging from President  Robert Mugabe ’s wife to military
leaders allegedly profited from illegal trading of diamonds,
according to a U.S. diplomatic cable published by WikiLeaks.  The November 2008 cable is one of 250,000 State Department
documents obtained and posted online by WikiLeaks, an
organization that publishes confidential documents on its
website. The cable provides details of information gleaned by
U.S. diplomats from industry and government officials who say
that Mugabe’s allies profit from gem smuggling from the Chiadzwa
diamond field. Zimbabwean officials denied the allegations.  “High-ranking Zimbabwean government officials and well-
connected elites are generating millions of dollars in personal
income by hiring teams of diggers,” an industry official
reported to the U.S. Embassy in Harare, the capital, according
to the cable from Ambassador  James D. McGee . “They are selling
the undocumented diamonds to a mix of foreign buyers” who then
smuggle the gems out of the country.  The field, in Zimbabwe’s Marange district, was seized by
the government in 2006 from Maidstone, U.K.-based  African
Consolidated Resources Plc . In August, Zimbabwe’s Mines
Minister, Obert Mpofu, described the field as a richest diamond
find in a century and said it could provide half of Zimbabwe’s
budget.  The  Kimberley Process , the Jerusalem-based global body that
monitors sales of so-called conflict diamonds, has yet to decide
whether exports of gems from Zimbabwe’s Marange field will be
permitted. Zimbabwe is a signatory to the Kimberley Process.  President’s Wife  Grace Mugabe , the president’s wife, and the central bank
governor,  Gideon Gono , are among those who have benefited from
the trade, the industry official said, according to the cable.
Others identified as profiting include military officials.  “There is absolutely no truth in that,” Gono said
yesterday in a telephone interview from Harare. “I do not know
where such fabrications came from, if indeed the cable is
genuine.”  George Charamba , Mugabe’s spokesman, didn’t answer calls
made to his mobile phone.  “These are lies to discredit the party and the
government,” Rugare Gumbo, a spokesman for Mugabe’s  Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front  party, said in a
telephone interview from Harare yesterday. “No officials or
party members would stoop to looting.”  Sharon Hudson Dean, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in
Harare, declined to comment.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said on Nov. 29
that disclosure of the cables is illegal.  ‘Illegal Disclosure’  “The United States strongly condemns the illegal
disclosure of classified information,” she said in a statement
on the department’s website. “It puts people’s lives in danger,
threatens our national security, and undermines our efforts to
work with other countries to solve shared problems.”  The State Department’s policy is not to comment on the
content of specific cables, Michael Tran, a spokesman for the
department, said in an interview from Washington.  WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange  was arrested in the U.K.
on Dec. 8 on a Swedish warrant concerning rape allegations and
remains in custody pending an extradition hearing.  Each of the Zimbabwean beneficiaries makes several hundred
thousand dollars a month, the official said, according to the
cable. Many of the diamonds are smuggled to Dubai, according to
the cable.  Foreign and domestic human-rights organizations have
criticized Zimbabwe for violence against civilians in diamond
fields in the east of the country.  ‘Diamond Frenzy’  Human Rights Watch , the New York-based advocacy group,
alleged in June 2009 that Zimbabwe’s military may have killed as
many as 200 people who were working on the site illegally,
digging for diamonds to sell for their own gain. The group had
called for a ban on Marange diamonds unless Zimbabwe adheres to
Kimberley Process standards, where the origin of diamonds is
certified before they are exported.  “The diamond frenzy in Chiadzwa has led to hundreds and
possibly thousands of homicides,” McGee said in the cable.  The fields may contain 1,000 carats of gems per hundred
tons of ore, the official said, according to McGee, citing a
geologist’s report prepared for Johannesburg-based De Beers, the
world’s biggest diamond company. That compares with 120 carats
per hundred tons at London-based Rio Tinto Plc’s Murowa mine in
Zimbabwe, the official says.  Tom Tweedy , a spokesman for De Beers, declined to comment
when called on his mobile phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Antony Sguazzin  in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net .
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 