-- Corrected: Ericsson Q1 profit up 24 pct, still sees '07 growth
-- 
-- Thu Apr 26, 2007 6:49am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/26/businesspro-ericsson-earnings-corrected-idUSMAR63897320070426

 

  (Corrects third paragraph to make reference to Nokia only) 

  By  Patrick Lannin STOCKHOLM  (Reuters) - Ericsson ( ERICb.ST ), the world's 
largest supplier of equipment for mobile phone networks, 
reported a 24 percent rise in first-quarter pretax earnings on 
Thursday and said it was taking market share from rivals.  The results were driven by a solid performance at its 
mobile phone handset division, Sony Ericsson, and the group 
stuck to its market forecast for 2007 of mid-single digit 
growth, around 5 percent, in the main mobile network 
technologies.  Its tone contrasted with the forecast of one of its main 
rivals, Nokia ( NOK1V.HE ), whose networks unit said last week 
its market would only grow very slightly, and reported flat 
sales and a 48 percent fall in first-quarter profit.  Alcatel-Lucent ALU.PA, Ericsson's other large rival, saw 
sales drop 8 percent as it struggled to merge the French and 
North American parent companies.  "We have concluded another quarter with solid performance 
and market share gains in a stable growth environment," 
Ericsson Chief Executive Carl-Henric Svanberg said in a 
statement.  Ericsson reported pretax profit of 8.26 billion crowns 
($1.23 billion) up from 6.68 billion crowns in the same period 
of 2006, in the middle of a wide range of analysts forecasts, 
but below the average expectation of 8.38 billion crowns.  The growth was backed by a strong performance at mobile 
phone handset unit Sony Ericsson, jointly owned with Sony Corp 
( 6758.T ), which contributed profits of 1.6 billion.  Analysts pointed to a solid gross margin, which dipped 
year-on-year to 43 percent from 43.5 percent, but was above the 
average forecast in the Reuters poll of 41.9 percent.
  MARKET GROWTH  Ericsson said fixed and mobile traffic was expected to 
continue to accelerate over the coming years, due to increased 
coverage and usage, as well as new multimedia services.  This would lead to operator investments in infrastructure 
over the long term growing in line with historical trends of 
mid to high single digits, or between 5 to 9 percent, it said.  Though the report reassured that the company was managing 
to squeeze growth out of a tough market, its shares failed to 
benefit. After rising in early trade by more than 1 percent, a 
downgrade from UBS to neutral from buy pushed them lower.  By 0904 GMT, the stock was off 0.56 percent at 26.40 
crowns.  However, JP Morgan reiterated its overweight stance on the 
stock, saying it expected margins to rise this year and next.  It said revenue in China was strong and was about to pick 
up in India and North America.  Svanberg said sales growth was mainly driven by Western 
Europe, and large turnkey projects in Central and Eastern 
Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific.  He said new licenses were coming out in Saudi Arabia and 
Egypt and expected the launch of 3G in Russia.  The company, along with Nokia, is also anticipating a share 
of a $5 billion contract with India's BSNL, now that a court 
case sparked by a legal challenge from Motorola MOT.N is 
over.  (Additional reporting by  Lucas van Grinsven  in Amsterdam)