-- Snooker Pays Tribute to Ex-Champion `Hurricane' Higgins, Who Died at 61
-- Peter-Joseph Hegarty
-- 2010-07-25T23:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/-hurricane-higgins-former-snooker-world-champion-dies-at-61-in-belfast.html

          
          
             Snooker players and officials have
paid tribute to Alex “Hurricane” Higgins, the two-time world
champion who has died at the age of 61.  
 Higgins, famed for his potting ability, fondness for
alcohol and clashes with authority, was found dead at his home
in Belfast, Northern Ireland, two days ago. He’d been battling
throat cancer.  
 Higgins, winner of the world title in 1972 and 1982, was
one of the biggest box-office draws in snooker and was often
referred to as the “People’s Champion.” He’d long been
troubled by financial and medical problems, and in May media
reports said his weight had dropped to under 84 pounds.  
 The “Hurricane” helped to transform snooker from a niche
sport into one that achieved record TV viewing figures in
Britain in the 1980s. Controversy was never far away from a man
who attracted tabloid headlines for his drinking, love affairs,
fights and rows with officialdom. In a 2003 profile, the British
Broadcasting Corp. gave him a “bad boy” rating of 11/10.  
 “ Ray Reardon  and John Spencer were great champions of the
Seventies but the person who dragged the game further was  Alex Higgins , he was a genius,” six-time world champion Steve Davis
told Sky Sports. “He was a player I had so many battles with,
it was a pleasure to play against the man.”  
 Another ex-champion, Dennis Taylor, said Higgins was
“totally unique.”  
 ‘Exciting’  
 “I don’t think you’ll ever, ever see another player in the
game of snooker like the great Alex Higgins,” Taylor told the
BBC. “He was a very, very exciting player to watch.”  
 Alexander Gordon Higgins was born on March 18, 1949, in
Belfast and his first playing experiences were at the Jampot
club in a working-class Protestant district. As an 11-year-old
he would play regularly there, often against players many years
older.  
 After an unhappy attempt to become a horse-race jockey,
Higgins concentrated on snooker.  
 He won the world championship at his first attempt, beating
John Spencer by 37 frames to 32 in 1972. At 23, he was then the
game’s youngest champion. In contrast to today’s more orderly
format, the competition was played in the crowded, noisy and
smoky atmosphere of a club in Birmingham, central England.  
 As the game’s profile soared with the advent of color
television, Higgins reached the final again in 1976 and 1980,
losing to Ray Reardon then Cliff Thorburn. He was renowned for
his attacking brilliance and accuracy of his potting, or ability
to knock balls into the pocket. Higgins earned the nickname
“Hurricane” because of his quick play.  
 ‘People Gasped’  
 “He played shots which had not even been thought of at the
time. People gasped,” World Snooker Chairman Barry Hearn told
the BBC’s “Sportsweek” program. “He helped to take the game
from the working-class background of misspent youth into more
global entertainment during his period. But Alex rewrote the
book on misspent adulthood.”  
 In 1982, Higgins won the world title at Sheffield’s
Crucible Theatre, beating Reardon 18-15, having triumphed over
 Jimmy White  in the semifinals. A weeping Higgins called for his
wife Lynn and baby daughter Lauren to join him as he celebrated,
and the pictures became part of British sporting history.  
 Among his other trophies he won the Benson & Hedges Masters
twice, the Coral U.K. -- beating Davis 16-15 in 1983 after being
7-0 down -- and the Irish Masters.  
 He had no shortage of confidence in his own abilities, once
saying, “I think I was the most natural, charismatic player who
ever lifted a cue. I think my presence around the table was
mesmerizing at times. It captured people.”  
 Run-Ins  
 Higgins failed to emulate his playing brilliance off the
table. He head-butted a tournament director in 1986 and was
subsequently banned, setting off a round of run-ins with snooker
officials. On another occasion he punched a tournament director.  
 Higgins complained that he was being victimized, with bans
making it harder for him to stay high in the rankings. The
resulting need to play qualifiers for the major tournaments
increased the pressure on Higgins, and frustration and blow-ups
followed.  
 Other players incurred Higgins’s wrath, and during an
argument with Taylor in 1990 he threatened to have his fellow
Ulsterman shot. He later apologized and the two were reconciled.  
 For years a heavy smoker, Higgins fell into poor health and
was operated on for throat cancer. Financial problems arose and
he was reported by newspapers to be living in a caravan at one
point and playing club games in Belfast for a few pounds.  
 Whatever his problems off the table, Higgins remained
popular with many snooker players and followers.  
 “Alex was one of the real inspirations behind me getting
into snooker,” three-time world champion  Ronnie O’Sullivan  said
on  his own website . “He is a true legend and should be forever
remembered as being the finest-ever snooker player.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at  at
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        