-- Australia's Climate Policy Paves Way for Carbon Controls, Minister Says
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-07-25T02:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/labor-s-australian-climate-policy-paves-way-for-carbon-controls-wong-says.html

          
          
             The Australian Labor party’s climate
protection policies will pave the way for creating limits on
carbon emissions, Climate Change Minister  Penny Wong  said.  
 “We have to put a limit on Australia’s pollution, we need
to do that through a market mechanism,” Wong said on Channel
10’s Meet the Press program today. “We need to look at how we
take this forward.”  
 Climate change will be among the top agenda items today
when Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and opposition leader  Tony Abbott  hold their only debate scheduled before the Aug. 21
general election. The meeting will be broadcast live on national
television tonight at 6:30 p.m. Sydney time.  
 Gillard has announced climate policies including a A$394
million ($353 million) plan to replace old cars with energy-
efficient models, mandatory emissions standards for vehicles
from 2015 and a plan today to make buildings more
environmentally friendly. She drew criticism from
environmentalists after she announced July 23 she’ll delay
charging companies for pollution until 2012.  
 Businesses that invest in improving the energy efficiency
of existing buildings will be able to apply for a one-off bonus
tax deduction of half the cost of the improvement, the Labor
Party said in an e-mailed statement today. The A$180 million
($161 million) program will be paid for through the Renewable
Energy Future Fund, the statement said.  
 Gillard replaced  Kevin Rudd  as prime minister on June 24
after a slump in voter support to election-losing levels sparked
by his move in April to shelve carbon trading, the mainstay of
his 2007 election campaign.  
 Abbott debated with Rudd in March on his health overhaul
plan that shifted control of the nation’s public hospitals, aged
care and funding for doctors to the federal government from
individual states. Polls among viewers of the debate showed Rudd
emerged the winner.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        