-- Abu Dhabi Feels Dubai Chill as Emirate Accepts Money Is Scarcer
-- Vivian Salama
-- 2010-07-25T20:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/abu-dhabi-feels-dubai-desert-chill-as-emirate-accepts-money-is-now-scarcer.html

          
          
             Times have changed for the Alimad
Engineering and Contracting Company in Abu Dhabi.  
 Two years ago, the developer was building everything from
20-story glass towers to luxury villas. It’s now shelving
projects, the latest a $12 million contract with a client who
has $2 million and the banks won’t give him any more money, said
Ziad Ali, whose father founded the company 20 years ago.  
 “When investors don’t get funding, we don’t get their
business,” Ali, 24, said by telephone from his office.  
 If the  palm-shaped islands  and skyscrapers of Dubai came to
symbolize the excesses of the economic boom in the Gulf, the
less glitzy Abu Dhabi represented the sobriety. Yet after Abu
Dhabi, home to more than 7 percent of the world’s oil supply,
spent $20 billion bailing out its desert neighbor, it too is
having to accept the financial crisis is catching up.  
 Abu Dhabi, the largest of the United Arab Emirates and home
of the capital and central bank, forecast a second consecutive
budget deficit this year, according to statistics included in a
government-guaranteed bond prospectus released last week.
Spending will exceed revenue by 84.9 billion dirhams ($23.1
billion) this year after 126.5 billion dirhams in 2009.  
 While the emirate, which is home to one of the world’s
largest sovereign wealth funds, is sticking to its plan to
invest $500 billion in industry and tourism by 2030, its
property market is suffering along with Dubai, while local banks
are lending less and companies are reassessing business plans.  
 Not ‘Bottomless’  
 “Nobody should be naive and think any place, whether the
U.S. or Abu Dhabi, has a bottomless pool of resources,” said
 Mohammed Ali Yasin , chief executive officer of  Shuaa Securities ,
a brokerage in Abu Dhabi, until he leaves the post next month.
“The impact this crisis would have here in Abu Dhabi was
undermined initially. Now is a time for reassessment.”  
 When crisis struck in late 2008, cranes in Dubai halted and
unemployed expatriates fled, some abandoning their cars at the
airport. Others, particularly in construction, started commuting
the hour and a half across the desert to Abu Dhabi, home to more
than 90 percent of the U.A.E.’s oil reserves.  
 Unlike buildings such as the Burj Khalifa, the world’s
tallest, Abu Dhabi took a more conservative approach, putting up
such projects as branches of the Guggenheim and Louvre museums.  
 ‘Vulnerabilities’  
 The  Abu Dhabi Economic Vision 2030  targets 7 percent annual
growth through 2015 and 6 percent thereafter. The emirate won’t
reach that this year, Mohamed Omar Abdulla, undersecretary at
the Abu Dhabi Department of Economic Development, said on Feb.
2. A senior government adviser said in June he doesn’t expect
any major revision to those estimates in the longer term.  
 The International Monetary Fund said on May 25 Abu Dhabi
will grow 3.7 percent in 2010, while Dubai’s economy will shrink
about 0.5 percent this year.  
 “There are some lurking vulnerabilities that should
restrain growth,”  Rachel Ziemba , an analyst at Roubini Global
Economics in London, said by telephone. “Still, they have a
strong net asset position.”  
 Revenue and expenditures at the Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority, Abu Dhabi Investment Council, Abu Dhabi National Oil
Co., Abu Dhabi Water & Electricity Authority, International
Petroleum Investment Co. and Mubadala Development Co. aren’t
included in the emirate’s budget. Royalties and taxes on crude
oil and natural gas production from these entities are included,
according to the prospectus.  
 The emirate’s other investments include minority stakes in
Citigroup Inc. and Gatwick Airport in London, as well as a
 majority stake  in New York’s Chrysler Building.  
 Earlier ‘Surpluses’  
 The budget shortfalls are the first following four years of
“significant surpluses,” according to the bond sale document
from Waha Aerospace BV, an investor in aircraft companies and
part of Abu Dhabi holding company  Waha Capital .  
 The emirate’s loans and equity investments in the country
are forecast to decline by almost half this year to 36.9 billion
dirhams, the preliminary prospectus said.  
 Other industries also are feeling some pain. Masdar, the
government-backed renewable-energy company, said in June it’s
revising its business plan in an effort to ensure the project is
“economically viable.”  
 “We were living in good times, had big plans to build our
infrastructure and some of our companies were caught off
guard,” said  Mohamed Berro , CEO of Al Hilal Bank, a lender
owned by the state-controlled Abu Dhabi Investment Council. “It
will be a challenging year here for everyone.”  
 Property Slump  
 The government in March bought assets on  Yas Island , home
to Abu Dhabi’s Formula One raceway, from  Aldar Properties PJSC, 
Abu Dhabi’s biggest real-estate developer, for 9.14 billion
dirhams. Aldar that month became the first company in the
emirate to get a “junk” rating from Moody’s Investors Service.  
 “The bigger developers, they are managing to keep their
projects going and access the funding they may need,” said Guy
Parsons, CEO of Profile Group, an Abu Dhabi developer.  “Small
developers -- the ones that are not government-backed or family-
backed -- they are not getting the money owed. Developers need
that cash but these days they can’t get it.”  
 Home prices in Abu Dhabi dropped more than 30 percent from
the market’s peak in the second quarter of 2008, while values in
Dubai declined by more than half, according to estimates by
Swiss bank UBS AG.  
 Ziad Ali at Alimad Engineering and Contracting said there
was once a time when his company was always guaranteed a piece
of any business coming to Abu Dhabi.  
 For now, those days are gone. “We are all being
affected,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Abu Dhabi, the largest of the United Arab Emirates and home of the capital and central bank, forecast a second consecutive budget deficit this year. Photographer: Matilde Gattoni/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Olivia Sterns reports on a gold-bar dispensing machine at an Abu Dhabi hotel. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
