-- African Union Opens Summit With Call to `Sweep' Away Somali Militants
-- Fred Ojambo
-- 2010-07-25T13:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/african-union-opens-summit-with-call-to-sweep-away-somali-militants.html

          
          
             African Union leaders began a summit
that will discuss the dispatch of more soldiers to Somalia to
stop Islamic insurgents from winning power and spreading their
attacks to the region, officials and analysts said.  
 Government leaders from AU member states started a three-
day meeting today in Uganda’s capital, Kampala, that is focusing
on strengthening a peacekeeping mission in Somalia two weeks
after the  al-Shabaab  group said it detonated two bombs in the
city that killed 76 people. The U.S. says al-Shabaab is a
terrorist organization with links to al-Qaeda.  
 “Let us now act in concert and we’ll sweep them from
Africa,” Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  said in his opening
speech to the summit. “Let them go back to Asia and the Middle
East where I understand some of them come from.”  
 Islamic militias such as al-Shabaab and Hisb-ul-Islam have
been battling Somalia’s transitional government for three years
and control most of the southern and central regions, and
sections of Mogadishu, the capital. The Kampala bombings
signaled that they are now taking their fight for power beyond
the country’s borders, analysts say.  
 “You have the potential that if this is not addressed this
could create a Taliban-like safe haven for terrorists, who claim
to be affiliated with al-Qaeda and have capabilities abroad,”
said  E.J. Hogendoorn , an analyst for the Brussels-based
International Crisis Group.  
 Guinea Troop Offer  
 Guinea is ready to send troops to boost the current 6,100-
strong AU mission, or  Amisom , force in the Horn of Africa
country to about 8,000, AU Commission Chairman  Jean Ping  said
today. Only Uganda and Burundi have provided soldiers so far.
Museveni offered this month to increase his nation’s troop
commitment by 2,000, answering a July 5 call by East African
countries to reinforce Amisom.  
 A spread of Somalia’s violence may hit countries such as
neighboring Kenya, the region’s biggest economy, which expects
to receive 1.2 million foreign tourists this year. Tourism is
Kenya’s top foreign-exchange earner after horticulture and tea.  
 Al-Shabaab has previously threatened to attack Kenya, which
it accused of recruiting ethnic Somalis living in the country to
fight against the militia.  
 The U.S. Embassy in Kenya on July 23 issued a travel alert
because of the Uganda bombings and concern over the potential
for unrest associated with Kenya’s Aug. 4 referendum on a new
constitution. “There have been increased threats against public
areas across East Africa” since the bombings, according to the
embassy’s alert.  
 Failed State  
 Somalia hasn’t had a functioning government since the
ouster of dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991. About 1.5 million
people are displaced within Somalia and more than 560,000 people
are living as refugees in neighboring countries, the  United
Nations Refugee Agency  said in January.  
 Al-Shabaab said it targeted an Ethiopian restaurant and a
rugby club in Kampala, where clients were watching the soccer
World Cup final, because Ugandan troops serve with Amisom, which
it says has carried out “indiscriminate” shelling in
Mogadishu. It also vowed to attack Burundi unless its troops are
withdrawn.  
 “Now al-Shabaab is seen as much more of a threat to the
region and it appears that many more countries are concerned
enough to reevaluate whether it’s important enough for them to
contribute forces to the mission,” Hogendoorn said in a July 22
interview from Nairobi, Kenya.  
 U.S. Support  
 Pressure to strengthen Amisom may also come from the U.S.,
according to  Jennifer Cooke , the Africa director of the
Washington-based  Center for Strategic and International Studies .  
 “I expect the U.S. to push for beefing up of Amisom,”
Cooke said in a July 22 interview.  
 Attorney General  Eric Holder  told the summit today that the
U.S. “recognizes that ending the threat of al-Shabaab to the
world will take more than just law enforcement” and that “we
will look to engage more African nations in this work.”  
 The biggest challenge facing the dispatch of more troops
may be a lack of resources such as money, equipment, and
logistical support, Cooke said. The AU doesn’t have “the
logistics or the capabilities,” she said. “If it’s an
international problem, it needs an international response.”  
 Previous foreign interventions failed to impose order on
Somalia.  
 ‘Black Hawk Down’  
 The U.S. ended its two-year “Operation Restore Hope”
mission in the country, which involved as many as 33,000 U.S.
and UN forces, after the downing of two American helicopters in
Mogadishu in October 1994, an incident made famous by  Mark Bowden ’s book “Black Hawk Down.”  
 Forces from neighboring Ethiopia withdrew in January 2009
after a two-year intervention that ousted the Islamic Courts
Union government and later became bogged down in a guerrilla war
with the Islamic militias.  
 Boosting troops will not ultimately solve the problem,
which requires a political solution, Hogendoorn said.  
 “The Transitional Federal Government needs to be pushed
much harder to reach out and reconcile with local people who
actually control some areas on the ground,” he said. “They’ve
done a very poor job of doing that.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        