-- Air India to Sell Bonds, Land to Sustain Loss-Making Business
-- Vipin V. Nair
-- 2010-07-25T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/air-india-plans-to-sell-bonds-property-to-sustain-unprofitable-business.html

          
          
             National Aviation Co. of India Ltd.,
the state-owned parent of Air India, plans to sell new bonds to
sustain the company that has never posted a profit.  
 The Indian government will  guarantee the bonds , which will
help the carrier cut interest costs, Civil Aviation Minister
 Praful Patel  said in Mumbai yesterday. The company, which has
been  unprofitable  since its 2007 formation, will get a 12
billion rupee ($256 million) equity infusion from the government
this fiscal year, he reiterated.  
 Air India aims to fly an annual 25 million travelers
domestically and 15 million on overseas routes to break even in
fiscal year 2015, Chairman  Arvind Jadhav  said. India’s
government must restructure the airline quickly as competition
from domestic companies  Jet Airways (India) Ltd.  and  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd.  intensifies and overseas carriers like  Singapore
Airlines Ltd.  expand into the country, an analyst said.  
 “They are taking little steps here and there,” said  Binit Somaia , director for South Asia at the Sydney-based  Centre for
Asia Pacific Aviation . “They probably need to act faster. It
requires decisive measures.”  
 The carrier plans to monetize its land and buildings by
sale or as security for raising loans, the airline said in a
statement yesterday.  
 Fine Tuning  
 National Aviation, formed by merging Air India with its
domestic counterpart Indian Airlines, boosted traffic revenue 28
percent in the first quarter to 6.38 billion rupees while cargo
revenue gained by more than half to 920 million rupees, the
airline said. The carrier filled 75 percent of seats in the
domestic sector during quarter while flying an average 36,000
passengers daily, it said.  
 The Indian government, which owns all of the airline, is
“fully supportive,” Patel said after reviewing the turnaround
plan with the company’s  board . The government infused 8 billion
rupees as equity into the carrier last year.  
 “This is the start, based on which further fine-tuning of
the organization will be done,” he said.  
 National Aviation has already cut overlapping flights to
reduce costs. The government  estimates  Air India may have
narrowed losses in the year that ended in March to 54 billion
rupees from 55.5 billion rupees a year earlier.  
 The airline may also cut costs by shedding as many as 7,000
jobs through retirements over the next three years,  George Abraham , the Aviation Industry Employees’ Guild’s general
secretary, told Bloomberg News last week. Air India isn’t
planning job cuts, Patel said yesterday. In June last year, the
airline delayed salaries by two weeks to its 31,000 employees as
it ran short of cash.  
 Debt  
 The company had a debt of 152 billion rupees as of June
last year, according to the government. National Aviation is
seeking to refinance $1.15 billion of debt used for the purchase
of 21 Airbus SAS planes to pare interest costs, according to its
 website . The company extended the deadline for bank bids to
refinance the debt to Aug. 31.  
 National Aviation is the third biggest operator of domestic
air passenger services with a 17.7 percent share behind Jet and
Kingfisher, according to the ministry of civil aviation.  
 Earlier this year, the government appointed  Anand Mahindra ,
vice chairman and managing director of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.,
India’s biggest sport-utility vehicle maker, and three others to
the  board  of National Aviation. The airline also appointed
 Gustav Baldauf  as its Chief Operating Officer.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
 Vipin V. Nair  in Mumbai at 
 Vnair122@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Air India aims to fly an annual 25 million travelers domestically and 15 million on overseas routes to break even in fiscal year 2015, Chairman Arvind Jadhav said. Photographer: Namas Bhojani/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
