-- Taliban May Be Holding Two Missing U.S. Service Members in Afghanistan
-- Dan Hart
-- 2010-07-25T12:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/taliban-may-have-captured-two-u-s-service-members-missing-in-afghanistan.html

          
          
             A U.S. serviceman missing since July
23 was killed in Afghanistan and another was captured by the
Taliban, a Taliban official said.  
 The two U.S. servicemen were targeted by the Taliban in a
village in the Logar province, 60 kilometers (37 miles) south of
Kabul on July 23, Zabihullah Mujahed, a spokesman for the
Taliban said in a telephone interview. He said the serviceman
who was captured is in good health.  
 “It is very early to request something from Afghan or U.S
governments in order to release the U.S soldier,” Mujahed said.  
 Coalition forces are undertaking a ground and air search
for the missing U.S. service members. The Associated Press
reported they were U.S. Navy personnel, citing unidentified
officials.  
 U.S. officials at the International Security Assistance
Force in Afghanistan couldn’t be immediately reached to comment.  
 NATO has offered a $20,000 reward for any information to
help locate the servicemen, General Mustafa Mohsini, the
provincial police chief for Logar province, said in a telephone
interview today.  
 The two servicemen left a compound in the capital, Kabul,
in a vehicle two days ago, according to a  statement  on NATO’s
website that didn’t identify their nationality. A senior North
Atlantic Treaty Organization military officer, who spoke on
condition of anonymity, said both were Americans.  
 An armored sport-utility vehicle came under fire from
Taliban forces in the Charkh district south of Kabul late on
July 23, AP cited Samer Gul, the region’s chief, as saying
yesterday. One of the occupants may have been killed and the
other captured, Gul said, according to AP.  
 The servicemen were seized in Matinai, a village in an area
south of Kabul controlled by the Taliban, the Washington Post
reported, citing unidentified Afghan officials.  
 Separately, five U.S. soldiers were killed yesterday in
southern Afghanistan by improvised explosive devices, NATO said.  
 More than 1,000 U.S. soldiers have died in the war in
Afghanistan, the Department of Defense said July 23. President
 Barack Obama  has vowed to start bringing U.S. troops home next
year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        