-- Anadarko Leads Energy Bonds in Biggest Gains as BP Rallies: Credit Markets
-- Kate Haywood
-- 2010-07-26T16:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/anadarko-leads-energy-bonds-in-biggest-gains-as-bp-rallies-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Energy bonds are leading corporate
debt returns this month after  BP Plc  sealed a well that had been
spewing oil into the Gulf of Mexico and investors wagered on
higher demand for petroleum in the global economic recovery.  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  notes rallied 10.3 percent and BP
gained 7.3 percent, the two top performers driving a 1.45
percent advance for energy bonds, more than double the 0.64
percent for the broader market, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Energy bonds returned 0.99 percent in
June, trailing the 1.32 percent for corporate debt worldwide.  
 BP , whose top executive is discussing his departure from
the company, plans to permanently plug the well with cement next
month, potentially capping its final liability for the accident
at $33 billion, according to analysts. Investors are shifting
their attention from the biggest oil spill in U.S. history to
the need for energy as global gross domestic product is forecast
to grow 3.7 percent this year, according to Citigroup Inc.  
 “I looked at BP and said this is a great opportunity, it’s
really suited to a high-risk portfolio,” said  William Larkin , a
fixed-income money manager who helps oversee $500 million at
Cabot Money Management in Salem, Massachusetts. “There’s a
whole spectrum of different energy companies which are crucial
to the economy now that event risk is priced into the market
place.”  
 Anadarko Bonds  
 Larkin holds the bonds of energy companies including The
Woodlands, Texas-based  Anadarko , which owns 25 percent of the
Gulf well, and Hess Corp. of New York. He declined to say
whether he’s buying BP debt.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold BP’s bonds instead
of benchmark government securities fell to 390 basis points as
of July 23, after soaring 507 basis points to 547 in the two
months following the April 20 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon
rig, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Corporates, Energy index. Anadarko bond spreads have narrowed to
447, after widening 370 basis points to 513.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of insuring against
losses on bank bonds fell to the lowest level in 13 weeks as
analysts said European Union stress tests provided greater-than-
expected transparency about holdings of sovereign debt.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on 25 banks and insurers dropped for a fifth day, down 15.5
basis points to 117.5, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 5
p.m. in London. It’s the biggest one-day decline since May 10
and the index is now the lowest since April 26.  
 Tier 1 Capital  
 The tests found banks need to raise 3.5 billion euros ($4.5
billion) of capital, about a tenth of the lowest analyst
estimate. Only Germany’s Hypo Real Estate Holding AG,
Agricultural Bank of Greece SA and five Spanish savings banks
lacked adequate reserves to maintain a so-called Tier 1 capital
ratio of at least 6 percent in the event of a recession and
sovereign-debt crisis, according to results published July 23.  
 The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in
Europe and the U.S. declined to the lowest since May 13. The
Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or speculate on creditworthiness, fell
7.36 basis points to 104.94, according to Markit Group Ltd. The
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of credit-
default swaps dropped 3.45 to 102.97.  
 Both indexes typically decline as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 ‘Solvent Business’  
 BP, Europe’s largest oil producer by volume, has reserves
equivalent to 18.3 billion barrels.  
 “BP remains a very long-term solvent business but with
short-term political pressure,” said  Sanjay Joshi , a money
manager at London & Capital Group Ltd. “When you get a major
event like in the Gulf of Mexico it raises alarm bells, but all
these energy companies remain very well-protected, have strong
franchises and are critical to economic development.”  
 Joshi wouldn’t say whether he’s buying BP bonds, though
he’s investing in debt of other energy companies.  
 BP  plans to name  Robert Dudley  to succeed  Tony Hayward  as
chief executive officer as the board seeks to recover the
company’s position in the U.S., two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Dudley , the director of BP’s oil spill response
unit, will soon be announced as BP’s first American chief and
take the helm Oct. 1, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified because a final decision hasn’t yet been made.  
 China Demand  
 Even after Citigroup trimmed its forecast for Chinese GDP
growth by 1 percentage point, the world’s third-largest economy
is expected to expand 9.5 percent this year, the bank’s Chief
Economist  Willem Buiter  said in a July 21 report. The bank said
China will grow at 8.8 percent next year.  
 “Investors understand that the economy is predicated on
energy,” said  Robert Bishop , who helps manage $3.4 billion as a
portfolio manager at SCM Advisors in San Francisco, and who
declined to discuss his investment strategy. “It’s going to
take a long time to wean it off hydrocarbons. Investors know
this and so they’re back to buying the debt of these energy
companies that are the mainstay of the economy.”  
 The Gulf of Mexico gusher has been stopped provisionally
since July 15, when BP closed valves on a new containment cap.
The median estimate of the total cost of the disaster is $33
billion, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 11 analysts.  
 BP “was pretty heavily oversold in the wake of the Gulf
oil disaster,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at
broker-dealer Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.
“Rational heads have prevailed more recently.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     James Hackett, chief executive officer of Anadarko Petroleum Corp. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
