-- Lance Armstrong Finds French Allies Despite Landis Doping Claims
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-25T22:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/lance-armstrong-finds-allies-in-france-following-landis-doping-allegations.html

          
          
             As  Lance Armstrong  ended his final
Tour de France yesterday, the appetite to explore his past is
waning -- at least among the French.  
 The record seven-time champion’s former teammate  Floyd Landis , stripped of his 2006 Tour title for cheating, said in
May that he and Armstrong were among members of a U.S. Postal
Service-bankrolled team who used drugs to improve performance.
Federal prosecutors, who are examining the allegations,
subpoenaed another former Tour winner,  Greg LeMond , who wasn’t
on the team, his lawyer  Mark Handfelt  said last week.  
 Armstrong has rejected Landis’s claims. His achievements in
beating cancer and making a comeback at age 37 last year should
be the focus of attention, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
last week. Armstrong, now 38, placed third in 2009 and finished
23rd in this year’s race.  
 “It’s a life lesson,” Sarkozy told French television on
the Col du Tourmalet mountain top after following the July 22
stage. “He’s a great champion.”  
 The French have warmed to Armstrong’s more laid-back
attitude since he made his comeback last year after questioning
his seven straight successes from 1999 to 2005, Yvon Sanquer, a
Frenchman who manages the Astana team, said. Armstrong raced for
Astana last year.  
 French newspaper L’Equipe, which five years ago ran the
headline “The Armstrong Lie” when it reported that another
examination of his urine samples from 1999 showed he doped,
changed its tune last week. It went with “Hats Off to The
Texan” after his final bid for a stage win fell just short.  
 Tampering  
 Armstrong denied doping in 1999 and said the samples may
have been tampered with.  
 “You have to see what he represents overall: It’s
enormous, he’s a social phenomenon,” Sanquer said. “You have
to respect the American justice system but it’s a little late.”  
 Armstrong told reporters before the July 14 Tour stage that
he would cooperate with a “credible and fair” investigation.
He hired Bryan Daly, a white-collar criminal defense attorney,
to help him. Daly said he didn’t know what prosecutors are
reviewing.  
 The New York Daily News reported last month, citing
unidentified people, that the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Los
Angeles is assisting the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in an
investigation of Landis’s allegations.  Thom Mrozek , a spokesman
for the U.S. attorney’s office, declined to comment on the
probe.  
 Armstrong shouldn’t get special treatment just because he
overcame cancer, said Betsy Andreu, the wife of a former U.S.
Postal team rider. Andreu told a tribunal in 2004 that she heard
Armstrong tell a doctor at Indiana University Hospital when he
was being treated for cancer that he used doping products
including steroids and synthetic testosterone as a cyclist.
Armstrong denied her claim.  
 Allegations Thrown Out  
 “I was telling the truth but it was completely ignored,”
Andreu said by telephone. “Cancer inoculated him from any
wrongdoing.”  
 After hearing several witnesses, the tribunal threw out
that case without ruling on whether Armstrong doped or not. It
was looking into a complaint by Dallas-based SCA Promotions
about speculation that Armstrong had doped. SCA insured
Armstrong’s employer Tailwind Sports against paying him $11.5
million in bonuses for his Tour wins between 2001 and 2004, SCA
President  Bob Hamman  said.  
 “We’re certainly looking with interest from here” at the
new investigation, Hamman said.  
 Armstrong gave Sarkozy a Trek Bicycle Corp. bike painted
with the blue, white and red of the French flag in March. The
French president said he prefers to focus on the Texan’s
achievements above everything else.  
 “I admire the performance of the man,” Sarkozy said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Bagneres de Luchon, France via the London sports
desk   aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Armstrong has rejected Landis’s claims  
                       
                         
                           Francois Lenoir/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Lance Armstrong rides during his final parade on the famous Champs-Elysees. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lance Armstrong rides during his final parade on the famous Champs-Elysees. Photographer: Francois Lenoir/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
