-- Aquino to Address Philippine Deficit, Shortages Following Loss in Senate
-- Joel Guinto
-- 2010-07-26T04:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/aquino-to-address-philippine-deficit-shortages-following-loss-in-senate.html

          
          
             Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
may face an uphill struggle meeting campaign pledges to fight
poverty, narrow a record budget deficit and address power and
water shortages after failing to gain control of the Senate.  
 Juan Ponce Enrile  was elected Senate president today after
 Francis Pangilinan , Aquino’s candidate, abandoned his efforts.
Enrile is an ally of former President  Joseph Estrada , who placed
second in the May election. Allies of Senator  Manuel Villar  and
former President  Gloria Arroyo  blocked Aquino from leveraging
his 16-point victory into control of the Senate.  
 Aquino, who failed to pass any major legislation in his 12
years as a senator, will need to show greater political skills
to deliver campaign and inauguration promises. He is set to give
a “state of the nation” speech today and has yet to say how he
would prioritize education, health care, housing and tourism
policies in his first term.  
 “Investors are waiting for that, for some concrete
reforms,” said  Paul Joseph Garcia , who helps manage $1.5
billion as chief investment officer at ING Investment in Manila.
“Any program he wants to embark on hinges on the ability to
raise revenue,” otherwise “he won’t be able to address poverty,
improve social services, invest in infrastructure.”  
 In contrast to the Senate, Aquino today formalized his
control of the House of Representatives with the election of his
candidate  Feliciano Belmonte  as speaker.  
 Catching Cheats  
 Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  and other officials have
repeated Aquino’s campaign promise to improve collection by
catching tax cheats before raising  taxes . The Department of
Finance has started what it said would be weekly filings of tax
evasion and smuggling complaints with prosecutors.  
 Meanwhile, the government last week said the budget  deficit 
was 196.7 billion pesos ($4.2 billion) in the first six months.
Achieving the new government’s 325 billion peso full-year target
will be a “challenge,” according to Budget Secretary  Florencio Abad .  
 Still, bond yields have dropped to record lows as overseas
Filipinos send home $1.5 billion a month, fueling consumer
spending and purchases of homes, cars, and government securities.
Last year,  remittances  amounted to $17.3 billion in a $167
billion economy.  
 ‘So Much Liquidity’  
 “Bond yields are falling because investors have so much
liquidity and nowhere to put their cash,” Garcia said.
“There’s a wait-and-see attitude, a lack of confidence in the
government’s ability to create the environment where businesses
can do business at the lowest cost possible.”  
 “Power rates are still high and interest rates high
compared to our peers,” Garcia said. “There’s a lot of cash
waiting to find a home.”  
 Expensive and unreliable electricity were highlighted this
year after the El Nino dry spell idled many hydroelectric plants,
causing whole-day outages in parts of the Mindanao region in the
south and higher power prices elsewhere. Aquino said he’d lay
out measures to address the shortage in Mindanao in today’s
speech.  
 This month, the dry spell caused water shortages in Manila.
More than a million of the capital’s residents had six hours or
less of supply. Some had none, prompting the government and
utilities to use trucks to deliver water to the worst-hit areas.  
 Different Tone  
 Aquino has set a different tone from Arroyo, now a member
of the House of Representatives. He speaks often with reporters,
whom Arroyo shut out to avoid questions about vote-rigging and
corruption allegations she refuted. The media has reported him
eating out or going to shopping malls with friends, while Arroyo
was usually holed up in the presidential compound.  
 His main success so far has been in forcing Filipinos who
use sirens, flashing lights and even police escorts to beat
traffic to follow the rules. He’s done so by following them
himself, even on inauguration day.  
 Aquino had no plans to stand for election until the death
in August of his mother  Corazon Aquino , widely revered for her
role in toppling strongman  Ferdinand Marcos  and restoring
democracy. His father, Benigno, was jailed by Marcos and
assassinated in 1983 on his return from the U.S., where he had
heart surgery after falling sick in prison.  
 Villar and other opponents said Aquino lacked the
experience needed to push through legislation and changes to the
civil service and government.  
 In a  survey  taken the week before his inauguration, 88
percent of respondents said they put great trust in Aquino. Even
so, 62 percent said they expected him to fulfill few to none of
his promises.  
 “He has already established a rapport with the people, his
problem is to deliver the goods,” said Ramon Casiple, executive
director of the Manila-based Institute for Political and
Economic Reforms. The high percentage who believe he’ll deliver
on few of his promises means the public knows “he’s not
Superman,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francisco Alcuaz Jr . in Manila at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Guinto  at   jguinto1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        