-- N.Z. Dollar Rises to Six-Month High on Evidence of Global Economic Growth
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-26T16:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/australian-new-zealand-dollars-near-strongest-since-may-on-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             The New Zealand dollar advanced to a
six-month high against the greenback and the Australian currency
gained as signs the global economy is recovering spurred demand
for higher-yielding assets.  
 The two currencies climbed for a third day versus the yen
as U.S. stocks rallied on a higher-than-forecast increase in
America’s new home sales last month. Australia’s currency
increased on speculation a report this week forecast to show
accelerated second-quarter inflation will encourage the central
bank to increase borrowing costs next month.  
 “We’re expecting a fairly strong CPI print, and that will
definitely put the pressure on the RBA to lift rates,” said
 Khoon Goh , head of market economics and strategy in Wellington
at ANZ National Bank Ltd., New Zealand’s largest lender.  
 New Zealand’s dollar rose 1.1 percent to 73.52 U.S. cents
at 12:27 p.m. in New York, from 72.73 on July 23, after reaching
73.55, the highest level since Jan. 20. The kiwi advanced 0.6
percent to 63.98 yen, from 63.62. Australia’s dollar climbed 0.7
percent to 90.23 U.S. cents, from 89.57 cents, after rising to
90.25, the strongest level since May 11. The currency gained 0.3
percent to 78.56 yen, from 78.33.  
 Futures traders increased  bets  the Aussie will gain against
the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of
wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on an advance
in the currency compared with those on a drop -- so-called net
longs -- rose to 32,886 on July 20, compared with net longs of
23,480 a week earlier.  
 Reserve Bank Stance  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia said last week in minutes of
its July meeting that policy makers intend to use results of
Europe’s stress tests and local inflation figures to decide
whether to resume raising borrowing costs when they meet in
August.  
 Seven of the 91 European Union banks subject to stress
tests failed with a combined capital shortfall of 3.5 billion
euros ($4.5 billion), stirring concern the evaluations were too
lenient.  
 Consumer prices climbed 1 percent in the second quarter
after an advance of 0.9 percent in the first three months of the
year, according to the median forecast of 21 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before the figures are released July 28.  
 Markets are not “adequately” pricing the risk of further
tightening from the RBA amid “exceptionally strong” domestic
employment growth and prospects for Asian growth,  Michael Turner , fixed-income and currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Sydney, wrote in a research note today. “Ahead of
June quarter inflation numbers, we highlight the limited room
for policy error by the RBA with an economy running at trend and
already back close to full employment.”  
 There’s a 27 percent  chance  the RBA will raise borrowing
costs in August, up from 13 percent odds a week ago, according
to a Credit Suisse Group AG index.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        