-- Australian Opposition Plans to Cut Immigration by More Than 40% If Elected
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-07-25T03:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/australian-opposition-plans-to-cut-immigration-by-more-than-40-if-elected.html

          
          
             Australia’s opposition Liberal-
National coalition plans to cut annual immigration by more than
40 percent by the end of its first term if it wins next month’s
general election.  
 The coalition aims to reduce net immigration levels to
fewer than 170,000 people from 298,924 people in the 2009
financial year, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 “The coalition believes Australia needs a population that
our services can satisfy, our infrastructure can support, our
environment can sustain, our society can embrace and our economy
can employ,” the parties said in the statement.  
 Immigration and population growth are issues featuring in
the campaign for Australia’s Aug. 21 election after the number
of asylum seekers arriving by boat this year jumped to 3,768 as
of July 17 from 2,726 in 2009, Immigration Department figures
show. The topics will be raised in the campaign’s only debate
between Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and opposition leader  Tony Abbott , to be broadcast live tonight at 6:30 p.m. Sydney time.  
 The opposition’s policy, which will ensure two-thirds of
permanent migrants are skilled workers, is aimed at bringing
population growth to 1.4 percent from more than 2 percent now in
the coalition’s first term in power, according to the statement
from the coalition.  
 Australia’s population growth is forecast to slow to 1.5
percent in the 2011 fiscal year and to 1.3 percent in 2012 as
holders of student and temporary visas leave, economic
forecaster BIS Shrapnel said in May. Government projections are
for the population to increase to 36 million by 2050 from 22
million now.  
 Urban Congestion  
 Cutting immigration won’t solve the problem of urban
congestion, said  Aaron Gadiel , chief executive of  Urban
Taskforce , a property developer lobby group.  
 “Population growth is not the problem - a lack of new
infrastructure and misdirected town planning policies are the
real culprits,” Gadiel said in an e-mailed statement sent today.  
 While Gillard, who emigrated from Wales when she was four
after she contracted bronchial pneumonia, has moved away from
predecessor  Kevin Rudd ’s endorsement of a growing population in
a “big Australia,” she hasn’t outlined specific changes to the
Labor government’s immigration policy.  
 “You’ve got parts of Australia where there’s significant
unemployment and infrastructure absolutely bursting at the seams.
And you’ve got other parts of Australia where there are
employers crying out for skilled workers that they can’t find,”
 Tony Burke , Gillard’s minister for sustainable population, said
in a statement today. “The most important thing in all of this
isn’t talking about the national number but making sure that
whoever comes gets to the areas where we need them most.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        