-- BMW, Daimler, Lufthansa, Volkswagen May Be Active: German Equity Preview
-- Christian Vits
-- 2010-07-26T06:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/bmw-daimler-lufthansa-volkswagen-may-be-active-german-equity-preview.html

          
          
             (Corrects to show DAX rose in story published July 25.)  
 The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in Germany. Stock
symbols are in parentheses and prices are from the last close.  
 The benchmark  DAX Index  rose 0.4 percent to 6,166.34.  
 Baywa AG  (BYW6 GY): The German farm-products and building-
materials company expects its half-year operating profit to rise
from a year earlier,  WirtschaftsWoche  reported, citing Chief
Executive Officer  Klaus Josef Lutz . The shares fell 1.3 percent
to 27.6 euros.  
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG / Daimler AG  (BMW GY/DAI GY): The
companies plan to develop car-seat frames jointly,  Spiegel 
reported, without saying where it got the information. BMW
shares rose less than 0.1 percent to 41.99 euros and Daimler
increased 0.5 percent to 42.49 euros.  
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG  (LHA GY): Europe’s second-biggest
airline plans to increase the seating capacity in its planes by
using thinner backrests and reducing the kitchen size,  Spiegel 
magazine reported, citing a company spokeswoman. The shares rose
2.4 percent to 12.48 euros.  
 Fraport AG  (FRA GY): The German airport operator is in
talks with a Chinese partner about an investment,  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung  reported, citing an interview. The
company is also “closely” monitoring developments in Brazil
where large airports are set to be privatized, Chief Financial
Officer  Matthias Zieschang  told the newspaper. The shares gained
1.4 percent to 38.68 euros.  
 Volkswagen AG  (VOW GY): Audi AG,  Volkswagen AG’s  luxury-car
brand, expects record car sales this year,  Automobilwoche 
reported, citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer
 Rupert Stadler . This year’s sales will “significantly” exceed
1 million cars to reach a record level, Stadler was quoted as
saying. The shares rose 0.4 percent to 74.15 euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        