-- BP Chief Executive Tony Hayward May Quit Within Two Days, Telegraph Says
-- Catherine Airlie
-- 2010-07-25T10:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/bp-chief-executive-tony-hayward-may-quit-within-two-days-telegraph-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  may resign within the next two days as the U.K. oil
company prepares to publish its first-half results, the  Sunday
Telegraph  reported.  
 Detailed negotiations over Hayward’s severance package have
taken place this weekend, the newspaper said, without saying
where it got the information. The company’s board is scheduled
to meet tomorrow before BP publishes its results on July 27, the
Sunday Telegraph said.  
 BP, based in London, is likely to make an announcement
regarding Hayward within the next 24 hours, British Broadcasting
Corp. Business Editor  Robert Peston  said on BBC News 24 today.  
 Hayward “has the confidence of the board” and it’s normal
practice to hold board meetings the day before results are
published, BP spokesman  Toby Odone  said by mobile phone today.
He declined to comment on whether Hayward’s position would be
discussed at the meeting.  
 Hayward has faced public anger in the U.S. and criticism
from lawmakers over his handling of an oil spill that was
triggered by an April 20 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig,
which killed 11 people. While the well has now been sealed, BP
plans to permanently plug it with cement next month. The U.K.
oil company’s  market value  lost 48 billion pounds ($74 billion)
as it battled to stop the biggest crude spill in U.S. history.  
 Robert Dudley , director of BP’s oil spill response unit, is
the most likely candidate to succeed Hayward, the Sunday
Telegraph said. BP on June 23 appointed Dudley, a Mississippian,
to manage its response to the explosion.  
 ‘Very Big Ocean’  
 While seeking to contain public outrage over the
environmental damage, Hayward made several gaffes, including
saying he wanted his “life back” and calling the spill
“relatively tiny” in a “very big ocean.” The well spewed
35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day from a mile-deep in the
water, according to a U.S. government-led panel of scientists.  
 The New York Daily News said he was “the most hated -- and
clueless -- man in America.” U.S. President  Barack Obama  said
he would have fired Hayward, while White House Chief of Staff
 Rahm Emanuel  said on ABC in June that “Tony Hayward isn’t going
to have a second career in PR consulting” and criticized the
ex-CEO for taking a yachting trip.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        