-- BP Resumes Work to Kill Damaged Well With Cement
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-26T21:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/bp-returning-to-gulf-oil-spill-site-to-drill-relief-well-as-bonnie-weakens.html

          
          
             BP Plc  returned to work on
permanently plugging the source of the largest oil spill in U.S.
history after a storm threat eliminated an opportunity to seal
the Gulf of Mexico gusher more securely by the end of July.  
 The next effort, a so-called static kill that will pump mud
and cement into the top of the Macondo well, will begin Aug. 2,
National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said today in a
Washington press conference. Injections from the bottom to
confirm the well is permanently closed could begin five days
later, he said.  
 The Macondo well spilled 2.31 million to 4.1 million
barrels of oil, based on government estimates. It erupted April
20 with a blast that destroyed the Deepwater Horizon rig,
killing 11 crew. On July 15, BP shut the flow after installing a
40-foot (12-meter) cap atop a damaged valve assembly.  
 “When this spill first started, it took about four to six
weeks for the oil to start impacting shore,” Allen said.
“After we put the cap in place, we can expect for four to six
weeks after that or even longer, depending on the weather
conditions, for oil to continue to come ashore.”  
 BP will clean up oil from the spill whenever it’s found,
Allen said. Chemical analysis can determine whether crude found
underneath a beach months from now came from the well, he said.  
 Dispersants Not Used  
 The amount of skimmable oil is diminishing, according to
U.S. Coast Guard Rear Admiral Paul Zukunft, the on-scene
coordinator. A monitoring program for undersea oil will be set
up, he said on a conference call today.  
 Dispersants haven’t been used for more than one week and
won’t be used unless new oil is released, he said. The remaining
oil is weathered to the point where it would be “inefficient
and ineffective” to use them, he said.  
 This week, BP expects to complete the final 2,000 feet of
cement casing for the relief well that will kill Macondo
permanently, Allen said. The company will then begin drilling
the final 200 feet of an intercept course with the damaged well,
he said.  
 On Aug. 2, BP will start trying to fill the well with mud,
followed by cement, through the blowout preventer, the stack of
valves that failed the night the well exploded, Allen said. The
goal will be to fill the entire well with cement, he said.  
 A previous effort in May failed when the gusher ejected mud
and rubber scraps intended to plug it. BP expects better results
now that it has stanched the flow, Allen said.  
 Dudley as Successor  
 BP plans to appoint  Robert Dudley , director of BP’s oil-
spill response unit, to succeed  Tony Hayward , 53, as chief
executive officer, two people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday.  
 Dudley, 54, is ready to be announced as the company’s first
American chief tomorrow and to take the helm Oct. 1, one of the
people said, asking not to be identified because a final
decision hasn’t yet been made.  
 The decision was reached in discussions with board members
about how best to take BP forward and rebuild its U.S. position,
the person said. The BP board meets today to “rubber stamp”
the plan, the second person said.  
 “No final decision has been made” on management changes,
the company said today in a statement. The board will meet
tonight before tomorrow’s scheduled release of quarterly
financial results.  
 BP rose 18.35 pence, or 4.6 percent, to 416.95 pence at
4:35 p.m. today in London. It was the highest closing price
since June 7.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oil sheen is seen with vessels assisting near the source of the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Photographer: Mario Tama/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Nick McGregor, an investment manager at Redmayne Bentley Stockbrokers, talks about the outlook for BP Plc's second-quarter results and the prospect of Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward being replaced.
     He speaks with Ryan Chilcote on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
