-- Cadence, Electronic Arts Lead Silicon Valley Companies in R&D Spending
-- Rochelle Garner
-- 2010-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/cadence-electronic-arts-lead-silicon-valley-companies-in-r-d-spending.html

          
          
             Cadence Design Systems Inc. ,
 Electronic Arts Inc.  and  Synopsys Inc.  top the list of Silicon
Valley companies pouring money into research and development,
committing at least 32 percent of sales to R&D in the past year.  
 Silicon Valley businesses, whose fortunes depend on
creating new products, together invested billions of dollars in
research on everything from software and computer chips to
Internet services and biotechnology. R&D spending rose 13
percent in the latest quarter from a year earlier, the fastest
pace in two years.  
 While many companies in the San Francisco Bay Area
curtailed travel, shut offices and trimmed headcount last year
to ride out the recession, some used the slowdown to develop new
products for when the economy rebounds. Others in hotly
contested markets spent on R&D to keep from falling behind.
Together, 56 companies in a Bloomberg regional index spent $42.2
billion in the four most recently reported quarters.  
 “Companies that invest earlier are the ones that survive
and win,” said  Ray Wang , an analyst with the Altimeter Group in
San Mateo, California. “How much companies spend on R&D depends
on how much they can reuse, repurpose and extend what they
develop across customers.”  
 On average, software and Internet companies invest 11.4
percent of their sales on R&D, according to  Barry Jaruzelski , a
partner with consulting firm Booz & Co. who analyzes the world’s
biggest R&D spenders. The average for hardware companies is 7.1
percent.  
 Design Intensive  
 Individual companies may spend markedly more, depending on
their markets. Consider Synopsys and Cadence Design, the No. 1
and No. 2 makers of software used to design computer chips.  
 Such software helps fulfill Moore’s Law, first described by
Intel Corp. co-founder  Gordon Moore , which predicts that
computer chips will double their number of transistors every two
years. Much of the burden is on makers of chip-design software
to deliver that complexity. It’s why makers of chip-design
programs devote at least 30 percent of revenue to R&D.  
 Cadence Design invests more than that. In the most recent
four quarters, the San Jose, California-based company spent 40
percent of revenue, or $349.4 million, on development projects
-- the highest percentage among Silicon Valley companies.  
 In comparison, Synopsys invested about $433 million, or 32
percent of revenue. The Mountain View, California-based company
can’t afford to skimp on its investment, Chief Executive Officer
 Aart de Geus  said in an interview.  
 “Technology is part of our DNA, and any investment that
makes our DNA stronger has a direct impact on our short- and
long-term well-being,” de Geus said. “If our customers win by
using our software, they spend money with us, which we funnel
back into R&D and keep the machine moving.”  
 Catching Transitions  
 Electronic Arts , the world’s second-biggest video-game
publisher, is in the middle of a market shift, moving away from
its declining console business, which accounts for almost two-
thirds of annual sales, and toward games that are played online.  
 Last year, the company closed studios, said it would fire
1,500 employees, moved jobs to lower-cost regions and paid $400
million to buy Playfish Inc., a maker of games played on the
Facebook social-networking website. That pits Electronic Arts
against Zynga Game Network Inc., the biggest provider of
Facebook games.  
 “All gaming companies have been aggressive in taking costs
out,” said  Atul Bagga , an analyst for ThinkEquity LLC in San
Francisco. “They are gearing up for the next wave.”  
 Going Online  
 In the most recent four quarters, Electronic Arts spent
about $1.23 billion on R&D, or 34 percent of its revenue, mostly
to develop online gaming services. That makes the Redwood City,
California, company the second-biggest R&D spender in the
region, as a percentage of sales.  
 “Having seen digital distribution disrupt the distribution
of newspapers and retail music, EA is determined to lead the
game industry’s online transformation,” spokeswoman  Holly Rockwood  said.  
 Yahoo! Inc., owner of the second-most-popular U.S. Internet
search engine, is working to reverse falling sales. In the 12
months ended in June, the Sunnyvale, California-based company
cut R&D spending by 7.8 percent to $1.15 billion. Its staff has
been working on a new home page and other ways to drive traffic
to its sites.  
 That investment, representing 18 percent of revenue, hasn’t
paid off yet. Last week, Yahoo reported second-quarter sales
that missed analysts’ estimates after losing ground in the
search market to Google Inc. Yahoo’s operating profit margin in
the period was 11.6 percent, up from 9 percent a year earlier.
Google, by contrast, posted an operating margin of 34.7 percent.  
 “Innovation is core” to Yahoo’s business, spokeswoman
 Dana Lengkeek  said.  
 ‘Great Yield’  
 “Investors look to see if there’s a great yield on that
R&D dollar,” said  Brent Thill , an analyst with UBS AG in San
Francisco. “If a company can generate healthy operating
margins, market share and revenue, it doesn’t matter what
they’re spending.”  
 Rivals Cisco Systems Inc. and Juniper Networks Inc. both
viewed the recession as an opportunity to accelerate their R&D
efforts. Cisco, the world’s biggest maker of networking
equipment, amped up development by 13.5 percent while Juniper,
No. 2 in the market, boosted spending by 22 percent.  
 Both companies told analysts last year that they would cut
costs where they could while devoting money to where it
mattered: on new products.  
 “This is the engine that will fuel our acceleration out of
the downturn,” said  Stefan Dyckerhoff , Juniper’s executive vice
president, at an investors’ conference last month.  
 Big and Small  
 Juniper, based in Sunnyvale, set aside 22 percent of sales
for product development in the past year. San Jose-based Cisco
spent 14 percent. Yet even with that percentage difference,
Cisco’s dollar outlay dwarfed Juniper’s because its sales are
more than 10 times larger. Cisco spent $5.16 billion on R&D in
the period, compared with Juniper’s $804.2 million.  
 There are two things worth remembering when looking at R&D
spending, Jaruzelski of Booz & Co. said.  
 “Bigger companies can spend a smaller percentage on R&D
relative to smaller players, and get similar outcomes,” he
said. And after reaching a certain critical mass, “it’s not
about how much you spend, it’s about the quality of the people,
your discipline and deciding where to put your investment.”  
 Which brings up the example of  Apple Inc. , arguably the
most innovative company in Silicon Valley right now. The
Cupertino, California-based maker of the iPhone, iPad and
Macintosh spent only 2.9 percent of revenue on R&D, ranking near
the bottom of Bloomberg’s list.  
 Yet that 2.9 percent, or $1.65 billion, produced some of
the best returns in the technology industry.  
 “Apple has a deep understanding of customers and a
rigorous focus on a small number of products,” Jaruzelski said.
“You don’t see them throwing a lot of products against the wall
and hoping some of it will stick with the customer.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rochelle Garner  in San Francisco at 
 rgarner4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     John Riccitiello, CEO of Electronic Arts Inc. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A employee walks along the hallways at Electronic Arts in Redwood City, California. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
