-- U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index Advances After U.S. Home-Sales Data Tops Forecasts
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-26T15:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/centrica-hsbc-reckitt-benckiser-vodafone-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html

          
          
             U.K. stocks climbed to a 10-week
high after a government report showed sales of new homes in the
U.S. rose more than forecast in June, spurring optimism that the
global economic recovery is intact.  
 Barclays Plc advanced after the majority of Europe’s banks
passed stress tests carried out by the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors.  Pearson Plc  surged 5.8 percent after the
owner of the Financial Times newspaper raised its forecast for
2010 and as first-half net income more than tripled.  Tullow Oil
Plc  rose 5.1 percent following a “major” discovery off Ghana.  
 The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  climbed 38.5, or 0.7 percent,
to 5,351.12 at the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London, the
highest level since May 13. The  FTSE All-Share Index  rose 0.7
percent and Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  climbed 0.9 percent.  
 The FTSE 100 has clawed back 11 percent from this year’s
lowest level reached July 1. The measure rallied 3 percent last
week after U.K. retail sales rose more than economists forecast
and as Europe’s manufacturing and services industries
unexpectedly grew.  
 “Economic data itself has continued to improve,”  Gary Baker , the head of BofA Merrill Lynch’s pan-European equity
strategy said at a press briefing in London today. “The real
economy has been relatively good. Valuations are very supportive
and continue to look favorable” for equities, he said.  
 U.S. Economy  
 Purchases of new homes increased 24 percent from May to an
annual pace of 330,000, figures from the U.S. Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. The rate was the second-
lowest in data going back to 1963 after May’s downwardly revised
267,000 pace.  
 European governments used their first co-ordinated stress
tests to reassure investors about the health of banks after the
debt crisis pummeled the bonds of Greece, Spain, and Portugal.
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research analysts said they disagree
that the assumptions behind the stress tests were too weak.  
 “We find the losses produced by the CEBS credible,” BofA
Merrill Lynch analyst  Derek De Vries  wrote in a report today.
“While some commentators have been critical that the stress
tests didn’t include the impact of sovereign restructuring in
the banking book, we applaud CEBS’ decision to force banks to
disclose all of their sovereign exposure.”  
 The FTSE 100 remains 8.1 percent below this year’s high on
April 15 amid concern that growth in the U.S. and China is
slowing and that austerity measures from European governments
will hurt the region’s economic recovery.  
 Banks Advance  
 Barclays advanced 4.5 percent to 315.65 pence. Lloyds
Banking Group Plc climbed 3.9 percent to 66 pence.  
 Pearson surged 5.8 percent to 1,029 pence. The U.K.-based
education and publishing company said first-half net income rose
to 92 million pounds ($142.4 million) from 28 million pounds a
year earlier.  
 Tullow Oil gained 5.1 percent to 1,239 pence after the U.K.
explorer with the most licenses in Africa said its Owo-1
exploration well discovered a major oil field off Ghana.  
 Separately, BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research increased
its price estimate to 1,785 pence from 1,725 pence and kept a
“buy” rating.  
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, lost 1.3
percent to 1,172 pence. The company declined to comment on a
report in the Wall Street Journal that it recently made a “very
casual” overture to Genzyme Corp., asking the biotechnology
company to keep Glaxo in mind if Genzyme considered selling
itself.  
 Connaught Slides  
 Connaught Plc tumbled 69 percent to 31.46 pence after
saying net debt will be “significantly in excess” of the 120
million pounds it forecast for Aug. 31, its year end, and said
it needs “urgent” funding to meet the needs of the business.  
 The facilities management company has started negotiations
with its lenders, it said.  
 BP Plc  climbed 4.6 percent to 416.95 pence. The oil
company’s Chief Executive Officer,  Tony Hayward , will discuss
his departure from the company with its board after the leak at
its Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico became the largest oil
spill in U.S. history, two people familiar with the matter said.
The company said it had yet to make a final decision on any
management changes.  
 Pace Plc  rallied 14 percent to 214 pence. The U.K. supplier
of television set-top boxes to British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc said first-half pretax profit rose 46 percent to 45.4
million pounds and said it plans to acquire 2Wire Inc. for $475
million.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Stubbs, head of European and U.K. equity strategy at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about the results of the stress tests for European banks and his investment strategy.
     Stubbs, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for the global economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
