-- Cerenis Raises $51.3 Million to Develop Heart-Disease, Cholesterol Drug
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2010-07-25T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/cerenis-raises-51-3-million-to-develop-heart-disease-cholesterol-drug.html

          
          
             Cerenis Therapeutics SA  raised 40
million euros ($51.3 million) from the French government and
existing investors to help it finance the development of a drug
that may treat heart disease and high cholesterol.  
 Cerenis, based in Toulouse, France, and Ann Arbor,
Michigan, received 20 million euros from the French Strategic
Investment Fund and the same amount from investors including
 Sofinnova Partners  and  HealthCap , Cerenis said today in an e-
mailed statement. The company, along with Groupe Novasep,
received an additional 10.7 million euros in French government
funding through Oseo, a state body that promotes French business
abroad, Cerenis said in a separate release.  
 The funds will help the company develop an experimental
product that imitates the action of high-density lipoprotein, or
so-called good cholesterol, Cerenis said. The product, called
CER-001, is in the first stage of human testing and has shown
promise in promoting reverse lipid transport, a process by which
excess lipids are removed and eliminated from the system, the
company said. Lipids are fatty substances such as cholesterol
that are waxy or oily in consistency.  
 “We welcome the FSI as a new investor and are very pleased
to have such strong support from our current investors,” Jean-
Louis Dasseux, the co-founder and chief executive officer of
Cerenis, said in the statement. The strategic fund is owned by
the French state and a government-owned bank, Caisse des Depots
et Consignations.  
 The company also appointed former  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  CEO
 Jean-Pierre Garnier  to the board. Garnier, who left Glaxo in
2008 after heading the drugmaker for eight years, said last
month he will step down as CEO of Pierre Fabre Group. He plans
to leave the post Sept. 1 after two years with the French drug
company.  
 Cerenis’s other  investors  include Alta Partners, TVM
Capital, EDF Ventures, OrbiMed and Daiwa Corporate Investment,
the company said. The company has raised 107 million euros in
three rounds of financing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
 Trista Kelley  in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        