-- China Tells U.S. Not to Internationalize South China Sea Territorial Issue
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-25T07:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/china-tells-u-s-not-to-internationalize-south-china-sea-territorial-issue.html

          
          
             China’s Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi 
said the U.S. shouldn’t “internationalize” the issue of the
South China Sea where Chinese territorial claims conflict with
other nations.  
 “What outcome can there be if the issue is
internationalized and multi-lateralized?” Yang said, according
to a  statement  posted on China’s Foreign Ministry website today.
“It can only make matters worse and more difficult to solve.”  
 The ministry said Yang made his comments at last week’s
meeting of foreign ministers attending a security forum of the
Association of Southeast Asian nations in Hanoi.  
 Yang was responding to U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  who said resolving territorial disputes off China’s
southern coast is “a leading diplomatic priority,” signaling
her intention to intercede in the region.  
 Clinton’s “seemingly fair” comments are “virtually an
attack on China,” China’s Foreign Ministry’s statement said,
adding there is “no problem” with the freedom of navigation
and security in the South China Sea.  
 “International practice shows that the best way to
resolve these types of disputes is direct bilateral negotiations
between the countries involved,” Yang said in the statement.  
 The Chinese government disputed the claims of Vietnam and
Malaysia to part of the South China Sea’s Spratly Islands when
it submitted a  map  to the United Nations last year asserting
ownership over most of the sea.  
 Brunei, the Philippines and Taiwan also lay claim to all or
part of the island chain, which may contain oil and gas reserves.  
 “Asia is rising and we have our own dignity,” Yang said
in the statement. “Asian countries can treat each other with
equality and mutual respect, and we can address each others’
concerns properly.”  
 -- Ying Wang . Editors:  Paul Tighe ,  Hari Govind .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        