-- Contador Wins His Third Tour de France Title as Cavendish Takes Last Stage
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-25T15:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/contador-wins-his-third-tour-de-france-title-as-cavendish-takes-last-stage.html

          
          
             Alberto Contador  won the Tour de
France for the third time in four years today after avoiding
mishaps on the ride into Paris.  
 The Spaniard maintained his 39-second lead over
Luxembourg’s  Andy Schleck  after the 64-mile journey to the
Champs Elysees. Riders don’t normally compete for the race-
leading yellow jersey on the final day.  Mark Cavendish  won the
20th stage as  Alessandro Petacchi  won the green jersey
competition for sprinters.  
 Contador joins the U.S.’s  Greg LeMond , France’s  Louison Bobet  and Belgium’s Philippe Thys in winning cycling’s most
prestigious race three times. Only five riders have won it more.  
 Lance Armstrong  of the U.S., a seven-time winner, finished
down the field in his last Tour.  
 The smallest winning margin was in 1989 when LeMond beat
 Laurent Fignon  by 8 seconds. Contador beat Schleck, 25, by 4
minutes, 11 seconds last year.  
 “Maybe I’ve been more conservative and I haven’t gone all
out for the attack” this year, Contador, 27, told reporters
last week after defending his lead on the Tourmalet mountain
pass. “Maybe I’m getting old.”  
 Contador took the lead when Schleck’s bike chain sprang off
on the Port de Bales climb in the Pyrenees, losing him about
half a minute. Some fans jeered as the Spaniard put on the
yellow jersey after that stage because cyclists sometimes stop
when rivals have a crash or mechanical fault.  
 Apology to Schleck  
 Contador apologized to Schleck the next day. Contador
extended his lead by 31 seconds in yesterday’s time trial, a
discipline he specializes in.  
 He also won the Tour in 2007 and 2009. In 2008, Contador
didn’t compete as the Kazakhstan-based Astana team he rides for
was barred following doping controversies involving other riders
including Alexandre Vinokourov. Contador won the Giro d’Italia
and Vuelta a Espana that year, the other biggest three-week
cycling events.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  at the Tour de France via the London sports
desk   aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        