-- Alberto Contador Seals Third Tour de France Win in Four Years
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-25T23:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/contador-wins-third-tour-de-france-as-armstrong-bows-out-for-second-time.html

          
          
             Alberto Contador  sealed his third
Tour de France title in four years yesterday after avoiding
mishaps on the ride into Paris.  
 The Spaniard preserved his 39-second lead over Luxembourg’s
 Andy Schleck  after the 64-mile journey to the Champs Elysees.
Riders don’t normally compete for the race-leading yellow jersey
on the final day.  Mark Cavendish  of the U.K. won the 20th stage
as  Lance Armstrong  completed his 13th and final Tour de France.  
 Contador joins  Greg LeMond  of the U.S., France’s  Louison Bobet  and Belgium’s  Philippe Thys  in winning cycling’s most
prestigious race three times. Only five riders have won it more.  
 “I’m very happy, there were moments when I was in trouble,
psychologically and physically,” Contador, 27, said yesterday.
“I wasn’t in top form on some days, and on those days I thought
I would lose the Tour.”  
 The smallest winning margin was in 1989 when LeMond beat
 Laurent Fignon  of France by 8 seconds. Contador beat Schleck, 25,
by 4 minutes, 11 seconds last year.  
 Denis Menchov  of Russia was third, 2 minutes, 1 second
behind Contador, with Samuel Sanchez of Spain fourth at 3:40
adrift. Italy’s  Alessandro Petacchi  took the green jersey as the
race’s top sprinter, France’s Anthony Charteau won the King of
the Mountains competition for climbers, Schleck won the young
riders’ event and Armstrong’s RadioShack won the team prize.  
 Record seven-time champion Armstrong finished 23rd overall
yesterday as he bowed out for a second time from the race he
once dominated. He’d said he was retiring after the 2005 edition.  
 Cavendish Victory  
 Cavendish’s victory yesterday was his second straight on
the Champs Elysees, and his fifth in this year’s Tour. He’s won
15 stages at the event in his career.  
 Contador took the overall race lead on July 19 when
Schleck’s bike chain sprang off on the Port de Bales climb in
the Pyrenees, losing him about half a minute. Some fans jeered
as the Spaniard put on the yellow jersey after that stage
because cyclists sometimes stop when rivals have a crash or
mechanical fault. Contador apologized to Schleck the next day.  
 Contador, who also won the Tour in 2007 and 2009, extended
his lead by 31 seconds two days ago in a time trial, a
discipline he specializes in.  
 In 2008, Contador didn’t compete as the Kazakhstan-based
Astana team he rides for was barred following doping
controversies involving other riders including Alexandre
Vinokourov. Contador won the Giro d’Italia and Vuelta a Espana
that year, the other biggest three-week cycling events.  
 ‘Quiet Life’  
 Armstrong, 38, said last week he plans a “very quiet
life” after his final Tour. He returned for last year’s race,
when he placed third, but this month was hit by three crashes in
one day on the first stage in the Alps.  
 The Texan made a final bid to win a stage last week, though
he was outsprinted to the finish line. Cheered on by fans, he
had helped drive a breakaway for about five hours over four
Pyrenean mountain passes in a flashback to his winning years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  at the Tour de France via the London sports
desk   aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tour de France winner, Spain's Alberto Contador, celebrates on the podium at the end of the 102,5 km and last stage of the 2010 Tour de France cycling race run between Longjumeau and Paris Champs-Elysees avenue. Photographer: Miguel Medina/AFP/Getty Images)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
