-- Deutsche Bank Second-Quarter Net May Fall on Trading Slowdown
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-07-26T09:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/deutsche-bank-may-report-decline-in-second-quarter-net-on-trading-slowdown.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s largest
bank, may report lower second-quarter profit tomorrow after
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis led to a drop in trading revenue.  
 Net income  probably slipped to 1.05 billion euros ($1.35
billion) from 1.09 billion euros a year earlier and 1.76 billion
euros in the previous quarter, according to the average estimate
of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The investment bank, run by  Anshu Jain , probably generated
lower revenue from buying and selling stocks and bonds, tracking
declines at competitors including  Credit Suisse Group AG  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The so-called stable businesses of
global transaction banking, consumer banking and asset and
wealth management may post their highest combined pretax profit
in two years, analysts estimated.  
 “The dislocations in the markets during April and May will
have also affected the results of Deutsche Bank,”  Dirk Becker ,
an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Frankfurt, said in a
note to investors. He recommends buying the shares. “Most of
this decline should come from the investment-banking division,
while the bank’s ‘stable businesses’ should have recovered
somewhat from their disappointing first-quarter performance.”  
 Deutsche Bank  fell as much as 3 percent to 48.28 euros in
Frankfurt trading, and was down 1 percent by 11:10 a.m., the
biggest decline among the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index of 54 stocks.  
 German Stress Tests  
 European Union governments are seeking to reassure
investors about the health of financial institutions after the
debt crisis pummeled the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal.
 Hypo Real Estate Holding AG , the Munich-based commercial-
property lender rescued by the government following the
financial crisis, was the only one among 14 German banks to fail
a simulated sovereign-debt crisis and economic recession.  
 Deutsche Bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, fell to 9.7 percent from 12.6 percent in the
most severe scenario, above the 6 percent minimum and the second
highest after Landesbank Berlin. Seven of the 91 European
lenders failed, with a collective capital shortfall of 3.5
billion euros, the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors 
said last week.  
 Deutsche Bank was one of six German lenders among the 91
banks that didn’t publish their sovereign debt exposure,
according to a note from Citigroup Inc. Deutsche Bank spokesman
 Ronald Weichert  declined to comment on the matter.  
 ‘Insecurity’  
 “There’s a mix of insecurity about Deutsche Bank not
publishing its sovereign exposure as well as the upcoming
earnings,” said  Olaf Kayser , an analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg, explaining today’s stock decline.  
 Deutsche Bank said on June 10 it has net sovereign exposure
of 3.2 billion euros to Italy, 500 million euros to Greece and
200 million euros to Ireland, and no such holdings in Spain and
Portugal, according to a  presentation .  
 In the second quarter, Deutsche Bank probably set aside
less than half as much money for loan defaults as in the year-
earlier period, helped by an economic recovery, according to
analysts’ estimates. German business confidence unexpectedly
surged to a three-year high in July after exports boomed and
economic growth accelerated, the  Ifo institute  said last week.  
 Trading Decline  
 Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , 62, has been
seeking to reduce dependence on the investment bank by making
 acquisitions , such as private bank Sal. Oppenheim Group and a
stake in  Deutsche Postbank AG . Deutsche Bank’s investment-
banking unit generated more than 90 percent of overall earnings
in the first quarter.  
 Deutsche Bank aims to double pretax profit at its operating
businesses to 10 billion euros by 2011 from 2009 levels, helped
by gains in investment banking and Asia. About two-thirds of the
target is slated to come from the corporate banking and
securities unit and the rest from transaction and retail banking
and asset and wealth management.  
 Sales and trading revenue may show a 34 percent decline in
the second quarter from the first, according to analyst
estimates. New York-based Goldman, Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, as well as Bank of America Corp.
of Charlotte, North Carolina, on average reported a 35 percent
drop in trading revenue in the second quarter from the first,
company reports show.  
 Credit Suisse, UBS  
 Credit Suisse of Zurich, Switzerland’s second-largest bank,
last week reported a 1.4 percent increase in net income, helped
by a tax gain, even after investment banking profit dropped on
lower trading revenue. UBS AG, the biggest Swiss bank, may
report net income of 1.12 billion francs ($1.06 billion) when it
publishes earnings tomorrow, compared with a loss of 1.4 billion
francs a year earlier, according to analysts.  
 Market swings in May and June reduced fixed-income,
currencies and commodities trading, as well as advisory and
underwriting activity in Europe,  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London, said in a note to
investors on July 15.  
 “The investment banks are likely to post very soft second-
quarter results, but could at least argue that they are through
the worst,” he wrote.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann, 62, has been seeking to reduce dependence on the investment bank by making acquisitions, such as private bank Sal. Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg



     Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann, 62, has been
seeking to reduce dependence on the investment bank by making
acquisitions, such as private bank Sal. Oppenheim Group and a. Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
