-- Merkel Exports Recession Concern as Germans Sleep in Trade Boom
-- Brian Parkin
-- 2010-07-25T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/merkel-exports-recession-concerns-as-german-consumers-sleep-in-trade-boom.html

          
          
             On a late June afternoon in Berlin,
Germany’s  Angela Merkel  has come to the main conference hall in
the Chancellery building to deliver a stark message on the need
to reduce budget deficits.  
 “If there’s another crisis, we won’t be able to pay for it
unless we get onto a path of sustainable growth,” says Merkel,
her hands resting above the national eagle emblem on the
lectern.  
 While the deficit in Germany, at about 4.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year, is smaller than those in most euro
zone countries, the chancellor is not satisfied, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its September issue. The road to
prosperity begins with austerity, she says, and Germany will
show its neighbors how it’s done.  
 On July 7, her government authorized budget cuts and tax
increases totaling 81.6 billion euros ($103.8 billion) for 2011
to 2014. Merkel, 56, promises to shrink the budget gap by 2013
to the threshold of 3 percent of GDP that European Union rules
demand.  
 The rest of Europe has begun to heed Merkel, a former
university scientist brought up in communist East Germany who
has been chancellor since 2005. The leaders of France and Italy
have pledged deep spending cuts to get their deficits down to
the EU limit within the next three years. Spain aims to halve
its budget shortfall to about 6 percent of GDP by the end of
2011.  
 ‘Protracted Recession’  
 Merkel may be forcing other euro zone leaders into a big
mistake, says  Niall Ferguson , a professor of history at Harvard
University. “In leading by example on fiscal austerity, she may
propel Europe into a protracted recession,” says Ferguson,
author of “The Ascent of Money: A Financial History of the
World” (Penguin, 2008). “If we all behaved like the Germans
and tried to balance our budgets simultaneously, the result
would be a collapse in global demand.”  
 Billionaire investor  George Soros  also criticizes Merkel’s
insistence on fiscal rectitude: “Germany cannot be blamed for
wanting a strong currency and a balanced budget, but it can be
blamed for imposing its predilection on other countries that
have different needs and preferences,” he said in a speech on
June 23 at Berlin’s Humboldt University.  
 Merkel demanded that other euro zone countries show they
are willing to rein in their budgets as her condition for the
bailout in May, which eased concern about a default by Greece
and contagion across the region. In the end, after hesitating
for months, Merkel put German taxpayers on the hook for 148
billion euros out of the 750 billion euro rescue package.  
 German Interests  
 She earned mostly grief at home for her decision.  
 “She hasn’t defended German interests,” says Monika
Mewes, 65, a pensioner in Frankfurt. “I would have let Greece
go bankrupt.” Mewes is a former clerk in the credit department
of Germany’s central bank.  
 Fifty-one percent of Germans want to quit the euro and
return to the deutsche mark, according to a poll by  Ipsos GmbH 
published on June 28. Support for Merkel’s ruling coalition is
down 14 points since national elections in September 2009 to 34
percent, a July 21 poll for Stern magazine found.  
 The discord at home comes even as Germany’s economy will
grow 1.4 percent this year, according to government estimates,
after shrinking 5 percent in 2009.  
 The key to Germany’s rebound is its status as the world’s
second-largest exporter, after China. The euro’s 14 percent drop
versus the dollar in the first five months of 2010 made German
goods cheaper to sell abroad.  Exports  surged 11 percent in that
period, compared with a year earlier, to 80.8 billion euros.
More recently, amid signs that governments will muster the
budget discipline Merkel seeks, the euro has begun to recover.  
 ‘Showing Its Strength’  
 As of July 23, the euro traded at $1.29, down 10 percent
for the year to date.  
 Steffen Kampeter , Germany’s deputy finance minister, is
proud that his country’s goods are in demand. “Our growth
model, based on exports, is now showing its strength,” he says.  
 Outside Germany, though, the reliance on external demand
over internal consumption stirs resentment. “Germans must learn
to grow their economy without depending on exports,” says
 Charles Dumas , chairman of Lombard Street Research Ltd., an
economics advisory firm in London.  
 German consumer spending fell 0.8 percent in the first
quarter from the fourth quarter, according to government data,
compared with a smaller 0.1 percent drop across the euro zone.  
 Foot-Dragging  
 The reluctance of Germans to spend puts the country at odds
with the rest of the region, says  George Magnus , a senior
economic adviser for UBS AG in London. “Germany is a big
savings nation because other countries are big borrowers,” he
says. “If everybody tries to be like Germany, the whole euro
zone will fall apart.”  
 The foot-dragging before Merkel agreed to support the
sovereign-debt bailout -- and similar hesitancy prior to joining
the stimulus efforts of the Group of 20 nations in 2009 -- is
typical behavior, says  Thomas Gauly , an adviser in the 1990s to
Chancellor  Helmut Kohl .  
 In 1990, Merkel was elected to Germany’s first parliament
after reunification. Kohl assigned Gauly to give the rookie
legislator coaching in democratic politics. “She asked me,
‘What kind of literature do I have to read to understand West
Germany?’” recalls Gauly, now a partner in Frankfurt at the
public relations company CNC AG. At the top of Gauly’s reading
list was “The Discovery of Slowness,” a novel published in
1983 by Berlin writer Sten Nadolny that celebrates the merits of
being deliberative.  
 Methodical Style  
 Merkel’s aides say she maintains a methodical style today.
“She normally needs some time to study a problem,” says  Peter Altmaier , deputy parliamentary whip of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union. “She’s sometimes criticized for being rather
late, but in her view it’s better to find a balanced approach.”  
 Merkel’s advocacy of sound national bookkeeping and her
caution fit with every German’s dread of inflation fueled by
unchecked public spending, Altmaier says. “The experience is
deeply rooted in our collective memory,” he says.  
 In 1923, the currency plunged to a rate of more than 4
trillion marks to the dollar as the country’s financial system
buckled under World War I reparations. Germany suffered a second
round of hyperinflation after 1945, with public debt from the
Nazi period equaling almost four times Germany’s annual output
prior to World War II.  
 Merkel’s slow, cautious style may be partly to blame for
her failure, so far, to reap any political dividend from the
strengthening German economy, Gauly says.  
 The chancellor is sticking to her tough economic message --
and trying to get some credit. Speaking to reporters on July 21
in Berlin, she called Germany’s economic recovery “powerful.”
“Germany and its way of grappling with these issues have earned
recognition,” Merkel said. “The state has proved itself to be
capable of handling the crisis.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Tomlinson  in London at 
 rtomlinson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     German Chancellor Angela Merkel smiles during her last press conference before going on holidays. Photographer: Odd Andersen/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
