-- Euro Falls as Stress Test Results Fail to Alleviate Banking Risk Concern
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-07-25T23:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/euro-falls-as-stress-test-results-fail-to-alleviate-banking-risk-concern.html

          
          
             The euro weakened against 12 of 16
major counterparts on speculation stress-test standards of
European Union banks were too low to ease concerns that the
region’s debt crisis will spread.  
 Europe’s currency halted a two-day gain versus the dollar
after regulators found seven banks need to raise a combined 3.5
billion euros ($4.5 billion) of capital, underwhelming analysts
who said the stress tests may not have been strict enough. The
yen may rise against higher-yielding currencies on expectations
a report tomorrow will show U.S. consumer confidence fell this
month, boosting demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  
 “Initial reaction has been a disappointment about how far
the stress tests went,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist
at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “There are some
reasons for people to be more cautious going forward. With the
euro, there are doubts the currency can sustain a rally above
$1.30. The euro’s rally is running out of steam.”  
 The euro fell to $1.2888 at 8:02 a.m. in Tokyo from $1.2909
in New York on July 23. The 16-nation currency was at 112.80 yen
from 112.90 yen. The yen traded at 87.52 per dollar from 87.46.  
 EU regulators scrutinized 91 of the bloc’s banks to assess
whether they have enough capital to withstand a recession and
sovereign-debt crisis, with a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent
as a floor. Governments are seeking to reassure investors about
the health of financial institutions after the debt crisis
pummeled the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal.  
 ‘Harbor Doubts’  
 The evaluations took into account potential losses only on
government bonds the banks trade, rather than those they are
holding to maturity, according to the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors.  
 “We continue to harbor doubts about the sustainability of
the euro’s recent rebound given the zeal with which European
officials have embraced fiscal consolidation measures,”  Gareth Berry , a currency strategist in Singapore at UBS AG, wrote in a
research note today. “We expect the euro will face renewed
downward pressure on concern over relative growth prospects.”  
 European governments are in budget-cutting mode as they
strive to meet European Union rules to push deficits beneath 3
percent of gross domestic product following the Greek-led debt
crisis. Spain raised the rate of value-added tax in July, a
month after cutting public wages by 5 percent.  
 The Conference Board’s U.S. consumer confidence index
declined to 51.0 this month from 52.9 in June, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
the New York-based private research group releases the data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at   rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        