-- Femme Fatale Makes $2 Million, Handbag $65,000 as Auctions Buzz
-- Scott Reyburn
-- 2010-07-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/femme-fatale-makes-2-million-handbag-65-000-as-buyers-return-art-buzz.html

          
          
             A U.S. collector paid a record $2
million for a  Edvard Munch  print of a doomed femme fatale, and a
Russian gave $65,000 for a crocodile handbag in auctions this
month as top works attracted wealthy buyers.  
 Asian collectors also set the pace at auctions of wine and
English silver in London that followed sales of Impressionist
and contemporary art where billionaires remained selective.  
 Choosy collectors are looking for signs of a market
recovery. Buyers are only willing to pay the largest sums for
the best works as sellers push up estimates again and test
demand, dealers said.  
 “ Sotheby’s  and Christie’s are especially good at getting
their top buyers for the key lots,”  Philip Hoffman , chief
executive of the London-based  Fine Art Fund , said in an
interview.  
 “There were a lot of disappointments in the middle
range,” Hoffman said. “The rich don’t feel the need to buy at
the moment unless it’s really special. And then they’ll pay a
lot of money for it.”  
 Munch’s Madonna  
 A private collector, bidding by telephone, bought Munch’s
Expressionist lithograph “Madonna” at the Bonhams July 13
print sale.  
 The 1.3 million pounds ($2 million) price, with fees, was a
U.K. auction record for a print and doubled the 500,000-pound
low estimate, based on hammer prices, said Bonhams.  
 The Norwegian artist’s quasi-religious portrayal of a
seductress was inspired by his mistress,  Dagny Juel . After
numerous affairs, Juel was shot dead at the age of 33 by a young
lover in a hotel in Tbilisi.  
 The colored print was from the first of seven different
states produced between 1895 and 1902. It had never been offered
at auction before and had been kept for more than 40 years in
the collection of the British abstract painter Frank Avray
Wilson, who died in 2009.  
 The result makes the “Madonna” the second most expensive
print in the world, said Bonhams.  
 In November 2007, at the height of the market, the Oslo
auction house Grev Wedels Plass sold Munch’s similarly dated
“Vampire II” for 11.8 million Norwegian kroner ($2.1 million),
said the database  Artnet .  
 Crocodile Birkin  
 A private Russian client paid 42,050 pounds for a 2010
“Bleu Abyss” crocodile “Birkin” at  Christie’s
International’s  July 14 auction of jewelry and Hermes handbags,
the London-based auction house said.  
 The price was not far off the record 49,250 pounds paid for
a 2004 black crocodile Birkin at Christie’s in November. The 81
Hermes handbags included in the latest sale raised 476,000
pounds, said Christie’s.  
 “It’s all about supply and demand,” Patricia Frost,
Christie’s director of costume and textiles, said in an
interview. “You might have enough money, but you can’t go into
Hermes and buy a crocodile Birkin. Auctions don’t have waiting
lists.”  
 Christie’s handbag sales are a specialist luxury market
with little premium added by celebrity associations, according
to Frost.  
 “Mind you, if we offered a ‘Kelly’ that had been owned by
 Grace Kelly , that would be quite something,” she said.  
 Silver Cistern  
 The silver record was set at Sotheby’s on July 6 when an
Asian collector paid a high-estimate 2.5 million pounds for a 4-
foot-wide early 18th-century wine cistern.  
 The recently rediscovered piece, weighing 168 pounds and
hallmarked for 1705 and 1706, had been made for Thomas
Wentworth, 3rd Baron Raby, Queen Anne’s Ambassador Extraordinary
to Berlin.  
 It had been unrecorded since 1722.  
 “Over the last six months we’ve noticed a marked increase
in buying from clients in China at our sales in London and New
York,” Cynthia Harris, Sotheby’s U.K.-based head of silver,
said in an interview. “They’re concentrating on English silver
and focusing on traditional key elements such as quality,
condition and provenance to influence their acquisitions.”  
 Fine Wine  
 Asian buyers also dominated the top end of the auction
market for fine wines in London this summer.  
 All three of the most expensive lots at both Christie’s and
Sotheby’s auctions on June 10 and July 14 fell to Asian bidders
at above-estimate  prices , according to the companies’ e-mailed
results lists.  
 Christie’s top lot was a group of six magnums of Romanee-
Conti’s 1971 vintage at 71,300 pounds, while at Sotheby’s a 12-
bottle case of Chateau Lafite-Rothschild ‘82 fetched 39,100
pounds, beating its estimate, while another case in similar
condition sold for 36,800 pounds.  
 “Nearly 50 percent of the lots were sold to Asian-based
clients as many of the top lots headed east,”  Chris Munro ,
director of Christie’s London-based wine department, said in an
e-mailed statement.  
 Christie’s 747-lot sale took 1.9 million pounds with 95
percent of the material selling,  Sotheby’s  601-lot offering
raised 1.2 million pounds with a success rate of 98.5 percent.
Both totals, which included fees, were in excess of upper
estimates, based on hammer prices.  
 Booming demand from Asia has meant that unusually high
selling rates of over 90 percent have become the norm at
Sotheby’s and  Christie’s  international wine auctions.  
 Lion Clock  
 Bonhams made 117,600 pounds with fees for a 17th-century
brass automata clock on July 14. Made in France, the device was
modeled as a lion that rolled its eyes to the time and roared
the chime every hour. It had been expected to fetch as much as
100,000 pounds. The clock was also unusual in that it featured
both an armillary sphere and automata combination, said  Bonhams ,
which achieved a total of 716,000 pounds at its specialist
clocks and barometers auction.  
 ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       'Madonna'  
                       
                         
                           Bonhams via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Madonna," 1895, by Edvard Munch. The work sold for 1.3 million pounds with fees, a record for any print at a U.K. auction, and the second highest auction price paid for a print by the artist. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Madonna," 1895, by Edvard Munch. The work sold for 1.3 million pounds with fees, a record for any print at a U.K. auction, and the second highest auction price paid for a print by the artist. Source: Bonhams via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A black crocodile Hermes "Birkin" bag. The unusually large, specially-designed bag fetched an auction record of 49,250 pounds at Christie's International in November 2009. Source: Christie's Images via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A silver wine cistern. Made for Thomas Wentworth, 3rd Baron Raby, Queen Anne's Ambassador Extraordinary to Berlin, it fetched a record 2.5 million pounds at Sotheby's July 6 "Treasures: Aristocratic Heirlooms" auction. Source: Sotheby's via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Chateau Lafite Rothschild 1982  
                       
                         
                           Sotheby's via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Two bottles of Chateau Lafite Rothschild 1982. The wine was part of a case sold in Sotheby's auction in London, July 14. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Two bottles of Chateau Lafite Rothschild 1982. The wine was part of a case sold in Sotheby's auction in London, July 14. Source: Sotheby's via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Automata Lion Clock  
                       
                         
                           Bonhams via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A 17th-century automata lion clock, shown here in a photograph from the auctioneer, was sold at Bonhams in London in July, 2010. The lion moves its eyes in time with the seconds, and roars a chime every hour. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A 17th-century automata lion clock, shown here in a photograph from the auctioneer, was sold at Bonhams in London in July, 2010. The lion moves its eyes in time with the seconds, and roars a chime every hour. Source: Bonhams via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Reclining Figure no. 2," 1939, by Henry Moore. The work was sold by the London-based dealers Hazlitt Holland-Hibbert at the Masterpiece fair in Chelsea, London. Source: Hazlitt Holland-Hibbert via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
