-- Shipping Bottoming as China Steel Rebound Lifts Ore
-- Alistair Holloway
-- 2010-07-26T18:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/freight-rates-bottoming-as-china-steel-price-rebound-lifts-iron-ore-demand.html

          
          
             The smallest profits in the
commodity shipping market in 18 months may be ending as a
rebound in steel and  iron-ore  prices signal improving Chinese
demand that will ease the transport glut.  
 Chinese steel prices rose 4.7 percent last week, the most
in 11 months. Derivatives for fourth-quarter iron-ore prices
jumped 23 percent between July 9 and 21, Deutsche Bank AG said.
Costs for leasing capesize ships used to carry iron ore will
average $30,375 a day in the fourth quarter, from $12,643 now,
according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts.  
 Expectations for higher shipping costs suggest the 79
percent plunge in capesizes since June 2 doesn’t point to a new
global economic slump. While last month’s Chinese steel output
was the smallest since February, the nation still accounted for
45 percent of global supply. Three consecutive months of lower
iron-ore imports may mean mills are running down inventories.  
 “This is hand-to-mouth stuff,” said Stuart Rae, London-
based co-managing director of M2M Management Ltd., a $450
million hedge fund group that operates ships and trades freight
derivatives. “By the fourth quarter, stockpiles will have been
depleted to a point that, strategically, they will want to try
and build them up,” said Rae, who correctly predicted a decline
in shipping rates at the end of 2008.  
 Chinese Growth  
 Capesizes, three times the length of a football field, were
last this cheap in the first quarter of 2009, when the U.S.
contracted 6.4 percent and Chinese growth fell to 6.2 percent,
the slowest since 1999. Now, China will expand 8.95 percent in
the fourth quarter and the U.S. will gain 2.8 percent, according
to as many as 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The world is
“very far from any kind of double dip,” International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said July 13.  
 Forward freight agreements traded by brokers and used to
bet on or hedge against dry-bulk rates are already anticipating
a rebound, pricing in a fourth-quarter average of $26,106,
according to data from the  Baltic Exchange . That’s $4,269 less
than the median in the Bloomberg survey. Capesize rates more
than quadrupled last year as the  U.S. economy  accelerated from a
first-quarter contraction to 5.6 percent growth in the final
three months of the year, the fastest pace since 2003.  
 Chinese prices for rebar, steel used to reinforce concrete
in roads and buildings, advanced for six consecutive days
through today, reaching 4,001 yuan ($590) a metric ton, data
from Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. show. Prices
had fallen 17 percent since April.  
 Iron-Ore Swaps  
 The cost of 62 percent iron-content ore delivered to
Tianjin port in China gained 13 percent to $133.40 a ton since
July 14, rebounding from a 37 percent drop that began in April,
according to data provider The Steel Index. Fourth-quarter iron-
ore swaps, traded off exchanges, rose to $123 a ton on July 21
from $100 on July 9, according to Deutsche Bank.  
   China  accounts for 64 percent of the seaborne iron-ore
market, the single biggest source of demand for dry-bulk
shipping, according to Clarkson Plc, the biggest shipbroker.
Iron ore represents about 75 percent of capesize cargoes,
according to Georgi Slavov, head of freight and basic resources
research at ICAP Shipping International Ltd. in London.  
 “Chinese iron-ore demand is very, very important for the
capesize market, it’s the most important thing driving rates
higher or lower,” said Rahul Sharan, an analyst at Drewry
Maritime Services in Gurgaon, near  New Delhi .  
 Shipping Lines  
 Global shipments of iron ore will advance 6 percent to a
record 961 million tons this year, Clarkson estimates. The
brokerage also predicts a 9 percent gain in coal cargoes to an
all-time high of 874 million tons. The commodity is the second-
biggest source of demand for capesizes.  
 Higher shipping costs may bolster returns for Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd., Nippon Yusen K.K. and China Cosco Holdings Co., the
biggest dry-bulk ship operators. Shipping lines typically lease
vessels on long-term contracts on fixed rates as well as single-
cargo voyages.  
 “We expect Chinese iron imports to recover when the price
of iron ore drops further,” said Masafumi Yasuoka, a senior
managing executive officer at Mitsui.  
 Even if rates rebound to the $30,375 anticipated in the
Bloomberg survey, analysts are more bearish than they were five
months ago, when a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts predicted
$39,000 in the fourth quarter. Costs rose as high as $59,324 by
June before slumping. The anticipated levels are also a long way
off the record $233,988 reached in June 2008.  
 Chinese Steelmaker  
 Part of that less-optimistic outlook can be explained by
China’s efforts to slow growth, which eased to 10.3 percent in
the second quarter from 11.9 percent in the first. The nation
raised bank reserve ratios three times this year and introduced
lending controls to contain property prices. Citigroup Inc. cut
its outlook for China’s 2010 economic expansion last week by a
percentage point to 9.5 percent.  
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., the biggest publicly traded
Chinese steelmaker, said July 13 it would cut prices for a
second month amid weakening demand. Mills have curbed output,
with Chinese production falling to 53.8 million tons in June,
4.2 percent less than in May, according to the World Steel
Association in Brussels.  
 There is also no sign yet of a drop in iron-ore stockpiles
at Chinese ports. Inventory expanded for five consecutive weeks
to almost 76 million tons by July 23, according to data from
information provider Shanghai Steelhome. That came even as
monthly iron-ore imports fell to 47.17 million tons in June, the
lowest since January, customs data show.  
 Global Recovery  
 The port inventory data isn’t reflecting what is happening
at mills, where there has been a “reasonable destocking,” said
Colin Hamilton, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London .  
 The plunge in iron-ore prices since April came amid concern
that the global recovery will slow and also reflected a switch
from annual to quarterly contracts for iron ore. Steelmakers
built up inventory in the second quarter, anticipating higher
prices in the third, Barclays Capital said in a report July 16.
Imports are also being curbed by more supply of iron ore from
domestic mines, which is typically of a lower grade and
therefore less competitive as prices decline, the bank said.  
 Capesize rates are so low now that some owners are likely
to anchor to wait for better prices, shrinking vessel supply,
said  Guy Campbell , head of dry bulk at London-based Clarkson.
Daily operating expenses, excluding financing costs, are about
$7,000, he said. There are 1,044 capesizes in service, according
to Clarkson.  
 ‘Unsustainably Low’  
 As much as 25 percent of the capesize fleet anchored in
December 2008, after rates slumped 99 percent to $2,316 in six
months, Fearnley Fonds ASA said at the time.  
 “Day rates are unsustainably low,” said Scott Burk, a
shipping analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York  who was named
by the Wall Street Journal as the top stock picker for
industrial transportation in 2007. “We’ve already heard
indications that owners are staying away from the charter
market, rejecting cargoes.”  
 Anchoring ships will ease a glut of vessels as the carrying
capacity of the capesize fleet expands 22 percent this year, a
record on a tonnage basis, according to Clarkson. Vessels
leaving yards now were mostly ordered in 2007 and 2008 when
rates averaged about $111,000.  
 Shipbuilders have failed to meet expectations before
because of delays and a lack of financing. Forecasts at the
start of last year were for more than 950 ships of different
sizes to be launched in 2009, while the actual number was about
460, according to  Barclays Capital . Estimates for this year’s
capesize deliveries that were at 300 in February, fell to 184 by
May, the bank said.  
 Profit Forecasts  
 That may help underpin shipping lines’ forecasts for higher
earnings. Mitsui O.S.K., based in Tokyo, said in April that
profit would rise to 60 billion yen ($686 million) this fiscal
year, having reported net income of 12.7 billion yen last year.
Nippon Yusen, also based in Tokyo, predicted net income of 35
billion yen in the year ending in March, from a loss of 17.4
billion yen. China Cosco said in a regulatory filing on July 16
that it expects to post a first-half profit, compared with a
year-earlier loss.  
 Mitsui rose 20 percent in Tokyo trading this year while
Nippon Yusen advanced 16 percent. Shares of Tianjin, China-based
Cosco fell 12 percent in  Hong Kong . The  MSCI World  Index of 24
developed nations’ stocks declined 3.4 percent since January.  
 “People wait as long as they can when they see prices
falling,” said Philippe van den Abeele, London-based managing
director of Castalia Fund Management (U.K.) Ltd., which trades
freight derivatives. With shipping, “the lower you push it, the
harder it’s going to rebound the other way.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An STX Pan Ocean Co. ship carrying containers is pulled into Tanjung Priok port in Jakarta, Nov. 13, 2007. Photographer: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A BHP Billiton Ltd. train carrying iron ore heads to Port Hedland in north western Australia, Jan. 21, 2009. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
