-- Geithner Says U.S. Employers `Very Cautious,' Job Growth Not Fast Enough
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-25T15:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/geithner-says-u-s-employers-very-cautious-job-growth-not-fast-enough.html

          
          
             Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said U.S. companies scarred by the financial crisis
remain “very cautious” and are trying to get more productivity
from current employees before hiring new ones.  
 Job growth is “not as fast as we need,” Geithner said in
an interview broadcast today on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
program. Employers “are still cautious, still very cautious,”
he said. “So they’ve been trying to get as much productivity
out of their employees as possible.”  
 Geithner also said, in a separate interview on ABC’s “This
Week” program, that allowing tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans to lapse at the end of this year wouldn’t hurt
economic growth.  
 The U.S. economy lost 125,000 jobs in June while adding
83,000 private-sector positions, fewer than forecast. While the
unemployment rate fell to 9.5 percent from 9.7 percent, it has
exceeded 9 percent since May 2009.  
 On NBC, Geithner said he doesn’t think the U.S. will suffer
a so-called double-dip recession. “The most likely thing is you
see an economy that gradually strengthens over the next year or
two,” he said.  
 Companies announcing job reductions in July include New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based Johnson & Johnson. The health-
products company, under U.S. congressional investigation for a
recall of children’s medicines, said it will reorganize the
plant where the withdrawn drugs were made and cut 300 positions.  
 Geithner said he thinks the government should keep a role
in housing finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac while
studying how much U.S. policy should encourage homeownership.  
 ‘Carefully Designed Guarantee’  
 “We’re not going to preserve Fannie and Freddie in
anything like the current form,” he said. “But I think there’s
going to be a good case for taking a look at preserving or
putting in place a carefully designed guarantee, so again,
homeowners have the ability to borrow, to finance a home, even
in a very difficult recession.”  
 The administration will look at the “the broad set of
policies” the U.S. government has put in place “to help
encourage homeownership and particularly help low-income
Americans get access to affordable housing,” he said.  
 Falling home prices, together with easy availability of
credit and government policies promoting homeownership, pushed
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the brink of collapse in 2008. The
Treasury seized them in September of that year and has spent
$145 billion so far to keep them solvent. In April, government
agencies asked for public comment on how to fix the system.  
 ‘Responsible Thing’  
 Tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 during former President
 George W. Bush ’s administration are scheduled to expire at the
end of this year, and an election-year fight looms over whether
to continue them. President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Democrats want to extend the tax cuts for families earning up to
$250,000 a year while allowing those for wealthier taxpayers to
expire.  
 “We think that’s the responsible thing to do because we
need to make sure we can show the world that they’re willing as
a country now to start to make some progress bringing down our
long-term deficits,” Geithner said on ABC.  
 Republicans aim to continue the tax cuts for high-income
people as well, contending that taxes shouldn’t be raised during
the economic recovery. They say the economic harm of ending any
of the Bush tax cuts would outweigh deficit concerns.  
 Geithner, 48, said he didn’t have concerns about the
candidacy of  Elizabeth Warren  to lead the new consumer-
protection agency created by the financial-regulatory overhaul
Obama signed into law July 21.  
 Warren, who heads the congressional panel overseeing the
Treasury’s bailout program, “has huge credibility and she
played a decisive role in helping make the public case for
reform,” Geithner said on the ABC program. “She was early on
this, way ahead of everybody else.”  
 Geithner said July 22 he had not yet made a recommendation
to Obama on who should head the agency.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Timothy Geithner, U.S. treasury secretary, speaks during a news conference outside the Treasury building in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
