-- German Bonds May Fall as European Stress-Test Results Boost Risk Appetite
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-25T23:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/german-bonds-may-fall-as-european-stress-test-results-boost-risk-appetite.html

          
          
             German government bonds may fall
after stress-test results for European banks showed most lenders
have sufficient capital to withstand a recession and sovereign-
debt crisis.  
 Seven European Union banks failed the region’s stress tests
with a combined capital shortfall of 3.5 billion euros ($4.5
billion), according to the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors, which coordinated the initiative. The study
scrutinized 91 lenders assuming losses of 23.1 percent for Greek
debt, 12.3 percent on Spanish bonds and a 20 percent slump in
European equities in both 2010 and 2011.  
 “We’re over a big stumbling block for the market so you
might get an unwinding of flight-to-quality flows and a softer
tone for bunds in the short term,” said  Sean Maloney , a fixed-
income strategist at Nomura International Plc in London. “The
capital requirements that came out were less than expected.
You’ll have your doubters but the overall result is probably a
positive for the market,” damping demand for bunds, he said.  
 German 10-year bonds fell last week, sending the yield 12
basis points higher to 2.72 percent. The market closed before
the results of the bank tests were released. U.S. 10-year
Treasuries ended lower, while the euro rose 0.1 percent to
$1.2909, trimming its first weekly decline in four.  
 Insufficient Reserves  
 Hypo Real Estate Holding AG , Agricultural Bank of Greece SA
and five Spanish savings banks have insufficient reserves to
maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent in the
event of a recession and sovereign-debt crisis, lenders and
regulators said July 23. The banks that failed the stress tests
are in “close contact” with national authorities over how they
will raise capital, said the CEBS, which ran the assessments.  
 While Europe’s stress tests provided transparency, “the
longer-term themes haven’t changed,” said Nomura’s Maloney,
citing concern that government austerity measures implemented to
reduce budget deficits in the region may dent economic growth.  
 “There are numerous elements of the test that we would
have preferred to have done differently,”  Andrew Sheets , head
of European credit strategy at Morgan Stanley in London, said on
a conference call yesterday. “Where we are left we think is a
scenario that is passable. It is not great, it is a slight
positive.”  
 U.S. examinations last year set the stage for bank stocks
to rally 36 percent in the following seven months.  
 Greek Aid  
 Europe’s debt crisis was triggered after Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou’s  socialist Pasok party won elections
in October and said the country’s deficit was more than 12
percent of gross domestic product, twice the previous
government’s estimate. That sparked a surge in bond yields as
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s
credit rankings to below investment grade. Yields on so-called
peripheral nations’ debt, including Spain and Portugal, climbed
and German yields slid as investors favored the safest assets.  
 The  Stoxx 600 Banks Index  dropped 4.7 percent this year,
led by Greek lenders, amid speculation holdings of European
sovereign debt may leave institutions with inadequate capital to
withstand a recession and tumbling bond prices.  
 Greece abandoned attempts to auction bonds in April and
turned to the European Union and Washington-based International
Monetary Fund as the yield on its two-year notes soared to
almost 19 percent. Spanish borrowing costs reached a two-year
high at a sale of five-year notes on May 6 after S&P cut the
nation’s credit rating amid concern that plans to address the
budget may not be fulfilled.  
 Spreads Narrow  
 The yield  premium , or spread, investors demand to hold
Greek 10-year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds widened to
a record 965 basis points on May 7.  
 Bond yields in the peripheral nations and spreads with
bunds began to retreat after the EU and the IMF announced an aid
package worth almost $1 trillion on May 10, easing concern
governments in the region would default.  
 “The fact that only seven banks failed suggests that maybe
the assumptions weren’t too tough,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a
strategist at UniCredit SpA in London. “Yields are already at
the lower end, but this should be moderately positive for bunds.
Investors will probably remain cautious.”  
 German debt returned 6.3 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greece’s bonds handed investors an
18 percent loss in the period and Spanish securities were little
changed, the indexes showed. The euro fell almost 10 percent
against the dollar this year, ending last week at $1.2909.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        