-- Gillard, Abbott Clash Over Economic Record in Australian Leaders Debate
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-25T23:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/gillard-abbott-clash-over-economic-record-in-australian-election-debate.html

          
          
             Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott  and Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  have placed management
of the economy at the top of their election campaigns before a
national vote next month largely being fought over how much
taxes companies pay and who gets to come to Australia.  
 Abbott, 52, used last night’s leaders’ debate to criticize
the Labor government for loading on debt and creating waste. He
also contrasted his Liberal-National coalition’s pledge to cut
the number of asylum seekers arriving by boat with Gillard’s vow
to establish a regional processing center.  
 “The government is threatening our economic future with a
great big new tax on mining,” Abbott said during the debate at
the National Press Club in Canberra. “A strong  economy  is the
foundation, the necessary foundation for a fair go.”  
 The debate ahead of the national vote on Aug. 21 brought
economic management to the front lines in a campaign dominated
by the mining tax, immigration policy, population growth,
climate change and the styles of the two leaders. A Newspoll
published in the Australian newspaper today shows Abbott
narrowing the gap on Labor after Gillard vowed to delay taxing
polluters until after 2012, postponing a pledge that was the
mainstay of her party’s election win in 2007.  
 Narrowing the Gap  
 Gillard’s approval rating fell 7 percentage points to 50
percent, while Abbott gained 7 percentage points to 34 percent,
according to the telephone survey of 1,720 voters on July 23-25
that was concluded before the debate. Some 52 percent of voters
prefer Labor compared with 48 percent for the coalition,
trimming the 10-point gap recorded a week ago and returning to
levels before Gillard ousted  Kevin Rudd  last month. The margin
of error is 2.4 percentage points.  
 “The economy is the coalition’s natural strength and
Abbott has the edge over Gillard on that issue,” Andrew Hughes,
who specializes in political marketing at the Australian
National University in Canberra, said by phone after the debate.
“Abbott targeted the waste of Labor and highlighted that the
coalition is more careful with money.”  
 Abbott and Gillard repeatedly clashed over who would make
the better economic manager during the one-hour debate, which
was televised nationally. It was held an hour earlier than the
traditional 7:30 p.m. time slot so as not to overlap with the
final of the top-rated MasterChef.  
 Political commentators were divided over who won the
debate. Channel Nine and the Seven Network picked Gillard as the
winner, while Sky News said Abbott was marginally ahead with a
higher level of support among viewers.  
 Economic Growth  
 Australia skirted the financial crisis and expanded for a
fifth straight quarter in the three months ended March 31,
gaining 0.5 percent from the previous quarter. The central bank
predicts annual growth will almost double to 4 percent in the
next two years.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia has raised borrowing costs
six times since October, the most aggressive round of monetary
policy tightening by a Group of 20 member. The Australian dollar
is the third-best performer among the world’s 16-most traded
currencies during the past decade, gaining about 50 percent
against the dollar.  
 The world’s biggest shipper of coal, iron ore and alumina
has benefited from surging demand from China, its biggest
trading partner. Australia’s unemployment rate of 5.1 percent is
almost half the U.S. and Europe, driven by the need for workers
in Western Australia.  
 With four weeks until election day, the Labor Party is
buoyed by a surge of women coming out in favor of Gillard, the
Sydney Morning Herald said on July 24, citing a Nielsen poll.  
 Family Man  
 Abbott, a father of three, used his opening remarks to
portray himself as a family man in touch with the ordinary
challenges of Australians. He attacked the government for going
on a “spending spree” and criticized the “obscene waste” in
Australia’s A$42 billion ($37.5 billion) economic stimulus.  
 “My wife, Margie, and I know what it’s like to raise a
family, to wrestle with a big mortgage, with grocery bills and
school fees,” Abbott said. “But I can deliver for Australian
families, because I have been a senior minister in an effective
government.”  
 Gillard defended the stimulus, saying Australia’s budget
will be in surplus before any other advanced economy, though she
wouldn’t rule out more spending should the global economy
worsen. She also refused to be drawn on how many times she
warned Rudd of his policy failings before she deposed him last
month.  
 Protect Jobs  
 “When the global financial crisis threatened this country,
we did what we needed to do to protect Australian jobs,”
Gillard said. “Now, that was the better economic plan. And for
the future we have the better economic plan.”  
 Since replacing Rudd, Gillard brokered a deal with mining
companies over the levy, watering down Rudd’s proposal to a 30
percent tax on coal and iron ore profits from 40 percent on all
resource profits. The prime minister has also said that while
she wants a market-based mechanism to establish a price on
carbon after 2012, she’ll seek a consensus on climate change.  
 Gillard, citing her government’s “superior handling” of
the A$1.2 trillion economy, said a “strong” economy is the
foundation of her re-election campaign so jobs can be created.  
 Abbott, a health and employment minister in former Prime
Minister  John Howard ’s government, has vowed to scrap the new
mining tax. Gillard has said the tax on companies such as  BHP 
Billiton Ltd. and  Rio  Tinto Group is part of a broader policy to
deliver stronger schools and better health care.  
 ‘Strong Economy’  
 “All of this starts with a strong economy, with a
prosperous future,” Gillard, 48, said of her government’s
campaign. “An economic plan where we have given the mining
companies certainty.”  
 Gillard and Abbott also clashed on the question of
population and how that related to the nation’s immigration
policy. Abbott earlier promised to cut immigration numbers.
Gillard says she wants a “sustainable”  population , though she
has yet to outline immigration policy changes.  
 Abbott criticized Gillard’s plan of establishing a
processing center for asylum seekers in East Timor because she
hadn’t negotiated properly with the nation before she made the
announcement. East Timor’s parliament has opposed the center.  
 “I think Australia is a great country, the best country on
Earth,” Gillard said. “But it can be a better country and
that’s what I mean by moving forward. All of that starts with a
strong economy, with a prosperous Australia.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's William Pesek speaks from Tokyo with Bloomberg’s Haslinda Amin about next month's Australian election.
     Australian opposition leader Tony Abbott and Prime Minister Julia Gillard have placed management of the economy at the top of their election campaigns before a national vote next month largely being fought over how much taxes companies pay and who gets to come to Australia. (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
