-- China Stocks Rise on Easing Europe Concerns, Policy Outlook; Chalco Gains
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-26T08:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/icbc-state-construction-hainan-air-huaxin-cement-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  rose for a sixth day
as the results of European banks’ stress tests eased concerns
about the region’s debt crisis and brokerages predicted further
rallies for equities on the prospect of policy easing.  
 Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  gained the most in four months
on expectations the government’s plan to limit metal output will
benefit bigger companies.  China South Locomotive & Rolling Stock
Corp.  added 1.1 percent after winning contracts. Bank of China
Ltd. and Agricultural Bank of China paced declines for lenders
on concern banks may struggle to recover local government loans.  
 “The external environment is very favorable for the market
and talk about a double-dip recession in the global economy has
been abating recently,” said  Dai Ming , a fund manager at
Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, rose 16.66, or 0.7 percent, to 2,588.68
at the close. The measure’s rally is the longest since November.
The  CSI 300 Index  gained 0.6 percent to 2,811.05.  
 The Shanghai index advanced 6.1 percent last week, the
biggest weekly gain since Dec. 4, on expectations the government
will relax property curbs and allow for more bank lending to
counter a slowdown in economic growth. The gauge has fallen 21
percent this year on concern measures to control real-estate
speculation and rising consumer prices will damp earnings.  
 U.S. and Asian stocks rose after the tests showed European
banks will have to raise less capital than estimated. Regulators
found that seven banks need to raise a combined 3.5 billion
euros ($4.5 billion) of capital. Before the results were
published, analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated that
lenders would need to raise 38 billion euros and Barclays
Capital said they would require as much as 85 billion euros.  
 Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about
more than 20 percent of its overseas shipments.  
 Chalco Rallies  
 “The market has gotten another boost from overseas and the
European economy isn’t as bad as expected,” said  Wei Wei , an
analyst at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “On the
domestic front, we have good earnings results and the
government’s policy easing is a big possibility.”  
 Aluminum Corp., the listed unit of nation’s biggest maker
of the lightweight metal and also called Chalco, jumped 6.4
percent to 10.17 yuan, the most since March 19.  Zhuzhou Smelter
Group Co. , China’s biggest producer of refined zinc, rose 3
percent to 9.91 yuan.  
 China will limit production of 10 kinds of non-ferrous
metals to a combined annual output of about 41 million tons by
2015, the China Securities Journal reported today, citing  Shang Fushan , vice chairman of the China Nonferrous Metals Industry
Association. The nation also plans to phase out outdated
production capacity, the Beijing-based newspaper reported.  
 Overcapacity Problem  
 “The overcapacity problem in the aluminum market is the
most serious; when capacity is limited, the market will feel
that there will be less competition,”  Owen Liang , analyst at
Guotai Junan Securities Co., said by telephone from Shenzhen.
“Chalco is a leading company in this industry so it will
benefit from the policy.”  
 China’s stocks may extend a rebound as the government
accelerates construction of low-income housing and
infrastructure projects to make up for a slowdown in investment,
according to Citic Securities Co. The slowdown in economic
growth has caught the attention of the government, which will
put “maintaining growth” as the foundation for “adjusting
structures,” wrote analysts led by  Yu Jun  in a report today.  
 Policy Outlook  
 Last week’s rally was driven by speculation about an easing
in mortgage policy, lower-than-expected inflation and the
completion of stress tests for European banks, according to
China International Capital Corp. “Extreme oversold”
conditions also contributed to the gains, CICC analysts  Hao Hong 
and Mei He wrote in a report today.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it’s still “constructive”
on China’s yuan-denominated stocks even after a surge in the CSI
300, given their “low” valuations and the emergence of several
“catalysts.”  
 The Shanghai index is valued at 19.1 times reported
earnings, compared with the multiple of 26.6 times early in the
year, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 China South Locomotive  climbed 1.1 percent to 5.41 yuan
after saying its unit CSR Zhuzhou Electric Locomotive Co. won a
contract worth 4 billion yuan from Malaysia’s Ministry of
Transport to supply inter-city rapid transit vehicles.  
 Hainan Airlines Co. , a carrier backed by U.S. billionaire
George Soros, added 0.9 percent to 5.95 yuan. The carrier said
its first-half profit may rise more than 100 percent from last
year’s 175 million yuan due to higher domestic demand.  
 Bank Debt  
 Chinese banks may struggle to recoup about 23 percent of
the 7.7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) they’ve lent to finance
local government infrastructure projects, according to a person
with knowledge of data collected by the nation’s regulator.  
 About half of all loans need to be serviced by secondary
sources including guarantors because the ventures can’t generate
sufficient revenue, the person said, declining to be identified
because the information is confidential. The China Banking
Regulatory Commission has told banks to write off non-performing
project loans by the end of this year, the person said.  
 Only 27 percent of the loans to the financing vehicles can
be repaid in full by cash generated by the projects they funded,
the person said. An official at the banking regulator’s press
office in Beijing declined to comment when contacted today.  
 Bank of China Ltd. dropped 0.3 percent to 3.56 yuan.
Agricultural Bank of China lost 0.4 percent to 2.80 yuan.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Tianjin-based companies:  Tianjin Quanye Bazaar (Group) Co. 
(600821 CH), an operator of department stores, jumped the 10
percent daily limit to 5.90 yuan. Tianjin Hi-Tech Development Co.
(600082 CH) surged the maximum 10 percent to 5.58 yuan.  
 Tianjin may spend 200 billion yuan to build a financial
district in the Binhai New Area over 10 years, the China News
Agency reported today on its website, citing a draft of plan.  
 Huaxin Cement Co.  (600801 CH), the Chinese affiliate of
Holcim Ltd., lost 1.5 percent to 17.08 yuan after the company
said its first-half net income dropped 61 percent from a year
ago because of higher coal prices.  
 Laiwu Steel Corp.  (600102 CH) retreated 1.5 percent to 8.93
yuan after saying it may be unable to merge with affiliate Jinan
Iron and Steel Co. because of failure to meet deadlines.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Kristine Aquino , Shiyin
Chen and  Kongho Chua . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Linus Chua   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bernstein, chief executive officer of Oppenheimer Investments Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about his investment strategy for Asian stocks. 
     Bernstein, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for Chinese banks and initial public offerings. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
