-- India May Raise Rates as Higher Prices Spark Protests
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-26T09:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/india-may-raise-interest-rates-as-inflation-sparks-strikes-boosts-wages.html

          
          
             India’s central bank is likely to
raise interest rates for the fourth time since March after a
strike to protest rising prices brought much of the nation to a
halt this month.  
 The Reserve Bank of India will probably increase its
reverse repurchase rate by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent, all
20 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey showed. It will raise
the repurchase rate to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent at the
11:30 a.m. announcement in Mumbai tomorrow, according to all but
one analyst, who expects it to be kept unchanged.  
 Indian opposition parties, the organizers of the strike,
may focus on attacking Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government for inflation when parliament resumes tomorrow after
being adjourned today. Surging prices in Asia’s biggest economy
after Japan and China have also triggered demands for higher
wages at companies including Nokia India Pvt.  
 “The general strike called in early July shows that
continued double-digit inflation has developed into a big
political problem,” said  Kevin Grice , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London. “The government is now urging the RBI
to do all that is needed to bring inflation down.”  
 Consumer prices  paid by industrial and farm workers in
India are running close to 14 percent, government data showed.
That’s the most after Venezuela’s 32 percent inflation rate,
according to Bloomberg data compiled from 82 countries.  
 Swap Rates  
 The cost of India’s one-year interest-rate swaps,
derivatives used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing
costs, rose to 5.90 percent at 9:13 a.m. in Mumbai, near a 20-
month high, signaling investors are bracing for further
increases in benchmark rates. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Sensitive Index  was little changed at 18,128.02 while the rupee
gained 0.1 percent to 46.91 against the dollar.  
 “We plan to continue to oppose the government’s policies
that have fueled inflation,” said  Ravi Shankar Prasad , a
spokesman at India’s main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party.
“The poor are reeling under inflation due to the failed
economic policies and mismanagement of the government.” The
party led the July 5 countrywide strike.  
 The lower house of India’s parliament, which convened today
for the monsoon session, adjourned after paying respects to
members who died since the last sitting. Lawmakers will gather
again tomorrow for business.  
 Not Acceptable  
 Singh’s top economic advisers,  Chakravarthy Rangarajan  and
 Montek Singh Ahluwalia , urged the central bank this month to
tighten borrowing costs, saying inflation above 10 percent is
not acceptable.  
 Tomorrow’s rate decision will be announced at 11:30 a.m.
instead of 11:15 a.m. as was planned earlier, the central bank
said in a statement today.  
 A rate increase will put Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  ahead of
his counterparts in Asia in tightening monetary policy as the
region leads the global economic recovery. Malaysia has raised
rates three times this year, while Korea and Thailand have
increased them once. The Philippines and Indonesia have kept
them on hold.  
 Prices are rising in India as its record 8.4 percent
average economic growth since 2004 is straining capacities in
roads, ports and factories. China expanded an average 10.1
percent during the same period and consumer prices rose 2.9
percent in the country in June.  
 India, China  
 “India has always been underinvested and if you look at
China, they are very strongly invested and that’s one of the
reasons why China can grow very fast without seeing inflationary
pressures” said  Frederic Neumann , a Hong Kong-based economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc. “The key to changing that over time will
be to raise investment.”  
 In 2009, China’s investment rate was 45 percent of its
gross domestic product compared with 37 percent in India,
Neumann said.  
 Higher investment helped China produce 346.7 billion
kilowatt-hours of power last month, data from the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics showed. That’s about six times the
electricity generated in India each month, according to the
nation’s Central Electricity Authority, forcing most companies
to invest in back-up generators, which push up costs.  
 Even so,  manufacturers  in India are augmenting their
capacities to benefit from an economy that Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. says will become the biggest after China and the U.S. by
2050.  
 Expanding Capacity  
 Apollo Tyres Ltd. , India’s largest tire manufacturer by
sales, added a fourth plant in April to boost capacity by 50
percent.  Tata Steel Ltd. , India’s largest producer, last month
won environmental approval to increase steelmaking capacity by
43 percent to 9.7 million metric tons.  
 For now, India’s benchmark wholesale-price  inflation  may
accelerate in July, the government’s top statistician T.C.A
Anant said this month, after Singh’s government raised prices of
gasoline and diesel on June 25 in a bid to cut the oil subsidy
and narrow the budget deficit.  
 The wholesale-price index jumped 10.55 percent in June
after climbing 11.23 percent in April, the most in 19 months.  
 Workers in several Indian factories went on strike in
recent weeks, demanding more pay as living costs rose.  
 Nokia said July 14 that it signed a long-term wage
agreement with employees, resolving a strike at their factory in
the southern Indian city of Chennai.  Neyveli Lignite Corp. , a
local miner and power producer, also pledged to raise salaries
after employees stayed away from work.  
 “The biggest risk to the economy right now is inflation,”
said  Meghna Patel  at STCI Primary Dealer Ltd. “The RBI will
continue with its calibrated approach to raise interest rates.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Duvvuri Subbarao, governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), speaks during a news conference in Mumbai. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
