-- Thailand Explosion Kills One, Marring First Vote Since Protests
-- Anuchit Nguyen
-- 2010-07-26T05:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/jailed-thai-protest-leader-tests-abhisit-s-party-in-bangkok-by-election.html

          
          
             Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  tightened security in Bangkok, a city already under
emergency rule, after a bomb killed one person hours after polls
closed in the first by-election since anti-government protests.  
 The blast occurred last night at a bus stop outside a  Big C
Supercenter Pcl  supermarket in a district that was occupied by
demonstrators for 47 days in April and May. Ten people were
injured, according to the  Bangkok Emergency Medical Service .  
 Abhisit “ordered tighter security in key public areas to
prevent any new attempts similar to the explosion last night,”
government spokesman  Panitan Wattanayagorn  said by telephone
today. “The police are doing their best to find the suspect.”  
 The explosion marked the first violence since May 19, when
a military assault to end the protests sparked rioting and arson
attacks in the capital. At least 89 people were killed during
the protests, which had urged Abhisit to step down.  
 “Even with emergency decree powers, the security
environment in Bangkok remains unstable,” PSA Asia, a security
and risk consulting company based in the city, said in a report
today. “The incident indicates that militant elements of the
protest movement retain the ability to stage relatively
sophisticated attacks in the heart of Bangkok.”  
 Deputy police commander Panupong Singhara said at a press
conference that television cameras had taken pictures of a
suspect, and that the device was similar to ones used in the
protest rallies earlier this year.  
 The victim was a 51-year-old man, the Bangkok Post  reported 
today, without citing anyone. The wounded included seven men and
two women, including a Myanmar national, it said.  
 Election Victory  
 Panich Vikitsreth , a former fund manager from Abhisit’s
Democrat party, defeated Korkaew Pikulthong, one of two dozen
demonstration leaders in prison after the army assault, in the
Bangkok by-election. Panich received 54 percent of the 178,256
votes, the state-controlled  Thai News Agency  reported, citing
unofficial results from 550 polling stations.  
 “This election will make Thai democracy move a step
further,” Panich said in live comments broadcast by TNN News
after hearing the unofficial results. “The country’s democracy
is back to normal.”  
 Yesterday’s election was called to replace a ruling party
lawmaker who had died. The seat was located in a  suburban 
constituency that encompasses four of the capital’s 50 districts.
It has about 500,000 people, or less than 1 percent of the 66-
million population.  
 Coalition Majority  
 The Democrat-led six-party coalition government holds about
a 75-seat majority over the opposition bloc, dominated by Puea
Thai, in the 480-seat parliament. Puea Thai is aligned with
exiled former premier  Thaksin Shinawatra  and backed the protests.  
 Abhisit has faced demonstrations since taking power in a
2008 parliamentary vote after a court dissolved the pro-Thaksin
ruling party for election fraud. The prime minister has set up
at least four committees to work on political changes to
reconcile the nation before his term expires at the end of 2011.  
 In April and May, the protesters barricaded Bangkok’s
business district with bamboo sticks in a bid to pressure
Abhisit into calling an immediate election. He withdrew an offer
for a November vote and ordered the military crackdown after
demonstrators failed to disperse by a May 12 deadline.  
 Gun battles and grenade attacks ensued as soldiers fought
to set up a perimeter around the occupied area to choke off food
and water supplies. About a dozen protest leaders surrendered to
police when the demonstration ended, while others fled the
country or went into hiding.  
 Emergency Decree  
 The emergency decree, in force in about a fifth of the
country, gives authorities immunity and lets them close
opposition media outlets, freeze bank accounts and detain
suspects for 30 days without charge. Human rights groups have
called for it to be lifted.  
 Since the protests ended May 19, Thailand’s  SET Index  has
increased 9.8 percent. The baht has climbed 3.3 percent this
year, the third-best performer among 10 Asian currencies outside
Japan. Tourism Minister  Chumpol Silapa-Archa  said July 6 that
visitors are returning, after arrivals fell 12 percent in May.  
 Thailand’s financial markets are closed today for  Asarnha
Bucha , a Buddhist holy day.  
 Exports, the Thai economy’s leading growth driver, climbed
to a  record $18.04 billion  in June, helped by the end of the
riots and a recovery in the global economy. Automakers  Ford
Motor Co. , General Motors Co. and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. all
announced plans to build factories in Thailand in the past month.  
 ‘Robust Performance’  
 The  International Monetary Fund  on July 16 raised its
forecast for Thailand’s economic growth this year to as much as
8 percent because of the economy’s “robust performance,”
helped by a stimulus package implemented last year.  
 Thaksin fled Thailand in 2008 to avoid a two-year jail
sentence for abuse of power. Parties linked to him have won the
past four nationwide elections on strong support from poorer
areas of Bangkok and the country’s northern regions.  
 Panich, the ruling party candidate, graduated from Boston
University and co-founded Ayudhya Fund Management, now owned by
 Bank of Ayudhya Pcl , Thailand’s fifth-largest bank by assets. He
entered politics in 2004 to become deputy Bangkok governor and
served as a vice minister at the foreign ministry before
standing for Parliament.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A member of a Thai bomb squad inspects the scene of an explosion at bus stop in Bangkok on July 26. Photographer: Pornchai Kittiwongsakul/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
