-- Japanese 20-Year Bonds Advance on Speculation Economic Growth to Decline
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-07-26T07:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/japan-s-government-bonds-may-decline-a-second-day-on-exporters-outlook.html

          
          
             Japanese 20-year  bonds  gained on
speculation growth in the world’s second-largest economy will
slow, sustaining demand for safer assets.  
 Twenty-year yields headed toward an 18-month low touched
three weeks ago, after a Finance Ministry report today showed
shipments abroad grew at the weakest pace this year. Nomura
Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage, downgraded its
forecast for economic growth as a stronger yen threatens exports.  
 “Almost all domestic investors want to buy when bonds come
down,” said  Naomi Hasegawa , a senior debt strategist in Tokyo
at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “The economic
recovery has been driven mainly by government stimulus measures,
whose effects are starting to fade away.”  
 The yield on the 20-year bond fell two basis points to 1.77
percent as of 4:40 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.8 percent
security due June 2030 gained 0.295 to 100.441 yen. Benchmark
10-year bond yields were unchanged at 1.065 percent.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery rose 0.05 to
141.74 at the 3 p.m. close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 Exports gained 27.7 percent in June from a year earlier,
down from 32.1 percent in May, the government said today in
Tokyo. While the figure was above the median survey estimate of
23.5 percent growth, it was the slowest pace since December.  
 Nomura Forecast  
 Japan’s economy will expand 2.6 percent this fiscal year
and 1.5 percent in the year ending March 2012, revised down from
forecasts of 2.7 percent and 2.1 percent growth, Nomura said in
a report. Slower growth abroad and a stronger currency will damp
the recovery in exports, and may prompt the Bank of Japan to
ease policy further to support the economy, the report said.  
 The yen touched a seven-month high of 86.27 per dollar on
July 16. A stronger yen reduces the value of overseas income at
Japanese companies when repatriated.  
 Demand for longer-dated debt rose as investors sought to
fine tune the maturity of their holdings, said  Takehito Yoshino ,
chief fund manager at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. in Tokyo.  
 “Investors, life-insurance companies in particular,
continue to buy bonds with long durations,” Yoshino said.  
 Nomura lifted the average duration of its Bond Performance
Index by 0.05 year for August, the brokerage’s  website  said.  
 Money managers including the Government Pension Investment
Fund, which runs the world’s largest pool of retirement wealth,
use indexes such as Nomura’s to help decide holdings. Duration
is a gauge of how much a change in yield affects a bond’s price.  
 The  Ministry of Finance  will sell 2.6 trillion yen ($29.8
billion) of two-year bonds tomorrow. Primary dealers, which are
required to bid at government debt sales, often reduce holdings
of bonds in case prices decline before they can pass on the new
securities to investors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        