-- Putin Luring Ukraine in First Ruble Debt as Dollar Sale Pulled
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-26T13:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/putin-luring-ukraine-with-first-ruble-debt-sale-after-dollar-bonds-pulled.html

          
          
             Ukraine may sell ruble debt for the
first time as Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government
builds ties with former Soviet states and promotes its currency
as a regional alternative to the dollar.  
 Officials from Ukraine’s finance ministry met Russian
counterparts twice to discuss a ruble bond, Ukraine’s Deputy
Economy Minister Valery Muntiyan said in a July 23 interview in
Kiev, without specifying how much debt the government may sell.
Ukraine abandoned a $2 billion issue this month as international
investors demanded higher yields than the government was willing
to pay, according to a July 15 finance ministry statement.  
 Relations improved since Ukraine’s President  Viktor Yanukovych  took office in February, a year after gas-price
disputes with Russia’s state-controlled  OAO Gazprom  disrupted
supplies to Ukraine and the rest of Europe. Ruble funding would
reduce dependence on the  dollar , Muntiyan said. A sale may also
boost Putin’s plan to turn the ruble into a regional reserve
currency, VTB Capital’s  Aleksandra Evtifyeva  said.  
 “There is currently lots of liquidity in Russia and the
issue can potentially find demand at the right price,” said
 Elena Kolchina , head of fixed-income products at Renaissance
Asset Managers in Moscow. Ukraine may lure Russian banks with
yields near 10 percent on five-year bonds, though 12 to 13
percent would represent “fair price,” Kolchina said.  
 Dollar Bond Pulled  
 Ukraine’s dollar bonds, rated B by Standard & Poor’s and
maturing in 2016, yield 6.71 percent, compared with 3.86 percent
on Russia’s dollar securities due a year earlier, ranked six
levels higher at BBB, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Russian ruble bonds due December 2014 yield 6.68 percent.  
 The $2 billion Eurobond would have had a fair yield in the
range of 8.125 percent to 8.375 percent had it gone to market,
according to Renaissance Capital. Ukraine’s government, which
started its roadshow for the Eurobond in Munich on July 6, would
consider an interest rate of 8.5 percent too high, Finance
Minister  Fedir Yaroshenko  told reporters on July 7.  
 Ukraine needed an International Monetary Fund bailout in
2008 after the global financial crisis curbed the government’s
access to credit and cut demand for exports of steel, chemical
products and machines. Ukraine’s currency, the hryvnia, has
stabilized at about 7.9 per dollar after weakening 43 percent
since July 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 extra yield  on the government’s foreign-currency debt over U.S.
Treasuries has dropped from a high of 35.93 percentage points in
March 2009 to 4.60 percentage points, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Index shows.  
 Economic Recovery  
 S&P said on July 22 it may raise Ukraine’s credit rating
for the third time this year after the government narrowed the
budget deficit and the IMF agreed to extend its support.
Ukraine’s economy expanded at a 4.9 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, rebounding from a 15 percent contraction last
year, according to the State Statistics Committee.  
 Russia’s  gross domestic product  grew 2.9 percent in the
first quarter, recovering from a 7.9 percent contraction last
year that was the worst since the Soviet Union collapsed in
1991. The ruble, which tumbled more than 30 percent against the
dollar in the six months to January 2009 as the global financial
crisis spurred a retreat from emerging-market assets, has since
rallied about 18 percent.  
 The Russian currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 30.3300
against the dollar by 4:26 p.m. in Moscow, paring its decline
for the year to 0.2 percent. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs,
which provide a guide to expectations of currency movements as
they allow foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange
rate at a specific level in the future, show the ruble weakening
to 30.5350 per dollar in three months.  
 Yield Spread  
 The extra yield investors demand to own the Russian
government’s foreign-currency debt rather than U.S. Treasuries
fell 1 basis points to 237 today and is up 49 basis points this
year. The spread on Russian bonds compares with 158 for Mexico,
which has similar ratings, and 204 for Brazil, which is ranked
one step lower at BBB- by S&P, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+
Indexes. The yield gap for Russian bonds is 47 basis points
below the average for  emerging markets , according to JPMorgan.  
 The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose about one basis point
to 166 on July 23, according to CMA DataVision prices. Credit-
default swaps, which decline as the perception of
creditworthiness improves, pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Gas Cooperation  
 The yield on ruble bonds sold by Gazprom is 225 basis
points above the same-maturity Gazprom debt in dollars, down
from a yield difference of about 600 a year ago, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The spread narrowed to as little as 115 on
June 14.  
 Putin has proposed combining Moscow-based Gazprom with
Ukraine’s state energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, and Russia
agreed in April to cut gas prices to Ukraine in return for an
extended Russian naval presence in the Black Sea. The world’s
largest energy exporter has formed a customs union with Belarus
and Kazakhstan and pledged 75 percent of a $10 billion regional
fund to help countries including Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.  
 Ukraine may sell ruble bonds at the end of this year or
early 2011, Muntiyan said.  
 Belarus plans to sell as much as 10 billion rubles ($329
million) of government bonds this year, said Andrei Golikov, a
vice president at Russia’s state-controlled lender OAO Sberbank.
Sberbank is also helping the country to issue five-year dollar
debt yielding between 9 percent and 9.25 percent as early as
today, according to a banker with knowledge of the transaction.  
 Reserve Currency  
 Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum in June that he wants
the ruble to become one of the world’s reserve currencies. He
also presented a plan to make Moscow a global financial center.  
 “Ruble bonds are a possibility as ties between the two
countries have warmed,” said Evtifyeva, senior economist and
investment strategist at VTB Capital in Moscow, the securities
unit of Russia’s second-biggest bank. “It will be in line with
Russian ambitions to set up a regional financial center and to
use the ruble as a reserve currency.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Relations improved since Ukraine's President Viktor Yanukovych took office in February. Photographer: Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
