-- Seinfeld Election Puts Miracle Economy on Hold: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-07-25T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/seinfeld-election-puts-miracle-economy-on-hold-william-pesek.html

          
          
             Here’s the plot: an unmarried,
foreign-born, atheist woman whose partner is a male hairdresser
wants to lead a major  nation  famous for manly men. Her opponent
is the “Mad Monk” -- a Speedo-loving amateur boxer who once
studied to be a priest.  
 The latest Fox sitcom? Nope, it’s the script for next
month’s Australian election. It really would be hard to make
this stuff up. And yet there is a farcical angle worth noting
here. The Aug. 21 contest has been dubbed the “Seinfeld
Election,” meaning that it’s about nothing.  
 No bold plans about Australia’s future from Labor Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  or Liberal opposition leader  Tony Abbott ,
no grand designs to improve competitiveness, no fresh thinking
about the risks of becoming China’s fuel station. Plenty of
chatter about emotionally charged issues such as asylum seekers
arriving by boat. Little about what role the nation of 21
million wants to play in a fast-changing global economy.  
 This idea-starved election should concern all of us who
have grown accustomed to Australia beating the odds. Nineteen
consecutive years without recession is bound to breed
complacency on the part of officials in Canberra. That also goes
for investors who see Australia as a risk-free part of their
international strategy.  
 ‘Yadda, Yadda, Yadda’  
 “Yadda, yadda, yadda,” to borrow an oft-heard phrase on
 Jerry Seinfeld ’s 1989 to 1998 television show, won’t do for
Australia. Autopilot has been the setting for this $1 trillion
“miracle” economy for a decade now. It’s time for officials to
grab the controls once again.  
 The nation’s failing infrastructure, overstretched
education system and increasingly polarized economy need
addressing, and now. Instead, the election campaign is being
driven by focus-group research and populism. So lackluster is
the discourse that politicians are competing with
“ MasterChef .”  
 Last night’s Gillard-Abbott debate was actually rescheduled
to avoid clashing with the popular cooking show’s finale. Voters
being more interested in who churns out the tastiest tuna tataki
or best masala potatoes than who runs their  nation  is a sad
commentary on the caliber of Australia’s choices. If Welsh-born
Gillard and her opponent, Abbott, are wondering about the
missing ingredient, it’s inspiration.  
 Gillard and Abbott both are untested entities devoid of
vision. Rarely has the need for it been so great.  
 Brawling Leaders  
 Australians clamoring for visionary leadership faced a bit
too much nostalgia recently as former Prime Ministers  Bob Hawke 
and  Paul Keating  brawled in the media over their respective
legacies. It was a bizarre and ugly exchange prompted by a book,
published by Hawke’s mistress-turned-wife, that Keating says
airbrushed over his achievements. Keating defended himself in a
 letter  to Hawke published in the Australian newspaper.  
 While the spat won’t sway the election, it raised two
questions about Gillard’s Labor Party. First, are divisive
politics distracting Labor from addressing Australia’s big
challenges? Second, and more importantly, where have the really
big thinkers gone?  
 The combined tenures of Hawke (1983 to 1991) and Keating
(1991 to 1996) were a watershed for the 14th-biggest  economy .
Import tariffs were removed, the dollar was allowed to float,
the financial industry was opened and a national, compulsory
pension program was introduced.  
 Coasting Nation  
 It has been coasting ever since, sometimes in the wrong
direction.  John Howard  (1996 to 2007) seemed to forget Australia
was near Asia, preferring to cozy up to former U.S. President
 George W. Bush  and his foreign-policy disasters. Howard’s
successor,  Kevin Rudd  (2007 to 2010), was far more focused on
the fast-growing region in which Australians live.  
 Dismal approval ratings and few solid achievements did in
Rudd last month. His planned tax on mining profits enraged the
business world and backfired. After deposing Rudd, Gillard will
have the challenge to set out a clear roadmap for the future.
All she is offering is vague platitudes.  
 Take environmental policy. Gillard’s government unveiled
plans for a citizens’ assembly to build consensus on putting a
price on carbon. Presumably, she has forgotten that Australia
already has a 150-person-strong group that voters select and pay
for that job. It’s called parliament.  
 Two-Speed Economy  
 Chinese demand for resources is another challenge. This
mining boom is creating a “two-speed economy,” pitting Western
Australia against the rest of a nation facing tepid wage growth
and the threat of higher interest rates. Other than kowtowing to
billionaire miners, neither Gillard nor Abbott has presented a
plan to rebalance the economy.  
 Immigration also looms large. Gillard has already put the
kibosh on Rudd’s “big Australia” policy. She’s couching her
stance on population control in environmental terms. The fact
she hasn’t defined sustainable population growth has critics
arguing she is pandering to voters aggrieved by what they see as
lax immigration enforcement.  
 Talk about weak-kneed approaches to the biggest challenges
of our time. Since this is an election about nothing, lots of
focus is on Gillard’s lifestyle. Is a woman perceived to put
career before family a good role model, journalists ask. It’s
irrelevant to her leadership skills -- not to mention unfair.  
 The question that matters is how Gillard or Abbott plan to
lead Australia. No one really knows, and, unlike Seinfeld, this
is no laughing matter.  
 ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 26 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's William Pesek speaks from Tokyo with Bloomberg’s Haslinda Amin about next month's Australian election.
     Australian opposition leader Tony Abbott and Prime Minister Julia Gillard have placed management of the economy at the top of their election campaigns before a national vote next month largely being fought over how much taxes companies pay and who gets to come to Australia. (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
