-- Shanghai Should Be Pricing Center for Yuan-Denominated Products, PBOC Says
-- [bn:PRSN=1] Judy Chen []
-- 2010-07-25T08:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/shanghai-forex-market-should-control-yuan-price-setting-pboc-s-zhang-says.html

          
          
             Shanghai should become the pricing
center for yuan-denominated financial products,  Zhang Jianhua ,
director of the research department at the People’s Bank of
China, said today.  
 “We should develop Shanghai’s foreign-exchange market to
match expansion of yuan use overseas,” Zhang said at a
conference in Shanghai today. “We should try to control price
setting. Strong growth in an offshore yuan market might
influence the currency’s onshore price.”  
 The speech was referring to the price-setting of yuan-
related financial products, Zhang said later in comments to
Bloomberg News.  
 China is seeking to allow the yuan to rise to appease
foreign criticism, while protecting exports and preventing a
further slowdown in economic growth.  Gross domestic product 
increased 10.3 percent in the second quarter, compared with an
11.9 percent gain in the previous three months, the statistics
bureau said on July 15.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards strengthened 0.3
percent to 6.6928 per dollar yesterday in Hong Kong, reflecting
bets the currency will strengthen 1.3 percent from the spot
rate of 6.7803, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 China should seek to expand convertibility of the yuan,
which would help to build Shanghai into a global financial
center, Zhang said at the conference held by the International
Finance Research Institute of Shanghai Finance University. The
Shanghai market should expand trading of yuan forwards and
swaps, and introduce options and swaps at an appropriate time,
he added.  
 Basket Rate  
 The People’s Bank of China said July 22 it may start to
publish the yuan’s exchange rate measured against a basket of
currencies rather than just the dollar. It will help shift the
market’s attention away from the rate against the dollar,
central bank Deputy Governor Hu Xiaolian said in a statement on
the agency’s website.  
 The yuan’s effective exchange rate “should gradually
become a reference” for policy, she said.  
 The yuan has gained 0.7 percent since the central bank
said June 19 it will allow greater flexibility in the exchange
rate, ending a two-year dollar peg.  
 Overseas sales  jumped 43.9 percent in June from a year
earlier to $137.4 billion and the surplus more than doubled to
an eight-month high of $20 billion, the customs bureau said
July 10.  
 -- Judy Chen ,  Belinda Cao . Editors:  Jim McDonald ,  Mike Millard   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at +61-2-9777-8626 or
 ptighe@bloomberg.net .  
 %CNY
  
          
          


  


        