-- South Korea Economy Expanded Faster-Than-Expected 1.5% in Second Quarter
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-07-26T04:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/south-korea-economy-grew-1-5-in-second-quarter-from-three-months-earlier.html

          
          
             South Korea’s economy grew faster
than expected in the second quarter, bolstering the case for a
further increase in interest rates as Asia weathers global risks.  
 Gross domestic product increased 1.5 percent from the
previous three months, when it gained 2.1 percent, the central
bank said in Seoul today. That was more than the 1.3 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  of seven economists.
From a year earlier, GDP rose 7.2 percent.  
 The growth figures raise the risk of the Bank of Korea
boosting rates twice more by year-end, Barclays Capital analysts
said today as they increased their 2010 GDP growth projections.
The central bank in July joined counterparts from Thailand to
Taiwan and Malaysia in raising rates, and India is forecast to
boost borrowing costs tomorrow for the second time this month as
Asia leads the global recovery and grapples with price pressures.  
 “The Bank of Korea will be able to raise rates up to 3
percent without much worry about economic growth,” said  Lee Sung Kwon , an economist at Shinan Investment Corp. in Seoul.
“It’s only a matter of when” the bank will raise the 2.25
percent benchmark rate, he said. “The economy will continue to
grow, though at a slower pace, given robust exports and rising
domestic demand.”  
 The won traded at 1,196.30 per dollar as of 12:27 p.m. in
Seoul, little changed from the close on July 23, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has dropped 7.8 percent
in the past three months, Asia’s worst performance. The
benchmark  Kospi  stock index advanced 0.3 percent to 1,763.01.  
 Inflation Pressure  
 South Korea’s $929 billion economy approached “its
potential output level” and may face inflation pressure,
Central Bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said on July 9 after
raising the benchmark rate to 2.25 percent from a record-low 2
percent, the first increase since the financial crisis.  
 “As our economy has shown stronger-than-expected recovery,
it may have already entered a phase of expansion,” Kim Myung
Kee, an official at the Bank of Korea, told reporters today.
“Robust exports are now spilling into domestic demand.”  
 South Korean GDP will expand 6.1 percent in 2010, higher
than a previous forecast of 5.7 percent, Barclays Capital
analysts including  Wai Ho Leong , said in an e-mailed report
after the growth data were released.  
 The country’s export-driven economy will grow 5.9 percent
this year, more than the 5.2 percent predicted in April, the
central bank said on July 12.  The Finance Ministry  said on June
24 that the nation needs to normalize fiscal and monetary
policies.  
 Consumer Prices  
 The central bank forecast this month that  consumer prices 
will rise by 2.8 percent this year, compared with the previous
estimate of 2.6 percent, and 3.4 percent in 2011. The bank is
targeting inflation of between 2 percent and 4 percent on
average through 2012.  
 Goods exports climbed 7.1 percent in the second quarter
compared with the previous three months, when they rose 3.7
percent, today’s report showed. Private consumption increased
0.8 percent from the first quarter and government spending
gained 0.1 percent. Facility investment rose 8.1 percent.  
 Quarterly growth in the manufacturing sector accelerated to
5.1 percent in the three months to June, compared with 4.2
percent in the first quarter, “driven by strong exports of cars,
chips and machinery,” the Bank of Korea said in a statement
accompanying the release of the GDP figures.  
 Won Drop  
 Companies from Samsung Electronics Co. to Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. reported record earnings in the second
quarter, as a drop in the won enhanced the nation’s export
competitiveness. The sustained expansion is adding to evidence
that Asia’s fourth-largest economy is weathering risks to the
global recovery from Europe’s debt crisis and elevated U.S.
unemployment.  
 The second quarter economic growth numbers should “support
sentiment toward the won” and back further interest rate
increases, said  Brian  Jackson, a Hong Kong-based emerging-
markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada, who expects another
50 basis points increase in borrowing costs this year.  
 Annual  sales  growth at South Korea’s department stores
accelerated in June to 11.3 percent, the highest in four months.
Overseas shipments jumped 32.4 percent from a year earlier, an
eighth straight monthly increase. Exports account for about half
of the nation’s GDP.  
 Samsung, Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, flat
screens and mobile phones, this month reported record earnings
for the second quarter, as a recovery in demand for computer-
memory chips drove up prices.  
 Record Profit  
 Hynix, the world’s second-largest computer-memory chipmaker,
reported record operating profit for the same quarter as sales
beat analysts’ estimates, buoyed by demand for personal
computers.  
 Goods exports will rise 26.4 percent this year, the Bank of
Korea said in its July 12 report, more than an 18.6 percent gain
estimated in April. Private consumption will probably increase
3.9 percent this year, and corporate investment on facilities
will advance 20.9 percent, the central bank said.  
 The administration of South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ,
who suffered an unexpected reversal at local elections on June 2,
had pressed the central bank ahead of the polls to hold down
rates in a bid to support growth.  
 Asian policy makers continue to grapple with the
implications of Europe’s debt crisis, subdued U.S. growth and a
slowdown in the Chinese economy as they mull further rate
increases.  
 Temporary Slowdown  
 Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said July 13 that the U.S.
and China may see a temporary slowdown as government stimulus is
withdrawn and growth relies more on the private sector.  
 South Korean growth is likely to slow further over the rest
of the year, but from a “fairly strong starting point,”
Jackson said.  
 The Federal Reserve last month cut its forecasts for
economic growth this year and next in the U.S., where the
jobless rate has been 9.5 percent or higher since August.  
 Europe stress-tested its 91 largest banks this month to
restore confidence following the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.
China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the second
quarter from 11.9 percent in January-March, the country’s
statistics bureau said this month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kim Choong Soo, governor of Bank of Korea, speaks at a media briefing at the bank's headquarters following an interest rate increase in Seoul. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
