-- Stock Buying Hits Bull Market Record at Mutual Funds
-- Lynn Thomasson
-- 2010-07-26T20:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/stock-buying-hits-bull-market-high-at-institutions-as-individuals-retreat.html

          
          
             Mutual funds, pensions and
endowments are spending more on stocks than at any time since
the start of the bull market, just as individuals grow the most
 pessimistic  in a year.  
 Institutions pushed equities up to 68 percent of their
holdings in July, the highest level in 15 months, from 63
percent in April, a Citigroup Inc. survey showed. The ratio of
bullish to bearish respondents in a  survey  by the American
Association of Individual Investors has fallen to 0.68, the
lowest level since July 2009, based on a four-week average.  
 The last time money managers and individuals were this far
apart was at the beginning of 2009, before the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index began its  63 percent  rally, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It may signal another buying opportunity after
concern the U.S. economy will fall into a recession wiped out
$1.5 trillion from American equity values since April, according
to  Fritz Meyer , a Denver-based senior market strategist at
Invesco Ltd., which oversees $558 billion.  
 “That’s good news,” Meyer said. “The retail guy has
gotten it wrong more than gotten it right. The odds favor a
continued, reasonably healthy economic expansion.”  
 Economic Expansion  
 The U.S. equity benchmark has posted an average return of
8.8 percent in the 12 months after individuals’ skepticism rose
this high in the past 23 years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Bulls are betting that forecasts for the fastest U.S.
profit growth in 15 years and economic expansion averaging 3
percent through 2012 will help equities recover after the S&P
500 fell 13 percent in May and June.  
 Stocks rallied today after new-home sales in the U.S.
topped the median economist forecast and FedEx Corp., the
Memphis, Tennessee-based package-delivery company, raised its
earnings projection. The S&P 500 climbed 1.1 percent to a one-
month high of 1,115.01 at 4 p.m. New York time.  
 Bonds are a better investment than stocks,  Jamil Baz , who
helps oversee $23 billion as chief investment strategist for
London-based hedge fund GLG Partners LP, told Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack” on July 22. Government reports this
month showing private employers in the U.S. added fewer jobs
than forecast in June and the lowest level of housing starts in
eight months raised concern the economic recovery will falter.  
 UPS Forecast  
 Equities advanced last week as the S&P 500 gained 3.6
percent, poised for the biggest monthly increase since July
2009. Companies from Atlanta-based United Parcel Service Inc.,
the world’s largest package-delivery company, to Dallas-based
 AT&T Inc.,  the biggest U.S. phone company, climbed after
increasing profit forecasts.  
 The rally trimmed the index’s loss since April 23 to 9.4
percent. Equities slid the most since the bull market began in
 May and June  on concern Europe’s debt crisis would derail the
global economic recovery. Shares rebounded in the past three
weeks as 84 percent of the 149 S&P 500 companies that reported
results since July 12 topped the average analyst earnings
estimates, Bloomberg data show.  
 Profits may rise an average 35 percent in 2010 and 17
percent in 2011, according to forecasts tracked by Bloomberg.
More than 160 S&P 500 companies are scheduled to post quarterly
results this week, including Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil
Corp., the biggest U.S. oil producer.  
 Market Rout  
 Confidence  among smaller investors was shaken by the May 6
plunge that erased $862 billion from the market value of U.S.
stocks in 20 minutes and the last bear market, said  Frederic Dickson , chief market strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co.
Professional investors are more likely to base decisions on the
prospects for the biggest two-year advance in earnings among S&P
500 companies since 1995, according to Invesco’s Meyer.  
 “My money is on the institutions getting it right,” said
 John Lynch , chief equity strategist at the Wells Fargo Funds
Management division of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co.
that oversees $465 billion. Smaller investors “are  reluctant  to
get back in until there is a clearer path, and we know that once
the path is clear, it becomes a ‘greater-fool’ theory because
the institutions will have already anticipated it.”  
 The AAII measure of pessimism peaked on July 8 at 57
percent, the most since March 5, 2009.  Bullishness  has averaged
29 percent during the past four weeks, compared with 45 percent
who were bearish, according to the weekly survey.  
 Start of Rally  
 The last time optimism fell this low relative to pessimism
was July 17, 2009, one week after the S&P 500 began a 27 percent
 rally  through today, data compiled by AAII and Bloomberg show.
The Chicago-based group takes answers from a few hundred people
each week through its website on whether they are bullish,
bearish or neutral on the stock market for the next six months,
according to editor  Charles Rotblut .  
 “Individual investors were spooked by the May 6 flash
crash and they’re wondering if the stock market is a fair
game,” said Dickson, chief market strategist at Great Falls,
Montana-based D.A. Davidson, which oversees $25 billion.
“Professionals realize there have been changes in the market to
prevent a repeat of that. I don’t think that’s been communicated
broadly to the retail investor.”  
 The May 6 selloff briefly sent the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  down 9.2 percent, the biggest intraday loss since 1987,
before it pared the drop to 3.2 percent. A “mismatch of
liquidity,” selling in exchange-traded funds that fed into
stocks, and the use of market orders turned an orderly decline
into a rout, a report by federal regulators said May 18.  
 SEC Test  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission is testing a program
through December that pauses trading for 5 minutes when an S&P
500 stock rises or falls 10 percent or more in less than 5
minutes. U.S. exchanges also offered rules last month to
standardize the process for canceling erroneous stock trades.  
 Individuals may limit gains in the S&P 500 as concerns
about the economy and Europe’s debt crisis keep them out of the
market, said  Leo Grohowski  of BNY Mellon Wealth Management.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economic
outlook remains “unusually uncertain” in testimony to the
Senate Banking Committee on July 21.  
 Investors have withdrawn $41.2 billion from mutual funds
that hold U.S. stocks since April 2009, while piling more than
$470 billion into bond funds, according to data compiled by the
Washington-based  Investment Company Institute . Individuals
accounted for the majority of U.S. mutual fund assets in 2009,
owning 84 percent, the data show.  
 Hedge Funds  
 Hedge funds  that wager on both gains and losses in equities
have boosted speculation shares will fall, according to Bank of
America Corp. The lightly regulated private pools of capital
have on average 27 percent more money in bets on rising prices
than falling prices, below the historical average of 35 percent
to 40 percent, based on data from the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based bank.  
 “You’re seeing equities struggle because  valuations  and
fundamentals look pretty good to the institutional investor, but
the policy headwinds, the questions around sovereign debt, the
macro concerns, are really worrying individual investors,” said
Grohowski, who oversees more than $150 billion as chief
investment officer at BNY Mellon Wealth Management in Boston.
“There’s not one right and one wrong. We think the market is
pretty reasonably valued.”  
 The S&P 500 trades at  15.4 times  annual earnings, compared
with an average of 16.5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
that dates back to 1954. The index is cheaper relative to
estimated earnings for the next 12 months, with a multiple of
12.2, the data show.  
 Stocks Rally  
 Mutual funds, endowments, hedge funds and pensions say
they’re preparing for a rally, according to Citigroup’s
questionnaire from 120 respondents among those groups. Fifty-
four percent said  U.S. equities  may gain 10 percent to 20
percent, compared with 50 percent in the previous reading.  
 Bill Miller , chairman and chief investment officer of Legg
Mason Capital Management, said in a letter to investors last
week that this is a “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity” to buy
stocks of large U.S. companies. BlackRock Inc., the world’s
largest asset manager, is “overweight” U.S. equities, said  Bob Doll , vice chairman and chief equity strategist of the New York-
based firm in a July 20 interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Morning Call with Susan Li.”  
 “It’s been the individual investor that’s been a good
 contrarian indicator ,” said  Mark Luschini , chief investment
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which oversees $50
billion in Philadelphia. “The stock market will continue to
advance. It may be a grinding process, but it will continue to
advance, ultimately pulling along retail investors that are
notorious for buying high and selling low.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The rally trimmed the index’s loss since April 23  
                       
                         
                           Peter Foley/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A United Parcel Service hybrid electric vehicle sits on display. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A United Parcel Service hybrid electric vehicle sits on display. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Doll, vice chairman and chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     Doll, speaking from Princeton, New Jersey, also discusses his investment strategy for emerging market stocks, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Jamil Baz, chief investment strategist at GLG Partners LP, talks about European sovereign debt and outlook for the euro.
     Baz speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
