-- Jobless Disabled Topping 50% Shows Rights Lag: Albert R. Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-07-25T15:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/u-s-beacon-of-disability-rights-lags-on-jobs-albert-r-hunt.html

          
          
             This week is the 20th anniversary of
the  Americans with Disabilities Act , one of the country’s
landmark civil rights measures and the signature domestic
achievement of President  George H.W. Bush .  
 The ADA mandates equal opportunities for individuals with
disabilities in  employment , access to public facilities,
transportation and telecommunications.  
 Although problems persist, particularly in employment, it
has transformed America, improved the lives of the  50 million 
people with disabilities (half of them severely disabled) and
served as a model for much of the rest of the world.  
 “In very fundamental ways, it has changed the basic
societal perception and expectations of the role of people with
disabilities in America, and of the country’s obligation to make
accommodations to enable the fullest practicable participation
of this segment of the population,” says  Robert Burgdorf Jr. , a
law professor at the University of the  District of Columbia  who
wrote the first draft of the measure.  
 The gains have been most visible in accessibility, with
curb cuts, transportation and access to public facilities. “The
ADA has changed the way Americans get around and relate to their
communities,” says  Andy Imparato , the president of the  American
Association  of People with Disabilities.  
 Citing the landmark 1954 civil rights school desegregation
case, Imparato says, “The ADA is our Brown v. Board of
Education.” And like Brown, it’s an evolving process that takes
years, decades.  
 UN Convention  
 A look around the globe and the ADA’s impact is evident; it
was a catalyst for the 2006 United Nations Convention on the
Rights of Persons With Disabilities, an international  accord 
that requires parties to promote equal rights for and full
employment of the disabled.  
 “The U.S. still leads the world in safeguarding the rights
of its citizens with disabilities,” says Tanya Gallagher, head
of the  Disability Research Institute at the University of
Illinois .  
 The Japanese are developing their own ADA-type law now, and
 China  proudly hosted the Special Olympics for the
developmentally disabled in 2008;  developing countries  are using
the ADA as a model to start to deal with the issue.  
 There remain daunting challenges in health care, technology
and especially jobs. The jobless rate for disabled people in the
U.S. is officially  14.3 percent , or almost double that of able-
bodied workers; since this figure only counts those looking for
jobs, the real  unemployment rate  for the disabled, experts say,
probably exceeds 50 percent.  
 Company Hiring  
 There are companies that have adopted a more aggressive
policy for hiring employees with disabilities. Professor Peter Blanck, chairman of the  Burton Blatt Institute  at  Syracuse
University , recently surveyed 30,000 disabled employees at 14
companies. He found that in firms labeled by employees as
“disability friendly” -- providing more accommodations,
flexibility and less autocracy -- disparities in wages,
retention and workplace issues disappeared.  
 In an interview, Blanck cited several examples of
disability-friendly companies: Redmond, Washington-based
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based Sears Roebuck &
Co. and Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  among them.  
 The courts, especially conservative judges, and all the way
to the Supreme Court, handed down a series of anti-ADA decisions
limiting these civil rights. Often, discrimination claims then
were summarily dismissed.  
 ADA Amendments  
 However, the last Congress passed the ADA Amendments Act of
2008, which overturned a number of these unfortunate court
decisions, and has facilitated the legal process for people with
disabilities.  
 The political problems haven’t disappeared. A few months
ago,  Rand Paul , the Republican candidate for senator in
 Kentucky , dismissed government efforts. “I think if you have a
two-story office, and you hire someone who’s handicapped, it
might be reasonable to let him have an office on the first floor
rather than the government saying you have to have a $100,000
elevator,” he said.  
 Much of the disabilities community considers the term
handicapped pejorative; it originated in Elizabethan England,
when people with disabilities were forced to beg on the street
and were given a cap for handouts. Contrary to Paul’s
assertions, accessibly costs for businesses and public
facilities have been comparatively low.  
 State Cuts  
 With pervasive fiscal travails, many states are cutting
back on Medicaid, often disproportionately hitting those with
disabilities.  Arizona  this year is cutting mental  health
services  by more than one-third.  
 And despite the controversial court decisions,  Supreme
Court  nominee Elena Kagan wasn’t asked one question about the
ADA during her confirmation hearings and there was only a single
fleeting reference to disabilities. By contrast, four senators
grilled her on abortion, which was mentioned 38 times in the
hearings.  
 Still the progress, in politics, business and social
mindsets, is impressive. The health-care bill passed this year
banned insurance companies from denying coverage because of
preexisting medical conditions, a major triumph for those with
disabilities.  
 Vehicle Production Group LLC, with a principal investment
from the Washington-based private-equity fund Perseus LLC, is
producing the first passenger car specifically designed for
people with disabilities, with a ramp and enough space for
wheelchairs and carts to easily maneuver. The $40,000 vehicle
will be available next year.  
 Telecommunications  
 Last week, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman
Henry Waxman, a California Democrat, shepherded through the
panel a measure that updates the telecommunications portion of
the ADA, reflecting changes in technology. It requires smart
phones to be more accessible to the disabled and online videos
to include captioning.  
 Like the great struggles over civil rights and race, the
most determinative issue is attitudinal. “Without the ADA,
ignorance about the abilities and potential of persons with
disabilities would be far more pervasive,” Professor Gallagher
says.  
 The progress since Bush signed the measure in the summer of
1990 has been notable. Moreover, auguring well for the future,
there’s a generational divide, with younger people far more
comfortable and accepting of those with disabilities.  
 Yet the most remarkable change has been for those most
affected.  
 “The ADA has helped disabled people think about their
status as a measure of civil rights and equality, not simply as
a medical or social welfare policy,” Imparato says. “The ADA
has given us the right to talk about our disabilities and not be
ashamed.”  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        