-- U.S., South Korean Forces Begin Naval Exercises Denounced by North Korea
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-07-25T01:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/u-s-south-korean-forces-begin-naval-exercises-denounced-by-north-korea.html

          
          
             The U.S. and South Korea began naval
exercises involving a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier off the
eastern coast of the Korean Peninsula, maneuvers North Korea
threatened to “counter.”  
 “The USS George Washington is moving to the east coast,”
Kim Yong Kyu, a spokesman with the U.S. Forces Korea, said by
phone today in Seoul.  
 North Korea’s National Defense Commission said yesterday
its forces will “legitimately counter with their powerful
nuclear deterrence the largest-ever nuclear war exercises to be
staged by the U.S. and the South Korean puppet forces,”
according to the official Korean Central News Agency.  
 The maneuvers come four months after a South Korean warship
was sunk by a torpedo that an international panel said was fired
by a North Korean submarine. The exercises are designed to send
a message to North Korea that its aggressive behavior must stop,
General  Walter Sharp , the commander of U.S. forces in South
Korea, said in a  statement  on July 22.  
 North Korea has repeatedly stated it had nothing to do with
the sinking of the South Korean warship. The United Nations
Security Council condemned the attack, which killed 46 sailors,
without naming a culprit.  
 Military Provocation  
 North Korea is prepared for “both dialogue and war,” KCNA
cited the Foreign Ministry as saying yesterday. The military
exercises are “military provocation reminiscent of the ‘gunboat
diplomacy’ in the last century,” an unidentified ministry
spokesman said, according to the report.  
 The exercises, involving 20 vessels and 200 aircraft, will
be held until July 28. The U.S. and South Korea will stage their
annual Ulchi Freedom Guardian military drills between Aug. 16
and Aug. 26.  
 North Korea is willing to return to the so-called six-party
talks on dismantling its nuclear weapons program “on an equal
footing,” said Ri Tong Il, an official with North Korea’s
delegation that attended last week’s security forum of the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Hanoi.  
 The country’s economy has been battered by UN sanctions
limiting cross-border financial transactions, imposed after its
nuclear tests in 2006 and last year. Ri, speaking in Hanoi on
July 23, repeated demands that the sanctions be removed.  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who attended the
Asean meeting, condemned North Korea for undertaking a
“campaign of provocative, dangerous behavior.”  
 The “door remains open for North Korea,” Clinton told
reporters in Hanoi. “We are willing to meet with them, willing
to negotiate, to move toward normal relations” if North Korea
commits itself to giving up its nuclear weapons program.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        