-- Wesfarmers' Coles Sales Rise After Supermarket Revamp Draws More Customers
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-26T06:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/wesfarmers-says-fourth-quarter-sales-at-coles-stores-rise-5-5-from-2009.html

          
          
             Wesfarmers Ltd. , Australia’s second-
largest retailer, said sales at its Coles unit rose in the
fourth quarter as the division’s convenience stores and revamped
fresh food areas in supermarkets drew more customers.  
 Coles’ revenue rose 5.5 percent to A$7.4 billion ($6.6
billion) in the three months ended June 27 from A$7.1 billion a
year earlier, Perth-based Wesfarmers said in a statement today.
Full-year sales at the unit rose 4.3 percent to A$29.8 billion.  
 The gain is a sign that Coles Managing Director  Ian McLeod ’s price cuts and store improvements are helping reverse
market-share losses and offset rising borrowing costs. The sales
results also show demand growth counteracted the withdrawal of
government stimulus that had provided a boost in the year-
earlier period.  
 “The sales result from Coles is an important precursor to
the turnaround,”  Craig Woolford , an analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in Sydney, wrote in a note to clients.  “Improving store sales
productivity is the crucial driver of an increasing return on
capital,” wrote Woolford, who rates Wesfarmers stock “buy.”  
 Wesfarmers  gained 3.2 percent to A$30.08 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney, the most since July 8. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index rose 0.6 percent.  
 The company reported sales today for only its four retail
divisions of Coles, Kmart, Target and the combined home
improvement and office supplies unit.  Wesfarmers , which also
mines coal, produces fertilizer and sells insurance, reports
annual earnings on Aug. 19.  
 Same-Store Sales  
 Sales at Coles stores open at least a year rose 4.2 percent
in the fourth quarter. Larger rival Woolworths Ltd. last week
reported fourth quarter sales from domestic grocery outlets open
at least a year gained 1.8 percent. Same-store or comparable
sales strip out the effects of recently opened outlets.  
 Sales at  Wesfarmers ’ Home improvement and office supplies
division rose 6.5 percent to A$1.8 billion in the fourth
quarter. At Bunnings, Australia’s largest hardware chain, sales
rose 6.9 percent to A$1.47 billion. Revenue from Officeworks
gained 4.7 percent to A$356 million,  
 Kmart sales rose 1.1 percent to A$914 million.  
 Decreased demand for toys and electrical goods led Target
discount department stores to post a 4.4 percent drop in sales
to A$872 million, the only one of  Wesfarmers ’ four retail units
to post a decline.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Robert Fenner  in
Melbourne   rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        