-- Yemen LNG Seeking to Increase Prices to Korea Gas, Foreign Minister Says
-- Nasser Morshid
-- 2010-07-25T13:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-25/yemen-lng-seeking-to-increase-prices-to-korea-gas-foreign-minister-says.html

          
          
             Yemen’s government is seeking to
increase the prices at which Yemen LNG Co. has contracted to
sell liquefied natural gas to one of its shareholders,  Korea Gas
Corp.   
 The government will take “any legal steps” to try to
ensure that Yemen LNG negotiates higher prices with Korea Gas,
Foreign Minister  Abu Bakr al-Qirbi  said in an interview on July
21 at his office in Sana’a. The prices set in a 20-year contract
between the companies are “unfair” to Yemen because they are
below those that regional suppliers Qatar and Oman charge for
their liquefied gas, he said, without giving a price target.  
 LNG is often sold under long-term contracts at negotiated
prices that are confidential. The gas that is chilled and
converted into a liquid for transportation by ship is also sold
on the spot market.  
 Korea Gas owns 6 percent of Yemen LNG, while state-
controlled Yemen Gas Co. holds 16.7 percent. Yemen LNG began
producing earlier this year and has an annual production
capacity of 6.7 million tons. Its other shareholders include
 Total SA , with a 39.6 percent share, and Dallas-based Hunt Oil
Co., with 17.2 percent, according to Yemen LNG’s website.  
 If Korea Gas balks at paying higher prices, “the
government will seek its rights through legal advice and any
legal steps that can be taken,” al-Qirbi said. The minister
declined to specify those possible steps.  
 The agreement between Yemen LNG and Korea Gas is binding on
both sides, al-Qirbi said. “But in that agreement there is also
the right of the parties to address issues that may create a
disadvantageous situation for one side or the other,” he said.  
 Yemen’s President  Ali Abdullah Saleh  ordered a review of
contracts signed between Yemen LNG and its customers to try to
bring them into line with current gas prices, the official Saba
news agency reported on June 15. Managing Director  François Rafin  said at the time that Yemen LNG would honor its contracts
with buyers including  GDF Suez SA  and Korea Gas.  
 Al-Qirbi denied that the government’s budget deficit was a
factor in its decision to review the contracts.  
 “There was unfairness in the prices of our LNG,” he said.
The Yemeni producer should increase its selling prices “to the
extent that is normally exercised with the other producers of
LNG like Qatar and Oman.”  
 Natural gas for August delivery closed on July 23 at $4.580
per million Btu, down 1.4 percent, on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.  
 A member of Yemen’s parliament’s oil and gas committee,
Sakhr al-Wajeeh, told reporters on July 12 that the government
would lose billions of dollars if Yemen LNG does not raise its
prices.  
 Yemen has turned to LNG as a potential alternative export
to oil, the source of 75 percent of its income. Crude production
may drop to 260,000 barrels a day this year from 440,000 barrels
a day in 2001, according to U.S. Energy Department data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasser Morshid in Sana’a via the Dubai newsroom at  
          
          


  


        