-- Magnit Says No Merger Talks With Dixy, Denies Report
-- Maria Ermakova
-- 2007-08-09T17:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-09/magnit-says-no-merger-talks-with-dixy-denies-report-update3-.html

          
          
             OAO Magnit (MGNT) ,  Russia 's second-largest
food retailer, said that it's not in talks with smaller chain
 OAO Dixy Group (DIXY)  about a possible takeover, though it remains keen
to make acquisitions.  
 Magnit spokesman Oleg Goncharov denied a report in
Kommersant newspaper citing an unidentified Dixy executive that
said the smaller company had been approached. Andrei Alimov, a
spokesman for Dixy, said the company may comment tomorrow.  
 Dixy  shares  rose to a three-week high. Magnit and X5,
Russia's largest food retailer, are looking to acquire smaller
rivals to expand as Russians spend more during the country's
ninth straight year of economic growth. Russia's $146 billion
food-retailing market will grow 24 percent this year, according
to Renaissance Capital, an investment bank.  
 ``There are no chains that aren't interesting'' for a
potential acquisition, Goncharov said in a telephone interview
from Krasnodar, where Magnit is based. ``It's all about the
price. Bankers are making an initial evaluation for us. There
are just a few chains that we haven't evaluated yet.''  
 X5 is also interested in mergers and acquisitions,
including Dixy, if valuations are attractive, said Chief
Executive Officer Lev Khasis, according to Kommersant. Alexandra Galimova of X5's press office confirmed the quote and declined
to comment further.  
 Shares Rise  
 Shares (FIVE)  of Dixy climbed 17.99 rubles, or 4.7 percent, to
399.99 rubles on the Micex Stock Exchange in Moscow, with 15
shares traded. The stock as risen 9.6 percent since they began
trading on June 27, taking the company's market value to 20
billion rubles ($785 million).  
 Dixy, Russia's fourth-largest supermarket chain by sales,
raised $360 million in May in an initial public offering to fund
expansion. The retailer cut the price range after investors said
the owners asked too much for a company that's less profitable
than competitors.  
 X5, which operates discount Pyaterochka food stores and
more upscale Perekrestok supermarkets, plans to sell $1 billion
worth of shares in London this year to help fund growth and
acquisitions. Magnit may also sell more stock this year to raise
as much as $1 billion for acquisitions.  
 Shares of X5 fell 53 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $30 in
 London . The stock has risen 15 percent this year, valuing the
retailer at $6.5 billion.  
 Magnit  shares  slipped 9.58 rubles, or 0.8 percent, to
1,139.90 rubles on the Micex. The stock has climbed by a fifth
since Jan. 1, increasing the chain's value to 82 billion rubles.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Ermakova in Moscow at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        