-- Puma's Second-Quarter Net Falls as U.S. Orders Shrink
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2007-08-09T15:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-09/puma-s-second-quarter-net-falls-as-u-s-orders-shrink-update3-.html

          
          
             Puma AG, the German sporting-goods
company controlled by  France 's PPR SA, said second-quarter
profit fell 9.8 percent on slumping U.S. demand for sneakers.  
 Net income for the 8 weeks ended June 30 fell to 45.2
million euros ($62.4 million) from 50.1 million euros a year
earlier, when sales surged as  Germany  hosted soccer's World Cup,
Puma said in an e-mailed statement today. Ten analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News had a median estimate of 47.5 million euros.  
 U.S. sales fell 11 percent, excluding the effect of a
declining dollar, Puma said. The company cut its forecast in May
after a U.S. client identified as  Foot Locker Inc. (FL)  by analysts
cut orders. Puma said it expects U.S. demand to recover and its
brand to become better known later this year, when it sponsors
sailing's  Volvo Ocean Race .  
 ``Retail and marketing spending was higher than expected,
which has affected margins, but it should pay off in the long
term,'' Peter Farren, an analyst with Bryan Garnier & Cie. with
a ``buy'' rating on the stock, said in a telephone interview.  
 Puma announced in March that it would enter a boat in the
2008-2009 Volvo Ocean Race, a round-the-world contest for yachts
held every four years. The company said its total costs reached
35 percent of sales, boosted by spending on the event.  
 Shares of Puma rose 1.09 euros, or 0.4 percent, to 295.61
euros in  Frankfurt , reversing an early drop. PPR  stock  declined
3.12 euros, or 2.5 percent, to 121.88 euros in Paris.  
 Puma shares have still surged about 23-fold since the end
of 2000 as profit jumped on new sneaker and apparel designs
commissioned by Zeitz.  
 `Sport Lifestyle Company'  
 Puma plans to invest as much as 100 million euros during
the current financial year to become the ``most desirable sport
lifestyle company,'' the statement said. The company is also
spending 15 million euros on infrastructure including Puma
Plaza, aspd lnsp head office complex being built in its home
town of Herzogenaurach in southern Germany.  
 ``Even if the year 2007 remains challenging, we will
continue to invest in brand initiatives,'' Chairman Jochen Zeitz
said in the statement.  
 The company expects ``somewhat slower growth'' for its so-called Euro region during the rest of 2007. Revenue increased
9.4 percent in Europe, the Middle East and  Africa .  
 PPR (PP)  bid 5.3 billion euros for Puma this year to add the
company's leaping-cat logo and designer sportswear to its range
of luxury brands, which include Gucci and Bottega Veneta.
Second-quarter revenue for Puma, reported with Paris-based PPR's
results on July 26, rose 3 percent to 543 million euros.  
 U.S. `Difficult'  
 Puma, Europe's second-largest sporting-goods maker, has
refused to comment on the identity of its biggest U.S. client,
which it blamed for a forecast reduction in May. Foot Locker,
the largest U.S. athletic-shoe retailer, put itself up for sale
last month and forecast its first loss in six years after
increasing discounts. Garnier's Farren said Puma suffered from
Foot Locker's clearance sales.  
 ``The mall-based business in the U.S. will remain quite
difficult in the near future,'' said Zeitz on the call.
Consumers are moving away from sneakers and athletic gear to
more casual styles, analysts say.  
 The weak dollar further hurt revenue, widening the decline
in U.S. revenue to 15.3 percent. The dollar fell to a record low
of $1.3852 against the euro on July 24.  
 ``Our greatest concerns for retailers are the sluggish
economy and the possibility of increased competitive activity in
the athletic footwear retail arena,'' Jeffrey Edelman an analyst
with UBS AG, said in a note to investors at the end of July.  
 PPR Purchase  
 Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world's biggest maker of athletic footwear,
is fitting most of its running shoes with distance-monitor
sensors connectable to  Apple Inc.'s (AAPL)  iPod music player. The
company also put Nike Air cushion technology in shoes from Cole
Haan, Nike's luxury leather brand.  
 ``Nike appears to be gaining share'' at the expense of
brands including Puma, Edelman wrote. ``We attribute some of
this to Nike's ability to offer new, innovative products.''  
 PPR, controlled by France's billionaire Pinault family,
purchased 27 percent of the company in April from the Herz
siblings and bid for the rest of the shares at 330 euros each.
The French company secured control of Puma last month.  
 After the takeover, ``there were only winners,'' Zeitz said
today. He added that he had no information on whether PPR were
going to raise their stake.  
 Puma vs. Adidas  
 Puma, the supplier of soccer uniforms to World Cup champion
 Italy , on May 7 forecast sales and earnings gains this year in
the ``low single digits'' and reaffirmed that forecast today. In
February, Puma anticipated increases of 10 percent or more. Last
year's World Cup spurred a 40 percent sales gain for 2006.  
 Puma's larger rival Adidas AG, based in the same German
town, yesterday reported profit rose 27 percent, beating
analysts' estimates, after its $3.8 billion purchase of Reebok
International Ltd. increased its bargaining power with
suppliers. Reebok orders dropped, though orders for new sneaker
models are expected to pick up in September, analysts said.  
 Adidas, the biggest European maker of sporting goods, and
Puma were formed in the late 1940s after brothers Adolf and
Rudolf Dassler clashed over strategy for the shoe company they
founded in 1924. ``Adi'' Dassler used his own name for his
company, and his brother turned to a leaping cat for his logo.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Loveday Morris in  London  at 
 lmorris7@bloomberg.net 
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        