-- Suntech Profit Rises 56% on Higher Solar-Power Demand
-- Christopher Martin
-- 2007-08-09T20:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-09/suntech-profit-rises-56-on-higher-solar-power-demand-update3-.html

          
          
             Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
world's fourth-largest maker of solar-power cells, said second-quarter profit rose 56 percent on stronger demand for the
renewable energy source.  
 Net income  rose to $41.3 million, or 25 cents a share, from
$26.5 million, or 17 cents, a year earlier, Suntech, based in
China's Jiangsu province, said today in a statement. Sales more
than doubled to $317.4 million from $128.2 million.  
 Chief Executive Officer Zhengrong Shi plans to expand the
company's plants to meet soaring demand for its photovoltaic and
newer thin-film solar cells, which use less silicon. Solar-cell
sales worldwide rose 41 percent to 2,500 megawatts last year, led
by California and  Germany , which increased incentives for rooftop
installations, according to industry group Clean Edge.  
 ``Suntech has been very good at capturing a larger share of
an expanding market,'' said  Sanjay Shrestha , an analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets in  New York  who rates the company's shares a
``buy'' and owns none. ``That's slowed the growth in their profit
margins a little, but it's a great long-term strategy.''  
 Suntech's  American depositary receipts  fell 49 cents to
$42.86 in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The ADRs,
each of which represents one ordinary share, rose 13 percent in
the two previous sessions and have almost tripled in value since
the initial public offering at $15 in December 2005.  
 `Uptick' Expected  
 ``People were expecting a significant uptick in gross
margin, but the company was more conservative,'' Shrestha said.
The gross margin widened to 20.3 percent in the second quarter
from 19 percent in the first quarter.  
 Eighty megawatts of solar cells were produced in the second
quarter, compared with shipments of 35.5 megawatts a year
earlier, as the company expanded output at several facilities,
Shi said on a conference call with analysts and investors.  
 ``We once again exceeded our output target,'' Shi said. The
company expects third-quarter production of 94 to 96 megawatts
and has signed contracts to sell 150 megawatts in 2008, he said.  
 Suntech expects to complete construction next year of a
$45 million factory in  China  for production of thin-film solar
cells, Shi said in May. Initial capacity of the plant will be 50
megawatts.  
 New government subsidies will help increase sales in  Italy ,
 Korea  and  Greece  by lowering the cost of installations, Shi said.
The U.S. House of Representatives last week passed legislation
providing new subsidies for adding solar panels.  
 The company in June agreed to buy $678 million worth of
silicon from a plant Hawaii's Hoku Scientific Inc. is building in
 Iowa .  
 Sharp Corp. was the largest producer of solar cells last
year, followed by Q-Cells AG and Kyocera Corp.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        