-- Wal-Mart, J.C. Penney Sales in July Exceed Estimates
-- Heather Burke
-- 2007-08-09T13:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-09/wal-mart-j-c-penney-sales-in-july-exceed-estimates-update2-.html

          
          
             July  sales  at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and J.C. Penney Co. exceeded analysts' estimates while those at
apparel retailers such as  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  fell as
customers limited clothing purchases.  
 Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, said sales at
stores open at least a year gained 1.9 percent, the high end of
its forecast for an increase of as much as 2 percent. J.C.
Penney's same-store sales climbed 10.8 percent.  
 Consumers concerned about the slowdown in the housing
market frequented discounters and moderate-price department
stores such as Wal-Mart, TJX Cos. and J.C. Penney while cutting
back on mall-based retailers. Texas and Florida students are
going back to school later, pushing some apparel purchases at
teen retailers such as Abercrombie into August.  
 ``The top end did well, the bottom end did well and
everything else got crushed,'' said  Eric Beder , a retail analyst
at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in  New York . ``People just aren't
shopping because they worry about the economy.''  
 July sales may have climbed 3.1 percent, the  International
Council of Shopping Centers  said Aug. 7. In July 2006, same-store sales gained 3.9 percent, according to the ICSC.  
 U.S. retail sales from February through June climbed 2.3
percent, slower than the 3.9 percent gain for the same period in
2006, according to ICSC chief economist  Michael Niemira . Some
consumers don't feel as wealthy because of declining home
values, Niemira said Aug. 6.  
 Sales of previously owned homes  probably will fall 6.8
percent to 6.04 million this year, the lowest since 2002, the
National Association of Realtors said yesterday. New-home sales,
which account for about 15 percent of the housing market, may
decline 19 percent to 852,000, a 10-year low.  
 Wal-Mart, J.C. Penney  
 Wal-Mart predicted August same-store sales will increase 1
percent to 2 percent. July sales exceeded the 1.4 percent
average analyst estimate from Retail Metrics.  
 J.C. Penney, the third-largest department-store chain, beat
analysts' estimates for a gain of 10.7 percent, according to
data compiled by Retail Metrics LLC, a research firm based in
Swampscott,  Massachusetts .  
 Macy's Inc. (M) , the second-largest U.S. department-store
chain, reported July sales fell 1.4 percent, better than the
estimate for a drop of 2.4 percent from Retail Metrics.  
 Shares of Wal-Mart, based in  Bentonville ,  Arkansas , fell 83
cents, or 1.7 percent, to $47.59 as of 9:40 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. J.C. Penney dropped $2.11, or
3 percent, to $67.54. Macy's lost 98 cents, or 2.8 percent, to
$34.56.  
 Nordstrom, Costco  
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  said same-store sales surged 9.4 percent,
double the 4.6 percent estimate, helped by an annual event where
it sells new fall merchandise at reduced prices. The Seattle-based department-store chain raised its annual same-store sales
forecast by two percentage points to 5 percent to 6 percent.  
 Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse club,
said July same-store sales climbed 7 percent, exceeding
estimates for a 5.4 percent gain.  
 Abercrombie & Fitch, another teen retailer, reported a
decline of 4 percent, missing estimates for a 1 percent decline.
 American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) , a clothing retailer that targets
shoppers ages 15 to 25, said yesterday same-store sales dipped 6
percent on later school start dates. Results missed analysts'
estimates for a gain of 3.1 percent.  
 ``We're just not at a stage where there's anything
compelling for the consumer to buy, and the consumer doesn't
really feel like buying much,'' Beder said Aug. 6. ``The fall
season will be very difficult outside of back-to-school.''  
 Gap, Limited  
 Gap Inc., the largest U.S. clothing retailer, posted a July
comparable-store decline of 7 percent, missing estimates for a
4.8 percent drop.  
 Limited Brands Inc., the owner of Victoria's Secret
lingerie stores, said same-store sales decreased 3 percent,
missing analysts' estimates for a 0.8 percent drop.  
 Women's clothing retailers  Bebe Stores Inc. (BEBE) ,  Chico's FAS
Inc. (CHS)  and AnnTaylor Stores Corp. all reported same-store sales
declines that trailed analysts' estimates. AnnTaylor's results
were hurt by slow customer traffic, a soft economy and
discounting, the company said in a statement.  
 Charming Shoppes Inc., the largest U.S. seller of clothes
for plus-sized women, yesterday said second-quarter profit fell
by about half as customer traffic at stores declined, and poor
sales of spring and summer merchandise forced the company to cut
prices.  Consumer spending  may slow in the second half of the
year, said the retailer, which operates the Lane Bryant chain.  
 The Standard & Poor's 500 Retailing Index, which has 29
members, has dropped 2.3 percent this year through yesterday,
trailing the gain of 5.6 percent for the  S&P 500 .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Burke in New York at 
 hburke2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers Linda Lester, left, and Judy Smith leave a Wal-Mart store with their purchases, in La Mesa, California, May 14, 2007. Photographer: Jack Smith/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
