-- Polyus Ousts Skitovich, Brings Back Former CEO Ivanov
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2007-10-16T15:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-16/polyus-ousts-skitovich-brings-back-former-ceo-ivanov-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO Polyus Gold,  Russia 's biggest
producer of the metal, ousted Chief Executive Officer Pavel Skitovich after five months on the job during which the company
slid to a loss, its shares stagnated and production fell.  
 Polyus named  Evgeny Ivanov  as general director, the Moscow-
based company controlled by billionaires  Mikhail Prokhorov  and
 Vladimir Potanin  said in a statement distributed by the
Regulatory News Service. Skitovich had replaced Ivanov in May.
Polyus also re-elected Prokhorov as chairman at a board meeting
today.  
 Polyus, missing out on a rally in gold prices to 27-year
highs, expects production to be little changed at about 1.2
million ounces through next year. Skitovich visited investors in
 London  last month to try to allay their concerns and complained
that shareholders had ``forgotten'' the company.  
 ``Investors won't miss Skitovich after the kind of first-
half results we saw last week,'' said Evgeniy Smirnov, who helps
manage $600 million in Russian securities including Polyus at
Aton Management in Moscow. ``Polyus's performance has been
disappointing given the current gold price.''  
 Polyus posted a six-month loss of $93 million on Oct. 12 as
output declined 6 percent and management exercised  stock
options , costing the company $140 million.  
 Hope for Investors  
 Polyus shares have risen 3 percent since Skitovich took
over, while rival Peter Hambro Mining Plc climbed 22 percent in
the same period. Polyus rose 0.7 percent to 1,077.14 rubles on
the Micex Stock Exchange today, valuing the company at 205
billion rubles ($8.2 billion).  
 ``Ivanov's reinstatement gives investors hope,'' Aton's
Smirnov said. ``It may signal Prokhorov's return to a more
active role in the company, and he is interested in boosting the
company's value.''  
 Owners Prokhorov and Potanin have been unable to agree for
nine months on how to split their assets including stakes in
Polyus, the world's largest nickel and palladium producer OAO
GMK Norilsk Nickel and turbine maker OAO Power Machines.  
 It's a new development in the shareholder conflict,  Mikhail Stiskin , a Moscow-based analyst with Troika Dialog, said by
phone today.  
 ``Influence operation-wise will be negligible,'' Stiskin
said. ``Skitovich didn't have time to have an impact.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        