-- Investors in Treasuries, Dollars Defy Common Sense: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2009-10-02T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-10-01/investors-in-treasuries-dollars-defy-common-sense-david-pauly.html

          
          
             The U.S. should lose its golden
credit rating. Bankers and investors around the world should
dump dollars. Read any economics textbook and you come to that
conclusion.  
 Massive government spending and money creation to rescue
the nation from the Great Recession have deluged the U.S.
Treasury market with new securities -- exacerbating the
country’s already massive  debt  load.  
 Chronic U.S.  trade deficits  have led to the accumulation of
vast stores of dollars in foreign bank accounts.  
 Classic economics theory says supply should overwhelm
demand in both markets. Treasuries should no longer be
considered free of risk. The dollar should no longer be the key
global currency.  
 The U.S. has balanced its  budget  only five times in the
past 50 years. The four straight years of surpluses starting
with 1998 now look like a statistical error.  
 Total government debt at the end of 2008 was $10.7
trillion, compared with $5.53 trillion 10 years earlier. A bit
of nostalgia: In 1978, the debt was $789 billion, with a “b.”  
 There’s little relief in sight. The latest budget deficit
forecast for the new fiscal year that began yesterday is $1.4
trillion, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  
 While the recession has curbed the U.S. appetite for
foreign goods, Americans still spend more overseas than they
sell, as they have consistently since World War II ended in 1945.
The deficit in July was $32 billion.  
 Using an index based on how much business the U.S. does
with other countries, the value of the dollar has plunged about
13 percent since March 4.  
 World Bank President  Robert Zoellick , a former U.S. trade
representative, said Tuesday that though the dollar remains the
dominant global currency, “nothing’s guaranteed.”  
 Stop Sign  
 The double whammy of soaring Treasury sales and the decline
of the dollar should stop governments such as China and Saudi
Arabia from investing large chunks of their trade-earned dollars
in U.S. securities.  
 Instead, they are buying more. Foreign investors bought 43
percent of the $1.41 trillion of Treasury notes and bonds issued
so far this year versus 27 percent of the $527 billion sold in
the same 2008 period.  
 China more than once has said it might move away from
Treasuries. Still, its purchases have increased by 10 percent
this year and it now owns $800 billion of Treasuries, the most
of any foreign country.  
 During the credit crisis, investors still considered
America the safest bet. They were so eager that at one point
they bought short-term U.S. paper that guaranteed them a small
loss.  
 What Inflation?  
 As the economy begins to recover, they are buying
Treasuries on the bet that inflation will stay tame even though
the Federal Reserve is creating money rapidly in its recovery
efforts.  
 Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Total Return fund, the
world’s biggest bond fund, has increased its holding of
government-related securities to 44 percent of its total
investments, up from 27 percent in July.  Bill Gross , the fund’s
boss, says he views the move as protection against deflation,
prices actually declining.  
 Notions about inflation will change if the U.S. and other
industrialized nations can’t figure out when to ease off from
their massive stimulus spending. No easy task.  
 To protect the safety of Treasuries and the dollar, the
U.S. government must soon get its  budget  under control. History
suggests this is impossible.  
 Can’t Last  
 Hard-pressed Americans now are  saving  more than they did a
few years ago, curbing the demand for imported goods. How long
will that last?  
 Textbook economics suggests that before long, Japan and
other Asian nations will start converting their dollars into
euro-denominated securities -- or perhaps a new international
currency backed by a basket of, say, euros and yen along with
dollars. That would mean a significant decline for Treasuries
and the dollar. The U.S. no longer will be supreme.  
 Intuition alone should tell investors to look elsewhere for
security. But who said investors -- be they governments or
individual speculators -- had that much common sense?  
 ( David Pauly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Pauly in Normandy Beach, New Jersey 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        