-- Coles Puts Itself Up for Sale; KKR, Cerberus May Bid
-- Joyce Moullakis
-- 2007-02-23T05:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-23/coles-puts-itself-up-for-sale-kkr-cerberus-may-bid-update8-.html

          
          
             Coles Group Ltd. (CMG)  put itself up for
sale four months after rejecting a A$18.2 billion ($14.4 billion)
offer by a Kohlberg, Kravis Roberts & Co.-led group, setting up a
potential bidding war for  Australia 's second-largest retailer.  
 The KKR-led buyout group has had discussions with Coles'
advisers since November, and a second group comprising Cerberus
Capital Management Ltd., Permira Holdings Ltd. and CCMP Capital
Asia has also expressed interest in bidding, three people with
knowledge of the matter said today. The retailer is reviewing a
``number'' of approaches, Coles said in a statement today.  
 Coles cut its profit forecast for 2008 by 10 percent as a
strategy of rebranding stores and cutting jobs failed to narrow
the gap with  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  in sales and profit margins. The
plan had formed the centerpiece of Chief Executive Officer John Fletcher's defense against last year's offer led by KKR, which
indicated this month it may bid for Britain's J Sainsbury Plc.  
 ``There was an inevitability about this,'' said Saxon Nicholls, who manages the equivalent of $840 million at Herschel
Asset Management Ltd. in Melbourne. ``The shame is that the board
didn't put the company up for sale earlier before having to cut
earnings.''  
 The KKR-led group includes CVC Asia Pacific Ltd., Texas
Pacific Group, the  Carlyle Group  and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
people familiar said. The buyout firms were advised for last
year's A$15.25 a share bid by UBS AG.  
 The stock jumped A$1.25, or 8.6 percent, to A$15.75 at the
4:10 p.m. close of trading in  Melbourne , lifting the company's
market value to A$18.9 billion. A takeover at current prices
would be a record for an Australian company.  
 Minimum Offer  
 Chairman Rick Allert, who declined to identify who made the
approaches, said he won't accept an offer below A$15.25 for the
Melbourne-based retailer. No formal buyout offers had been
submitted and an ownership review may take between three and six
months to complete, he said in a conference call today.  
 Coles said its advisers Deutsche Bank AG and Carnegie Wylie
& Co. valued the  shares  at ``substantially above'' the A$15.25
the KKR group had offered. Today is the first time the stock has
traded above that offer.  
 Largest Takeover  
 A takeover of Coles would eclipse the $9.7 billion 2001
acquisition of Cable & Wireless Optus Ltd. by Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. Australian airline Qantas Airways Ltd.
may be sold for A$11.1 billion to a buyout group including Allco
Equity Partners Ltd., Macquarie Bank Ltd. and Texas Pacific.  
 Texas Pacific last year bought Coles's Myer department stores
for A$1.4 billion, prompting the Australian retailer to change
its names from Coles Myer Ltd.  
 Ian Smith , an Adelaide-based spokesman for KKR, declined to
confirm or deny the buyout firm's involvement in a possible new
bid. Spokespeople for the other buyout firms either declined to
comment or weren't immediately available to comment.  
 Fletcher, 55, had promised to boost profit 35 percent to
A$1.07 billion by 2008 through the job cuts, rebranding
supermarkets and Kmart  discount stores  under a single Coles name
and opening hypermarkets which combine groceries and general
merchandise.  
 The market didn't expect him to meet that target, with a
profit of A$920 million expected in 2008, according to the
average of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ``Market guidance was being revised to take account of lower
than anticipated sales and earnings in supermarkets and Kmart,''
Fletcher said in the statement.  
 Surging Swaps  
 Credit default swaps of Coles surged today. The perceived
risk of owning $10 million of the retailer's debt for five years
using credit-default swaps almost doubled from yesterday to
$115,000 as of 11 a.m. in Sydney from $62,500, according to ABN
Amro Holding NV.  
 ``The CDS gapped wider on news that Coles management are
reconsidering their position,'' said Sydney-based Damian Rowe,
head of Australia credit trading with ABN. ``The CDS price looks
set to remain under widening pressure as details of the
management review become public.''  
 Standard & Poor's  may cut Coles' BBB credit rating because
the ``more likely outcome is a leveraged buyout of Coles by
private equity funds,'' the rating service said in a statement.  
 Buyout firms put up a little of their own money and borrow
the rest, piling debt onto the company being acquired.  
 3,000 Stores  
 With A$34 billion in annual revenue from almost 3,000
supermarkets, liquor outlets and discount department stores,
Coles has about 35 percent of Australia's grocery and liquor
market, compared with 40 percent for Woolworths.  
 Coles' food and liquor margin, which measures earnings
before interest and tax as a proportion of sales, was 4 percent
in 2006, compared with 4.97 percent at Woolworths.  
 Woolworths and smaller chains are increasing their market
share at Coles' expense, using lower costs to reduce shelf prices.  
 ``The fact that they've downgraded guidance implies that
they can't meet their own plans to deliver the value of the KKR
bid,'' said Sean Fenton, who helps manage the equivalent of $450
million at Jenkins Investment Management in Sydney, including
Coles shares. ``They certainly lag behind Woolworths in terms of
what they're delivering, so a change could be positive.''  
 KKR and other buyout firms including Blackstone and CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. said Feb. 2 they may make a bid for J
Sainsbury, Britain's third-biggest supermarket chain.  
 London-based Marks & Spencer Group Plc has held internal
talks about a possible offer and discussed the possibility of
jointly bidding with Delta Two, a fund back by Qatar, the Sunday
Telegraph reported Feb. 18, without saying where it got the
information.  
 Combining Marks & Spencer with Sainsbury would create a
company with more than 1,100 U.K. stores and give the former
access to Sainsbury's 7.5 billion pounds ($14.6 billion) of
property.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jason Scott  in  Hong Kong  
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        