-- Citibank to mull holding firm launch in S.Korea
-- 
-- Thu Nov 15, 2007 12:59am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/11/15/businesspro-citibank-korea-dc-idUSSEO15834120071115

 

 SEOUL  (Reuters) - Citibank will "aggressively" consider 
launching a holding company in South Korea, in line with 
revised local laws, and will expand distribution channels to 
grow its market share, the head of its Korean unit said on 
Thursday. 

  The South Korean government has recently loosened 
regulations over the formation of holding companies and made it 
easier for them to make overseas acquisitions, as part of 
efforts to promote the country as a regional financial centre.  "In the past, regulations had not allowed foreign financial 
companies to set up holding companies," Ha Yung-ku, Citibank 
Korea CEO, told reporters at a news conference.  "Now that the law has changed, we will consider it 
aggressively. (Under a holding company) we can strengthen 
corporate governance and cost efficiency."  Ha did not give a timeframe for the possible move.  Citibank is not alone in seeking a holding company format, 
with competition for traditional deposit-taking and loan 
extension deepening and lending margins squeezed.  Under a holding structure financial firms can leverage 
their business networks, cross-selling a variety of financial 
products to group clients, and can also raise funds more 
cheaply given the generally higher credit rating of a holding 
firm.  UK-based Standard Chartered ( STAN.L ) ( 2888.HK ) was also 
interested in forming a holding company in South Korea to 
strengthen brokerage and insurance businesses, the chief of its 
Korean operations had told reporters in October.  Top domestic retail bank Kookmin 060000.KS is preparing 
to transform into a holding group, as it suffers from the money 
flight into higher-yielding accounts offered by brokerages.  Citibank Korea runs 233 branches across the country with 
6,065 employees, but that is still below major domestic rivals.  To overcome the weaker sales channels, Citibank will open 
more branches and secure a variety of other business networks, 
Ha said, without elaborating.  Citigroup bought the former KorAm Bank for $2.7 billion in 
2004, but has had a limited presence in Asia's number four 
economy as it has taken longer than expected to integrate 
KorAm.  The bank had said it was aiming for a 10 percent share in 
South Korea's retail banking by 2010, from 4-5 percent in both 
lending and deposits in 2006.  (Reporting by Kim Yeon-hee; Editing by Keiron Henderson)