-- China Life to Shun Stocks `Rollercoaster,' Expand
-- Josephine Lau
-- 2007-11-28T07:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-28/china-life-to-shun-stocks-rollercoaster-expand-update1-.html

          
          
             China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , with about
$26 billion of assets under management, will trim share
investments to reduce risk after the stock market tumbled 20
percent since tripling in the first 10 months of the year.  
 ``Other Chinese insurers may be happy living with
rollercoaster ups and downs in their performance, but  China  Life
will not be,'' President Wan Feng said at a presentation in
Nanjing, a city on the Yangtze River northwest of  Shanghai , today.
``For us, stability is key.''  
 The company will cut its investments in stocks and mutual
funds, and aims for strategic equity stakes to make up 5 percent
to 10 percent of its portfolio, Chief Investment Officer Liu Lefei
said. China Life will look for infrastructure and financial
acquisitions, he said.  
 The insurer may buy foreign financial companies as it expands,
Chairman Yang Chao said at the briefing.  
 ``Our investments are focused on stocks and funds right now,
and we're looking to trim these, especially funds, to move more
into long-term strategic equity stakes,'' Liu said.
``Infrastructure deals look attractive because they offer stable
returns, while buying into other financial institutions would
offer synergies with our business.''  
 The world's largest insurer by market value joined investor
 Warren Buffett  and former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan
in casting doubt on the sustainability of China's stock market
rally. The nation's stocks, on average, remain the most expensive
among the world's largest markets even after the key  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
slumped from October's peak.  
 Making Money  
 ``China Life will still be earning money even if the stock
market tanks to 2000 points,'' said Yang today. ``We bought into
the stocks very early at cheap prices.''  
 China's insurance regulator wants firms to spread risk on
their more than $300 billion of assets. In July, China allowed the
nation's insurers to invest 15 percent of their assets in overseas
stocks and bonds, up from 5 percent.  
 China Life has more than $1 billion in Hong Kong stocks among
its 194 billion ($26 billion) of total assets under management.  
 The insurer is seeking stakes in ports, energy firms and
airports, Liu said. It also may invest in the restructuring of
large state firms, he said. The company added that it may pursue
 acquisitions  to expand its pension and property insurance business.  
 The company is ``very interested'' in buying foreign banks,
Board Secretary Liu Ting said at the presentation.  
 Overseas Takeovers  
 ``Overseas banks are looking very attractive after the
subprime crisis brought their share prices down,'' said Liu Ting
on the sidelines of today's briefing. ``This provides great
opportunities for China Life and is a very worthwhile option for
us to consider.''  
 The insurer is awaiting regulatory approval to buy 20 percent
of Huishang Bank Co., said Yang. Huishang Bank was formed in
December 2005 through the merger of six city commercial lenders
and seven credit cooperatives in eastern Anhui province. The bank
has 180 outlets in the region and plans to triple its assets to
150 billion  yuan  in 2010 from 49.6 billion yuan in 2005.  
 China Life will apply to set up a fund-management company and
is considering foreign partners for the venture, Yang said.  
 Third-quarter investment income at China Life was 20 billion
yuan ($2.7 billion), or 82 percent of first-half investment income,
the company said last month. It didn't provide year-earlier
numbers, reporting third-quarter figures for the first time since
selling shares in Shanghai in December.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Josephine Lau in Beijing at 
 jlau22@bloomberg.net ;  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        