-- Ambac Trading Halted Pending Statement, NYSE Says
-- Christine Richard
-- 2008-03-05T17:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-05/ambac-trading-halted-pending-statement-nyse-says-update2-.html

          
          
             Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the bond
insurer facing a crippling credit-rating downgrade, had its
shares halted pending an announcement, according to the New York
Stock Exchange.  
 Ambac  gained  63 cents, or 5.9 percent, to $11.35 at noon in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, before trading was
halted. Ambac's rescue agreement may be completed today, with
Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc leading the talks, CNBC said,
without citing anyone. The banks are trying to arrange a capital
raising of about $2.5 billion and are considering a rights
offering to sell stock to existing shareholders, CNBC said.  
 Ambac is seeking to stave off a downgrade of its AAA rating
after posting record losses on subprime guarantees. The loss of
Ambac's top rating would cast doubt on $556 billion of municipal
and asset-backed securities insured by the company, forcing some
investors to sell the debt and others to reduce their holdings.  
 ``The trump card in the market for a while has been the bond
insurers,'' said  Scott MacDonald , head of research at Aladdin
Capital Management LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, which oversees
about $20 billion in assets. ``We need to get past this if we're
going to get to some sense of normalcy in the market.''  
 Raising money for Ambac would allow the banks to help
themselves as well by avoiding writedowns on the Ambac-insured
debt they own.  
 Fitch Ratings  downgraded Ambac's bond insurance rating to AA
from AAA on Jan. 18. Moody's Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor's  are considering cutting the rating.  
 Moody's said it would probably affirm Ambac's Aaa rating,
however, if its ``capital strengthening activities'' are
successful. S&P said last week it is reviewing Ambac's rating for
a downgrade, pending a raising of capital.  
 David Neustadt , a spokesman for New York State Insurance
Superintendent  Eric Dinallo , didn't return a call for comment. A
message for Paul Burke, a spokesman for Ambac, wasn't immediately
returned.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Richard in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        