-- China Life Says 2006 Profit May Rise More Than 50%
-- Winnie Zhu
-- 2007-01-30T09:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-30/china-life-says-2006-profit-may-rise-more-than-50-update3-.html

          
          
             China  Life Insurance Co., the
world's second-biggest insurer by market value, said profit rose
more than 50 percent last year because of investment gains,
after the nation's stock market rose to a record.  
 Preliminary figures showed the state-owned company had net
income of at least 8.19 billion  yuan  last year. Profit was 5.46
billion yuan ($702 million), or 0.2 yuan per share, in 2005,
China Life said in a statement today. Chinese regulations
require companies to notify the stock exchange if they expect
earnings to rise or fall more than 50 percent.  
 ``Investment gain was the main driver last year,'' said
Paul Lee, an analyst at Tai Fook Securities in Hong Kong.
``China Life bought a lot of A shares in the second half of the
year. The mark-to-market gains would be huge.''  
 Shares traded in China more than doubled last year, helping
drive China Life's stock higher than ING Groep NV,  Allianz SE (ALV) 
and Axa to make it the biggest insurer by market value after
American International Group. Sales of shares by some of China's
biggest companies benefited the Beijing-based company, which
oversaw 595 billion yuan of investments as of June 30 and has
been buying more equities since.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which tracks the
performance of all stocks on the bigger of the country's two
exchanges, surged 130 percent last year.  
 ``Its earnings may have peaked last year,'' said Lee, who
has a ``sell'' recommendation on China Life stock and a 12-month
price target of HK$20. ``Though we remain bullish about the
mainland market, it's unlikely it'll repeat similar gain this
year.''  
 Listing Rules  
 China Life made the announcement under Chinese accounting
rules to comply with  Shanghai  listing requirements after 1.5
billion of yuan-denominated shares started trading on the bourse
earlier this month. The insurer, whose shares trade in  Hong Kong 
and  New York  as well as Shanghai, also reports its financial
statements under international standards.  
 Profit climbed 30 percent to 9.31 billion yuan in 2005 from
7.17 billion yuan a year earlier, according to international
standards, which recognize premiums, commissions and investment
gains differently from Chinese accounting rules.  
 The net income calculated using international standards
should be higher because of the difference in accounting
treatments, said Lee.  
 China Life's Hong Kong-traded  stock  slid 12 percent this
year after almost quadrupling last year. It rose 1 percent to
close at HK$23.60 today.  
 The company's market capitalization more than quadrupled in
the past year, from $27.25 billion Feb. 1 to $129.5 billion
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a 22 percent rise for ING, a 38 percent increase in Axa,
and a gain of 29 percent Allianz's market value over the same
period.  
 American International Group (AIG)  is valued at $177.7 billion
yesterday and was worth $172 billion a year earlier, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Cheng in Hong Kong at 
 pcheng9@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        