-- News Corp.'s MySpace Backs Rules to Combat Predators
-- Molly Peterson
-- 2007-01-30T23:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-30/news-corp-s-myspace-backs-rules-to-combat-predators-update2-.html

          
          
             News Corp. (NWSA) 's MySpace, a social-networking Web site, endorsed U.S. House and Senate proposals
requiring convicted sex offenders to register their e-mail
addresses and other online identities with the government.  
 The bipartisan proposals, introduced today, would let the
 Justice Department  give sites such as MySpace access to the
database if they pledged not to use the information for purposes
other than protecting minors from sexual predators.  
 MySpace wouldn't let anyone on the sex-offender registry
access any part of its site, Hemanshu Nigam, chief security
officer of MySpace and Fox Interactive Media Inc., said during a
news conference today in  Washington .  
 The legislation comes less than two weeks after News Corp.
was sued by four families of teenage girls who said they were
sexually abused by adults they met through the networking site.
MySpace announced yesterday that it donated technology, developed
with Sentinel Technologies Inc., to help authorities collect
information on convicted sex offenders.  
 ``As a company, we don't want sex offenders on our site,
period,'' said Nigam, who joined lawmakers at today's briefing.  
 Class A shares of New York-based News Corp. rose 25 cents to
$23.07 in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading and have
climbed 47 percent in the last 12 months.  
 Prison Sentences  
 Convicted sex offenders who fail to register all e-mail
addresses, instant-message names and other online identifiers
could face up to 10 years in prison under the proposal. The
general public wouldn't have access to the registry.  
 The legislation also would make it a crime, punishable by up
to 20 years in prison, for adults to lie about their age in an
attempt to seduce children online.  
 ``It's going to be hard for sexual predators to avoid
detection here,'' said Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from
New York who wrote the Senate bill with Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona .  
 The proposal wouldn't require companies to seek access to
the government's database or block registered sex offenders from
using their sites.  
 ``It's voluntary, but I think there are going to be
overwhelming civil reasons why they're going to want to do
this,'' said Democratic Representative Earl Pomeroy of  North
Dakota , the House bill's chief sponsor.  
 Social-networking sites that ignore the registry could face
``a range of potential liabilities,'' Pomeroy said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        