-- L.A. County Transit Selling Bonds as California Yields Rise: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-03T04:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/l-a-county-transit-selling-bonds-as-california-yields-rise-muni-credit.html
The Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, the second-largest U.S. transit agency
behind New York’s, leads issuers with a $740 million debt sale
to expand its rail service from downtown to the suburbs.  Proceeds from the offering, which includes $600 million in
Build America Bonds, the agency’s first sale of the taxable
securities, will be used to finance the Metro Gold Line Foothill
extension to Azusa and phase two of a light rail to Santa
Monica, according to preliminary offering documents. The debt
carries Standard & Poor’s top rating and an Aa2 from Moody’s
Investors Service, third-highest.  County voters passed a measure two years ago increasing the
area’s sales tax by 0.5 percentage point for 30 years to fund
MTA transportation projects and operations. Los Angeles County,
the nation’s  most-populous , accounts for one quarter of
California’s sales-tax collections, Moody’s said.  “It’s a very clean name with a good credit and will
attract quality buyers,” said  Kelly Wine , a senior underwriter
at Encino, California-based RH Investment Corp., a broker that
specializes in California municipal debt. “The fact that it’s
backed by a guaranteed revenue stream makes it more
attractive.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold California debt
rather than AAA bonds  rose to 144 basis points  yesterday from
134 basis points on Sept. 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The MTA has sought to educate the market as to the
difference in quality between its bonds and obligations of the
state,  Terry Matsumoto , the agency’s chief financial services
officer, said in a telephone interview.  Aggressive Outreach  “We’ve been aggressively outreaching to investors,” he
said. “Hopefully we get out of this negative sense of
California. We’re not the state. We’re Los Angeles.”  California  is the lowest-rated U.S. state, according to
Standard & Poor’s. Lawmakers agreed on an $87 billion budget on
Oct. 9, 100 days after the start of the fiscal year, the longest
period ever in which the state operated without a spending plan.
S&P ranks the state A-, two levels below  Illinois , and fourth-
lowest of 10 investment grades. Both are rated A1, fifth-
highest, by Moody’s Investors Service.  The transit agency sold $332 million in tax-exempts Oct. 6,
2009, with bonds due in July 2018 priced to yield 2.84 percent,
or 39 basis points above  top-rated debt , according to a
Bloomberg Valuation index. The securities traded last week at an
average yield of 2.31 percent, or 24 basis points above  AAA
rated bonds  due in eight years.  San Diego  San Diego County Regional Transportation Commission sold
$339 million in Build America Bonds on Oct. 28, also top-rated
by S&P, and with a rating of Aa1 from Moody’s, second-highest.
The agency’s 38-year obligations priced to yield 5.91 percent,
or 185 basis points above  30-year U.S. Treasuries .  “I think we can come in a little tighter than that,” said
Matsumoto, who tasked the underwriters with marketing the
taxable bonds to international investors in order to boost
demand and lower costs.  Build Americas, which provide issuers with a 35 percent
federal subsidy on interest costs, are set to expire on Dec. 31.
Legislation introduced by Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, would extend the program, which was
created as part of the economic stimulus package in February
2009, by one year with the subsidy reduced to 32 percent.
Previous extension plans passed by the House of Representatives
stalled in the Senate. With Congress in recess until later this
month, the program remains in limbo.  Midterm Elections  While the offering follows yesterday’s midterm elections,
the specific races were not projected to affect pricing,
Matsumoto said.  “I don’t think the election one way or the other will
affect the outcome” of the sale, Matsumoto said. “We just
didn’t want to do it on Election Day, when people might be
distracted.”  Los Angeles County’s MTA serves a county-wide population of
10 million over 1,433 square miles (with 3,711 square
kilmometers) 73 miles of rail, 78 stations, 2,635 buses that run
on compressed natural gas, 513 miles of high-occupancy vehicle
lanes and is a funding partner of the 512-mile Metrolink
regional rail, according to Moody’s.  The  Gold Line Foothill expansion  will extend the Metro line
11 miles from Pasadena to Azusa, offering documents show. The
Exposition Line light rail will run 15 miles from downtown Los
Angeles to Santa Monica. Construction on the project began in
2006, with a “minimum operable segment” scheduled to open next
year.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  ATLANTA, home to the world’s busiest airport with 88
million passengers a year, plans to sell about $590 million in
tax-exempts as soon as tomorrow to help finance a new terminal
at  Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport . About $176
million of the bonds will be backed by a senior lien on general
airport revenue, rated A1 by Moody’s and A+ by Fitch, both
fifth-highest, with about $414 million secured by a “passenger
facility” charge and a subordinate lien on airport revenue,
rated A by Fitch, sixth-highest. Underwriters led by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. will market the issue. (Updated Nov. 3)  LOVE FIELD AIRPORT MODERNIZATION CORP., the local
government entity that oversees the development of the Dallas
airport plans to sell $310 million of tax-exempt debt tomorrow
to help finance an expansion project. The bonds are rated BBB by
S&P, second-lowest of 10 investment grades, and are backed by
“facilities payments” from discount airline  Southwest Airlines
Co.  Underwriters led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will market the
sale. (Updated Nov. 3)  RUTGERS , the state university of  New Jersey , tomorrow is
selling $508 million in bonds, including $391 million in Build
Americas, the school’s first issue of the taxable debt. The
borrowing will help finance the construction of living and
dining facilities, and is rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by S&P,
both third-highest. Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley will
market the issue. (Added UPDATED Nov. 2)  HARVARD, the oldest and richest U.S. university, plans to
sell $730 million in tax-exempt bonds and $300 million in
traditional taxables as early as next week through the
Massachusetts Development Finance Agency. Harvard will use the
bonds to refinance long-term debt and fund construction for the
University’s Fogg Art Museum, according to a Moody’s report. The
revenue-backed bonds are top rated by Moody’s. (Added Nov. 2)  NEW YORK CITY MUNICIPAL WATER FINANCE AUTHORITY, which
funds the capital needs of the water and sewer system in the
most-populous U.S. city, plans to sell $500 million of Build
America Bonds as soon as next week. The securities are rated
second-highest by S&P and Fitch, AA+, and third-highest by
Moody’s, Aa2. They will be marketed by a group led by Samuel A.
Ramirez & Co. (Added Nov. 2)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 