-- AB InBev Misses Profit Estimates as Ad Spending Rises
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-11-03T16:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/ab-inbev-profit-growth-misses-estimates-on-increased-advertising-spending.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV,  the world’s
biggest brewer, reported third-quarter profit growth that missed
analysts’ estimates because of increased spending on advertising
and the cost of expansion in emerging markets.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, excluding some items, rose 9.1 percent to $3.53
billion, Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev said today. The median
 estimate  of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was for
growth of 9.6 percent. The amount of beer sold rose 3.9 percent
adjusted for acquisitions and disposals.  Marketing expenses rose 5.3 percent as the brewer offered
free samples to drinkers in the U.S. and started selling new
types of beer including Budweiser Lime in markets including
China. Chief Financial Officer  Felipe Dutra  also said cost
savings in 2010 will probably exceed a target of $500 million.
AB InBev aims for savings of $2.25 billion by the end of 2011.  “It’s a beat at volume sales, but it’s slightly light at
the Ebitda level,” said  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in
London. “The outlook is pretty encouraging and the cost savings
is clearly coming through ahead of their guidance.”  The  shares  fell 1.45 euros, or 3.2 percent, to 43.45 euros
in Brussels, the  steepest  decline since Aug. 6.  Expectations High  “We continue to work towards our goal to make Budweiser
the first and only truly global brand,” Dutra said on a
conference call today. The company’s “Grab Some Buds” campaign
has seen “very good” consumer response, he said.  AB InBev reported net income of $1.43 billion compared with
the $1.42 billion average  estimate  of nine analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue was $9.32 billion, an increase of 5.4 percent
excluding currency shifts, acquisitions and disposals.  The growth in so-called organic revenue was faster than the
second quarter’s 4.1 percent as price rises in the U.S. offset a
stagnant market in Europe. Beer volume fell 1.5 percent in the
U.S. and 5 percent in western European.  “High unemployment persists, increasing the economic
pressure on many consumers” in the U.S., the company said.  MillerCoors LLC, the U.S. joint venture between SABMiller
Plc and Molson Coors Brewing Co. said today the U.S. is “still
a tough market environment.” The company reported third-quarter
total net revenue of $2 billion, down 0.3 percent.  “Sub-premium brands declined as part of our overall
portfolio,” AB InBev’s Dutra said on the call. The brewer is
expecting revenue per hectoliter (26.4 gallons) of beer to
increase ahead of inflation in the U.S. in the fourth quarter
due to price increases, he said.  Brazil Economy  Volume in northern Latin America rose 12 percent, driven by
a 13 percent gain in the quantity of beer sold in Brazil due to
a strong local economy and new products, the company said.  Capital expenditure will be $2 billion to $2.2 billion this
year as costs increase due to expansion in northern Brazil and
China. AB InBev increased its market share in northern Brazil,
Dutra said, and gained or maintained market share in geographies
representing more than half its beer volumes, including China,
Russia and the U.K., according to today’s statement.  Central and eastern European beer  revenue  rose 8.5 percent
as Russia returned to growth. The company started selling
Budweiser in the country this year. Volume in southern Latin
America rose 2.1 percent and advanced 7.9 percent in Asia
Pacific, led by an 8.1 percent increase in China.  Cost savings in the quarter were $140 million, bringing
total savings to $1.81 billion since the 2008 merger of InBev NV
and Anheuser-Busch Cos., the brewer said. The company has saved
$450 million so far this year and is “more likely than not” to
exceed the $500 million target for the year, Dutra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 