-- Accor Replaces CEO Pelisson With McDonald's Hennequin
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-11-03T17:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/accor-names-hennequin-chief-after-strategic-divergences-with-pelisson.html
Accor SA , Europe’s largest hotel
owner, said Chief Executive Officer  Gilles Pelisson  will be
replaced by  Denis Hennequin  owing to differences with the board.  Pelisson, 53, will step down as CEO on Dec. 1 after the two
sides “recognized the strategic divergences between them” at a
meeting yesterday, the Evry, France-based company said today.  Hennequin, 52, has headed McDonald’s Corp. in Europe since
2005, where he implemented a strategy based on development of
franchising. As CEO of Accor, he will lead a company that aims
to sell properties to cut  debt  and become Europe’s biggest hotel
franchiser by 2015. Under Pelisson, the owner of the Sofitel and
Novotel brands spun off its voucher services unit in July.  McDonald’s implementation of a franchise network under
Hennequin is the skill Accor needs to meet a target of reducing
fixed-lease and owned rooms to 23 percent of the total by 2015
from 40 percent, Alphavalue analyst  Cecile Aboulian  said in an
e-mail. Accor has almost 500,000 rooms worldwide.  The departure of Pelisson comes less than two years after
Chairman  Serge Weinberg  and five independent board members quit
the hotel company in protest at the increasing control of Colony
Capital LLC and Eurazeo, which  own  almost 30 percent.  Won’t Elaborate  “There is no doubt that Denis Hennequin’s appointment is
linked to the wish of the shareholders, and notably Eurazeo and
Colony Capital, to speed up Accor’s franchise development,”
said  Kim-Anh Bassot,  an analyst at CM-CIC Securities, in a note
today. The analyst has a “buy” recommendation on Accor.  Accor spokeswoman Charlotte Thouvard said the hotel company
won’t elaborate on the statement. A Eurazeo spokeswoman declined
to comment. A spokeswoman for Colony said she was unable to make
an immediate comment.  Hennequin will become an executive director of Accor when
Pelisson steps down. He will take over as CEO on Jan. 15.  Pelisson, the nephew of Accor’s co-founder, took the CEO
position in 2006. He will remain as chairman of the board of
directors until Jan. 15, the hotelier said in the statement.  Hennequin began working at Oak Brook, Illinois-based
McDonald’s in 1984 as an assistant store manager and has been a
director of Accor since 2009. A spokeswoman for McDonald’s
Europe declined to comment on today’s appointment.  ‘Stumbling Block’  The “stumbling block” may have been the hotelier’s
failure to list casino operator Groupe Lucien Barriere, in which
Accor has a 49 percent stake, or opening fewer rooms than
targeted, according to  Bruno de La Rochebrochard , an analyst at
Raymond James Equities in Paris.  The withdrawal of the Barriere intial public offering sent
a “bad signal” to the market, said Alphavalue’s Aboulian. The
planned share sale would have valued Lucien Barriere at as much
as 700 million euros ($983 million) and didn’t receive the
expected interest from investors, Accor said on Sept. 30.  Accor  rose  14 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 29.83 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close of trading in Paris, giving the company a market
value of about 6.8 billion euros.  The stock has gained 27 percent since the hotel company
started trading as a single entity on July 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  