-- Magyar Telekom Will Alter Dividend Policy After Government Imposes Tax
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-11-04T12:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/magyar-telekom-says-net-income-rose-8-special-tax-will-cost-140-million.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt ., Hungary’s
former phone monopoly, said it “won’t escape” the need to
change its dividend policy after the government imposed a
special three-year tax on telecommunications companies.  The company, now controlled by Deutsche Telekom AG, plans a
“combined” policy on dividends, investment and leverage to
cope with the tax, Chief Executive Officer  Christopher Mattheisen  told reporters today in Budapest.  Magyar Telekom will probably have to pay an extra 27
billion forint ($141 million) a year through 2012 as a result of
the tax, which is being imposed to plug budget holes, and that
will have a “huge” impact on the company’s results, he said.  The company’s  shares  rose 1 forint, or 0.2 percent, to 598
forint at 12:42 p.m. today in Budapest. The stock has lost 18.3
percent of its value this year, the worst performance in the 12-
member benchmark  BUX index , which has gained 10.4 percent.  The tax comes as Magyar Telekom’s performance is starting
to benefit from Hungary’s recovery from its worst recession in
18 years. That had forced companies and households to cut
telecommunication costs.  Third-quarter  net income  rose 7.7 percent to 24.5 billion
forint, or 23.54 forint per share, from 22.8 billion forint, or
21.86 forint per share, in the year-earlier period, the company
said in its earnings report, posted on the Budapest bourse
 website  today.  Acquisition Targets  The median estimate of nine analysts in a Bloomberg poll
was for a profit of 23.4 billion forint. The company is looking
at acquisition targets in Hungary and abroad, Mattheisen said.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization are likely to decline about 7 percent this year,
excluding the effect of the special tax, according to the
company. Magyar Telekom had earlier forecast an Ebitda drop of
between 7 percent and 9 percent.  Magyar Telekom paid at least 70 forint per share in
dividends in each of the previous seven years, Bloomberg data
show. Raiffeisen Research said in an Oct. 22 report that it
expected the company to pay 60 forint per share this year and 55
forint for the next two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net 
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  