-- Thai Floods Cut Power, Leave Residents on Roofs as Death Toll Reaches 107
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-11-03T10:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/thai-floods-cut-power-leave-residents-on-roofs-as-death-toll-reaches-107.html
Floodwaters in southern Thailand’s
biggest city  submerged streets , cut electricity and forced
residents to their roofs, the latest deluge in a nationwide
disaster that has now claimed 107 lives.  The military is sending boats to  Hat Yai , a commercial
center near the border with Malaysia, to rescue people who are
trapped, Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said today. The waters
have spread to 10 provinces in the south, adding to Thailand’s
worst flooding in five decades.  “The current is very strong, so small boats can’t reach
the area,” Abhisit told reporters in Bangkok. “The situation
should get better as the water level starts to recede.”  Cyclones and monsoon rains have swamped parts of
Southeast Asia in the past month, killing hundreds of people and
affecting millions more in key rice and rubber-producing regions.
Rubber futures in Thailand and Singapore surged to a record
today and rice has seen some of its biggest gains in two decades.  Fresh flooding and heavy rains in Vietnam’s central
provinces have killed 8 people in the past week, leaving more
than 80 dead since September. Cyclone Giri in Myanmar killed 45
people and displaced 81,000 others last week, according to the
United Nations. Malaysia evacuated more than 19,000 people in
the northern states of Kedah and Perlis because of rising
floodwater, the Star newspaper reported today.  Banks, Schools Close  In Thailand’s Hat Yai, a city about 950 kilometers (590
miles) from Bangkok and with about 1 million people in its
vicinity, residents scrambled to gather belongings as a Nov. 1
flash flood filled houses with about two meters (6.6 feet) of
water in 15 minutes,  the Nation  reported. Hospitals evacuated
patients and people moved to higher floors to await rescue, the
Bangkok Post  said .  Banks, petrol stations, schools and government offices
are closed indefinitely, the Bangkok Post reported. Food and
other supplies should reach areas where water levels have
receded, Abhisit said today.  Flooding has hit 48 of Thailand’s 77 provinces, with the
death toll rising by three to 107 people, the  Department of
Disaster Prevention and Mitigation  said in a statement today.
The waters have impacted a tenth of the country’s 66 million
people and damaged more than 3 percent of total agricultural
land, it said.  Floodwaters have receded in 19 of Thailand’s 48 affected
provinces, the state agency said in a statement on its website.
Ten provinces in the country’s south have been inundated since
Nov. 1 as a depression in the Gulf of Thailand moved across the
region, it said.  Rubber Futures Soar  Rubber futures in Thailand, the world’s largest producer,
and Singapore surged to a record on concern that a supply
shortage will intensify after floods spread across major
producing nations in Southeast Asia amid strong demand.  The April-delivery contract on the Singapore Commodity
Exchange advanced as much as 1.6 percent to $4.14 per kilogram,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rubber futures in
Thailand surged to an  all-time-high  of 125.50 baht a kilogram.  Thai rice prices, the benchmark for Asia, advanced 3.6
percent to seven-month high of $521 a metric ton, according to
the  Thai Rice Exporters Association .  Chumporn Palm Oil Industry Pcl gained 8.8 percent to 4.68
baht, its highest close since August 2008.  Thai Rubber Latex
Corp. , Thailand’s second-biggest publicly traded rubber producer,
gained 1.3 percent to 8.05 baht in Bangkok, its highest close
since Oct. 11.  ‘Strong and Resilient’  Thailand’s floods may cause as much as 20.2 billion baht
($674 million) of damage and pare growth in Southeast Asia’s
second-biggest economy by 0.2 percentage point this year, the
Finance Ministry said Oct. 28. Abhisit said today the country’s
economic fundamentals are “strong and resilient,” and the
economy should still expand close to 8 percent this year.  The ministry’s earlier forecast didn’t take into account
damage from the most recent floods, Permanent Secretary for
Finance,  Areepong Bhoocha-oom , said today.  “We have to wait to estimate the impact,” he said. “But
growth this year should be higher than 7 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  