-- Airgas Asks Court to Throw Out Ruling Shortening Date for Annual Meeting
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-11-03T17:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/airgas-asks-court-to-throw-out-ruling-shortening-date-for-annual-meeting.html
Airgas Inc. , seeking to fend off a
$5.5 billion takeover by  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. , told an
appeals court that a ruling shortening the date for its annual
meeting “radically reduces” the power of directors.  Delaware Chancery Court  Judge William B. Chandler III  erred
in finding the meeting-date change didn’t wrongfully shorten the
terms of Airgas directors on the staggered board, a lawyer for
the gas supplier told the Delaware Supreme Court today.  If the state’s highest court upholds Chandler’s ruling, it
would “fundamentally diminish the ability of boards to do what
they think is the right thing for shareholders,”  Theodore N. Mirvis , one of Airgas’s lawyers, said during the hour-long
argument in Dover, Delaware.  A lawyer for Air Products, Gary Bornstein, countered that
overturning Chandler’s ruling would leave boards with “an
inflexible rule” on when they can hold annual meetings.  Officials of Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas have
repeatedly rejected Allentown, Pennsylvania-based Air Products’
$65.50-a-share bid as too low. Air Products is the second-
biggest U.S. industrial-gases producer behind Praxair Inc.  An Airgas board member said in a letter included in a
regulatory filing yesterday that company officials believe the
firm is worth at least $78 a share. In a reply letter, Air
Products officials said they believed Airgas was worth “below
$70 per share.”  Airgas fell 58 cents to $69.85 at 1:26 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Air Products fell $1.06, or
1.2 percent, to $85.30 on the NYSE.  Staggered Board  Airgas’s lawyers failed to convince Chandler at an October
trial that shareholders erred by voting in favor of an Air
Products-backed bylaw changing the company’s meeting date to
January.  Investors also voted at the September meeting to add three
Air Products nominees to Airgas’s staggered board. Under that
system, created to make takeovers more difficult, only some
directors are up for election at one time. The defense drags out
the process of winning control of a targeted company’s board.  Airgas contends Chandler misread Delaware’s corporate
statutes in finding there’s no bar to cutting the interval
between annual meetings and argues his ruling undercuts the
staggered-board defense.  Balance of Power  Allowing a bylaw that “compresses two annual meetings into
only four months” upsets the balance of power between
directors, investors and bidders, Mirvis and other Airgas
lawyers argued in court filings.  Airgas directors elected to three-year terms won’t be able
to complete their full tenures if the bylaw stands and it gives
a hostile bidder like Air Products unprecedented powers, the
lawyers added.  “The decision radically reduces the bargaining and other
power of the board,” the lawyers said in the filing.  Air Products’ attorneys counter shareholders have the right
to approve corporate bylaws and nothing in Delaware law requires
a 12-month interval between annual meetings.  Airgas’s predictions that Chandler’s decision will
undermine the staggered-board system amount to “hyperbole” and
are nothing more than “a scare tactic,” Bornstein and other
Air Products lawyers said in court filings. Corporate bylaws can
be redrafted to head off moves to shorten the interval between
annual meetings, they noted.  They also noted Airgas’s staggered-board system was such
“a potent anti-takeover defense” that Air Products has “been
forced to spend” more than a year and tens of millions of
dollars to win a proxy contest to replace a minority of the
board.  The gas supplier now must spend tens of millions of dollars
more on the upcoming January proxy contest to win control of
Airgas’s board, the attorneys noted.  The case is Airgas Inc. v. Air Products & Chemicals Inc.,
649-2010, Delaware Supreme Court (Dover).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Dover, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 