-- Typhoon Megi Claimed 36 Lives in Taiwan as Chinese Tourists Declared Dead
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2010-11-03T07:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/taiwan-death-toll-from-typhoon-megi-rises-as-china-tourists-declared-dead.html
The death toll in Taiwan from Typhoon
Megi last month was revised to 36 after 20 Chinese tourists were
declared dead.  The tourists went missing when their bus disappeared Oct.
21 during rains that accompanied the typhoon, Lin Che-hui, Yilan
District’s head prosecutor, said by phone today.  Death certificates were issued today for 19 Chinese
nationals whose bodies were not found and another was issued Nov.
1 after a DNA check of body parts, Lin said. Two Taiwanese
locals are still missing, the prosecutor said.  Taiwan’s government dispatched 997 rescuers, helicopters,
ships and excavators to continue searching for missing people
and vehicles, according to a statement on the website of the
Central Emergency Operation Center.  Agricultural losses in Taiwan from the storm are estimated
to be NT$95 million ($3 million), the  National Fire Agency  in
Taipei said in a statement on its website Oct. 29. Typhoon Megi
dumped as much as 1.2 meters of rain in the northeast of the
island between Oct. 21 and Oct. 23, according to the fire agency.  Chinese Tourism  The number of visitors from China to Taiwan has increased
since the mainland opened its first official tourism office on
the island in May. Chinese visitors to Taiwan may exceed 1.2
million this year, compared with 972,123 in 2009, according to
Yuan Kai-zhi, an official at the tourism bureau’s international
division in Taipei.  Relations between Taiwan and China, separated by the Taiwan
Strait, are at the most cordial in more than more than 60 years
after Taiwan’s President  Ma Ying-jeou  took office in May 2008
and dropped his predecessor’s pro-independence stance.  Taiwan plans to ease restrictions and let individual
Chinese nationals visit Taiwan from January, Taiwan’s top
negotiator with China  Chiang Pin-kung  said in an interview in
July. The island at present only issues visas for Chinese
tourist groups, not individuals.  Typhoon Megi killed more than two dozen people in the
Philippines before it made landfall in Zhangpu city in China’s
southeastern province of Fujian. The storm hit the coast with
winds up to 140 kilometers (87 miles) an hour, causing the
evacuation of more than 270,000 people on the mainland, China’s
Xinhua News Agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adela Lin  in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Turk in Shanghai at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  