-- Al-Qaeda in Arabian Peninsula Member Arrested in U.K. This Year, May Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-11-03T16:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/al-qaeda-in-arabian-peninsula-member-arrested-in-u-k-this-year-may-says.html
A member of the terrorist
organization blamed for last week’s cargo plane bomb plot was
arrested in the U.K. earlier this year on suspicion of planning
an attack on British soil, Home Secretary  Theresa May  said.  The suspect belonged to al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
which broadcasts propaganda to the U.K. and publishes online
material that encourages acts of terrorism, May told security
analysts today.  “He is alleged to have been planning a terrorist attack in
this country,” May said in a speech at the  Royal United
Services Institute  in London. “Threats such as these are likely
to continue.”  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula has been linked to two
bombs discovered in printer cartridges on U.S.-bound planes at
airports in Britain and Dubai on Oct. 29. The packages
originated in Yemen.  Britain this week imposed a temporary ban on air freight
from both Yemen and Somalia and restrictions on the transport of
some printer cartridges.  The influence of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
was a factor in the attempted murder of Labour lawmaker  Stephen Timms  earlier this year, May said. Today Roshonara Choudhry, 21,
was sentenced to life imprisonment for stabbing the former
Treasury minister in revenge for his support of the war in Iraq.  May said there is a growing trend for threats from al-Qaeda
affiliates to come from countries such as Yemen, Somalia and the
Maghreb rather than Pakistan, which previous governments cited
as the source of the majority of threats.  Developing Threat  “The terrorist threat we face is developing,” she said.
“We see the continued emergence of a more diverse and developed
terrorist threat, without a strong, directive and commanding
center and joined more by ideology than hierarchy.”  May said her predecessors in the British government found
their discussion with the security service and police “entirely
dominated” by al-Qaeda in the tribal areas of Pakistan.  “That is no longer the case,” May said. “Attacks might
now come from foreign nationals or from British citizens
recruited by al-Qaeda, by its affiliate groups or by al-Qaeda
inspired groups.”  The U.K. is currently undertaking a review of its counter-
terrorism policy. One of the issues under consideration is
whether to keep control orders, which restrict the movement of
terrorism suspects who have not been charged and in some cases
require them to wear electronic tags.  In opposition the Conservatives pledged to review the
policy, while the Liberal Democrats, the junior partner in the
coalition government, said they would scrap them.  May said there will be “significant changes” to
government policy, declining to comment specifically on control
orders. “The freedom to exercise our rights depends
fundamentally on our security,” May said. “But likewise there
is no value in security without liberty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 