-- Malaysia Tightens Mortgage Rules to Curb `Excessive' Urban Speculation
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-03T11:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/malaysia-tightens-mortgage-rules-to-curb-excessive-urban-speculation.html
Malaysia’s central bank placed a
limit on the loan-to-value ratio for people taking out third
mortgages to buy homes in a bid to moderate “excessive”
investment and speculation in urban areas.  A maximum lending limit of 70 percent will take immediate
effect, Bank Negara Malaysia, the country’s central bank, said
in a statement today. Banks typically provide loans of as much
as 90 percent of the value of a property.  The Southeast Asian nation joins Singapore, Hong Kong and
China in introducing measures to cool their real estate markets
on concerns that asset bubbles are forming as home prices surge.
Singapore in August increased down payments for second mortgages
and imposed a stamp duty on property held for less than three
years.  “While Malaysia is not experiencing a general property
bubble, targeted pre-emptive measures are appropriate to
moderate the increases in property prices that are evident in
selected locations that are speculative in nature,” central
bank Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz , said in a speech sent to the
media today.  Home prices rose 5.6 percent during the first quarter of
this year and 4.2 percent in the second quarter, Zeti said.
Specific locations, particularly in and round urban centers,
have experienced faster growth, both in the number of
transactions and values, the central bank said.  Multiple Purchases  This has been coupled with an increase in financing
provided for multiple-unit purchases by single borrowers, the
statement said. The targeted implementation of the loan-to-value
ratio should moderate “excessive” speculation, it said.  The central bank’s ruling “should not affect the overall
sentiments of the market significantly which comprises mainly
first time buyers and upgrades,”  Leong Hoy Kum , Group Managing
Director of Mah Sing Group Bhd., a developer, said in an e-
mailed statement. “There is no property bubble as price
increases has only been for properties with good concepts by
branded developers sited in good locations.”  Malaysian home sales may rise 26 percent to a record 52.9
billion ringgit ($17.2 billion) this year, boosted by low
lending rates and liquidity,  Yeow Yeonzon , an analyst at Kenanga
Investment Bank Bhd., said in a report on Oct. 14. Loans applied
for purchasing residential properties rose 32 percent in August
from a year earlier to 15.4 billion ringgit, according to
central bank data.  The Kuala Lumpur Property Index, comprising 88 developers’
shares, has surged 28 percent this year, outpacing an 18 percent
gain in Malaysia’s benchmark stock index.  In January, the government imposed a 5 percent capital
gains tax on homes sold within five years of their purchase.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chan Tien Hin at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  