-- Connecticut's Malloy Declared Governor-Elect as Democrats End Long Drought
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-03T21:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/malloy-is-elected-connecticut-governor-over-foley-as-democrats-end-drought.html
Democrat  Dan Malloy , the former mayor
of Stamford, was declared the unofficial winner over Republican
 Tom Foley  in the race for  Connecticut  governor as the two sides
sparred over election results. Foley refused to concede.  Connecticut Secretary of State  Susan Bysiewicz  said today
that Malloy won, based on unofficial results that show him
leading Foley by about 3,000 votes with almost all the ballots
counted. It will take about a week to certify the ballots, said
Av Harris, a spokesman for Bysiewicz. If the final margin is
less than 2,000 votes, a recount is mandatory, Harris said.  The Malloy campaign’s internal poll data shows he will
extend his lead, once all the ballots are counted, Malloy said
today in a statement. He said he was preparing a transition team
to take over from Governor  Jodi Rell , 63, a Republican who
didn’t seek re-election. Malloy, 55, will be the first Democrat
to hold the office in 20 years.  “I want the people of Connecticut to know that I am
committed to working on a smooth, orderly transition with
Governor Rell,” Malloy said.  Foley Claims Win  The Foley campaign’s internal poll data show that the
Republican will emerge with a slight edge when all votes are
counted, said Liz Osborn, a spokeswoman. The state’s Republican
Party also protested a decision by state courts to permit
polling stations in Bridgeport to stay open until 10 p.m. after
some precincts ran out of ballots yesterday.  Malloy, who led Stamford for 14 years,  pledged  during his
campaign to overhaul the state’s tax code and develop a strategy
to create jobs. On taxes, he promised to change what he said is
an unfair and ineffective system that relies too much on
property levies. He ran on a ticket with  Nancy Wyman , the state
comptroller, who would serve as lieutenant governor.  The last Democrat to serve as Connecticut’s  governor  was
William A. O’Neill, from Dec. 31, 1980, to January 1991.  “Democratic Party loyalty in Connecticut won out,” said
 Peter Brown , assistant director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based
 Quinnipiac University Polling Institute , in a pre-election
interview on the prospective results. Democrats in the state
 outnumber  Republicans almost 2-to-1. “Connecticut is a very
blue state in what is a very good night for Republicans
elsewhere.”  Entrepreneur Turned Ambassador  Foley started and ran NTC Group Inc., a private-equity
firm, before serving as U.S. ambassador to Ireland from 2006 to
2009. In his campaign, he  promised  to reduce the state
government’s size as Connecticut strives to recover from the
recession. The state’s  unemployment rate  was 9.1 percent in
September, near a 34-year high of 9.2 percent in March.  Connecticut is the wealthiest U.S. state, with per-capita
personal income of $55,063 in 2009, according to Commerce
Department  data . It also has the highest net tax-supported debt
of all states at $4,859 per person, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  Lawmakers drained a $1.4 billion budget reserve and
borrowed $900 million to help balance the state’s two-year
spending plan. Rell proposed selling more deficit bonds during
the current fiscal year, a plan the Democratic-controlled
Legislature approved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  