-- Ally Posts Profit on Auto, Home Lending, Finds No Improper Foreclosures
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-03T13:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/ally-posts-profit-on-auto-home-lending-finds-no-improper-foreclosures.html
Ally Financial Inc. , the auto and
home lender formerly known as GMAC Inc., reported a third
straight quarterly  profit  as consumers and dealers financed more
U.S. car and truck purchases.  Net income was $269 million in the third quarter, compared
with a net loss of $767 million in the same period a year
earlier, Ally said today in a  statement . The company is
56.3 percent owned by the U.S. and doesn’t have publicly traded
shares. All operating segments were profitable, Ally said.  “Everything is moving along pretty well on the auto
side,”  Mirko Mikelic , a money manager at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Grand Rapids, Michigan, said before the results
were announced. He helps oversee about $13 billion of bonds.
“They are profiting from the auto sector’s recovery.”  Car sales have been a bright spot for Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Carpenter , 63, who’s returning the company to
its core mission of financing vehicle purchases after billions
of dollars in losses at its home-loan unit triggered a U.S.
bailout of more than $17 billion. The mortgage business posted a
$154 million pretax profit from continuing operations, compared
with a $652 million loss a year earlier, Ally reported.  Net income from continuing operations in North American
auto finance increased to $568 million from $272 million in the
same period a year earlier. Profit declined from the second
quarter, when net income was $630 million, the company said.  Foreclosure Inquiry  The mortgage unit has been caught up in the controversy
over whether the industry has taken improper shortcuts to speed
up foreclosures. In September, the company suspended evictions
at its GMAC Mortgage unit in 23 states after an employee
testified that he signed foreclosure documents without ensuring
their accuracy.  Ally said today that its review hasn’t found evidence of
any inappropriate foreclosures. The company reviewed more than
9,500 files and where it was necessary, fixed them, according to
the statement. Further reviews will consider less than 15,500
files, the company said.  Last month Ally extended its review to all 50 states before
resuming sales in those cases where it didn’t find errors,
according to spokeswoman  Gina Proia . Ohio Attorney General
 Richard Cordray  sued Ally last month, claiming the lender used
fraudulent practices to foreclose.  Court Sanctions  Court documents show GMAC was sanctioned in 2006 for
similar practices and Cordray said he could fine the company as
much as $25,000 for each violation, according to an Oct. 6
statement.  The company is the fifth-largest U.S. mortgage servicer,
with 4.7 percent of the market, according to National Mortgage
News, an industry newsletter based in New York. Ally acts as the
primary servicer for about $358 billion of home loans.  Carpenter had said he was exploring “strategic
alternatives” -- Wall Street parlance for a unit’s sale or
shutdown -- for the mortgage unit.  “The strategic review of the mortgage business is
completed, and the ongoing business will be predominantly
focused on the origination and servicing of conforming
mortgages,” Ally said today.  Ally, in addition to being the primary lender to General
Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC, has expanded its client list
to include Saab Automobile AB and  Thor Industries Inc. , the
biggest maker of recreational vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  