-- Ally Will Keep ResCap, `Screwed Up' Using Robosigners
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-11-03T17:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/ally-ceo-says-firm-screwed-up-using-robosigners-on-foreclosure-documents.html
Ally Financial Inc. , the auto and
home lender, said it will keep its mortgage business and that
the company was “embarrassed” it used so-called robosigners to
fill out foreclosure documents.  “We have looked at various alternatives,” Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Carpenter , 63, said today on the Detroit-based
company’s third-quarter earnings conference call. “With regard
to the business of origination and servicing, there is no
intention of selling that business.”  Carpenter said a year ago he was exploring “strategic
alternatives” -- Wall Street parlance for a unit’s sale or
shutdown -- for the mortgage business and Residential Capital
unit after losses triggered a U.S. bailout of more than $17
billion.  The lender said today it had largely reduced potential
losses after completing the sale of its European mortgage and
resort-financing operations.  The firm settled representation and warranty claims with
six counterparties, the largest being government-owned finance
company Freddie Mac, according to a company presentation today.
Ally increased reserves for mortgage buybacks to $1.1 billion in
the third quarter, from $855 million in the second quarter, the
company said in a statement.  Ally has “gone through great efforts to de-risk” ResCap,
said  Adam Steer , an analyst at New York-based research firm
CreditSights Inc. “Beyond that, there is this opaque risk
sitting out there in reps and warranties and I think that
ultimately made it hard to sell off ResCap.”  ‘Confident’ on Reserves  Carpenter said he’s “confident” the reserves will be
enough to match claims. Such claims typically include disputes
from mortgage buyers who want the lender to take the loans back
after they’ve defaulted because the mortgages weren’t properly
vetted.  Ally’s GMAC Mortgage unit has been caught up in the
national turmoil over whether the industry has taken improper
shortcuts to speed up foreclosures. Ally suspended evictions by
GMAC in 23 states during September after an employee testified
that he signed foreclosure documents without ensuring their
accuracy. That touched off an examination of practices at other
mortgage firms, with attorneys general from 50 states conducting
a joint probe.  “We screwed up,” Carpenter said today. “We had a
robosigner affidavit problem. No question about it. We’re
embarrassed about it and we fixed it going forward.”  Any errors will be corrected and the company is “confident
that we did not  foreclose  on anybody inappropriately,”
Carpenter said. “It’s up to us to prove that.”  Independent Reviews  Last month Ally extended its review to all 50 states before
resuming sales in cases where it didn’t find errors, according
to  Gina Proia , company spokeswoman. The firm has hired outside
companies to conduct independent reviews of response and
procedures.  Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  sued Ally last month,
claiming the lender used fraudulent practices to foreclose on
homeowners. Court documents show GMAC was sanctioned in 2006 for
similar practices and Cordray said he could fine the company as
much as $25,000 for each violation, according to an Oct. 6
statement.  Ally has reviewed more than 9,500 files and fixed some
affidavits, with remaining reviews likely to be completed by the
end of the year, Carpenter said. The company is the fifth-
largest U.S. mortgage servicer, according to National Mortgage
News, an industry newsletter based in New York.  Ally reported third-quarter net income today of $269
million, compared with a net loss of $767 million in the same
period a year earlier, according to a statement today. The
company is 56.3 percent owned by the U.S. and doesn’t have
publicly traded shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  