-- AmBev Third-Quarter Profit Rises 47% to $1.07 Billion on Brazil Beer Sales
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2010-11-03T20:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/ambev-third-quarter-profit-rises-47-to-1-07-billion-on-brazil-beer-sales.html
Cia. de Bebidas das Americas , Latin
America’s largest brewer, said third-quarter profit rose 47
percent as higher salaries and economic growth in Brazil boosted
beer sales.  Net income rose to 1.82 billion reais ($1.07 billion), or
2.92 reais a share, from 1.23 billion reais, or 2 reais, a year
earlier, AmBev, as the Brazilian unit of Anheuser-Busch InBev NV
is known, said today in a regulatory filing. That beat the
 average estimate  of 1.54 billion reais for adjusted profit from
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Beer industry growth and an increase in market share
through new products helped Sao Paulo-based AmBev boost net
sales of beer in Brazil by 20 percent to 3.29 billion reais in
the quarter, according to the filing. Total net sales rose 11
percent to 5.98 billion reais.  “As well as having more people drinking beer, those who
already drank it are buying more expensive products,” Renato
Prado, an analyst at Fator Corretora in Sao Paulo, said by
telephone before the results were announced. “For every number
we estimated for AmBev this year, the company has delivered
better results. It’s a defensive stock.”  AmBev  gained 35 percent this year before today,  compared
with  a 4.3 percent increase in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa Index.
The shares fell 1.9 percent to 231.44 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo at 4 p.m. New York time. Investors sold
shares as last month’s 15 percent rally already reflected the
jump in profit, said  Rafael Cintra  at Link Investimentos and
Caue Pinheiro at SLW Corretora, two Sao Paulo-based brokerages.  Market Share Gains  Brazil’s unemployment rate fell to a record low of 6.2
percent in September, helped by the fastest economic growth in
more than two decades. Gross domestic product is forecast to
grow 7.6 percent this year, according to a central bank survey
published Nov. 1.  AmBev boosted its average share of the Brazilian beer
market, which accounts for about 60 percent of its sales, to
71.1 percent in the third quarter from 69.4 percent a year
earlier, the company said in an e-mail today.  AmBev expects beer sales volume in Brazil to grow at least
10 percent this year compared with 2009, Chief Financial Officer
 Nelson Jamel  said on a conference call today. Beer sales need to
increase 3 percent in the fourth quarter to achieve 10 percent
annual growth, and the company expects to surpass that, he said.  Brazilian beer sales volume grew 14 percent to 59.9 million
hectoliters in the first nine months of the year and 13 percent
to 20.3 million hectoliters in the third quarter, AmBev said
today. Jamel said the company boosted output capacity about 15
percent from a year ago after building plants.  Labatt Sales  At the Labatt unit in Canada, net sales fell 8.9 percent to
1.02 billion reais. Jamel said AmBev expects “some recovery”
next year in the countries where it  operates  outside Brazil,
such as Canada and Argentina. The company continues to invest in
those countries, which are showing “very slow” recovery from
the financial crisis, he said. Brazil is AmBev’s main “motor”
of growth, he said.  InBev, as AmBev’s Leuven, Belgium-based parent company is
known, reported third-quarter profit growth that missed
analysts’ estimates as it increased spending on advertising and
promotions. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, excluding some items, rose to $3.53 billion, a so-
called organic increase of 9.1 percent, the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  