-- Manchester City's Bridge, Wright-Phillips May Be Sold: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-03T10:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/manchester-city-s-bridge-wright-phillips-may-be-sold-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from European newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Exit for Wright-Phillips, Bridge?  Manchester City  is seeking offers for  Shaun Wright- Phillips , the  Independent  reported.  The forward, who is asking for a pay deal closer to the
100,000 pounds ($161,000) per week that some of his teammates
are earning, has only started three times under City manager
 Roberto Mancini  this season. The 29-year-old is currently being
paid 60,000 pounds a week on a deal that will expire in 2012.  The  Daily Telegraph  reported Mancini may also sell  Wayne Bridge , who was bought from Chelsea for 12 million pounds in
January 2009. Bridge has two-and-a-half years left on his 90,000
pound-a-week contract, the paper said.  City Chase Augusto  Manchester City wants to sign  Bayern Leverkusen  and Brazil
midfielder Renato Augusto, who is valued at 15 million pounds,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  Leverkusen sporting director  Rudi Voeller  seems to have
resigned himself to the fact the Brazilian may be leaving, the
newspaper said.  “This shows we have a good team here in Leverkusen,” the
newspaper quoted the former Germany player as saying. “However,
we cannot compete financially with the big European clubs.”  Stoke Bid For Lucas  Stoke  manager  Tony Pulis  has offered 4 million pounds for
Liverpool midfielder Lucas, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Brazil’s Lucas, who has played the last six games for
Liverpool, was nearly sold to Stoke in the summer, when then
newly appointed  Liverpool  manager  Roy Hodgson  prevented a move
just hours before the transfer deadline.  German Striker for Blackburn?  Blackburn may make a 2 million pound offer for  Energie
Cottbus  striker Nils Petersen, the  Daily Mail  said, citing
reports in Germany.  Rovers’ chief scout, Martin Glover, has watched the 21-
year-old a number of times. Petersen last weekend scored his
eighth goal in nine games for the second division Bundesliga
side.  Napoli Turns Down United  Napoli is not interested in selling its strikers Marek
Hamsik and Edinson Cavani to Manchester United, the  Daily
Express  reported.  “I’ve read that  Sir Alex Ferguson  would like to buy Hamsik
and Cavani for 40 million euros ($56 million) and I started to
laugh,” the paper quoted Napoli president  Aurelio de Laurentiis 
as saying. “Unfortunately, many people don’t realize it is
important to keep your best players to be able to become
champions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  