-- Tanzanian Opposition Party Demands Election Recount
-- B y   W i l f r e d   M w a k a l o s i   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-03T15:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/tanzania-opposition-party-demands-recount-of-presidential-election-ballots.html
Tanzania ’s opposition Chadema party
demanded a recount of ballots from an Oct. 31 presidential
election, alleging that results announced by the electoral
commission are different to those released at polling stations.  “We have evidence on this and we speak not only as a
political party, but we also speak on behalf of the majority of
Tanzanians who feel they are being robbed of their civic right
to choose their leaders,” Freeman Mbowe, national chairman of
the party, said in a phone interview today from Dar es Salaam,
the commercial capital.  Calls to the mobile phone of Rajab Kiravu, director of
elections at the commission, didn’t connect when Bloomberg
sought comment.  President  Jakaya Kikwete  who is seeking a second term, won
the most votes in 144 of 168 constituencies counted so far, the
National Electoral Commission said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Wilbrod Slaa , the leader of Chadema, has a majority of
ballots in three constituencies, while  Ibrahim Lipumba  of the
Civic United Front has the largest share in the remaining areas,
it said.  The commission isn’t providing the percentage of votes
obtained by the candidates. Those tallies will be published and
the winner announced once all ballots have been counted,
probably no later than Nov. 5, Ruth Masham, a spokeswoman for
the commission, said in a phone interview today.  ‘Accelerate’  The commission needs to accelerate the announcement of
results as protests have taken place in Dar es Salaam and other
places over the slow pace, Paul East, head of the Commonwealth’s
observer mission, said yesterday.  Kikwete, 60, has pledged to maintain fiscal policies that
are expected to drive the economic-growth rate to 6.5 percent
this year and 6.7 percent in 2011. Tanzania is Africa’s fourth-
largest gold exporter after South Africa, Ghana and Mali.
Companies including  Barrick Gold Corp. , the world’s largest
producer of the precious metal, and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  have
mines in the country.  Tanzania’s ruling Chama cha Mapinduzi is poised to win 188
of the 239 elected seats in parliament, the Daily News reported
today, citing Abdulrahman Kinana, the party’s campaign manager.  Earlier today,  Ali Mohamed Shein  of Tanzania’s ruling Chama
cha Mapinduzi party was sworn in as president of the Indian
Ocean archipelago of Zanzibar, which is in a political union
with Tanzania.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wilfred Mwakalosi  in Dar es Salaam at 
 wmwakalosi1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  