-- AOL Profit More Than Doubles on Asset Sales as Ad Sales Drop
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-03T11:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/aol-profit-more-than-doubles-on-asset-sales-as-ad-sales-drop.html
AOL Inc. , the Internet company spun
off from  Time Warner Inc. , said third-quarter profit more than
doubled, bolstered by gains on asset sales, as search and
display advertising sales continued to decline.  Net income  climbed to $171.6 million, or $1.60 a share,
from $74 million, or 70 cents, a year earlier, New York-based
AOL said today in a statement.  Sales  fell 26 percent to $563.5
million.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  is trying to reignite
ad sales growth with the acquisition of news blog TechCrunch
Inc., a new search deal with  Google Inc.  and the creation of 500
local-news websites by year-end. U.S. display ads dropped 7.6
percent, matching the 8 percent decline estimated by  John Blackledge , a Credit Suisse analyst.  Domestic display ad sales fell 6.7 percent in the second
quarter after a 9.7 percent drop in the first quarter.  AOL  dropped 23 cents to $25.29 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares had gained 8.6 percent
this year before today.  The net income rose because of gains from the sales of
investments in Kayak and ICQ, AOL said.  Last month,  Yahoo! Inc.  was working with  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  to help defend against possible takeover approaches,
people familiar with the matter said at the time. AOL had talked
with private-equity funds including Silver Lake about a possible
bid, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks were private.  The preliminary discussions between AOL and the private-
equity firms focused on a possible purchase of parts of Yahoo,
the people said then. Neither AOL nor the private-equity
companies had made a proposal to Yahoo, they said.  In addition to TechCrunch, AOL also acquired 5Min Media, a
network of online videos, and Things Lab Inc., a creator of
social-networking tools, in a bid to restore lost relevance and
revenue growth.  AOL signed a five-year search advertising deal with Google
in September, expanding their partnership to mobile search and
the placement of AOL videos on YouTube.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  