-- AOL Climbs After Quarterly Profit More Than Doubles
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-03T20:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/aol-climbs-the-most-in-six-months-after-profit-doubles-on-asset-sales.html
AOL Inc. , the Internet company spun
off from Time Warner Inc., advanced in New York trading after
saying third-quarter profit more than doubled and predicting
industry-level growth in U.S. display-ad sales next year.  Net income  climbed to $171.6 million, or $1.60 a share,
bolstered by gains on asset sales, New York-based AOL said today
in a statement.  Sales  fell 26 percent to $563.5 million, topping
the $558.1 million average of analysts’ estimates.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  said he intends to
match industry growth rates for domestic display advertising of
7 percent to 13 percent in the second half of next year. He’s
trying to reignite ad sales growth with the acquisition of news
blog TechCrunch Inc., a new search deal with  Google Inc.  and the
creation of 500 local-news websites by year-end.  At the beginning of the third quarter, “we had a choice of
how fast to push the recovery,” Armstrong said on a conference
call. “We made a big decision to kind of jump out of bed, put
on our sweats and head straight to the gym and the track to
start a fairly intense rehab and training program.”  AOL  climbed 81 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $26.10 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
increased 12 percent this year. AOL was spun off from  Time
Warner  in December.  Excluding some items, third-quarter profit was 83 cents,
according to  John Blackledge , a Credit Suisse analyst. That
topped the 49-cent average of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income rose from $74 million, or 70 cents a
share, a year ago because of gains from the sales of investments
in Kayak and ICQ, AOL said.  Yahoo Potential?  U.S. display ads dropped 7.6 percent, in line with the 8
percent decline estimated by Blackledge. That follows drops of
6.7 percent in the second quarter and 9.7 percent in the first
quarter.  Last month,  Yahoo! Inc.  was working with  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  to help defend against possible takeover approaches,
people familiar with the matter said at the time. AOL had talked
with private-equity funds including Silver Lake about a possible
bid, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks were private.  The preliminary discussions between AOL and the private-
equity firms focused on a possible purchase of parts of Yahoo,
the people said then. Neither AOL nor the private-equity
companies had made a proposal to Yahoo, they said.  Armstrong said in an interview today that a deal to
cooperate with a company like Yahoo may make sense, though he
wouldn’t comment specifically on reports that AOL could combine
with Yahoo.  TechCrunch Acquisition  “In general we are always looking for opportunities to put
our execution and strategy on more traffic -- not in relation to
Yahoo but just in general,” Armstrong said. “People see our
strategy and where we’re going and I think it’s a natural, no-
brainer that you would eventually try to put more traffic under
our strategy.”  In addition to TechCrunch, AOL also acquired 5Min Media, a
network of online videos, and Things Lab Inc., a creator of
social-networking tools, in a bid to restore lost relevance and
revenue growth.  AOL disclosed today that it  spent  $97.1 million on the
three acquisitions and an additional $23.1 million in
compensation during the next three years.  AOL signed a five-year search advertising deal with Google
in September, expanding their partnership to mobile search and
the placement of AOL videos on YouTube.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  