-- Argentina Hires Batista to Succeed Diego Maradona as National Soccer Coach
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-11-03T03:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/argentina-appoints-sergio-batista-as-national-soccer-coach-through-2014.html
Six weeks after  Diego Maradona  said
he would “kill” to return as Argentina coach, the country’s
soccer association appointed  Sergio Batista  to the position on a
permanent basis.  Batista, who took over as caretaker coach after Maradona’s
contract wasn’t renewed in July, was hired until 2014,  Julio Grondona , president of the Argentine Football Association, told
reporters in Buenos Aires last night.  Batista, 47, guided Argentina to two wins and a defeat
since Maradona, 50, departed following the team’s quarterfinal
exit at the World Cup in South Africa. His first match as
permanent coach will be Nov. 17 against Brazil in Doha, Qatar.  “This is a big responsibility,” Batista said in press
conference comments posted on the AFA’s  website . “I’m looking
forward to carrying on the work we’ve been doing and working
towards our aims.”  Batista and Maradona, who was  voted  player of the century
in 2000 in a poll organized by soccer governing body FIFA, were
teammates on the 1986 World Cup-winning squad in Mexico and also
helped Argentina reached the final in Italy four years later.  Argentina was eliminated from this year’s tournament in a
4-1 loss to Germany, the country’s biggest World Cup defeat in
36 years.  Maradona resigned July 28 after declining to cut members of
his coaching staff, saying he had been betrayed and lied to by
Grondona and national team manager  Carlos Bilardo . In a Sept. 24
television interview, Maradona said he “would kill” to coach
Argentina again.  During Batista’s interim tenure, Argentina beat the
Republic of Ireland 1-0, routed world champion Spain 4-1 and
lost 1-0 in Japan.  Before taking over the senior team, Batista coached
Argentina’s youth teams and guided the under-23 squad to the
gold medal at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  