-- AT&T, Verizon, Comcast May Fend Off Web Neutrality Rules
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-11-03T20:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/at-t-verizon-comcast-may-fend-off-web-neutrality-rules-under-republicans.html
AT&T Inc. ,  Verizon Communications
Inc.  and cable companies led by  Comcast Corp.  may find it easier
to block Internet-service regulations with Republicans in charge
of the U.S. House, analysts said.  Republicans have warned that Federal Communications
Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski ’s proposed net-neutrality
rules could stifle investment. The regulations would forbid
providers of high-speed Internet service, or broadband, from
interfering with subscribers’ Web traffic.  “Most everything -- particularly net neutrality -- gets
harder” for Genachowski with Republicans dominating the House
that convenes next year,  Jeffrey Silva , a Washington-based
analyst with Medley Global Advisors LLC, said in an e-mail.  FCC spokeswoman  Jen Howard  declined to comment.  Republicans retook the House of Representatives yesterday
with a net gain of at least 60 seats, their biggest increase
since 1938. They also scored a net gain of at least six seats in
the Senate, though Democrats retained control of that chamber.  The FCC’s Democratic majority is unchanged by the
elections, and Genachowski should move ahead to pass “strong
net-neutrality rules,” Joel Kelsey, a policy analyst with the
Washington-based advocacy group Free Press, said in an
interview.  “Chairman Genachowski’s honeymoon with Congress is over,”
 Andrew D. Lipman , a Washington-based partner with the law firm
Bingham McCutchen LLP, said in an interview. The Democratic FCC
chairman could face “more hearings, more scrutiny” from the
new Congress, Lipman said.  ‘Explain Why’  Representative  Joe Barton  of Texas, the top Republican on
the House  Energy and Commerce Committee , is likely to become
chairman of the panel, Lipman said.  Barton said in an e-mail that one of his first actions
“will be to require the Obama administration Federal
Communications Commission to explain why it thinks the Internet
needs federal government regulation for the first time.”  The FCC is unlikely to give up on net-neutrality
regulations because such rules were at the top of candidate
Obama’s technology policy list,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based
analyst with MF Global Holding Ltd., said in an interview.  Verizon will work with Congress and the administration for
“sound, consumer-friendly policies that enable continued
broadband expansion and investment,” Washington-based spokesman
 David Fish  said in an e-mail. AT&T spokesman  Michael Balmoris 
had no comment.  Brian Dietz , a spokesman for the National Cable &
Telecommunications Association, a Washington-based trade group
for cable companies, declined to comment.  AT&T rose 12 cents to $29.06 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, and Verizon gained 19 cents to
$32.99. Comcast lost 1 cent to $20.67 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 