-- Tata Targets Gulf in India Shariah Stock Fund: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-11-03T07:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/tata-starts-india-shariah-stock-fund-as-sukuk-rules-stall-islamic-finance.html
Tata Group’s investment unit is
seeking to attract about $100 million within three years to
India’s first Shariah-compliant fund aimed at global investors,
targeting equities in a country that lacks regulations for
establishing an Islamic debt market.  The Tata Indian Shariah Equity Fund has $3 million after
being set up in June to tap investment mainly from the Middle
East, said Mumbai-based  Tata Asset Management Ltd. , which
oversees $5 billion in stocks and bonds, in an e-mailed reply to
questions yesterday.  India has no Islamic finance policies, restricting sales of
Shariah-compliant bonds in a nation with 157 million Muslims,
according to Paris-based BNP Paribas SA and Standard Chartered
Plc. The nation’s benchmark Sensex stock index rallied 16.5
percent this year, compared with a 13.6 percent advance for MSCI
Inc.’s emerging-market share index. Overseas investment in
Indian equities climbed 86 percent this year to a record $26.1
billion as of Nov. 1.  “India remains a great story for most institutional
investors globally,”  Rohit Chawdhry , who helps manage $350
million of assets at Bahrain Islamic Bank, the Persian Gulf
country’s second-largest Shariah-compliant lender, said in an e-
mail Nov. 1. “An Indian sukuk would likely see a blow-out
response if there is one, given that there is almost nothing in
terms of external sovereign issuance from India.”  Malaysia’s Example  A 13-member panel of experts headed by Raghuram Rajan, a
finance professor at the University of Chicago and former chief
economist at the International Monetary Fund, recommended in
April 2008 that India introduce banking that complies with the
religion’s ban on interest to attract capital.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said last week during an
official visit to Kuala Lumpur that he would ask the central
bank to learn more about Islamic finance from Malaysia, the
world’s biggest market for sukuk. “There have been, from time
to time, demands that we should experiment with Islamic
banking,” he said.  The Reserve Bank of India will conduct a study when the
need arises, Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told reporters in
Mumbai yesterday. Gokarn said the central bank hasn’t received a
formal request from the government on the proposal.  India’s southern state of Kerala’s plan to set up an
Islamic investment company to sell India’s first sukuk was
blocked by a provincial court in January after a petition was
filed against it by Subramanian Swamy, whose Janata Party
opposes the national Congress Party-led government, according to
a Jan. 6 report on The Hindu newspaper’s  website . The Kerala
high court heard arguments from Swamy, a former member of the
national parliament, against the plan yesterday, Press Trust of
India reported.  Non-Bank Institutions  Several non-banking institutions in India offer financial
products that adhere to Muslim tenets, Kuwait Finance House
Research Ltd., owned by Kuwait Finance House KSC, said in an Oct.
26 report without specifying the services.  Funds are able to tailor products to comply with Shariah
law by excluding investments in businesses involved in tobacco,
liquor, pork and gambling that are prohibited. Islamic debt
markets require changes in tax rules because they often base
payments on the exchange of assets, given the religion’s ban on
interest.  The  Dow Jones Islamic Market World Index , a global gauge
that tracks shares which meet Shariah law and has a market value
of $12.7 trillion, rose 7.2 percent this year. The  Dow Jones
Global Index  of stocks worldwide gained 7.8 percent.  Islamic Bond Sales  Global sales of sukuk fell 29 percent to $13.5 billion so
far this year, from $19.1 billion in the same period of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Islamic bonds, which use asset returns instead of interest,
returned 12.2 percent this year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Bonds in developing markets gained
16.9 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified
Index  shows.  The difference between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate has narrowed
22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, in the fourth quarter
to 351  yesterday , according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar
Sukuk Index.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s widened 21 basis points since Sept.
30 to 392, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in June 2015 was
little changed at 2.46 percent today, prices from Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc show.  Similar Product  The Tata  Select Equity Fund , a similar stock-investment
product that’s restricted to domestic investors, returned 19.5
percent annually over the past 14 years, beating the Sensex’s 13
percent gain, according to the statement from Tata Asset.  Tata
Group  is India’s largest industrial company.  Not all Shariah-compliant funds in India received a
positive response from the market. HSBC Asset Management (India)
Pvt. discontinued its HSBC Amanah India Shariah Fund in  November
2009  because it didn’t attract sufficient demand a year after it
was introduced,  Vikramaditya , chief executive officer of the
Indian investment unit of HSBC Holdings Plc who uses only one
name, said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  Pakistan, Thailand  Pakistan, which has the world’s second-biggest Muslim
population totaling 175 million, plans to sell 80 billion rupees
($933 million) of sukuk this month and next, the central bank
said on Oct. 29.  Hindus account for 80.5 percent of India’s 1.2 billion
population, while Muslims make up 13.4 percent, according to the
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency’s World  Factbook .  Countries with smaller Muslim populations are taking steps
to develop Islamic finance. Australia plans to amend laws to
ensure products are taxed fairly, the national taxation board
said on Oct. 13. South Africa, whose 737,000 Muslims account for
1.5 percent of its population, will forgo charging tax on three
Islamic structures to allow home loans that meet Shariah
principles, the country’s Treasury department said in August.  Thailand is considering issuing as much as 50 billion baht
($1.7 billion) in 2011, Dheerasak Suwannayos, president of the
state-run Islamic Bank of Thailand, said in an interview in
Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 25.  “The intentions are there, but you need the political will
to do it,” Singapore-based  Rafael Martinez Dalmau , head of
portfolio management for BNP Paribas, said in an interview in
Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 26. “I think each country will have to
evolve at its own pace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 