-- Latvian Parliament Confirms New Government of Prime Minister Dombrovskis
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-11-03T09:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/latvian-cabinet-to-be-confirmed-today-as-dombrovskis-seeks-more-austerity.html
Latvia’s lawmakers today confirmed
the two-party government of Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis , a
month after he increased his majority in national elections as
the country recovers from its worst recession on record.  Parliament voted 63-35 for the coalition that will have 55
seats in the 100-member legislature, compared with 45 for
Dombrovskis’ previous three-party Cabinet. The premier sought
the support of as many as 92 deputies to avoid opposition to
additional austerity measures to cut the budget deficit.  Dombrovskis, 39, became prime minister in March 2009, after
the previous government collapsed and the state came close to
running out of money. His Cabinet passed a supplementary budget
that cut wages and spending to secure continued payments from a
7.5 billion-euro ($10.5 billion) bailout package led by the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  “This is the government that we agreed to and we will
continue to work to pull the state out of crisis as we have done
in the previous year and a half,” Dombrovskis said on the
Latvian Independent Television program 900 Seconds.  Latvia, which has approved austerity measures equal to
about 14 percent of gross domestic product, will have to find
additional savings of as much as 400 million lati ($789.7
million) to meet its goal of cutting the budget deficit to 6
percent of GDP next year, from an estimated 9 percent in 2010.  ‘Return to Growth’  The  economy , which contracted 18 percent last year,
expanded in the first half of this year as exports and
industrial production increased.  “The third quarter will be when we return to growth on an
annual basis,” following nine consecutive quarters of
contraction, Dombrovskis said in an interview with Latvijas
Radio. Tax revenue was 9 percent higher than planned in October,
he said.  The government will wait until third quarter data is
available before making plans for the 2011 budget, which will be
passed before the end of the year, Dombrovskis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  