-- Mauritius Central Bank Says Not `Much Room' to Cut Historically Low Rates
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-11-03T14:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/mauritius-central-bank-says-not-much-room-to-cut-historically-low-rates.html
Mauritius’s central bank doesn’t have
“much room” to cut interest rates, which are at historically
low levels, Bank of Mauritius Governor  Rundheersing Bheenick 
said.  Annual inflation will probably accelerate, partly because
of price pressures from higher external food and fuel costs,
Bheenick said in an interview in Sudan’s capital, Khartoum,
today.  “So if you factor in the fact that inflationary pressures
are going to build up, I do not think that we have much room to
cut interest rates further,” he said.  The Indian Ocean island nation’s central bank cut the
benchmark repo rate to 4.75 percent on Sept. 27 to try to arrest
slowing economic growth in what Bheenick said was an exceptional
one percentage point interest-rate reduction. The government has
warned that weak economies in Europe, its main trading region,
may harm growth this year and in 2011.  The central bank wanted to maintain positive real interest
rates to encourage savings, Bheenick said.  “We believe our inflation rate will pick up, partly coming
from external food and fuel pressures, because we import
everything,” he said. “Our interest rates, we expect them to
stay in positive territory, so that we offer a real rate of
return to savers.”  Annual inflation was 2.5 percent in September, according to
the Central Statistics Office, and is expected to accelerate to
4 percent by June next year, the central bank said on Oct. 4.  Global Recovery  Bank of Mauritius is concerned about growth and much will
depend on exports and how fast the global economy recovers,
particularly the euro zone, Bheenick said.  "We depend critically on the recovery taking hold very
quickly in western Europe and in the U.S., so we have some
residual concerns there because the pace of recovery is very
uneven, very uncertain," he said. Mauritius’ growth will
probably be “not too far away” from the 4.1 percent to 4.2
percent expected this year, Bheenick said.  The economy may expand by less than 4 percent this year,
Finance Minister  Pravind Jugnauth  said on Oct. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  