-- Australia's Banks Find Winning Means Losing as Swan Condemns `Cash Grab'
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-11-03T22:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/australia-s-banks-find-winning-means-losing-as-swan-condemns-cash-grab-.html
Australia’s biggest banks , after
staying profitable through the global credit crisis, are paying
the price of success as lawmakers pledge to reduce their
competitive clout.  Australia Treasurer  Wayne Swan  this week said  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia  made a “cynical cash grab” when it raised
interest rates at almost double the central bank’s pace, and
called for reforms to boost industry competition. Local
newspapers and opposition politicians also condemned the move.  “They have to be very careful,” said Neal Stoughton, a
professor of finance at the University of New South Wales’s
Australian school of business in Sydney. “Right now everybody
hates banks. Political parties will unite on a policy that
opposes” rate increases that outpace those of the central bank,
he said.  An escalating public backlash against Australia’s largest
banks, which tightened their grip on the mortgage market in past
years, may hurt lending margins, according to UBS AG. While
banks and brokerages posted losses and writedowns totaling $1.3
trillion worldwide since the start of the financial crisis,
Australia’s four biggest lenders avoided state bailouts and
swallowed smaller rivals.  Commonwealth Bank,  Westpac Banking Corp.,  National
Australia Bank Ltd. and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. -- dubbed the “four pillars” after a law preventing
takeovers among them -- accounted for 87 percent of the  home
lending market  in September, up from 76 percent three years ago.  Hockey Proposal  Westpac, Australia’s second-largest bank, yesterday said
profit in the six months to Sept. 30 almost tripled from a year
earlier, while ANZ Bank said last week that earnings in the
period surged 69 percent and  National Australia , the biggest
lender to companies, posted a cash profit gain of 32 percent.
Combined profit at the lenders reached a record.  The lenders have benefited from an economy that skirted the
worst worldwide recession since World War II and government
guarantees on deposits and debt issues introduced by Treasurer
Swan at the height of global financial crisis.  Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition, supported by more
voters than the minority Labor government according to the
latest Newspoll published on Oct. 26, will introduce laws to
parliament this month to give the competition watchdog more
power, including tackling price signaling between the banks.  “We are going to get on with the job that the government
doesn’t want to do,” opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey 
told Fairfax radio today. The government is “more interested in
playing politics than they are in delivering a more competitive
banking system.”  Political Footballs  While the government, which relies on the support of three
independent lawmakers and the Greens party, can’t regulate the
nation’s interest rates, it will give more powers to the
competition regulator in a banking reform package to be
announced next month, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told Channel
Nine television today.  “Banks are now political footballs,” said UBS AG analysts
 Jonathan Mott  and  Chris Williams  said in an Oct. 29 note.
“There are no winners in this environment. The stakes are high,
with the outcome likely to determine bank margins, profitability
and the availability of credit to the Australian economy.”  Australia’s six-member  S&P/ASX 200 bank index  has slipped
3.8 percent this year.  Mortgage rates are a topic of public debate in Australia,
where more than 90 percent of homeowners have  variable-rate home
loans  and household debt equals more than 150 percent of pretax
income.  ‘Greedy Grab’  Commonwealth Bank, the nation’s biggest lender, said this
week it will increase its standard variable home loan interest
rate by 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point -- almost
double the Reserve Bank of Australia’s unexpected quarter
percentage point rise. Commonwealth Bank customers will pay
about A$1,000 a year more in interest on an average A$300,000
mortgage after the move.  Sydney-based tabloid the  Daily Telegraph  yesterday called
Commonwealth Bank’s decision a “greedy grab for your Christmas
cash,” and the Herald Sun said the bank had “ ambushed ” its
customers by announcing the move on a public holiday held to
celebrate a horse race, the Melbourne Cup.  Banks have said rising costs of raising funds in
international debt markets are forcing them to raise interest
rates to avoid a margin squeeze. Commonwealth Bank Chief
Executive Officer  Ralph Norris  said Oct. 14 that funding costs
have risen “significantly” and will remain elevated.  Westpac CEO  Gail Kelly , 54, who drew fire in local media
and from Swan almost a year ago when she raised borrowing costs
faster than the central bank, said yesterday the lender hasn’t
decided yet on its next move. Borrowing costs are also under
review at ANZ Bank and National Australia, according to
spokesmen at the lenders.  Westpac’s Kelly told analysts yesterday that she hopes
there will be “proper consultation” with the industry on any
government change in industry policy, as reforms can have
“unintended consequences.”  Lessons From Chavez  The “risk of regulatory intervention” has climbed as
banks generate more money from retail customers and the industry
concentrates, Morgan Stanley analysts including  Richard Wiles 
said in a note to investors this week.  ANZ Bank CEO  Mike Smith  fired back on Oct. 28, telling the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. that it appears Hockey, the
opposition Treasury spokesman, has “been taking economics
lessons from  Hugo Chavez ,” the president of Venezuela who has
nationalized companies in the oil, food, cement and metals
industries as part of his push for socialism since winning
office in 1999.  Any attempt by Australian lawmakers to control banks’
interest rates would take the country back to an era “long
since gone,” said Smith.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  