-- Australian Building Approvals Decline 6.6% in September From a Month Ago
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-03T00:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/australian-september-building-approvals-fell-6-6-for-sixth-straight-loss.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
fell in September for a sixth straight month, a sign central
bank Governor  Glenn Stevens ’ interest-rate increases are
crimping demand for new dwellings.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments decreased 6.6 percent from August, when they
dropped a revised 4.8 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. The median  estimate  of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for no change from a month earlier.  Housing may slow further in coming months after the Reserve
Bank of Australia resumed raising borrowing costs yesterday,
boosting the benchmark interest rate by a quarter percentage
point to 4.75 percent after a five-month pause. The move came a
day after a report showed Australian house prices recorded the
smallest advance since the first quarter of 2009.  “Looking further into 2010 and 2011, we expect to see
continued weakness in building approvals as the RBA moves into a
monetary policy tightening cycle, combined with an outlook for
sluggish growth in house prices,” David Cannington, an
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne, said before the report.  Building approvals fell 11.6 percent from a year earlier,
today’s report showed. Economists forecast a 3.7 percent year-
over-year drop.  Houses, Apartments  Approvals to build private houses slipped 2.2 percent to
7,984 in September from August. Approvals for apartments and
renovations declined 15.7 percent to 3,634.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in Australia’s eight major cities climbed 0.1
percent in the three months through September, the third
consecutive quarter of slowing gains, a government report showed
Nov. 1.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest home
lender, said yesterday it will raise its standard mortgage
interest rate by almost double the central bank’s increase.
CBA’s standard variable home loan interest rate will be
increased by 45 basis points, or 0.45 percentage point, to 7.81
percent on Nov. 5, the Sydney-based bank said.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  has urged banks not to boost borrowing
costs by more than central bank increases, calling CBA’s move a
“cynical cash grab.” Australian politicians are sensitive
about rate increases as more than two-thirds of the population
own homes, compared with less than 50 percent in some European
nations.  Building approvals have fallen this year after the Labor
Party government reduced grants on Jan. 1 to first-time buyers
of new homes to A$7,000 ($7,000) from as much as A$21,000.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Victoria Batchelor  at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  