-- Tax Havens Send `Massive Capital' to London, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 2010-11-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/tax-havens-send-massive-capital-to-london-lawmaker-says.html
Offshore financial centers, also
known as tax havens, send “massive capital flows” to  London 
and are unduly criticized in the U.K. for secrecy and helping
tax avoidance, Conservative party lawmaker  Mark Field  said.  Field, defending financial centers including Jersey and
Guernsey yesterday at a London debate, said they had “endured
political attacks” that demonstrated “a fundamental lack of
understanding of their function and the benefits.”  Tax haven critics have included U.K. Business Secretary
 Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat lawmaker and government
coalition partner of Field. In 2008, before the coalition was
formed, Cable said British banks that received taxpayer
funds during the financial crisis, such as the  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , should close their units in tax havens.  “The U.K. has a truly unique position in relation to tax
havens, or offshore financial centers,” Field, 46, said. “As a
U.K. legislator, we need to make that case very firmly, that
this offshore stuff is not some nefarious outfit but actually
has a very important role to play.”  Richard Murphy , a U.K. accountant and director
of Tax Research LLP who is critical of tax havens, said Field
was “wrong” about their benefits. Tax havens cause the U.K.
government to lose revenue, he said at the debate. Tax havens
benefit the City of London financial district rather than the
nation, he said. Field is the parliamentary representative of
the City of London and Westminster.  ‘Parochial View’  “He is making a very particular parochial view of the
city’s view of what is good for the city,” Murphy said.  Field’s defense of tax havens is part of his campaign to
promote financial services after a U.K. election earlier this
year in which members of all parties criticized bankers as
taxpayer funds were tapped to support banks that borrowed and
lent too much.  “There are no votes in defending the financial-services
sector,” Field said at the debate organized by the Centre for
the Study of Financial Innovation.  British banks received a net $257 billion from operations
in the nation’s offshore tax havens as of June 30, 2009,
according to a government report published last year. The funds
are mainly bank deposits collected in offshore centers such as
Jersey and the Isle of Man that are sent to mainland
headquarters.  Bankers may face more criticism as bonuses are announced
and paid out in coming months, Field said.  “The banks, I fear are making a rod for their own backs,”
he said. The timing of the bonus payments will have “an uneasy
juxtaposition” with job losses and cuts in the government
sector, he said.  British Dependencies  Half of the top 30 offshore financial centers are British
dependencies or territories, Field said.  Mark Boleat , deputy
chairman of policy at the City of London Corporation, agreed
that they help the financial district he helps run.  “They benefit by bringing business into London that
otherwise would not come into London,” Boleat said.  Anne Craine, Treasury minister for the Isle of Man, which
sits in the Irish Sea, last night made the same argument at a
speech in London’s Canary Wharf. “The existence of offshore
centers greatly benefits the City of London and the entire U.K.
economy,” Craine said, according to a copy of the speech sent
to Bloomberg News.  Field is due to give a speech today in Westminster, where
he will argue that the city is the U.K.’s “most valuable
economic resource.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  