-- Mazda Seat Belt Case May Divide U.S. Supreme Court Over Minimum Standards
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-03T19:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/mazda-seatbelt-case-may-divide-u-s-supreme-court-justices.html
U.S. Supreme Court  justices signaled
they may divide, perhaps evenly, in a case involving  Mazda Motor
Corp.  that could open automakers to more consumer lawsuits over
vehicle safety.  Hearing arguments today in Washington, several justices
hinted they would let accident victims sue even when automakers
meet minimum federal standards set by the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, or NHTSA. “A minimum by
definition gives manufacturers options,” Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said.  Others, including Chief Justice  John Roberts , suggested
they would vote to limit lawsuits and reinforce a 2000 decision
that shielded carmakers from some claims.  “You have a jury with an injured plaintiff,” Roberts
said. “They are not likely to weigh heavily the fact that this
would cost 3 extra cents per car fleet-wide. I think that is the
sort of thing NHTSA considers.”  The court might deadlock 4-4 because  Elena Kagan , the
newest justice, has disqualified herself. As the Obama
administration’s solicitor general earlier this year, she urged
the court to take the case. A tie vote would leave intact a
lower court victory for the automakers without setting a
national precedent.  Protecting Carmakers  The auto industry is asking the court to bolster the 2000
decision, which said federal law shields automakers from state
law claims that manufacturers didn’t move quickly enough to
install air bags in the years before they became mandatory in
new cars.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, food producers and makers of
children’s products have weighed in on Mazda’s side.  NHTSA, an agency within the Transportation Department, has
59 safety standards that govern automotive components, including
windshield wipers, internal trunk releases and seat belts. The
standards set performance guidelines that manufacturers must
follow.  Justice  Stephen Breyer  hinted he was inclined to defer to
the federal agency, which says its standards shouldn’t shield
carmakers from suits claiming they didn’t do enough to make
vehicles as safe as possible.  Agency Expertise  “Who is most likely to know what 40,000 pages of agency
records actually mean and say? People in the agency,” Breyer
said. “If the government continuously says, ‘This is what the
agency means’ and the agency is telling them, ‘Yes, this is what
it means,’ the chances are they will come to a better, correct
conclusion than I will with my law clerks.”  Mazda, based in Hiroshima, Japan, was sued by the family of
Thanh Williamson, 32, who died in 2002 in Utah as she was riding
in a rear aisle seat in the second row of a 1993 MPV minivan.  When the minivan was manufactured, seat belts that buckled
only over the lap -- without a shoulder harness -- were
permitted by law for some back seat passengers. The current
regulations took effect in 2007 and require new cars to have
shoulder restraints in all forward-facing seats, including rear
aisle seats.  The Williamson van struck a Jeep Wrangler that had become
detached from a motor home that was towing it. The collision
forced Williamson’s body to jackknife around her seat belt,
causing severe abdominal injuries and internal bleeding,
according to the lawsuit filed by her husband.  The lawyer for the Williamson family, Martin Buchanan,
argued that automakers “should be held accountable for the
choices they make.”  Option  Gregory G. Garre , the attorney who argued the case for
Mazda, said NHTSA “specifically gave manufacturers the option of
installing one type of seat belt or the other.”  A California state appeals court barred the suit from going
forward, ruling it was preempted by federal law. Mazda’s U.S.
headquarters is in Irvine, California.  The Supreme Court last year, ruling on preemption in a
different context, said consumers can sue drugmakers for failing
to provide adequate safety warnings. The 6-3 ruling said drug
companies aren’t shielded from suit by the Food and Drug
Administration’s approval of a treatment and its packaging
information.  The case is Williamson v. Mazda Motor of America, 08-1314.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  