-- Azeris Keep Gas Export Options Open as Nabucco Seeks Supplier
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-11-03T12:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/azeris-keep-gas-export-options-open-as-nabucco-seeks-supplier.html
Azerbaijan is mulling various
natural-gas export routes as it waits for European countries to
decide on investment in the Nabucco pipeline to tap Caspian
resources, according to its deputy foreign minister.  Azerbaijan was expected to be the first supplier to
Nabucco, planned to ship Caspian gas more than 3,300 kilometers
(2,050 miles) from Turkey to Austria to cut Europe’s dependence
on Russia. The  OMV AG -led project has been bogged down over
financing, pricing and politics.  The venture is vying with smaller projects such as the
Interconnector Turkey-Greece-Italy, or  ITGI , led by Edison SpA
and Depa SA, and Trans Adriatic Pipeline AG, or  TAP , led by
Statoil ASA and Elektrizitaets-Gesellschaft Laufenburg AG.  “We would welcome Nabucco once Nabucco countries are
ready to invest in building the pipeline,”  Araz Azimov ,
Azerbaijan’s deputy foreign minister, said in an interview in
Brussels. “We also have other options, like ITGI, like TAP and
the relatively new project AGRI, which stands for Azerbaijan,
Georgia, Romania and is based on the idea of supplies of
liquefied natural gas.”  Azerbaijan, on the western Caspian between Russia and Iran,
had proved natural gas resources of 1.3 trillion cubic meters at
the end of 2009, the sixth-highest in Europe and Eurasia,
according to  BP Plc’s Statistical Review . Azimov estimated the
resources at between two and three trillion cubic meters.  ‘Commercial Viability’  “For Azerbaijan it’s better to have more clients on the
line, more directions for transportation,” Azimov said. “The
basic thing is commercial viability.”  European consumers have sought to cut dependence on Russian
gas supplies after disputes between OAO Gazprom and Ukraine, the
Moscow-based gas exporter’s main transportation route, halted
supplies in 2006 and 2009.  The Nabucco partners, which also include Essen, Germany-
based  RWE AG , Budapest-based Mol Nyrt., Bulgargaz EAD, Romania’s
Transgaz SA and Ankara-based Botas, have said they’ll decide on
the investment next year. Construction may begin in 2012 with
shipments starting in 2015.  The shareholders are seeking to secure as much as 31
billion cubic meters of gas a year for the 7.9 billion-euro ($11
billion) link.  BP Plc and partners plan to make a final investment
decision in October next year on expanding Azerbaijan’s Shah
Deniz gas development, which will help boost the country’s
production to 55 billion cubic meters from 27 billion this year,
according to State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan.  ‘Not Impossible’  “Nabucco’s viability is yet to be proven, but it’s not
impossible,” Azimov said. “Things are on the table, experts
should consider whether they’re risking too much by missing the
opportunity or by using this opportunity.”  Nabucco’s partners may also source supplies from Iraq and
 Turkmenistan , holder of the world’s fourth-largest gas reserves
estimated by BP at 8.1 trillion cubic meters.  Turkmenistan, where foreign investment was held back until
the 2006 death of isolationist President-for-Life  Saparmurat Niyazov , ships gas to Russia and Iran, and opened a pipeline to
China last year.  A link across the Caspian Sea would be “the most economic
route and the one which promises most value” for transporting
Turkmen gas across the body of water to the West,  Stefan Judisch , heard of RWE’s supply and trading unit, said Oct. 18.  Trans-Caspian Pipeline  “We stand ready for transit,” Azimov said. “There was a
talk about a trans-Caspian pipeline connection, which is
technically doable. There are some pipelines already built by
Azerbaijan in the Caspian and there’s a need to build a short
connection, connecting Turkmen gas to Azerbaijan’s pipeline
system. Other options are based on LNG or compressed natural
gas, so these are technically viable, possible options.”  A link between Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan across the
disputed sea may cost about 1 billion euros, RWE’s Judisch said
last month.  “Additional gas resources may be transported from
Turkmenistan or we can use in the future the pipeline for
transit of Azeri gas via Turkmenistan to maybe China,” Azimov
said. “The east-west corridor may be used as west-east as well.
This is also technically possible and a politically not excluded
strategic direction.” 