-- Baghdad Multiple-Bombing Toll Rises to 64 Dead; 360 Injured
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-11-03T12:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/baghdad-multiple-bombing-toll-rises-to-64-dead-360-injured-ministry-says.html
The toll from multiple bombings
across Baghdad late yesterday rose to 64 dead and 360 wounded,
the Health Ministry said. The Associated Press said more than 73
people had died, citing police and hospital officials.  The bombs, which began to explode at about 6:15 p.m. local
time, targeted popular markets, restaurants and cafes. In total
there were about 20 blasts, state-sponsored al-Iraqiyah
television reported today. At least 15 were car bombs, while
others were improvised explosive devices, it said.  The attacks took place in the districts of al-Khadimiya,
al-Doura, Sadr City and at least nine other neighborhoods, Major
General Qassim Atta, spokesman for the Baghdad Military Command,
said yesterday. The areas hit were immediately closed off and a
curfew was imposed by police in the capital.  Iraq has suffered an increase in violence as political
leaders argue over the makeup of a new government eight months
after parliamentary elections. The U.S. completed the withdrawal
of combat troops from the country in August, leaving a force of
fewer than 50,000, down from about 144,000 at the start of 2009.  Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki  said the recent attacks “are
politically motivated” and meant to block the formation of the
government, the National Iraqi News Agency said today.  Al-Qaeda in Iraq vowed to continue targeting the country’s
Christian minority, according to a statement posted on the
Internet late yesterday. Gunmen from the group entered a Baghdad
church on Oct. 31, resulting in a siege and the deaths of 58
worshippers, AP reported. Al-Qaeda also announced the expiration
of its deadline for the Coptic Christian Church in Egypt to free
Muslim women whom the militant group says are being held
captive, AP said.  There has been no statement of responsibility for
yesterday’s violence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kadhim Ajrash  in Baghdad at 
 kadhimajrash@yahoo.com ;
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 