-- Bank of Japan Confronts Two-Decade Land Slump With Asset-Purchase Program
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-11-04T00:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bank-of-japan-confronts-two-decade-land-slump-with-asset-purchase-program.html
The Bank of Japan’s planned purchases
of real-estate investment trusts and exchange-traded funds may
bolster investor confidence and support markets that have failed
to recover ground lost since the global financial crisis.  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his policy board will start
a two-day policy meeting today to discuss the purchases, which
are part of a broader 5 trillion-yen ($62 billion) fund unveiled
last month. The bank brought forward its November meeting date
by more than a week to speed up the purchases.  REIT prices have climbed since the BOJ announced its asset
fund on Oct. 5 and analysts say the program may help curb a two-
decade slide in  land prices , easing the pain deflation has
inflicted on an economy coping with slower growth and a stronger
currency. Shirakawa last week said he wants the BOJ’s purchases
to deepen trading.  The planned buys “are an endorsement of the securities and
encourage investors to participate in the market,” said Hide
Ichii, a Tokyo-based analyst at CBRE Global Real Estate
Securities, which manages over $2.5 billion of property stocks
and real-estate investment trusts. “A surge in REIT prices will
spark real-estate transactions and can eventually help shore up
land prices.”  Last week, the BOJ said it has allocated 50 billion yen of
its asset-buying fund to purchasing J-REITS and 450 billion yen
for ETFs, which amount to 1.6 percent and 18 percent of their
respective markets. BOJ officials have already received approval
from the government to purchase the assets. REITs have lost 27
percent since September 2008 and ETFs are down 19 percent.  Broader Impact  For the broader economy, the central bank’s initiative
falls short of what’s needed to end deflation and combat the
impact of the yen’s climb to a 15-year high against the dollar,
economists from Citigroup Inc. to Morgan Stanley have said.  Asset purchases of 100 trillion yen “would be more
appropriate,” Citigroup Chief Economist  Willem Buiter  and
analysts including Tokyo-based  Kiichi Murashima  said last week.  The 36-member Tokyo Stock Exchange  REIT Index  has advanced
1.3 percent since the BOJ announced the asset purchase plan. The
44-member  Topix Real Estate Index  was the best performer among
the broader index’s 33 industry groups over the past three
months, rising 12 percent.  “The announcement has had a big impact, particularly on
the J-REIT market,” by supporting prices, said  Teizo Taya , a
former BOJ board member and now an adviser to the Daiwa
Institute of Research. “I was startled that the central bank
embarked on the buying of those assets.”  2001 Birth  J-REITs represent about a fifth of Japan’s 45 trillion yen
securitized real-estate market, government data show. Formed in
September 2001, the market was created to be a financial tool
that pools assets into tradable securities, making it easier for
people to invest and creating liquidity in the property market.  Land prices  in Japan have declined for almost two decades
and their values are about half of what they were after the peak
of Japan’s asset bubble economy in the late 1980s.  Commercial-
property prices  are 60 percent of what they were in 1991, while
residential values are at 35 percent of the peak.  The BOJ meeting follows a U.S. Federal Reserve policy
gathering where the central bank decided to buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries through June, saying that progress
has been “disappointingly slow” in bringing down joblessness
close to a 26-year high. While Shirakawa has said the Fed
meeting wasn’t a factor in changing the BOJ’s schedule,
deliberating policy today and tomorrow gives BOJ board members a
chance to gauge financial market reaction to any Fed policy move.  Shirakawa is also scheduled to deliver a speech in Tokyo
from 11:30 a.m. today.  BOJ Easing Unlikely  “The Fed’s decision is close to what financial markets had
expected to see,” said  Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist at Tokai
Tokyo Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The chance is very small for
the BOJ to make new policy changes” at this week’s meeting.  Shirakawa on Oct. 28 reiterated that expanding the asset
fund is a “probable option” should the bank need to provide
more stimulus; its benchmark overnight rate is already
“virtually” zero after a cut last week. Establishing the
fund’s framework tomorrow would let the bank increase the
program.  “The BOJ wants to make sure it’s able to use the fund as
policy ammunition as soon as possible” should it need to take
further policy steps, said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist
in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$104 billion.  ‘Enormous’ Effect  Nevertheless, the program won’t be able to cure all of
Japan’s deflation woes, Ichii said, “but at least the bank’s
offer is considerably reducing the downside risks of the J-REIT
market -- this effect in itself is enormous” as it will enhance
trading.  The Nikkei 225  Exchange-Traded Fund , which tracks the
performance of the benchmark stock index, jumped 1.8 percent on
Oct. 5, when the BOJ announced the fund purchases. The index has
since declined 3.9 percent on concern about the global growth
and the yen’s advance against the dollar.  The central bank’s fund also plans to buy 3.5 trillion yen
in government debt and 1 trillion yen in corporate debt,
including lower-rated securities than those the BOJ bought in
2009 under a previous initiative.  The bank may be inclined to increase its purchases of
government debt in the fund rather than other securities, said
Taya, the former BOJ board member. Corporate debt, ETF and REIT
markets are relatively small in Japan and the large purchases
could interfere in the market setting prices, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  