-- Banks May Shift Risks, Need Acute Supervision, IMF Staff Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-11-03T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/banks-may-shift-risks-need-acute-supervision-imf-staff-report-says.html
Global policy makers need to make
sure that banks adjusting to tighter rules on capital don’t
build up risks in less regulated areas of the financial system,
International Monetary Fund economists said.  Less than two months after regulators reached a compromise
that more than doubles capital requirements for the world’s
banks,  IMF staff  warned that the agreed-upon package will have a
“higher direct impact” on investment banking business, such as
trading, pushing institutions to change strategies.  “It is likely that banks with a major focus on such
activities may shift some activities to the unregulated shadow
banking sector or their businesses to jurisdictions with less
onerous regulatory requirements,” the IMF staff said its
report, released today, called “Impact of regulatory reforms on
large and complex financial institutions.”  Global leaders pushed to revise banking regulations after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 and
bailouts of banks that had become too big to fail. The IMF
report called for “more intensive” supervision to avoid a new
cycle of excessive risk taking and widen the perimeter for
regulation to nonbanks.  “It’s very important for the supervisors to focus and
understand the business models of these institutions,” Inci
Otker-Robe, one of the report’s authors, said today in a
conference call. The supervisors must be able to know when
’’some of the activities may be shifting into the sectors where
the regulations may not be in place or may not be as tight.’’  Common Equity  At a Sept. 12 meeting in  Basel , Switzerland, regulators
agreed to force banks to have common equity equal to at least 7
percent of assets, weighted according to their risk, including a
2.5 percent buffer to withstand future stress. Lenders will have
less than five years to comply with the minimum ratios and until
Jan. 1, 2019, to meet the buffer requirements.  The requirements will be “less difficult for banks that
focus on commercial banking activities, providing them with more
time to adjust,” the IMF report said. “In contrast, banks’
derivatives, trading, and securitization activities, which will
be subject to tighter capital requirements from end-2011, will
be more costly” under the Basel rules, it said.  If some activities move to the “shadow banking sector,”
which include securities brokers, hedge funds and money market
funds, risks to the banking system could remain because of their
interconnectedness, the report said.  IMF economists also estimated that with the phased
implementation of the new capital requirements, most banks
should be able to comply with the rules through retained
earnings, assuming profit will be at about half of pre-crisis
levels.  Earning Retentions  Using a sample of 62 banks in 20 countries, the report
finds that only 10 of them would be below the common equity
ratio required by 2019. Without earning retentions, the banks
in the sample would require about $360 billion additional
capital and 48 of them would not meet the 7 percent target, it
showed.  Looking at a separate “limited set of U.S. and European
banks,” the report’s authors also said that most of them should
meet the liquidity criteria agreed on in Basel.  Still, some banks may face a challenge as market conditions
change, according to the report. Almost $4 trillion in bank debt
will mature in the next two years and borrowing costs are likely
to rise, IMF economists said.  The report also urged governments to agree on cross-border
resolution regimes for failing banks.  “We will always have failures, we should have failures
because that’s the only way to keep market discipline,” said
Ceyla Pazarbasioglu, another author. Cross-border resolution
“is a very challenging task, it’s very complex but this is one
of the key priorities that the authorities should carry out over
the coming months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  