-- Banker Mark Stone Turns Baritone, Runs Record Label: Interview
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-11-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/banker-mark-stone-turns-baritone-sets-up-his-own-record-label-interview.html
It’s a sad fact that classical
recording contracts are as rare as shy sopranos or well-read
tenors. Baritone and former accountant  Mark Stone , passionate
about English songs, isn’t fazed. He founded his own label.  Set up in 2008,  Stone Records  already has four well-
received releases to its credit, and a fifth on the way. I
hooked up with the British singer, a familiar figure at  English
National Opera  and  Opera Holland Park , to discuss how he
combines his baritone career with his business plans.  We meet in a London church at the recording session for his
latest disc, U.K. composer Paul Carr’s melodious “Requiem for
an Angel.” Involving a choir, orchestra and soloists, it’s the
largest project so far for Stone Records.  When he steps away from the microphone for a break, I ask
Stone, a trim 41-year-old, how it all came about. “I started
the company to be a vehicle for my own projects,” he says.
“Then I found that there were a number of people who, say, 20
years ago, would have been recording, and who aren’t now.  “Though it’s difficult to sell classical CDs, it’s
actually easier than it’s ever been to make them. So from that
point of view, it’s not too difficult to get your head around
it. There seems to be a gap in the market which we’re
fulfilling: to allow independent artists to get their recordings
out there.”  Business Strategy  Stone has two business models. For his own recitals, he
finds the money himself. For other projects such as “Fantasy,”
a haunting chamber-music recital with pianist Sholto Kynoch,
Stone asks the client to come to him with a master recording. He
then packages and markets the disc, and any profits are split.  How much does it cost to produce a disc? “For a small-
scale recital, it’s around 4,000 pounds ($6,280). If you involve
a choir and orchestra, then we’re looking more in the region of
around 15,000 pounds.”  Fortunately, Stone has found many people willing to help
him. For a forthcoming complete recording of songs by the
English composer Frederick Delius (1862-1934), Stone has a
benefactor in the U.S. businessman  Michael Maglaras .  “I put out an appeal for help in the  Delius Society ’s
journal, and Michael replied,” he says. “He’s a former singer
who made money through his insurance company, and now he’s a
filmmaker and patron of the arts.  “I find that they don’t have to conquer their fear of
personal giving in America, in the way that we do here. And it’s
more than just the money. It’s generosity of spirit. It means
that when pianist Stephen Barlow (the musician husband of
actress  Joanna Lumley ) and I go into the recording studio, we
don’t feel like we’re against the world.”  Passion for Music  Has Stone Records made much profit? “No, not yet,” Stone
says. “My recital of songs by the composer George Butterworth
has broken even though, and everything continues to sell. I do
it because I’m passionate about the music.”  Although always drawn to singing, Stone studied mathematics
at  Cambridge University , and then afterwards “fell into”
accounting, as he puts it. He worked at Touche Ross & Co. in
London. “Then I leaped from accounting, as one would leap from
the Titanic, in a vague attempt to do something more interesting
with my life. I became an investment banker with Robert Fleming
& Co. I lasted seven months.”  All the while, Stone had been having voice lessons. A few
amateur operatic roles came his way. Then he decided to resign,
and study music full time. “I resigned on a Monday, and on
Tuesday I thought ‘what the hell have I done?’ I didn’t have a
place at college, and I’d missed the deadline for applying. It
was straight from the heart, brain not engaged.”  Firm Sound  The deadline was waived, and Stone studied for three years
at London’s  Guildhall School of Music and Drama . It was only 200
yards from the bank where he’d been working.  With his firm, even sound and charismatic stage presence,
it wasn’t long before Stone received offers of roles from major
opera companies.  Does he think about business matters while he’s recording?
“Do you mean, am I worrying that if I crack a note, we’ll have
to do it again and go into overtime payments? No, it’s not like
that,” he laughs. “It’s good to have a producer’s hat on
though. I can take risks in my performance, and know that if it
doesn’t work, I still have a previous take that’s safe. It helps
to have an idea of the technicalities.”  For more information about Stone Records:
 http://www.stonerecords.co.uk .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 