-- Bank of New York-Mellon Wins Right to Press $312 Million Lien on Sentinel
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-04T01:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bank-of-new-york-mellon-wins-right-to-press-312-million-lien-on-sentinel.html
Bank of New York Mellon  Corp. won a
U.S. judge’s ruling allowing the lender to pursue in bankruptcy
court a $312 million lien on the failed Sentinel Management
Group Inc. cash management firm.  U.S. District Judge  James B. Zagel  in Chicago today issued
a 68-page ruling in which he rejected liquidation trustee
 Frederick Grede ’s claim that the New York-based bank had enabled
the firm’s insiders to deceive clients.  “The court rejected the trustee’s claim in its entirety,”
 Kevin Heine , a Bank of New York Mellon spokesman, said today in
a telephone interview. The bank had denied those claims.  Sentinel, based in Northbrook, Illinois, filed for
bankruptcy in August 2007 four days after it froze client
accounts, citing credit market instability.  Three days later, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued the firm for allegedly comingling client funds
and improperly using them as collateral for its BNY-Mellon
credit line. That case is still pending.  Grede, a former chief executive officer of the Hong Kong
Futures Exchange who was initially appointed Chapter 11 trustee,
sued the bank seeking to quash the lien resulting from the
unpaid balance on that line of credit.  Grede had sought to recover about $600 million from the
bank for the firm and its creditors while subordinating that
lien to the claims of other Sentinel creditors. Customer claims
totaled about $1.2 billion.  Outstanding Balance  BNY Mellon, denying any knowledge of wrongdoing by firm
principals, sought to enforce its collateralized claim for the
outstanding balance extended to the firm when it failed, plus
accrued interest and attorney fees.  “We think it’s incorrect on a number of counts,” Grede
said of the ruling in a telephone interview. The next step, he
said, is to meet with Sentinel creditors to discuss the merits
of an appeal.  “The issue of whether the bank knew or suspected that
Sentinel was engaged in fraud is a close question,” Zagel wrote
in his ruling. Zagel heard 16 days of trial testimony and
evidence in April, then closing arguments in May.  Still, the judge said, while the trustee contended that
bank employees knew or should have known that the firm had
misappropriated client assets for its collateral, “if BNYM
should have been more diligent with regard to verifying the
source of collateral, such a lack of care does not rise to the
level of the egregious misconduct necessary for equitable
subordination.”  The case is Grede v. Bank of New York, 08cv2582, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The SEC
case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Sentinel
Management Group Inc., 07cv4684, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 