-- China Bears Squeezed as Traders Capitulate Fastest
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-04T08:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bears-squeezed-in-china-as-traders-capitulating-at-fastest-rate-spur-rally.html
Bears on Chinese equities are in
retreat even as bets against the country’s companies exceed
those of any of the world’s biggest markets, a buy signal for
some of the nation’s most accurate stock forecasters.  Short sales of Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index shares
dropped to an average 16 percent of equity available for lending
from 21 percent at the end of August, the largest decline among
indexes in the 10 largest markets, according to data compiled by
Data Explorers and Bloomberg. The level compares with a 10
percent average for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 7
percent for the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index, the data show.  The index of Hong Kong-listed shares surged 15 percent in
the past two months as third-quarter profits beat analysts’
estimates by twice the margin in emerging markets and confidence
grew that China’s government will prevent the quickest-expanding
major economy from overheating. Morgan Stanley and China
International Capital Corp. strategists who predicted the rally
say it will continue through yearend and may lead more investors
to buy back stocks. When short sales fell this much in May 2009,
the  Hang Seng  rose 24 percent in six months.  “Many investors are quickly changing course and being
forced to cover their shorts,” said Sandy Mehta, the chief
investment officer at Hong Kong-based Value Investment
Principals who forecast a rally in Chinese shares at the end of
July. “This will gather momentum.”  Short sellers borrow and sell stock to bet that prices will
drop so they can repurchase the securities, repay the loan and
pocket the difference.  ‘Short Squeeze’  The Hang Seng index climbed 0.9 percent today to the
highest level since June 2008 and the  Shanghai  Composite Index
of mainland-traded equities jumped 1.9 percent after the U.S.
Federal Reserve announced it will expand record measures to
boost the world’s largest economy. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
yesterday that the  Hong Kong  market has the most to gain from
China’s growth and the Fed’s monetary stimulus.  The high level of bearish wagers in China “could produce a
short squeeze when the market continues to rally and thus could
be a contrarian indicator,” Hao Hong, the Beijing-based global
equity strategist at CICC, the top-ranked brokerage for China
research in Asiamoney’s annual survey, wrote in an e-mailed note
on Oct. 28.  Hang Seng companies reported third-quarter net income that
topped analysts’ projections by an average 6.4 percent so far,
compared with 2.5 percent for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Growth  China’s third-quarter economic expansion of 9.6 percent
topped the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey even as policy makers took steps to curb record lending
and home-price gains that spurred concern of a real-estate
bubble.  The Chinese stock gauge trades at 12.4 times analysts’ 12-
month earnings estimates, a 7 percent discount to the average
level since March 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The measure is valued at a 29 percent discount to the Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index of shares in  India , the world’s
second-fastest expanding major economy.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. shares rallied 19 percent in
the past two months. Short sales in the unit of China’s biggest
maker of the lightweight metal fell to 68 percent of lendable
shares from 81 percent at the end of August. China Merchants
Bank Co., the Shenzhen-based lender with 31 percent of its
lendable shares sold short, rallied 9.7 percent. Lendable shares
are the amount of stock that institutional investors make
available for borrowing.  ‘Bubble Situation’  “The government’s moves mean there is less likely to be a
bubble situation,” said Jerry Lou, the Hong Kong-based
strategist at Morgan Stanley who predicts gains of about 20
percent in Chinese equities in the next six months.  The level of short sales in China may not reflect pessimism
because some traders are probably hedging bullish wagers or
making bets that a stock will rise less than another security,
according to Oppenheimer & Co.’s Paul Keung.  “You can’t always read heavy shorts as a buy signal as
much as it is a function of increased volatility and increased
liquidity,” said Keung, the Hong Kong-based head of Asia
Investment Research at Oppenheimer.  Some of the most-shorted stocks in the Hang Seng gauge are
retreating even as traders buy back shares.  Buying Opportunity  BYD Co. declined 24 percent last month as short sales
dropped to 65 percent of lendable shares from 79 percent. The
Shenzhen-based carmaker part-owned by billionaire Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. posted a 99 percent decline in
third-quarter profit on Oct. 26 and has delayed plans to export
electric vehicles to the U.S.  Pacific Sun Investment Management Ltd.’s  Andy Mantel , who
reduced his bets against Chinese bank shares this year, said the
nation’s Hong Kong-traded equities are now “fairly priced.”
Mantel, founder and managing director of Pacific Sun in Hong
Kong, buys and sells stocks short for his China Mantou Fund,
which jumped 51 percent in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chalco, as the Beijing-based aluminum company is known, is
valued at 10.4 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, compared with the 15.6 times
average for peers in Asian developing nations, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. China Merchants trades at 3.4 times net
assets, a 19 percent discount to the average since Bloomberg
began tracking the data in June 2007.  “You can get some great value plays in China today even
though it’s one of the fastest-growing economies in the world,”
Puru Saxena, who oversees about $350 million as chief executive
officer of  Puru Saxena   Wealth Management  in Hong Kong, said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television on Oct. 19. “This is a
great buying opportunity.”  -  Michael Patterson , Allen Wan. With assistance from Stephanie
Wong and Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai and Susan Li in Hong Kong.
Editors: Alan Mirabella, Eric Martin  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Patterson in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  