-- Berlusconi Partying With Minors Raises Risk of Italian Bonds: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-04T14:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/berlusconi-partying-with-minors-raises-risk-of-italian-bonds-euro-credit.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  faces calls for his resignation amid a sex-related
scandal, driving up bond yields a month after he quelled a
revolt that threatened to bring down his government.  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
debt rather than German bunds has climbed to a one-month high of
155.7 basis points. Borrowing costs for European Union’s most-
indebted countries soared this week as the EU planned rules to
allow members to restructure debt. Italy may face the added risk
of a change in government or political paralysis as Berlusconi
battles to keep his ruling coalition intact.  Opposition leaders called for Berlusconi to step down this
week amid reports in Italy’s biggest newspapers, including
Corriere della Sera, that he intervened to get a 17-year-old
woman, who attended a party at his private residence, released
from police custody.  Gianfranco Fini , a former ally who split
from Berlusconi’s party in July and whose support the premier
needs to stay in power, said Berlusconi should quit if it’s
proven he intervened to secure the girl’s release.  “Investors should not ignore political risk given what’s
going on now,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist
at Commerzbank AG in London. “I’m not saying Berlusconi is
about to sink, but there’s a risk the market appears to be
underestimating. Italy might not have the fiscal problem that
Portugal or Ireland have, but you still need a strong and
efficient government to push things through. And in this
environment, confidence is everything.”  ‘Baseless Attacks’  Berlusconi in a speech in Rome today said the reports
“baseless attacks” that wouldn’t drive him from power. He
called on Fini to openly declare whether he still supported the
government, saying the only alternative would be early
elections.  Berlusconi doesn’t deny helping the girl, saying he simply
sent a friend -- his former dental hygienist who is now a
regional politician for his party -- to the police station in
Milan to aid the woman upon her release. In a Nov. 2  interview 
with “Oggi” magazine, the woman said she attended a party at
Berlusconi’s Milan residence with 10 other women and was given
cash and gifts by the premier. The party was in February, months
before her unrelated arrest in May on suspicion of theft.  Massimo D’Alema , a former prime ministers who heads the
parliamentary committee that oversees the country’s secret
service, yesterday called on Berlusconi to appear before the
group to discuss security issues raised by the revelations.  Economic Recovery  Berlusconi, 74, who has more than two years left in his
term, said Nov. 2 that early elections would threaten the
 economic recovery . Italy emerged from its worst recession in 60
years last year and the economy is set to expand 1.2 percent
this year after shrinking 5 percent in 2009. That contrasts with
contractions forecast for Greece and Spain.  “The most negative and gravest thing for our country,
which is emerging with difficulty from a profound crisis, would
be to have to face an election campaign in which everyone would
go after each other ferociously,” he said in a Nov. 2 speech in
Milan.  In a poll for RAI state-owned television broadcast Nov. 2,
45 percent of respondents said Berlusconi should resign.
Standard & Poor’s, in reaffirming Italy’s A+ credit rating the
same day, said political instability was one of the biggest
risks to the country’s creditworthiness going forward.  Merkel Remarks  The latest political headache for Berlusconi coincides with
a renewed slump in peripheral bonds after Germany forced EU
leaders to accept the notion that bond investors must share the
costs of any future bailouts. German Chancellor Angela Merkel
said Oct. 29 that there is “a justified desire to see that it’s
not just taxpayers who are on the hook, but also private
investors.”  The resulting jump in yields may have the biggest effect on
Italy, which has the euro-region’s largest debt and still needs
to sell more bonds than the others this year.  “Another risk factor is the new debt-crisis mechanism,”
said  Fabrizio Fiorini , the head of fixed income at Alletti
Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan, who manages about $8 billion in
assets. “Merkel is perceived as more of a threat to the Italian
spread than Berlusconi.”  Italy accounts for more than a third of the 71 billion
euros ($100 billion) of bonds EU governments will sell in
November, HSBC Holdings Plc estimates. With the EU’s biggest
debt at almost 120 percent of gross domestic product last year
and the euro zone’s third-largest economy, Italy’s financing
needs dwarf the other peripheral nations. Next year Italy will
sell more than 225 billion euros of bonds, more than Spain,
Portugal, Greece and Ireland combined, ING estimates.  Default Risk  Credit default swaps to ensure against a possible Italian
default rose to 182 basis points yesterday, the highest in three
weeks. That is more than similar insurance for Kazakhstan,
Indonesia and the Philippines.  So far Italy has fared better than the other peripherals
during the debt crisis. The economy is growing and a deficit of
5.3 percent last year is less than half that of Ireland, Greece
and Spain. Italian bonds have gained 4.8 percent this year,
compared with losses for Spain, Ireland, Portugal and Greece.  Berlusconi’s political travails risk prompting investors to
focus on the country’s biggest fiscal weakness, its outstanding
debt, said  Bill Blain , strategist at Matrix Corporate Capital
LLP in London.  The nominal size of Italy’s debt at about 1.8 trillion
euros makes it too large to be shored up by the EU’s 750
billion-euro financial backstop set up after Greece’s near
default in May. To prevent future crises, the EU is also
considering ways of enforcing its existing rules on debt levels,
requiring total borrowing of no more than 60 percent of GDP.
Such a move would force Italy to make deficit cuts on a scale
far larger than those hobbling Greece’s recovery, Blain said.  “It becomes a crisis when a majority of investors start to
put the many parts of the Italian jigsaw together and realize
they just don’t fit,” he said. “That’s when it may become
clear that an apparently strong economy is founded on a sandpit
of state debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  