-- Bernanke Faces Greater Scrutiny After Republican Election Gains
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-11-03T11:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bernanke-faces-more-congressional-scrutiny-after-republican-election-gains.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may have to renew his battle to preserve the central
bank’s independence after Republican victories in yesterday’s
congressional elections.  With Republicans reclaiming a majority in the House of
Representatives and eroding Democrats’ hold on the Senate, Tea
Party candidates who campaigned in part against the Fed get an
opportunity to call Bernanke to task for taking part in the
unpopular financial rescues that helped propel them to office.  “There’s certainly going to be more hearings and more
pressure,” said  Mark Calabria , a former Republican Senate
Banking Committee aide who is now director of financial-
regulation studies at the Cato Institute, a policy research
group in Washington that favors free markets.  One new Fed opponent in Congress is Kentucky Senator-elect
 Rand Paul , who has criticized the Fed for imposing “the
sneakiest tax of all -- inflation.” He joins South Carolina’s
 Jim DeMint , an advocate for Tea Party candidates who backed an
unsuccessful bill to subject the Fed’s monetary policy to
congressional audits.  The Fed has long faced pressure from the left to help spur
growth and jobs. Now, the central bank’s most vocal critics are
likely to be conservatives calling for greater scrutiny of its
decisions, including its role in bailouts of  American
International Group Inc.  and Bear Stearns Cos.  Six out of 10 self-identified Tea Party supporters who said
they were likely to vote supported overhauling or abolishing the
Fed, according to a Bloomberg News national poll conducted Oct.
7-10.  Treasuries Rise  Treasuries rose today, sending the yield on 30-year bonds
three basis points lower to 3.9 percent. That’s the lowest in
more than a week. Two-year notes yielded 0.35 percent, and the
yield on the 10-year note fell two basis points to 2.57 percent.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.4 percent to 268.66 as of
10:19 a.m. in London, a fifth straight advance.  In an unscientific survey of participants at an August Tea
Party rally in Washington that was organized by Fox News
commentator  Glenn Beck , respondents by a two-to-one margin
favored abolishing the Fed. “It’s so secretive,” said Joanne
Budynkiewicz, 52, of Chicopee, Mass.  The Senate in May rejected a House-passed measure to audit
the Fed that was proposed by Republican Representative  Ron Paul 
of Texas, Rand Paul’s father. Congress ended up approving a
compromise that requires disclosure of details of the Fed’s
emergency lending and monetary-policy actions during the
financial crisis. Information on future bank loans and asset
purchases must be released with a two-year lag.  Bernanke Argued  Bernanke argued that audits of monetary  policy  would
compromise the independence of the central bank. A letter he
sent to DeMint in May warned that audits would “seriously
threaten monetary policy independence, increase inflation fears
and market interest rates, and damage economic stability and job
creation.”  Darrell Issa , who would take over as the chairman of the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and be the
Republican’s chief inquisitor of administration, already has the
Fed in his sights. This year, he’s pressed the central bank for
documents related to the AIG rescue and demanded Bernanke
explain his role in authorizing payments to the insurer’s
counterparties, calling him an “unindicted co-conspirator” in
the bailout.  Scrutiny of the central bank will continue, Issa pledged in
an interview last month, saying that Congress must “look in-
depth behind the curtain, rather than simply have the Fed
chairman come up and lecture us.”  Free Market  As Rand Paul extolled the merits of the free market on the
campaign trail, he blamed the recession on the Fed, saying it
sent “bad signals” to markets.  “It wasn’t that the home builder was stupid, or the
mortgage broker was stupid,” he said during a July appearance
in Kentucky. “It was that they got the wrong signal from the
monetary policy of the government.”  Fed policy makers today will announce plans to resume
large-scale purchases of securities in a bid to boost economic
growth and employment, according to 53 of 56 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News last week. Twenty nine of those surveyed said
the Fed will buy at least $500 billion.  Republicans seized control of the U.S. House and, while
falling short of winning the Senate, narrowed the chamber’s
Democratic majority.  Republicans gained at least 60 House seats yesterday across
the country, capitalizing on concerns about government spending
and delivering a rebuke to President  Barack Obama ’s domestic
agenda.  Overhaul Debated  As the Senate debated an overhaul of the financial
regulatory system this year, support for audits of the Fed came
from lawmakers as varied as  Bernard Sanders , a Vermont
Independent and self-declared socialist, DeMint and Louisiana
Republican  David Vitter , as well as Democrats like Wisconsin’s
 Russ Feingold  and Oregon’s  Ron Wyden .  “You had a really strange alliance last year that
supported the audit of the Fed and that may come back into
play,” said  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center for Economic
and Policy Research in Washington.  Bernanke, first appointed by President  George W. Bush , was
reappointed by Obama and won approval for a second four-year
term in January with the most congressional opponents since the
Senate began confirming Fed chairmen in 1978. Bernanke was
opposed by 18 Republicans and 12 members of the Democratic
caucus. He was supported by 22 Republicans.  President  Barack Obama  and his top economic advisers --
including Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , a former
president of the New York Fed -- would oppose any effort to
weaken the Fed, said  Greg Valliere , chief political strategist
at the Potomac Research Group in Washington.  “In the highly unlikely event that an anti-Fed bill passed
both houses, it would face an almost-certain veto from President
Obama,” said Valliere. “There will be plenty of defenders in
both parties, and of course Geithner and the president realize
that the Fed is beyond reproach. The middle will hold against
the far right and far left when it comes to Fed policy.”  Federal Reserve  Republicans in Congress will also have the ability to hold
up Obama’s appointments to the Federal Reserve board.  The nomination of  Peter Diamond , a Massachusetts Institute
of Technology professor, hasn’t yet been confirmed in the Senate
because of opposition from Republicans such as Alabama Senator
 Richard Shelby , who questioned Diamond’s qualifications.  Last month, Diamond was awarded the Nobel Prize in
economics along with two other economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  