-- Bernanke Says New Purchases Should Aid Economic Growth With Lower Rates
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-11-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bernanke-says-new-purchases-should-aid-economic-growth-with-lower-rates.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said resuming large-scale asset purchases should boost
economic growth through lower borrowing costs and higher stock
prices and that concerns about the strategy are “overstated.”  “This approach eased financial conditions in the past and,
so far, looks to be effective again,” Bernanke said today in an
opinion article for the Washington Post released hours after the
Fed announced the $600 billion of Treasury buying through June
in a second round of unconventional monetary stimulus.  Central bankers in the world’s largest economy are
struggling to bring down a jobless rate that has persisted at
9.5 percent or higher for 14 months. U.S. payrolls have declined
for four straight months as employees hired for the census were
fired and state and local governments eliminated positions to
balance budgets.  “Stock prices rose and long-term interest rates fell when
investors began to anticipate this additional action,” Bernanke
said. “Easier financial conditions will promote economic
growth.”  The Fed said in its statement earlier today that progress
has been “disappointingly slow” in bringing down joblessness
close to a 26-year high and that the asset purchases will
“promote a stronger pace of economic recovery.”  Bernanke said that while “asset purchases are relatively
unfamiliar as a tool of monetary policy, some concerns about
this approach are overstated,” including the idea that the
money supply will expand too much and eventually lead to a surge
in inflation. The Fed’s previous asset purchases did not result
in higher inflation, and “we are confident that we have the
tools to unwind these policies at the appropriate time,”
Bernanke said.  Preferred Gauge  The Fed’s preferred gauge for consumer prices, which
excludes food and energy, rose 1.2 percent in September from a
year earlier, the slowest pace since 2001.  Fed policy makers 
have a long-run goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent inflation they
see as consistent with achieving legislative mandates for
maximum employment and stable prices.  Bernanke said the Fed could “hardly be satisfied” with an
unemployment rate near 10 percent and inflation lower than what
Fed officials aim for in the long run. Bernanke defended Fed
efforts to raise inflation, saying that “although low inflation
is generally good, inflation that is too low can pose risks to
the economy -- especially when the economy is struggling.”  “In the most extreme case, very low inflation can morph
into deflation,” he said. That can “contribute to long periods
of economic stagnation,” Bernanke said.  Bernanke said that low and falling inflation indicates that
the economy has many idle resources and that further monetary
policy efforts will not cause the economy to overheat.  The Fed chief’s last newspaper op-ed was in November 2009,
opposing legislative proposals to strip the Fed of bank-
regulatory powers and allow audits of  monetary policy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  