-- Bernanke Bond Buying May Risk Rise in Prices Similar to 2004
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-03T15:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bernanke-may-ignore-risk-of-inflation-growth-acceleration-similar-to-2004.html
The Federal Reserve may be
underestimating the inflation outlook for the second time in
less than a decade as it prepares to pump more money into the
U.S. economy.  The Fed today will probably restart purchases of bonds to
spur the economy even as growth is likely to accelerate at a 2.6
percent annual pace in the second quarter of next year from 2
percent last quarter, according to Bloomberg News surveys of
economists. The Fed will likely pledge to buy $500 billion or
more in securities, according to 29 of 56 economists surveyed.  By expanding Fed assets, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may go
down the same policy path taken in 2003-04, when he and other
central bankers kept rates near a record low as inflation rose
faster than initially measured. Bernanke may risk increasing
expectations for higher inflation by too much, causing a shake-
up in currency and bond markets, said  James D. Hamilton , a
University of California, San Diego economist.  “That perception alone would bring about a series of
immediate challenges, such as a rapid flight from the dollar,
commodity speculation and possible under-subscription to
Treasury auctions,” said Hamilton, a former visiting scholar at
 the Fed board  and the New York and Atlanta district banks. “So
the Fed has a careful tightrope act here.”  By 2012, the unprecedented stimulus would probably cause
inflation excluding food and energy to exceed 2 percent, beyond
the Fed’s preferred range, according to seven economists
surveyed, including  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  ‘Maximum’ Panic  “The parallels are very close to 2003, when the Fed had a
maximum degree of panic about deflation when inflation had
already bottomed out and was about to pick up,” said Stanley, a
former Richmond Fed researcher who expects 2.8 percent inflation
in 2012 on a rise in the prices for commodities and housing.
“Their inflation forecasts are going to be too low, and as a
result policy is going to be very easy.”  The Fed would probably not be alone in underestimating
inflation. From 1996 until 2009, the Bureau of Economic Analysis
revised up its initial reports on core inflation by an average
of 0.21 percentage point, according to  James Stock , a Harvard
University economist.  Policy makers are scheduled to release a statement at
around 2:15 p.m. in which they’ll likely reiterate the view from
their September release that “inflation is likely to remain
subdued for some time,” said former Fed governor  Lyle Gramley ,
now senior adviser at Potomac Research Group in Washington.  Too-Low Inflation  Any “bad shocks” could tip the U.S. into “a deflationary
trap with low investment, high real rates of interest and slow
productivity growth because of slow capital formation for
extended periods of time and slow job growth,” Stock said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  “That is a terrible situation,” he said. If the Fed
“takes too much action, we find ourselves with 2.5 percent or 3
percent inflation and the economy really takes off.”  Treasuries rose today, sending the yield on 30-year bonds
five basis points lower to 3.874 percent as of 11:03 a.m. in New
York. Two-year notes yielded 0.343 percent, and the yield on the
10-year note fell five basis points to 2.532 percent.  The Treasury market is pricing in lower inflation
expectations than it should, said  Michael Pond  of Barclays Plc.  “The market is looking for too-low inflation even though
we won’t get a ton,” Pond, co-head of interest-rate strategy at
Barclays in New York, said yesterday in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Trader Expectations  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for the annual increase in consumer prices over the life of the
maturity, increased yesterday to 2.21 percentage points, the
widest level since May 18.  Bernanke as a central bank governor in 2003 urged
colleagues to avert a drop in prices amid sluggish job growth,
according to transcripts of a May 2003 meeting released last
year. The  central bank  kept its target rate at 1 percent for a
year beginning in June 2003 to counter deflation.  Meanwhile, inflation excluding food and energy rose from an
initially reported 1.2 percent in May 2003 to above the Fed’s 2
percent goal a year later. An initial reading of 1.6 percent for
May 2004 is now 2.1 percent in the history books.  Since December 2008, the Fed has kept  interest rates  near
zero and used asset purchases to try to stimulate growth
following the worst recession since the 1930s. New asset
purchases would follow Fed acquisitions of $1.7 trillion in
Treasuries and mortgage debt that ended in March.  Inflation Slowed  Even with unprecedented stimulus, the economic recovery and
inflation have slowed. The Fed’s preferred price measure, which
excludes food and fuel, rose 1.2 percent in September from a
year earlier, the smallest gain since September 2001.  Most Fed
officials’  long-term preferred range for the inflation rate is
about 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  Passing on higher costs isn’t feasible for some companies.
Domino’s Pizza Inc. will keep its promotion of two medium pizzas
for $5.99 each, Chief Executive Officer  Patrick Doyle  said on an
investor call last month. “We’ve got to provide the price
that’s going to get consumers to buy,” he said.  Still, signs of inflation are emerging. Oil prices have
risen 18 percent since May, and food staples including corn and
cattle are up more than 20 percent this year.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s U.S. stores chief  Bill Simon , during
an investor meeting last month in Bentonville, Arkansas,
predicted “a slightly inflationary environment in our food
business.”  Market Tightening  While apartment rents, a component of core inflation, rose
less than 1 percent in the third quarter, the market is
tightening as vacancies dropped for the first time in three
years, Reis Inc. said Oct. 6.  “The housing situation is something that could turn around
pretty quickly if we actually had any kind of job growth,” said
 Chuck Lieberman , chief investment officer at Advisors Capital
Management LLC in Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey.  Some investors have bet prices will rise. The U.S. Treasury
Department Oct. 25 sold $10 billion of five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities at a negative yield for the first
time at a U.S. debt auction. The securities drew a yield of
negative 0.55 percent.  “The real ugly question is, will this ultimately end up
being inflationary?” said  Scott Minerd , the Santa Monica,
California-based chief investment officer at Guggenheim Partners
LLC, who helps oversee $76 billion. “In the long run, five to
10 years from now or in the next decade, this is going to be a
massive problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  