-- BG's $15 Billion Australia LNG Project Sparks `Dash for Labor' With Rivals
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-03T06:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bg-s-15-billion-australia-lng-project-sparks-dash-for-labor-with-rivals.html
BG Group Plc ’s $15 billion liquefied
natural gas project in Australia’s Queensland state will spark a
“dash for labor” as the U.K.-based energy producer and rivals
compete for skilled workers, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said.  BG committed Oct. 31 to the Queensland Curtis LNG venture,
the first of four Gladstone developments to start construction.
“We now move from the ‘dash for gas’ to the ‘dash for labor’
phase,” said  Neil Beveridge , a Bernstein analyst in Hong Kong.  The U.K.’s third-biggest oil and gas producer said the
project, which will liquefy gas extracted from coal seams, is
expected to generate 5,000 construction jobs during the next
four years.  Santos Ltd.  aims to commit to the first phase of its
Gladstone LNG venture by the end of the year. That development
may cost $18 billion, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  “The biggest challenge will be to deliver these projects
on cost and on schedule,” Beveridge said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The demand for labor in the Gladstone
region will boost costs and may cause delays, he said.  Santos, which has dropped 10 percent  in Sydney  this year,
gained 0.6 percent to A$12.74 by the market’s 4:10 p.m. close.
The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index  gained 0.5 percent. BG, based in
Reading, England, has advanced 12 percent in London this year
and closed yesterday 3.4 percent higher at 1,252 pence.  Australia’s jobless rate, at 5.1 percent in September, is
about half the level of unemployment in the U.S. and the euro
zone. The International Monetary Fund forecasts that Australia’s
growth will advance to 3.5 percent next year from 3 percent this
year, driven by investment in the resources industry.  Pipe Fitters, Welders  Concern stronger growth will cause inflation to accelerate
led the Reserve Bank of Australia to unexpectedly increase its
benchmark interest rate yesterday. Governor Glenn Stevens raised
the overnight cash rate target a quarter point to 4.75 percent.  The first four LNG processing units at Gladstone may
require 9,000 workers when construction peaks, according to
 Energy Skills Queensland , a body set up by the state government
and energy companies to tackle labor shortages. Engineers, pipe
fitters, electricians, welders and workers with water management
skills are among those in high demand, the organization said.  Arrow Energy Ltd., acquired by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and
PetroChina Co., aims to develop an LNG project in Queensland,
while Origin Energy Ltd. plans another one with  ConocoPhillips .  Energy companies and the Queensland government have
cooperated for the past two years, seeking to increase labor
supply to meet the demand and to reduce the threat of increasing
costs, Glenn Porter, chief executive officer of Energy Skills
Queensland, said by phone yesterday.  Labor ‘Challenge’  Their plans have included a A$10 million ($10 million) fund
to improve training, increasing the number of apprentices and
providing career advice, he said.  “It will be a challenge,” Porter said. “It’s a whole new
industry in Queensland and not a lot of those skills are
available in the Queensland labor market. They need to be
created or brought in from somewhere else. So the industry
identified that issue early.”  Contractors on the projects will hire workers from overseas
as a “last resort” if they cannot find Australians, he said.  BG ’s Australian unit has backed programs to train workers
and promote the industry as a career option in order to meet an
expected rise in labor demand, Brisbane-based spokesman Mark
Todd said in an e-mail. “We are confident that we and our
contractors have developed initiatives over the past three years
of planning that will provide the workforce and skills needed.”  Adelaide-based  Santos  is likely to rely on fixed prices for
contracts to reduce the risk of escalating costs, even though
that may result in a higher initial cost estimate,  Di Brookman ,
a Sydney-based analyst at CLSA, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 