-- Canada Blocks BHP's $40 Billion Bid for Potash Corp.
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-11-04T00:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bhp-billiton-s-40-billion-takeover-bid-for-potash-corp-blocked-by-canada.html
Canada blocked  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s
$40 billion hostile bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
saying a sale of the world’s largest fertilizer company wouldn’t
provide a “net benefit” to the country.  BHP has 30 days to appeal, at which point the government
will make a final decision, according to a statement read by
Industry Minister  Tony Clement  today in Ottawa. He declined to
give additional reasons for his ruling. Potash Corp. dropped 5.1
percent after the close of regular trading in New York.  The decision by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government,
which has sought to attract foreign investment, marks only the
second formal rejection of a takeover in Canada in the past 25
years. The government came under pressure from the province of
Saskatchewan, which argued Potash Corp.’s sale would cut jobs
and tax revenue and surrender control of an important resource.  “I would have expected BHP to put everything on the table
to avoid getting a negative decision,”  Mark Nicholson , a
Toronto-based lawyer at Cassels Brock & Blackwell who
specializes in Canada’s foreign-investment rules, said in an
interview. “I doubt they would have kept a big carrot in their
pocket to whip it out now. If they do, it better be a whopper.”  BHP is “disappointed” with Canada’s rejection of its bid,
will continue to work with the government and will review its
options, the company said in a filing. BHP’s bid is still
“wholly inadequate,” Potash said in a statement in response to
the government’s decision.  Stock Prices  Potash Corp.  shares  fell 4.9 percent to $138.30 in after-
hours trading as of 8 p.m. in New York, higher than the $130-a-
share offer from Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s largest
mining company.  BHP  rose 3.1 percent to A$43.96 at 10:27 a.m. 
in Sydney, the highest in almost six months.  The Australian dollar rose to the strongest in more than
six years against its Canadian counterpart after the
announcement. The Australian currency climbed to C$1.0183, the
most since April 2004.  The cost of protecting BHP bonds from default dropped the
most in more than four months. Credit-default fell 15 basis
points to 82 basis points as of 9:05 a.m. in Sydney, according
to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices. That’s the
biggest drop since June 18 and the lowest level since Aug. 17,
prices from data provider CMA show.  The BHP deal would be Canada’s largest takeover since
Vivendi SA’s $46.1 billion purchase of Seagram Co. in 2000.  Russian Plan  “Shareholders of Potash Corp. are the main losers in this
decision, at least in the short-term,”  Chris Damas , a Barrie,
Ontario-based analyst with BCMI Research, said in an e-mail. “I
don’t believe we should be running to the federal government for
protection when someone comes trying to buy our biggest
companies.”  Potash Corp. has said it would seek other offers. Russia
asked local fertilizer makers to consider a joint bid, according
to OAO Acron, the nation’s third-largest producer of nitrogen
soil nutrients. Acron told the Russian government it wouldn’t
join the plan after receiving a letter from the Industry and
Trade Ministry on Nov. 1 proposing a combined bid, Chairman
 Alexander Popov  said today by telephone in Moscow.  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the federal government can
block any transaction valued at C$299 million ($296 million) or
more if it finds the deal doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to
the country.  1,637 Approvals  Canada has reviewed and approved 1,637 applications between
June 30, 1985, the year the legislation was enacted, and Sept.
30 this year, according to government data. The other deal to be
rejected was Alliant Techsystems Inc.’s 2008 bid for MacDonald
Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.’s space business.  BHP has taken out full-page advertisements in newspapers to
argue its case. The company said it would make Saskatchewan home
to its head office for potash operations, continue developing
its C$12 billion Jansen potash mining project in the province,
maintain current employment levels and propose a Canadian
nominee for election to its board.  BHP also offered Saskatchewan a “special deal” to offset
the C$3 billion of tax revenue the province estimated it would
lose over 10 years if the takeover were allowed to proceed,
 Andrew Mackenzie , head of BHP’s non-ferrous businesses, said in
an Oct. 22 interview.  “If you walk away from a proposition like this you are
starting to send a signal that you’re not open for business,”
Mackenzie said at the time. “You will make it harder in the
future to attract capital both into Saskatchewan and Canada and
you will make it harder for Canadian companies to invest
overseas.”  Previous Acquisitions  Harper’s Conservative Party holds 13 of 14 electoral
districts in Saskatchewan and any loss there in a future
election would push it further away from a parliamentary
majority. The party holds 142 of the 308 seats in the House of
Commons, 12 short of a majority.  Some of Canada’s largest natural-resource companies have
been acquired by foreign buyers in the past decade. In 2006,
Switzerland’s Xstrata Plc made a successful hostile bid for
nickel producer Falconbridge Ltd. while Brazil’s Vale SA agreed
to buy miner Inco Ltd. London-based Rio Tinto Group bought
aluminum producer Alcan Inc. in 2007.   U.S. Steel Corp.  was sued by the Canadian government last
year for failing to meet investment commitments it made in 2007
when it acquired steelmaker Stelco Inc.  The bid for Saskatoon-based Potash Corp. is the third
multibillion-dollar transaction in two years that BHP Chief
Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  has failed to complete.  BHP aborted a proposed hostile bid for London-based Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company, in 2008
as commodity and financial markets plunged. BHP and Rio on Oct.
18 said they scrapped a plan to combine Australian iron-ore
operations because of opposition by regulators in Asia and
Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  