-- BHP Shares Gain After Canada Blocks Potash Corp. Bid
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-11-04T05:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bhp-shares-gain-after-canada-blocks-40-billion-hostile-potash-corp-bid.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company, rose to the highest in almost six months
in Sydney trading after Canada blocked its $40 billion hostile
takeover bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  Shares in the Melbourne-based company rose 2.6 percent to
A$43.72 at the 4:10 p.m. local time close on the Australian
stock exchange. That’s the highest since April 15. BHP is
disappointed and will review its options, the company said today
in a statement. It has 30 days to lodge an appeal.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government said yesterday a
sale of the world’s largest fertilizer company wouldn’t provide
a “net benefit” to the nation. BHP Chief Executive Officer
 Marius Kloppers  obtained $45 billion of loans in September to
fund the proposed $130 a share acquisition, which has met
opposition from politicians and investors.  “A large proportion” of the BHP share move “has to with
debt, certainly some shareholders preferred other capital
initiatives,”  Chris Weston , institutional dealer at IG Markets
in Melbourne, said by phone. “An element of the market” wants
BHP to stick to its core commodities and don’t want it to
acquire Potash Corp., he said.  Expanding Population  Buying  Potash Corp.  would give BHP its first production of
fertilizer, allowing it to benefit from the projected increase
in demand as an expanding world population consumes more food.
It would also be the largest acquisition by Kloppers since he
became BHP’s chief executive officer in 2007.  Industry Minister  Tony Clement  declined to give additional
reasons for his ruling, which marks only the second formal
rejection of a takeover in Canada in the past 25 years. Potash
Corp. shares fell 4.9 percent to $138.30 in after-hours trading
as of 8 p.m. in New York, signaling some investors expect a deal
to be completed.  “I’d still assign a greater than 50 percent chance that
the deal does go ahead under restricted terms,”  Tim Schroeders ,
who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in
Melbourne, said by phone. “Canada prides itself on being
investment friendly and this is the only second deal in 25 years
they’ve effectively blocked.”  The cost of protecting BHP bonds from default dropped the
most in more than four months. Credit-default swaps on BHP fell
12.5 basis points to 80 basis points as of 4:25 p.m. in Sydney,
according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices.
That’s the biggest drop since June 18 and the lowest level since
Aug. 17, prices from data provider CMA show.  Under Pressure  The Australian dollar rose to the strongest in more than
six years against its Canadian counterpart after the
announcement. The Australian currency climbed to C$1.0183, the
most since April 2004.  The government came under pressure from the province of
Saskatchewan, which argued the Potash Corp. sale would have cut
jobs and tax revenue and surrendered control of an important
resource. Under the Investment Canada Act, the federal
government can block any transaction valued at C$299 million
($296 million) or more if it finds the deal doesn’t provide a
“net benefit” to the country.  “BHP Billiton will continue to cooperate with the minister
and the Investment Review Division of Industry Canada and will
review its options,” the company said in the statement.  Maintain Employment  BHP has taken out full-page advertisements in newspapers to
argue its case. The company said it would make Saskatchewan home
to its head office for potash operations, continue developing
its C$12 billion Jansen potash mining project in the province,
maintain current employment levels and propose a Canadian
nominee for election to its board.  “Companies understand that progressive countries will want
to welcome foreign investment but they will also want to balance
against their own strategic interests,” Saskatchewan Premier
 Brad Wall  said in an interview with  Susan Li  on Bloomberg
Television’s “First Up.” “We are very blessed to have half
the world’s potash just in our province. We have to think
generationally on this issue, that’s what made it a little bit
different.”  The bid for Saskatoon-based Potash Corp. is the third
multibillion-dollar transaction in two years that BHP Chief
Executive Officer Marius Kloppers has failed to complete.  BHP aborted a proposed hostile bid for London-based Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company, in 2008
as commodity and financial markets plunged. BHP and Rio on Oct.
18 said they scrapped a plan to combine Australian iron-ore
operations because of opposition by regulators in Asia and
Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  