-- Billionaire Ken Fisher Sees 16% S&P 500 Rally After Elections
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-03T11:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/billionaire-ken-fisher-sees-16-s-p-500-rally-after-elections-on-gridlock.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  may
rally as much as 16 percent in the next six months because
yesterday’s election will stymie legislative initiatives in
Congress, billionaire investor  Kenneth Fisher  said.  Equities have surged since July as odds that Republicans
would take control of the U.S. House of Representatives
increased. President Barack Obama and the Democratic Party
pushed through reforms of the health-care and financial
industries this year.  “Markets don’t like big sweeping actions,” said Fisher,
who oversees more than $38 billion at Woodside, California-based
 Fisher Investments Inc.  “Right now, every politician is
chirping and burping and carrying on. It’s been in the interest
of the Republicans running for office to talk down the economy.
That goes away immediately after the election. Come June, you’ll
see how quiet the political landscape will be -- very little
legislation and a lot of baby kissing.”  Fisher’s optimism is based in part on history. Stocks
average gains of 11 percent in the third year of U.S.
presidencies and haven’t fallen since 1939 when the Dow Jones
Industrial Average lost 2.9 percent, according to data since
1833 compiled by the Stock Trader’s Almanac. The fourth year,
when elections are held in November, is second-best, with an
average advance of 5.8 percent.  ‘Sweet Spot’  “Next year is the sweet spot,” Fisher said. “Most
political risk aversion occurs in the first year when the
president has the most relative power to the opposition party he
will ever have. He tries to get through whatever his toughest
bills would be, and that freaks people out.”  Obama’s health-care reform reshaped the industry, extending
coverage to tens of millions uninsured Americans. Signed into
law by the president on March 23, it passed Congress without
getting a single Republican vote. On July 21, Obama approved the
most sweeping set of financial rules since the Great Depression,
giving the government authority to unwind failing firms that may
threaten the entire system, imposing rules on derivatives and
creating a consumer-protection agency at the Federal Reserve.  After the health-care law was approved, the S&P 500 rallied
to a 19-month high on April 23 before plunging 16 percent to a
10-month low on July 2. While it has since risen 17 percent to
1,193.57, the benchmark measure of U.S. shares has failed to
surpass its April peak of 1,217.28.  Speculation that the Federal Reserve will try to stimulate
economic growth through an asset-purchase technique known as
quantitative easing has helped drive the stocks rally during the
past four months. Fed policy makers began a two-day meeting
yesterday, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg said the central
bank will probably begin a new round of unconventional monetary
easing by announcing a plan to buy at least $500 billion of
long-term securities.  “Something on the low side of that might cause people to
freak out negatively and something that’s too big might cause
people to freak out negatively,” Fisher said. “In a world
where the U.S. economy is growing, I’m not sure why any of this
makes any sense. In the long-term, money creation doesn’t do
anything but cause inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 