-- Biocompatibles May Be Discussing Possible Offer With Bayer, Analysts Say
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-11-03T16:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/biocompatibles-may-be-discussing-possible-offer-with-bayer-analysts-say.html
Biocompatibles International Plc , a
U.K. developer of cancer treatments, may be a target for  Bayer
AG  as the German company looks to expand in cancer, analysts
from Finncap and  Edison Investment Research Ltd.  said.  Biocompatibles makes gel beads loaded with cancer drugs
that deliver medicine in a more controlled manner to tumors. The
Farnham, England-based company also produces devices to deliver
drugs to treat prostate tumors. Biocompatibles has a partnership
with Bayer to develop a treatment for liver cancer, a
combination of the drug-eluting beads and Bayer’s Nexavar.  Biocompatibles said Oct. 28 that it was in “advanced
talks” with an unidentified potential bidder. Bayer is seeking
to expand its drug unit and would be able to finance a deal as
big as the 17 billion-euro ($23.8 billion) takeover of Schering
AG, said Chief Executive Officer  Marijn Dekkers , at a Sept. 28
press dinner. The Leverkusen, Germany-based company is looking
to buy drug assets in cardiology, oncology and women’s health.  “It might be Bayer,”  Keith Redpath , a Finncap analyst,
said in a phone interview. “They’ve got this deal with beads
with Biocompatibles -- that is actually in some serious clinical
trials now -- which is an adjunct to Nexavar.”  Anna Keeble, a spokeswoman for Biocompatibles, declined to
comment. Christian Hartel, a Bayer spokesman, declined to
comment.  Biocompatibles fell 10 pence, or 2.9 percent, to 332.5
pence at the 4:30 p.m. close in London trading. The company has
climbed 45 percent this year, giving it a market value of 130.9
million pounds ($210.5 million).  ‘Four-Pound Mark’  “Bayer might be interested,”  John Savin , an analyst for
Edison, said in a phone interview. “The market is indicating
that it would accept something possibly about the four-pound
mark” for Biocompatibles, he said. “Whether that’s a
reasonable bid for a high-growth stock is for the shareholders
to decide.”  Nomura Code Analyst Michael King on Oct. 26 cited
Biocompatibles’ partners  Terumo Corp. ,  AngioDynamics Inc.  and
 SciClone Pharmaceuticals Inc. , as well as London-based  BTG Plc ,
as possible interested parties in an interview last month.
Biocompatibles also has a partnership with  AstraZeneca Plc  in
Type 2 diabetes and obesity.  Savin said that Angiodynamics and BTG were the “obvious
logical” suitors for Biocompatibles, which he valued at 520
pence a share, according to a Sept. 9 note.  Abigail Baron, an AstraZeneca spokeswoman, and  Ana Kapor , a
SciClone spokeswoman, said their companies don’t comment on
market speculation. E-mailed requests for comment to BTG, Tokyo-
based Terumo and Angiodynamics weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 