-- BMW Profit Trails Audi, Mercedes as Size Boosts German Rivals
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-11-03T13:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bmw-raises-2010-forecast-as-third-quarter-profit-rises-more-than-estimated.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, made less money in the
third quarter on its cars than Volkswagen AG’s Audi and Daimler
AG’s Mercedes-Benz even as the revamped 5-Series boosted profit.  BMW posted an automotive operating profit margin in the
quarter of 8.1 percent, trailing  Mercedes ’ 9.5 percent and
Audi’s 11 percent, according to data from the luxury carmakers.
BMW today reported an 11-fold increase in net income to 874
million euros as the 5-Series and X1 boosted sales 36 percent.  BMW’s lower margin shows its vulnerability to its German
rivals, which are part of larger groups. Audi benefits from
sharing costs with other  VW brands , while Daimler is also the
world’s biggest maker of trucks and buses. BMW is responding by
expanding the model lineup to secure its independence and fend
off Audi, which aims to topple BMW as the luxury leader by 2015.  “It’s a huge challenge for BMW and Mercedes to compete
with the scale available to Audi through Volkswagen,” said
 Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive
Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen. “Audi clearly has
the better cost position.”  BMW fell as much as 1.70 euros, or 3.3 percent, to 50.65
euros and was down 0.7 percent as of 2:21 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading. The  shares  have gained 63 percent this year, valuing
the carmaker at 33.2 billion euros ($46.5 billion).  ‘Major Offensive’  BMW, which introduced remakes of the  5-Series  sedan and X3
sport-utility vehicle this year, as well as the all-new Mini
Countryman, expects comparisons with rivals to improve as new
models roll out. The 5-Series and X3 compete with Mercedes’
older E-Class and GLK models.  “We’re at the beginning of a major model offensive,”
Chief Financial Officer  Friedrich Eichiner  said today on a
conference call. “We’re on an upward trend.”  Mercedes and Audi are also pushing out new models. Audi,
which plans to increase its lineup to 42 vehicles by 2015 from
34 last year, introduced the new A1 subcompact and A7 coupe this
year and will roll out a revamped A6, which competes with the 5-
Series, in 2011.  Mercedes  is overhauling the SLK hard-top
roadster and CLS coupe for next year and will start an expansion
of its small-car models late in 2011.  Lower Profitability  Luxury-car sales are rebounding from the financial crisis
as demand advances in China and rebounds in the U.S., the
world’s top two auto markets. September marked the highest
output of Mercedes cars for the month in the company’s 120-year,
while Audi targets record sales in 2010 of 1.08 million
vehicles. BMW aims to deliver more than 1.4 million car this
year, a level topped only in 2007 and 2008.  Munich-based BMW’s profit per vehicle averaged 2,300 euros
this year, compared with Audi’s 2,346 euros and Mercedes’ 3,395
euros, Dudenhoeffer estimated. Stuttgart-based  Mercedes , which
typically commands higher prices than Audi and BMW, has the most
ambitious profit targets.  The  Daimler  unit aims to generate operating margins of at
least 10 percent by the second half of 2012. BMW’s goal is to
generate sustainable profit margins of at least 8 percent by
2012, while Audi is also targeting 8 percent for the long-term.  “The record third-quarter earnings can’t necessarily be
extrapolated going forward,” Audi spokesman  Armin Goetz  said in
a telephone interview from the carmaker’s headquarters in
Ingolstadt.  Target Raised  To counter Audi’s scale advantage, Daimler Chief Executive
Officer  Dieter Zetsche  swapped 3.1 percent stakes with Renault
SA and Nissan Motor Co. to underscore a partnership aimed at
making Mercedes and its Smart unit more competitive in upscale
compact cars. The automakers will cooperate on small engines and
share a new platform to be used for the Smart city car and
Renault Twingo.  BMW cooperates with  PSA Peugeot Citroen  in a partnership
focused on four-cylinder gasoline engines and hybrid components
for front-wheel drive vehicles. Dudenhoeffer said BMW may need
to deepen the cooperation with Peugeot to lower costs and keep
pace in profitability.  BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer ’s today
raised his target for automotive  operating profit  to more than 7
percent of sales this year from a forecast in August of a 5
percent margin. The higher guidance disappointed some investors.  “The profit margin looks clearly weak, much lower than
Audi and Mercedes,” said  Adam Hull , a London-based analyst with
WestLB, who has a “reduce” rating on the shares. “The
guidance is low. They should be able to do better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 