-- BNP Grows to Biggest Bank as France Says Size Doesn't Matter
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2010-11-04T17:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bnp-grows-to-biggest-bank-as-france-says-size-doesn-t-matter.html
The world’s biggest bank isn’t in the
U.S., where regulators banned lenders from proprietary trading,
nor in Switzerland, which is doubling capital requirements.  BNP
Paribas SA  is in France, which is doing neither.  BNP Paribas’s assets rose 34 percent in the three years
through June, reaching 2.24 trillion euros ($3.2 trillion),
equal to the size of  Bank of America Corp. , the largest U.S.
bank, and  Morgan Stanley  combined. The Paris-based company may
also have one of the lowest capital ratios among major European
banks under new Basel rules, Morgan Stanley analysts estimated.  Regulators around the world are considering how to rein in
their biggest banks to avoid future bailouts without stifling an
economic recovery. France, which will hold the rotating chair of
the Group of 20 nations in 2011, is taking a laissez-faire
approach even as concerns persist that Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis may pose renewed risks to financial stability.  “The French are pretending not to see this,” said  Carmen Reinhart , a senior fellow at the Washington-based Peterson
Institute for International Economics and co-author of a 2009
book examining financial crises throughout history. “What
policy makers are doing is delaying the inevitable. But delaying
malaise is not unique to the French.”  Basel Rules  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which sets
capital standards for banks worldwide, softened planned capital
and liquidity requirements in September and gave lenders about a
decade to comply. France and Germany led efforts to weaken
regulations proposed by the committee in 2009, concerned that
their banks and economies wouldn’t be able to bear the burden of
tougher rules until a recovery takes hold, according to bankers,
regulators and lobbyists involved in the talks.  The Basel committee agreed to increase the minimum common
equity requirement to 7 percent of assets, weighted according to
their risks, from 2 percent previously. Individual countries may
enforce higher capital requirements for their biggest lenders.  Switzerland, which pushed for tougher rules, is moving
ahead with additional restrictions to curb risks from its
biggest banks. A government-appointed committee proposed last
month that  UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG , the country’s
largest banks, should hold almost twice as much capital as
required under the new Basel rules.  ‘Their Problem’  Britain may follow with similar requirements, Morgan
Stanley analysts said in an Oct. 20 report, while a U.K.
government commission is also examining whether the largest
banks should be broken up. In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Act,
signed by President  Barack Obama  in July, prohibits banks such
as New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from engaging in
trading for their own account.  Banks’ size wasn’t the main indicator of whether they posed
a risk during the financial crisis, and regulators should be
wary of making rules specifically targeting size, Bank of France
Governor  Christian Noyer  said at a press conference with French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  in Paris on Oct. 15.  “Asking for more capital isn’t necessarily more virtuous
if it’s simply the counterparty to more risk,” Noyer said. “If
banks in some countries have very risky profiles and regulators
ask them to hold more capital, it’s their problem. Don’t
conclude that everyone has to do exactly the same thing.”  France last month passed a law to increase the power of
supervisors over bonuses and rating companies. Starting next
year, France will also introduce a “systemic tax on big banks’
riskiest activities,” according to the finance ministry.  ‘No Sense’  “I see absolutely no reason whatsoever that we should be
asked any capital surcharge,” BNP Paribas Chief Executive
Officer  Baudouin Prot , 59, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “You should ask a capital surcharge from the banks
whose business model, whose track record has been between bad
and horrendous. And there have been a number of them, but not
for BNP Paribas.”  BNP Paribas “deserves” a lower level of capital compared
to most of its rivals and the bank shouldn’t seek to hold “a
precise level” of common equity above the 7 percent set by the
Basel committee, Chief Financial Officer  Philippe Bordenave  told
analysts on a call today. A system with debt securities that
convert to equity when a bank faces financial shocks would be
“more effective than a capital surcharge” to reduce systemic
risks, Bordenave said.  Higher Profit  The bank reported a 46 percent increase in third-quarter
profit today to 1.91 billion euros, beating analysts’ estimates,
on consumer-banking earnings in France, Belgium and the U.S. The
stock  rose  3.7 percent in Paris trading.  Frederic Oudea , the CEO of Societe Generale SA, France’s
No. 3 bank by assets, told a French parliament hearing yesterday
that the financial crisis showed “size isn’t linked to risk.”
Applying capital standards like those planned in Switzerland
“makes no sense” in France, and could curb lending or make it
more expensive, he said.  French presidents since  Charles de Gaulle  in the 1960s have
protected France’s so-called national champions, firms spanning
industries from energy to aircraft to drugmakers. The current
president,  Nicolas Sarkozy , led a 2004 state bailout of Alstom
SA when he was finance minister and that same year encouraged
the nation’s two biggest drugmakers to combine and create Paris-
based  Sanofi-Aventis SA , dissuading Switzerland’s Novartis AG
from making a competing offer for Aventis SA.  When Rome-based power company Enel SpA said it wanted to
bid for France’s Suez SA in 2006, the government orchestrated
Suez’s merger with state-owned  Gaz de France SA  of Paris.  Systemic Risk  BNP Paribas spent about $43 billion on  acquisitions  since
2000, including the 2009 purchase of Fortis assets in Belgium
and Luxembourg, data compiled by Bloomberg show, making it the
biggest bank by deposits in the euro area. The number of
employees has doubled to more than 200,000 since 2004.  “The French government clearly desires to defend and
promote French banks’ capacity to expand abroad,” said  Nicolas Veron , a senior economist at Brussels-based economics research
organization Bruegel. The fact that French banks did better in
the last crisis “doesn’t mean that France has no systemic-risk
problems. You must think about scenarios of future risks.”  France has four banks with more than $1 trillion in assets,
as many as the U.S., whose economy is five times the size. In
the euro region’s four largest nations, Spain’s  Banco Santander
SA  is the only bank aside from BNP Paribas with assets that
exceed its home country’s gross domestic product.  Different Standards  European and U.S. banks use different accounting standards,
making a direct comparison of their size difficult. In
particular, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles net
out the banks’ derivatives positions, unlike the international
financial reporting standards used in Europe. This results in
higher reported assets under IFRS. The comparison also excludes
assets held by banks off their balance sheets.  Total banking assets in France rose 41 percent to 7.16
trillion euros between 2005 and 2009, narrowing the gap with
Germany, the biggest banking system in the euro region,
according to  European Central Bank  data. The industry’s assets
amount to almost four times French gross domestic product.  Oudea, 47, said yesterday that “French banks’ size
relative to the country’s economy remains manageable.”  BNP Paribas, which temporarily froze three investment funds
on Aug. 9, 2007, signalling the onset of the credit crunch in
Europe, weathered the crisis better than some of its largest
competitors.  Lower Writedowns  Its writedowns were a fraction of those taken by Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and UBS, which posted the biggest losses
among European banks. Still, both Edinburgh-based RBS and UBS of
Zurich are likely to have higher core tier 1 capital ratios than
BNP Paribas’s 8.5 percent under Basel III rules in 2012, Morgan
Stanley analysts led by  Huw van Steenis  estimated.  BNP Paribas is popular with  analysts , with 81 percent
advising investors to buy the shares in the past three months,
the highest proportion among the world’s 10 largest banks by
assets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  France provided about 20 billion euros of capital to its
largest banks after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s September
2008  bankruptcy . BNP Paribas repaid its portion of the aid, with
interest, last year, after raising funds from investors. France
also joined Belgium in the 6 billion-euro rescue of  Dexia SA  in
2008. France’s aid compares with the $309 billion the U.S.
government injected into banks and insurers, under its Troubled
Assets Relief Program.  ‘Milder’ Crisis  Because French banks had a “milder” crisis, the country
sees less reason for a change in regulation, said Reinhart, who
co-wrote the 2009 book, “This Time Is Different: Eight
Centuries of Financial Folly” with  Kenneth Rogoff , a Harvard
professor. Even countries such as the U.S. that had a “systemic
crisis,” are doing less than they should, she said.  France has had its share of banking crises. Reinhart and
Rogoff counted 15 since 1800, compared with 13 in the U.S. and
12 in the U.K. In the early 1990s, Credit Lyonnais SA, then
France’s largest bank, ran up an estimated 15 billion euros in
losses after buying assets including Paris real estate, a
Hollywood film studio and golf courses. The government rescued
the bank through a series of bailouts.  Credit Agricole  SA bought
Credit Lyonnais in 2003.  Kerviel Loss  Societe Generale announced a record 4.9 billion-euro
trading loss in January 2008 after trader  Jerome Kerviel  amassed
50 billion euros of unauthorized positions. The loss, together
with writedowns on U.S. subprime mortgage-related assets, forced
the Paris-based company to turn to  shareholders  for 5.5 billion
euros.  France’s Banking Commission fined the bank 4 million euros
in 2008 for “serious shortcomings” in risk controls. Kerviel,
33, was sentenced last month to three years in jail and to repay
Societe Generale the loss by a Paris judge, who said his actions
had threatened the existence of the bank. Kerviel remains free
pending an appeal.  Credit Lyonnais’s losses, while dwarfed by the record
numbers in the credit crisis, amounted to about 5 percent of the
bank’s total assets, which peaked at 304.3 billion euros in
1993, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The same
proportion of assets at BNP Paribas would equal about 112
billion euros, exceeding its total shareholders’ equity by 34
percent.  Sovereign Risks  This year’s Greek sovereign debt crisis “showed that
French banks aren’t immune from risk, whatever the quality of
the country’s regulation,” Bruegel’s Veron said.  French banks had claims on Greece of $57.3 billion at the
end of June, the most of any country, according to  Bank for
International Settlements ’ data.  “One of the reasons why I don’t like buying French banks,
despite the fact that they’re very cheap, is the sovereign debt
crisis,” said  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking , a London-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein who has an “underperform” rating on BNP
Paribas. “Because I don’t think it’s over.”  BNP Paribas’s exposure to Portugal, Ireland, Greece and
Spain amounts to 15.4 percent of the bank’s tier 1 capital,
Hoffmann-Becking said. That’s higher than 14.4 percent at
Societe Generale, 9.5 percent at Credit Agricole, or 4.7 percent
at Deutsche Bank AG of Frankfurt, and increases to 75.6 percent
if Italy and Belgium become affected, he said.  France’s four largest banks -- BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole,
Societe Generale and Groupe BPCE -- passed European Union stress
tests in July, as did all but seven of the 91 banks scrutinized
by regulators. The French lenders, which taken together account
for 80 percent of the nation’s banking assets, have enough
capital to outlast an economic slowdown and a sovereign-debt
crisis, according to the tests.  ‘Livelihood’  The French banks probably won’t face stricter capital and
liquidity requirements because of their importance for the
economy, Hoffmann-Becking said. Introducing tougher rules would
“take away their livelihood and the guy who’s going to pay for
it is the French consumer on the street.”  The following table ranks the world’s 15 biggest banks by
assets as of June 30, 2010, using the currency conversion rates
on that date. It includes the percentage change in assets from
three years earlier in the original reporting currency. The data
were compiled by Bloomberg from company reports, and figures are
in millions of euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  