-- Bond Buying Barriers for Foreigners Swell Cost for Rousseff: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-11-03T21:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bond-buying-barriers-for-foreigners-swell-cost-for-rousseff-brazil-credit.html
Brazil’s barriers to international
bond investors are exacting a growing cost from the Treasury.  The country has the lowest foreign participation in its
debt market among major Latin American countries and pays the
highest yield on local bonds relative to its overseas
securities, according to data compiled by ING Groep NV and
Bloomberg. Brazil’s local bonds due in 2017 yield 331 basis
points more than its foreign real-denominated notes, up from 217
in mid-July and almost double the 127 gap on neighboring
Colombia’s debt.  The differential will climb further, adding to Brazil’s
interest rate tab, because President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  is
unlikely to dismantle the deterrents to international investors
that her predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , has put up,
according to  David Beker , head of Latin America strategy at Bank
of America Corp. Lula tripled a tax on foreigners’ fixed-income
purchases last month to slow a two-year currency rally and rein
in a record current-account gap.  “Dilma is seen as continuity,”  Beker  said in a telephone
interview from New York. The yield gap “only will change when
the government decides to stop taxing capital flows and they
don’t look like they’re willing to do it,” he said.  Rousseff’s staff didn’t respond to an e-mailed message
seeking comment. Rousseff, who served as cabinet chief and
energy minister under Lula, will take office in January after
winning 56 percent of the vote in the Oct. 31 election.  Lula boosted the tax rate on foreign investors twice last
month, taking it to 6 percent from 2 percent and extending
barriers that include a requirement that they open local
accounts to buy bonds.  Real Rises  The government raised the tax after the real touched a two-
year high of 1.6442 per dollar on Oct. 14. It’s surged 28
percent in the past two years, curbing exports and helping
increase the annual deficit in the current account, the broadest
measure of trade, to $47 billion.  International investors seeking alternatives to near-zero
key rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan were moving money into
Brazil to take advantage of the country’s benchmark 10.75
percent rate. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in
Brasilia on Oct. 25 that the tax increase was working to curb
investment in the debt market and stem the real’s gains.  The real fell 0.7 percent in October, the biggest monthly
slide since declining 4.5 percent in May.  The tax, which Lula reinstated at 2 percent in 2009 after
eliminating it a year earlier, is pushing more foreigners into
Brazilian real-linked international bonds.  Overseas Bonds  Yields on the 12.5 percent overseas bonds due in 2016 have
climbed 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 8.45
percent in the last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on Brazil’s local bonds maturing in 2017 have
risen 9 basis points to 11.77 percent over that time, swelling
the difference between the two securities to 331 basis points.
The gap touched 389, the widest in five months, on Oct. 19, a
day after the second tax increase.  Brazil’s 10.7 billion reais of overseas local-currency
bonds equal only about 0.7 percent of its 1.5 trillion of
domestic debt, according to the Treasury.  “It’s a bad deal,”  Tony Volpon , a Latin America
strategist in New York at Nomura Securities International Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. “They’d rather have the tax and
lessen the pressure on the currency but they have to pay a
higher yield” on the local securities, he said.  The Finance Ministry’s press department didn’t return an e-
mailed message seeking comment.  Overseas Investors  Brazil’s local-versus-foreign yield spread compares with
127 basis points on Colombian securities, 138 on Chilean debt
and 171 on Philippines notes.  Foreigners hold 14 percent of all Brazilian government
bonds, less than half the 29 percent they own of Mexican debt
and the 33 percent they hold on average in the region, according
to  ING , the biggest Dutch financial services company. The
percentage in Brazil will double over the next decade since
government measures won’t be able to keep capital away over the
long term, said  David Spegel , head of emerging-market debt
strategy at ING in New York.  “The existence of capital controls is a bit of a
deterrent, but it’s a very attractive market,” Spegel said.  Brazil’s inflation-adjusted interest rates are the second-
highest after Croatia among the 46 countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell two
basis points to 173 today at 5:15 p.m. New York time, according
to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. The spread on emerging-market
government dollar debt shrank six basis points to 236.  Credit Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years dropped two basis points to 95, according to CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2012 rose one basis point to 11.33 percent. The
yield level implies traders expect the central bank to raise the
benchmark rate 125 basis points to 12 percent by the end of 2011
to cool the fastest economic expansion since the 1980s.  Sapping Demand  While slowing the real’s rally, the tax increase has sapped
demand at the government’s weekly bond auctions. The Treasury
rejected all bids on bonds due in 2021, their longest local
fixed-rate securities, in the past two auctions.  The flops marked the first back-to-back canceled auctions
since June. The government began issuing the securities in
February. Treasury Secretary  Arno Augustin  said in an interview
on Oct. 21 that the yield bids were “unreasonable” that day.  “The Treasury has not been willing to sell the longest
dated bonds because the yields are too high,” Bank of America’s
Beker said. “The implementation of the tax has made the
Treasury’s job more complicated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  