-- Boston Generating, Lehman, TerreStar: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-03T13:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/boston-generating-fuddruckers-broadstripe-barzel-insight-bankruptcy.html
The bankruptcy court has the right to
preside over the sale of Boston Generating LLC, the owner of
five electric generating plants in the Boston area, U.S.
District Judge  Denise Cote  in Manhattan ruled.  The bankruptcy judge, on the other hand, isn’t allowed to
decide whether Boston Generating can reject a contract to supply
transportation for natural gas to be used as fuel at a plant,
Cote said in her Nov. 1 opinion.  Cote will rule on whether the transportation agreement can
be rejected. Algonquin Gas Transmission LLC, a subsidiary of
 Spectra Energy Corp. , successfully brought the motion to
withdraw the reference on the rejection issue. Withdrawal of the
reference is the technical term used to describe when a
particular dispute is required by bankruptcy law to be decided
in district court rather than in bankruptcy court.  If there isn’t a higher bid at auction,  Constellation
Energy Group Inc.  will buy the facilities for $1.1 billion.
Competing bids were initially due Nov. 1. Final bids have a Nov.
13 deadline in advance of the Nov. 15 auction. The hearing for
approval of the sale will take place Nov. 17.  Cote withdrew the reference of the motion to reject the
contract because the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has
exclusive jurisdiction over rates charged by gas pipelines. Cote
noted that courts in the reorganizations of Mirant Corp. and
Calpine Corp. previously ruled that withdrawing the reference is
mandatory with regard to rejection of gas transportation
agreements.  Cote went on to mention that the Mirant and Calpine courts
reached different conclusions on the ultimate question of
whether the contract can be rejected under the Bankruptcy Code.  Observing that FERC has an independent right to approve the
sale, Cote said there is no need to withdraw the motion for
approval of the deal.  The bankruptcy case is In re Boston Generating LLC, 10-
14419, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Updates  Lehman Seeks to Convert More Archstone Debt to Equity  Although  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  was authorized by
the bankruptcy judge in May to restructure debt of a real estate
investment trust named Archstone-Smith, the transaction is yet
to be completed. In a motion filed yesterday, Lehman is asking
the judge to allow the conversion of an additional $65 million
of debt it holds into equity.  Lehman participated in the group that acquired Archstone in
a $20 billion transaction in 2007. In general terms, Lehman
along with affiliates of Barclays Capital Real Estate Inc. and
Bank of America NA were authorized in May to convert $5.2
billion of existing debt into new classes of preferred equity.  The other investors will convert an additional $172 million
into equity. Lehman says that the overall restructuring should
be completed soon after the bankruptcy court authorizes the
additional debt-to-equity swap.  For details on the original restructuring, click here for
the May 10 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Originally, Lehman and the other owners invested $4.8
billion to acquire the stock of Archstone, which at the time was
the second-largest publicly traded multi-family real estate
investment trust in the U.S. Lehman provided $2.4 billion of the
capital to acquire 47 percent of the common equity. Lehman by
this year also held $2.5 billion of various loans used for the
acquisition.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment-banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. Lehman said it
intends to amend the plan in the last quarter of the year and
have the plan approved in a confirmation order by March.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Preferreds Seek Dismissal of Some TerreStar Cases  Preferred shareholders of  TerreStar Corp.  filed a motion on
Nov. 1 asking the bankruptcy judge in New York to dismiss the
Chapter 11 cases filed Oct. 19 by seven affiliates of unit
TerreStar Networks Inc., a provider of mobile and Internet
communications services.  The holders of Series B convertible preferred stock of the
parent oppose the restructuring backed by  EchoStar Corp. , the
largest secured creditor. The preferred holders contend that the
Chapter 11 case is an attempted “looting by EchoStar” of
“assets to which it has no legal claim.”  The preferred shareholders want the bankruptcy judge to
hold a hearing on Nov. 16. The holders of the preferred stock
are funds affiliated with Solus Alternative Asset Management LP
and Millennium International Management LP.  They argue that the seven subsidiaries don’t need
reorganization and won’t be receiving any proceeds from the loan
for the Chapter 11 case. They contend that the value of the
subsidiaries should flow upstream to the parent for the benefit
of shareholders.  TerreStar, based in Reston, Virginia, provides mobile
satellite coverage throughout the U.S. and Canada where
traditional mobile networks are unavailable. EchoStar, a
television-equipment and satellite-services company, is
providing financing for the Chapter 11 case.  EchoStar and New York hedge fund Harbinger Capital Partners
are TerreStar Corp.’s largest  shareholders , according to
Bloomberg data. EchoStar, based in Englewood, Colorado, has
agreed to support a restructuring plan in which it would swap
TerreStar secured debt for equity. EchoStar would also backstop
$100 million of a $125 million rights offering.  TerreStar Networks listed assets $1.4 billion and debt
totaling $1.64 billion.  The case is In re TerreStar Networks Inc., 10-15446, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Luby’s Wants Out of Nine Fuddruckers Franchise Deals  Restaurant operator  Luby’s Inc.  accused Magic Brands LLC of
misrepresenting the terms of nine franchise agreements before it
was authorized in June to buy the  Fuddruckers  stores and
franchise business for $63.5 million.  Magic Brands, which changed its name to Deel LLC after the
sale, separately is seeking a two-month extension of the
exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan. If granted by the
bankruptcy court at a Nov. 16 hearing, the new deadline would be
Jan. 18.  Magic Brands said that any extension of exclusivity beyond
Jan. 18 won’t apply to the official creditors’ committee.  Luby’s said the data room didn’t show how nine franchise
agreements had been modified less than a year before bankruptcy
to be “far more onerous” to the franchisor. The franchise fee
was reduced to 3 percent from 5 percent, personal guarantees
were terminated, and the franchisor’s option to buy the assets
was deleted. There is a long list of other undisclosed changes
in Luby’s court papers.  Luby’s said it doesn’t know whether the allegedly faulty
disclosure was “by accident or artifice.”  Luby’s wants the bankruptcy court to modify the sale-
approval order to eliminate the requirement to purchase the nine
franchise agreements with Daltex Restaurant Management Inc.  The creditors’ committee’s lawyers previously said the sale
to Luby’s should generate “substantial recoveries for unsecured
creditors.” Magic Brands previously said the sale “could”
result in full payment for unsecured creditors.  After closing stores, Austin, Texas-based Magic Brands had
62 company-owned Fuddruckers locations operating in 11 states.
It also owned the  Koo Koo Roo  restaurant brand, with three
stores in California. The petition said assets are less than $10
million while debt is less than $50 million.  The Koo Koo Roo stores are in bankruptcy a second time.
Owned by Prandium Inc., they were sold to Magic Brands through
Chapter 11 in 2004. The 135 Fuddruckers stores in 32 states
owned by franchisees aren’t in the bankruptcy case.  The case is In re Deel LLC, 10-11310, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Broadstripe Loss Exceeds Depreciation, Amortization  Broadstripe LLC, a St. Louis-based broadband cable
operator, reported a $2.63 million net loss in September on
revenue of $7.68 million. Depreciation and amortization for the
month totaled $2.2 million.  Broadstripe was authorized in October to adopt a bonus
program for 12 executives that may cost as much as $446,000. To
qualify, the cable system for which the employee works must be
sold. A worker who takes or is offered a job with the buyer
won’t receive a bonus. In applying for approval of the bonuses,
Broadstripe said it has been “testing the market for sale of
their cable systems.”  The chief executive officer can qualify for a $1.5 million
bonus if the total sale price exceeds $170 million. If the sales
bring less than $150 million, there is no bonus. The minimum
bonus is $375,000 for sales that generate between $150 million
and $160 million.  Any creditor is at liberty to file a plan because
Broadstripe has been in Chapter 11 more than 18 months. The
company has been saying it can’t carry out a plan given an
unresolved lawsuit where the unsecured creditors’ committee
contends that secured lenders’ claims should be subordinated or
recharacterized as equity. In addition, there are two claims by
rival cable operators totaling almost $160 million based on
Broadstripe’s alleged failures to complete asset purchase
agreements.  Broadstripe filed a reorganization plan in January 2009
centered on an agreement reached before the Chapter 11 filing
with holders of the first- and second-lien debt. At the outset
of Chapter 11, Broadstripe had 93,000 customers in Maryland,
Michigan, Washington State and Oregon. It was created through
four acquisitions in 1998 and 1999 and filed for Chapter 11
reorganization in January 2009.  The case is In re Broadstripe LLC, 09-10006, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Barzel to Sell Property with Truncated Auction  Barzel Industries Inc ., a steel processor and manufacturer
before selling almost all of the assets in November 2009,
intends to sell a building and land in Hartford, Connecticut,
for $475,000.  Barzel is proposing a streamlined auction procedure.
Instead of first holding a hearing to approve auction
procedures, Barzel will entertain higher offers at a hearing on
Nov. 30 to approve the sale. Barzel said it had been marketing
the property for 18 months.  The 33,150-square-foot building is situated on a 1.43-acre
plot.  Barzel sold most of the assets last November for $75
million to Norwood, Massachusetts-based Chriscott USA Inc.
Secured lenders agreed to a settlement later where they received
a release of claims in return for giving up $800,000. Even after
the settlement, Barzel said it doesn’t know whether “a
liquidating plan is appropriate and feasible.”  Barzel had 15 facilities. The petition listed assets of
$366 million against debt totaling $385 million, including $315
million on senior secured notes. Another $18.4 million was owing
on an asset-backed loan with a first lien on accounts
receivable.  The case is In Barzel Industries Inc., 09-13204, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Watch List  Loehmann’s May File Chapter 11 Again Next Week  Retailer  Loehmann’s Inc. , unable to complete an exchange
offer in October, may file under Chapter 11 as soon as next
week, said two people familiar with the plan.  Loehmann’s, a discount retailer with more than 60 stores in
16 states, received tenders from holders of 92.4 percent of the
$110 million in senior secured notes maturing next year.
Although enough for confirmation of a so-called prepackaged
plan, the tenders were short of the 97 percent required to
implement the offer outside court.  Loehmann’s is working on a prepackaged plan, according to
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are private. For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Under the expired exchange offer, the existing notes,
maturing in 2011, could have been exchanged for new notes in the
same amount, maturing in 2014.  The New York-based company is owned indirectly by Istithmar
PJSC, an investment firm owned by the government of Dubai.
Loehmann’s emerged from a 14-month a Chapter 11 reorganization
with a confirmed plan in September 2000. At the time, it was
operating 44 stores in 17 states.  InSight in Talks, Misses Interest Payment on Notes  InSight Health Services Corp.  moved in the direction of a
restructuring or another Chapter 11 reorganization when it
didn’t make the $4.2 million interest payment due Nov. 1 on
$293.5 million in senior secured floating-rate notes due in
November 2011.  InSight said it is in discussions on a “restructuring”
with holders of a “significant majority” of the notes. The
company’s revolving credit lender agreed to forbear from
exercising remedies until Dec. 1.  The Lake Forest, California-based company provides
diagnostic-imaging services in 30 states. It had 62 fixed and
104 mobile facilities at the end of the June fiscal year.  InSight’s auditors previously said that they have
substantial doubt about the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern. The company’s parent,  InSight Health Services
Holdings Corp. , began a so-called prepacked Chapter 11 case in
May 2007 and completed the reorganization that July.  The plan paid creditors in full other than holders of the
$194.5 million in notes, who were given 90 percent of the stock.
Existing shareholders retained 10 percent.  The balance sheet on June 30 was upside down with assets of
$141 million and total liabilities of $321 million.  The parent’s stock closed on Nov. 2 at 7 cents, down 2
cents a share in the over-the-counter market.  Prepack Possible  Vertis Will Prepack If Tenders Offer Falls Short  Vertis Inc., an advertising and marketing services
provider, announced a stock-for-debt exchange offer that will be
completed through a so-called prepackaged Chapter 11 filing if
98 percent of the affected debt isn’t tendered.  The offer is supported by holders of 68 percent of the $258
million in 13.5 percent senior pay-in-kind, or PIK, notes due
2014 and 80 percent of the $478 million in 18.5 percent second-
lien notes due 2012, according to Vertis.  The restructuring will reduce debt by more than $700
million, or 60 percent, Chapter 11 veteran Vertis said.
Previously, Vertis was offering a combination of cash, new
senior secured notes and stock.  The new proposal calls for holders of the second-lien notes
to receive between 8.49 and 8.065 shares of new stock for each
$1,000 in debt. The PIK debt holders would get 2.46 shares for
each $1,000 in existing debt. The new stock will be issued after
a 60,111 to 1 reverse stock split.  Holders of the second-lien debt can also buy as much as
$100 million in additional equity, to be used for further
reduction in company debt.  Vertis said it has commitments for a $175 million revolving
credit and a $425 million term loan to be implemented when the
exchange offer or reorganization is completed.  Second-lien debt holders will receive a 2.5 percent consent
fee for tendering by Nov. 15. Holders of PIK debt will receive a
consent fee in the form of an additional 0.82 shares for each
$1,000 in tendered debt. The offer expires on Dec. 1, unless
extended.  The offer comes slightly more than two years after Vertis
and American Color Graphics Inc., the third-largest insert
printer in North America, merged by confirming companion Chapter
11 reorganizations. Completed in August 2008, the companies’
previous reorganizations reduced their combined debt by almost
$1 billion.  First announced in April, the exchange offer was amended
several times. In May, Vertis was aiming to reduce debt by $185
million.  ACG, based in Brentwood, Tennessee, had $528 million in
debt before the prior bankruptcy while the debt of Baltimore-
based Vertis was $1.7 billion at the holding company.  The prior cases were In re ACG Holdings Inc., 08-11467, and
In re Vertis Holdings Inc., 08-11460, both in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filing  Pro Beach Volleyball Tour Cancels Season, Files Chapter 11  AVP Pro Beach Volleyball Tour Inc., a producer of beach
volleyball tournaments, filed for Chapter 11 relief on Oct. 29
in Los Angeles after canceling the remainder of the season.  AVP, based in Torrance, California, said a lack of working
capital forced it to cancel the last five events in the 12-event
season. AVP blamed the loss of corporate sponsors, who provide
80 percent of revenue.  The company called itself the operator of the “most
prominent professional beach volleyball tournaments in the
U.S.” and said in court papers that it has more than 200 “top
volleyball professionals under exclusive contracts.”  AVP is 72 percent-owned by RJSM Partners LLC, the secured
lender owed $5.4 million. Unsecured debt is $5 million,
according to court papers. Assets are less than $500,000 while
debt exceeds $1 million, according to the petition.  The case is In re AVP Pro Beach Volleyball Tour Inc., 10-
56761, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District California (Los
Angeles).  Briefly Noted  Tribune Committee Sues Lenders and Officers Over LBO  The official creditor’s committee for publisher  Tribune Co. 
took advantage of authority given by the bankruptcy judge at an
Oct. 22 hearing by filing lawsuits on Nov. 1 to set aside some
of the transactions making up the publisher’s 2007 leveraged
buyout. Defendants in the two suits include lenders plus
officers and directors.  For a discussion of the three competing plans filed by
creditors to reorganize Tribune, click here for the Nov. 1
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For details of Tribune’s own plan
filed Oct. 23, click here for the Oct. 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Tribune withdrew a prior version of a reorganization in
August following the examiner’s report finding there was some
likelihood that the second phase of the leveraged buyout in
December 2007 could be attacked successfully as a constructively
fraudulent transfer. The examiner found less likelihood that the
first phase of the transaction in June 2007 could be attacked
successfully.  The second part of the buyout entailed the issuance of $2.1
billion on the senior credit and a $1.6 billion bridge loan. For
a summary of some of the examiner’s conclusions, click here for
the July 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Tribune’s abandoned
plan would have forced through a settlement some creditors
opposed.  The $13.7 billion leveraged buyout in 2007 was led by  Sam Zell .  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  Citadel Rescinds Stock Awards to Chief Executive  Citadel Broadcasting Corp. , a Las Vegas-based owner of 224
radio stations, will rescind stock awards to Chief Executive
Officer  Farid Suleman , according to a bankruptcy court filing
yesterday by R2 Investments LDC, a creditor who alleged in
October that the awards violated the confirmed reorganization
plan.  R2 said Citadel instead will issue stock options in
accordance with the plan.  R2, which supported the Citadel Chapter 11 plan implemented
in June, contended that management and directors gave themselves
stock worth $110 million when the plan only allowed options to
vest over three years at strike prices equaling the market or
higher. For other Bloomberg coverage, click here. For details on
R2’s allegations, click here for the Oct. 11 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  For details on Citadel’s plan, click here for the May 18
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The predicted recovery for
Citadel’s secured creditors was 82 percent. For unsecured
creditors, it was 36 percent.  The case is Citadel Broadcasting Corp., 09-17442, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Landry’s Approved to Buy Claim Jumper Restaurants  Claim Jumper Restaurants LLC, the operator of a chain of 45
western-themed restaurants, received approval at a hearing
yesterday to sell the business to  Landry’s Restaurants Inc . in a
transaction valued at $76.6 million.  Landry’s bid included $48.3 million cash, the assumption of
$23.3 million in debt, and $5 million in cash to collateralize
existing letters of credit. At the auction that Landry’s won,
the opening cash bid was $27 million from a company formed by
Black Canyon Capital LLC and Bruckmann Rosser Sherrill & Co.
Black Canyon is an affiliate of the unsecured mezzanine lender,
according to court papers.  Landry’s purchased  Oceanaire Inc ., a chain of bankrupt
seafood restaurants, following an auction in April.  For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  In addition to $69.5 million in secured debt, Claim Jumper
owes $112.5 million on subordinated notes. The petition says
assets are worth more than $50 million while debt exceeds $100
million.  The case is In re Claim Jumper Restaurants LLC, 10-12819,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Daily Podcast  Tribune’s Competing Plans and the Freedom to Threaten: Audio  The four plans competing to reorganize  Tribune Co. , the
upcoming reorganization of the publisher of Star and National
Enquirer, the lawsuit by  Downey Financial Corp.  to take tax
refunds away from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., and the
freedom to make threats about filing a lawsuit are analyzed in
the bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Advance Sheets  Scotia, Palco Buyers Seek Full 5th Circuit Review  The purchasers of  Scotia Pacific Co.  and affiliate  Pacific
Lumber Co.  filed a motion yesterday asking all of the active
judges in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans to
rehear an Oct. 19 ruling by a panel of three judges that in
substance told the buyers they must pay more than they bargained
for the California timberland owners.  Chief Judge  Edith H. Jones  from the U.S. 5th Circuit Court
of Appeals overturned the two lower courts and told Scotia and
Palco that they must pay an extra $29.7 million because the
bankruptcy judge made a mistake in calculating the amount owed
to secured lenders for use of their collateral during the
Chapter 11 case. Because Marathon Structured Finance Fund LP and
Mendocino Redwood Co. bought Scotia and Palco for $580 million
cash and the conversion of $160 million of debt into equity,
they must come up with the extra $29.7 million to retain their
investment.  In the petition for rehearing to all the 5th Circuit
judges, Marathon and Mendocino argue that Jones didn’t follow
prior opinions from her circuit on the issue called equitable
mootness. The two buyers contend that the doctrine prevents
imposing a new liability on a formerly bankrupt company without
consideration of the impact on third parties, such as investors
and lenders.  For the rehearing motion, the buyers retained  G. Eric Brunstad  Jr., the lawyer who in recent years has argued the most
bankruptcy cases in the U.S. Supreme Court. Brunstad is from the
Hartford, Connecticut, office of Dechert LLP.  Brunstad contends that the opinion last month creates a so-
called conflict of circuits because it differs from rulings on
mootness in the U.S. Courts of Appeal in New York, Chicago and
Philadelphia.  Brunstad’s papers characterize the Jones opinion as meaning
that a “third party investor can no longer rely on the finality
of confirmation.” By saying there is a conflict among circuit
court ruling on the issue, Brunstad is laying the foundation for
a possible appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, if necessary.  For details on Jones’s opinion from October, click here to
read the Oct. 22 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Scotia, Palco and four affiliates filed Chapter 11
petitions in January 2007 when a $27 million payment was coming
due on notes secured by the timberland. The bankruptcy judge
approved the Chapter 11 plan in a confirmation order in June
2008.  The opinion by Jones is Bank of New York Trust Co. NA v.
Pacific Lumber Co. (In re Scopac), 09-40307, U.S. 5th Circuit
Court of Appeals (New Orleans). The bankruptcy court case is
Scotia Pacific Co., 07-20027, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District Texas (Corpus Christi).  The prior appeals court
decision is  Bank of New York Trust Co. v. Official Unsecured
Creditors’ Committee (In re Pacific Lumber Co.), 08-40746, U.S.
5th Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 