-- Bovespa Stocks Advance on Fed Stimulus Plans, Embraer Buy Recommendation
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-11-03T19:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bovespa-stock-futures-gain-on-federal-reserve-stimulus-bets-ambev-profits.html
Brazilian stocks  advanced for a third
day as Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA jumped and the U.S.
Federal Reserve said it will purchase $600 billion of Treasuries
through June to boost economic growth.  Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA,  the world’s fourth-
biggest aircraft manufacturer, climbed after Bank of America
Corp. raised it to “buy” from “underperform.”  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA , the state-controlled oil company, jumped after
Banco BTG Pactual advised buying the stock on the potential for
improving reserve estimates and investor sentiment. Banco
Santander Brasil SA led a rally for banks.  The Bovespa stock index advanced 0.3 percent to 71,788.88
at 2:53 p.m. New York time. Other emerging-market stocks also
rallied, bringing the benchmark index to its highest level in
more than two years. The real gained 0.4 percent to 1.6968 per
dollar.  In emerging markets “a bubble is probably developing, but
it ain’t anywhere near fully inflated levels,”  Barton Biggs ,
the managing partner of New York-based hedge-fund firm Traxis
Partners LLC and the former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asset
Management, wrote in a report distributed by  Itau Unibanco
Holding SA . “Valuations are not extended -- yet.”  Policy makers, who said new purchases will be about $75
billion a month, “will adjust the program as needed to best
foster maximum employment and price stability,” the Fed’s Open
Market Committee said in a statement in Washington. The central
bank kept its pledge to keep interest rates low for an
“extended period.”  Regional Outlook  Latin American stocks may rise a further 15 percent by the
end of 2010, led by gains in banks, steelmakers and mining
companies, according to a Banco Santander SA poll of investors.  Banco Santander rose 3.4 percent to 24.91 reais. Banco do
Brasil SA, Brazil’s federally controlled bank, gained 2.1
percent to 34.39 reais.  President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  said she will reduce
Brazil’s debt levels so that interest rates can fall in a
“sustainable” way.  Rousseff, in a television interview yesterday, said her
goal is to cut net debt to 38 percent of gross domestic product,
from 42 percent today. She didn’t provide a timeframe.  “At this level there is no technical reason for Brazil’s
interest rates not to converge to international levels,”
Rousseff said in an interview with SBT television.  Embraer gained 2.9 percent to 12.64 reais. Bank of America
raised its rating on the company, citing a dividend yield that
exceeds 2 percent, more than comparable aerospace companies, and
the prospects for lower costs for research and development.  Petrobras climbed 1.7 percent to 26.82 reais.  “We see relevant upside to its core assets now and the
potential that in 12 months, value perception in the company
increases significantly,”  Gustavo Gattass , an analyst at BTG,
wrote in a note to clients in which the bank reinstated its
“buy” rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  