-- Boxer Wins California Senate, Beats Fiorina, AP Says
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-11-03T04:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/boxer-wins-california-senate-seat-defeating-republican-challenger-fiorina.html
Democratic incumbent  Barbara Boxer 
won re-election to the U.S. Senate from California, defeating
Republican challenger  Carly Fiorina , the Associated Press
projected.  Boxer, 69, is an 18-year veteran of the Senate and
chairwoman of the  Environment and Public Works Committee  that
oversees energy interests. Fiorina, 56, hails from the business
world, having served as chief executive officer of the Palo
Alto, California-based technology company  Hewlett-Packard Co.   The AP called the race as Boxer took a lead of 48 percent
to 46 percent, with 15 percent of precincts reporting.  Boxer held off Fiorina amid a wave of voter discontent
with incumbents and the state’s economic slump. California’s
12.4 percent unemployment rate is the third-worst in the
nation.  Boxer is used to tight races, said  Linda Fowler , a
government professor at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New
Hampshire. “She’s a very tough, relentless campaigner,”
Fowler said.  While Boxer built up a cash advantage over Fiorina, she
faced an onslaught of advertising from outside groups including
the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the nation’s biggest business
lobby. They poured millions of dollars into the race, saying
Boxer failed to spur job growth and tagging her for supporting
policies such as the Obama administration’s health-care
overhaul legislation.  Hewlett-Packard Grandsons  Boxer’s campaign, in turn, tried to paint Fiorina as a
failed businesswoman. Last week, the campaign forwarded  an
opinion piece  in the San Francisco Chronicle from two grandsons
of the founders of Hewlett-Packard who said Fiorina “nearly
destroyed a great company” during her tenure.  Boxer may have gotten the most help from female voters
turned off by positions Fiorina took on social issues including
abortion and gay marriage during the Republican primary, Fowler
said.  Fiorina earned endorsements from several groups that
oppose abortion rights and gay marriage, instead supporting
civil unions. Boxer is a leading advocate of abortion rights
and supports gay marriage.  Even in an anti-incumbent year, California is one of the
most Democratic-leaning states.  “Republicans thought they would have a better shot at the
women’s vote with Carly Fiorina,” Fowler said. “Fiorina got
pushed too far to the right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ,
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  