-- BP's Dudley Embraces Deepwater Risk in U.S., Brazil After Spill
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   S t a n l e y   R e e d
-- 2010-11-03T17:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bp-embraces-deepwater-risk-as-dudley-rebuilds-after-40-billion-gulf-spill.html
BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  expects to drill in the U.S. Gulf for 20 years as the
company exploits its experience searching for oil miles below
the sea.  “Companies like BP, one of the roles they play in the
industry is working in riskier areas,” Dudley, 55, said in an
interview at BP’s worldwide London headquarters yesterday. BP
“is now going to become incredibly focused on managing the
risks, for example, of deep-water. It’s not going to shy away
from the risk, it’s going to get even better at it.”  Dudley, who took over from  Tony Hayward  last month and will
present his first strategy update in February, said it will take
two years to remake the company after a runaway Gulf of Mexico
well caused the worst offshore U.S. oil spill, a disaster
projected to cost $40 billion. BP may  start paying dividends 
next year at a lower level than before the spill, he said.  “The idea of coming out in February with a massive
firework around strategic direction from BP may sound exciting,
but it’s not quite realistic,” Dudley said. “You will likely
see an immediate set of steps by BP, and further ones to come in
2011 and 2012.”  BP rose to the highest since Oct. 1 in London today after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation on the stock
to “buy” from “neutral.” The shares climbed 1.8 percent to
439 pence as of the 4:30 p.m. close. The stock is still down a
third since the April 20 accident on the Deepwater Horizon rig
that killed 11 workers and started the spill.  Asset Sales  BP may reduce the number of countries where it produces oil
and gas to 16 from 21 after selling assets in countries
including Venezuela, Vietnam, and Colombia, Dudley said.  BP has already sold $14 billion in assets in its disposal
program. Dudley said the company hasn’t yet decided whether it
will sell assets in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay. Likewise, the company
hasn’t yet settled on whether to sell its 60 percent stake in
Argentina’s Pan American Energy LLC, which may be worth as much
as $9 billion, he said.  BP won’t be the first company to start drilling in the Gulf
of Mexico again after President  Barack Obama  lifted a moratorium
last month.  “It’ll take some time into 2011 for companies to get back
to work,” Dudley said. “Before we go back to the work in the
Gulf, even if the government said it’s okay to go back now, we
are going to go through all of our operations and rigs and
working processes with great, great detail. We’re not going to
rush back into the Gulf.”  ‘Two-Decade Play’  That doesn’t mean BP won’t return to the area that accounts
for about a tenth of its global  output .  “We certainly have a great set of production assets and we
have opened up the lower tertiary play in the Gulf of Mexico,
which is a two-decade play,” said Dudley. “That’s an important
piece of exploration for BP we’re very good at. You’ll see us
continue to participate in that.”  Developing reserves in the waters off Brazil will be one of
BP’s main objectives as it develops new projects.  The company’s priorities are, “first, meet our obligations
in the U.S.,” Dudley said. “Then, we’ve built a growing
business in Brazil. We’ve got Shah Deniz in Azerbaijan, we’ve
got some U.K. exploration now to go. We’ve got a growing
business in Egypt. We will be participating in China.”  Deep-water production accounts for about 18 percent of BP’s
global output. The company is the top deep-water explorer in the
Gulf and has taken part in more than 40 percent of the area’s
large field discoveries in the past decade, according to its
website. It also drills from deep-water fields in Angola. In
March, BP bought assets in Brazil as part of a $7 billion deal
with  Devon Energy Corp .  Meet Partners  Dudley spent his first weeks on the job travelling to meet
partners in China, India, and Azerbaijan. Governments are asking
BP to be involved in the energy industry, he said.  “We’re not being shunned as a company,” he said. “We
have a long way to go, though, to rebuild trust in the world.”  BP has committed to pay $5 billion a year into a $20
billion escrow fund for claims related to the spill. Dudley
indicated that that may lead to lower future payouts in the
 dividend , suspended for the first three quarters of this year,
and the board will review making a fourth quarter payment.  “We may restore a dividend, at a level yet to be
determined,” Dudley said. “The company has a unique
opportunity to reset both its portfolio and its dividend as the
result of this terrible tragedy.”  BP said yesterday profit fell 66 percent after a further
charge of $7.7 billion related to the spill, taking the total
provision close to $40 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  