-- Brazil Treasury Plans to Sell More Real Bonds Abroad, Add New Maturities
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-11-03T22:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/brazil-treasury-plans-to-sell-more-real-bonds-abroad-add-new-maturities.html
Brazil may sell 30-year real-
denominated bonds abroad to discourage foreign investors from
sending money into the country and driving up the local
currency, deputy Treasury secretary  Paulo Valle  said.  The government may also issue 10-year real-denominated
bonds, Valle said in an interview from Brasilia. The government
is also considering including older real bonds issued abroad in
an existing buyback program.  Treasury Secretary  Arno Augustin  said Oct. 21 that the
government was likely to sell more real bonds overseas this
year, a day after it issued its real-linked securities due in
2028 for the first time in three years. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has said the world is engaged in a “currency war” as
countries look for ways to discourage capital inflows while
investors hunt for higher yielding assets amid near-zero
interest rates in the U.S., Japan and other developed markets.  “In the foreign market, as the minister and the secretary
said, we will continue with a strategy of building a curve in
reais by creating new maturities,” Valle said. The government
plans to “build a very liquid curve for bonds up to 30 years.”  Brazil sold 1 billion reais ($591 million) of bonds due in
2028 to yield 8.85 percent on Oct. 20. Yields on the debt have
since rose 37 basis points to 9.22 percent, according to data
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The sale came two days after the Finance Ministry tripled a
tax on foreigners’ purchases of local fixed-income assets in
October in a bid to curb gains in the currency.  The real gained 0.8 percent to 1.6898 per U.S. dollar
today. It has more than doubled since President  Luiz Inacio Lula 
da Silva took office in January 2003, the biggest gainer among
all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  