-- British Author Alan Shadrake Convicted of Contempt of Court in Singapore
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-11-03T03:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/british-author-alan-shadrake-convicted-of-contempt-of-court-in-singapore.html
British author Alan Shadrake was
convicted of  contempt of court  for his book challenging
the integrity and independence of Singapore’s judiciary.  High Court Judge Quentin Loh announced his decision today
and reserved sentencing until Nov. 9, saying that the 75-year-
old had a “final opportunity to make amends.”  Shadrake, who had previously refused to apologize, said
after the ruling that he would “work out how to do this and
satisfy the court.” The author of “Once a Jolly Hangman:
Singapore’s Justice in the Dock” accused the city state’s
courts of dispensing “unequal justice” and bowing to political
and economic pressures, the prosecution had said.  Contempt of court  carries a jail sentence, a fine, or both.
No maximum penalty has been specified under Singapore’s
constitution, according to the  attorney general’s office .  “This is an especially pernicious case of grave and
aggravated contempt” and “cannot possibly come within any
reasonable notion of fair criticism,” the attorney general’s
office said during the three-day trial last month.  Shadrake’s lawyer M. Ravi has said that the writer had no
intention of scandalizing Singapore’s courts and called the
judiciary “hypersensitive.”  A Wall Street Journal editor was fined S$10,000 ($7,300)
last year for the publication of three articles that the city-
state’s government said showed contempt of its judiciary. In
another contempt of court lawsuit, three activists were
sentenced to between seven and 15 days in prison for wearing t-
shirts with pictures of a kangaroo dressed as a judge.  Shadrake’s book isn’t banned in Singapore, according to the
Media Development Authority. Retailers and distributors will
have to seek legal advice on whether they can sell or distribute
the publication, the regulator said.  The author is also being investigated for criminal
defamation, Singapore authorities have said.  The case is Attorney-General vs Alan Shadrake OS720/2010 in
the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  