-- British Airways Wins Appeal in Job Cut Case Brought by Union
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-03T10:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/british-airways-wins-appeal-in-london-job-cut-case-brought-by-unite-union.html
British Airways Plc  didn’t breach
contracts when it cut cabin-crew staffing levels last year
without union approval, a London court said.  The Court of Appeal in London today ruled against Unite, a
union that represents 12,000 British Airways flight attendants,
in its dispute with management over pay and working conditions.  In the ruling, Justice  Janet Smith  said that while a clause
in the contract is unclear, it doesn’t mean that crew levels on
flights are guaranteed. If the term was “individually
enforceable” it would “have the effect of enabling an
individual or a small group of cabin-crew members to bring a
flight to a halt,” she wrote.  Today’s case is the latest in a series of legal fights
between the airline and Unite. The carrier has sued Unite over
its decision to call strikes, while Unite has opposed the
airline’s decision to deny travel benefits to employees that
participated in the walkouts.  “We are pleased with today’s Court of Appeal judgment,
confirming that the modest changes we made to onboard crew
numbers on flights from Heathrow 12 months ago were reasonable,
did not breach crew contracts and can remain in place,” British
Airways said in an e-mailed statement referring to the London
airport. “The changes have made a substantial contribution
toward easing the company’s financial position.”  A Unite spokeswoman declined to immediately comment.  British Airways last month offered cabin crew revised
proposals on pay and staffing levels in an effort to end the 21-
month dispute. Unite said flight attendants will have an
opportunity to vote on the deal and a strike ballot may be
called if it is rejected.  Flight attendants took part in 22 days of walkouts between
March and June, grounding flights at the airline. They remain
the only staff group yet to agree to a new contract. British
Airways posted its first profit in two years Oct. 29 as surging
ticket sales allowed it to ramp up fares.  The case is: A2/2010/0578(Y) Malone & ors -v- British
Airways Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at  