-- Bruederle Says Bondholders Must Pay Crisis Costs as Coalition Shows Unity
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-11-03T16:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bruederle-says-bondholders-must-pay-crisis-costs-as-coalition-shows-unity.html
German Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  said holders of euro-region bonds must share the costs
of any future crisis, underlining coalition unity on a stance
that may be driving up risk premiums for Irish and Greek debt.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , both Christian Democrats, are “absolutely right” to
demand that investors assume risks when buying euro-region
bonds, Bruederle said today in an interview en route from Canada
to Berlin. Such a move would avert reliance on taxpayer-funded
bailouts should a euro state face insolvency, said Bruederle, a
member of Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner.  “If no haircut instruments are written into new euro
stability rules, then markets can speculate with bonds without
risks,” he said. “Germany must support this instrument.” A
haircut is when a bondholder is required to take a loss on the
investment.  Bruederle’s backing for the measure underscores the German
government’s determination not to back down over limiting
taxpayer exposure in the European Union’s permanent debt
mechanism being drawn up by a December summit of EU leaders. The
Free Democrats, which are dragging down coalition support as
they sink to a record low in opinion polls, criticized a euro-
area decision last month not to incorporate automatic sanctions
for states that run up excessive deficits.  “The logic of haircuts is that they enhance the
responsibility of member states to pursue sound fiscal policy,”
said Bruederle, whose trip included talks with Canadian Finance
Minister  James Flaherty . “False fiscal policy has in that case
consequences for the bond issuer and the bondholder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at  at
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  