-- Budget Officer Page Sees Canada Deficit in 2015-16, Contradicting Flaherty
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-03T14:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/budget-officer-page-sees-canada-deficit-in-2015-16-contradicting-flaherty.html
Canada will have a budget deficit
that persists for five years because of higher spending, the
country’s budget officer said, contradicting Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty ’s view the shortfall will be eliminated by then.  The deficit will be C$11 billion ($10.9 billion) in the
2015-16 fiscal year, most of it due to “structural” factors
that require spending cuts or tax increases to eliminate, the
budget office run by former finance department official  Kevin Page  said today in a  report  from Ottawa. Flaherty said Oct. 12
there will be a C$2.6 billion surplus that year.  The difference in forecasts stems from the budget office’s
prediction that spending will advance faster than Flaherty says
it will, with the report citing a lack of detail on spending
cuts in Flaherty’s budget update. The government is relying on
higher employment insurance premiums, coupled with restraint in
defense and operating spending, to help the country lower its
deficit, and Flaherty has also promised to end  emergency
stimulus spending  by March.  “Policy actions to increase revenues and/or reduce
spending relative to their projected paths would be required to
ensure that the budget is balanced once the economy returns to
its potential,” the report said.  Canada will run deficits totaling C$139 billion through
2016, the budget office said, greater than the government’s
estimate of C$107 billion.  The report predicted operating expenses will expand an
average of 3.2 percent annually, equal to the growth of
population plus inflation, compared with a government prediction
of a 1.4 percent increase. Spending rose by an average 6.4
percent annually in the five years before the government’s
stimulus package began.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  