-- George W. Bush Drives Gay Girls Nuts in Kron Play: John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/bush-republicans-drive-poor-gay-girls-nuts-in-lisa-kron-play-john-simon.html
A more confused and confusing,
pseudo-profound and flagrantly pretentious play than Lisa Kron’s
“In the Wake” would be hard to imagine.  It is about what happens in the wake of the  George W. Bush 
presidency, directly or indirectly to blame for much of what
bedevils Ellen, the presumably autobiographical heroine.  Some sort of unspecified celebrity, Ellen lives in
Manhattan with her schoolteacher-lover, Danny, whose sister
Kayla and her lesbian spouse, Laurie, live two floors below. The
friendly couples think of themselves as family.  But in Boston, Ellen has a lesbian lover, Amy, who makes
one-minute documentaries of people’s feelings. The disputed
Florida vote, Bush’s “victory” and the Afghanistan war drive
Ellen to rants of fear and anger. She soliloquizes in the
present between scenes from the past.  Deeply troubled too is Judy, a middle-aged international
aid worker with romantic and family problems for which the
Republicans somehow are also to blame.  Amy finds a full-time lover, leaving Ellen inconsolable.
Moreover, Laurie and Kayla are about to move to Madison,
Wisconsin, further splintering the family. When Danny, too,
decides to leave Ellen, she blames herself (why not George W?).  Noisily Annoying  Always, between scenes, videos from the salient events of
the Bush years are awkwardly and noisily projected onto the
proscenium arch.  Leigh Silverman ’s staging and a cast that includes Michael
Chernus and Deirdre O’Connell are essentially blameless. Not so
the Ellen of Marin Ireland, what with her peculiar stares,
relentless mugging and odd pauses.  At the  Public Theater , 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-
212-967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org 
Rating: *  ‘Spirit Control’  Beau Willimon’s “Spirit Control” has a very good first
act and a crazy second. If you consider that a glass half full,
you might want to catch it.  It is an unusual and interesting story. Adam, an air-
traffic controller at St. Louis’s Spirit Control tower, is
confronted with a panic call from a hysterical woman in a small
plane whose pilot has dropped dead from a heart attack. Adam
brilliantly talks her through the maneuvers needed to land. When
the landing nonetheless goes wrong, an explosion kills the
woman, Maxine.  In a bar, the married Adam is accosted by a sexy woman who
seduces him into following her home. Her name? Maxine, she says.
Adam and the Maxine who crashed turned out to have identical
childhoods. Now the barroom Maxine, too, seems to have a similar
past.  When Adam returns home after two days with Maxine, wife
Jess finds out what happened and all hell breaks loose. But
there is a reconciliation.  Act Two, however, starts with a compelling confrontation
between the now-divorced Adam and his elder, estranged son. Some
preposterous metaphysics or mysticism -- or, simply, lunacy --
takes over, and what follows is impossible to understand, let
alone believe.  Well-Acted  Nevertheless, under Henry Wishcamper’s able direction, this
is a very well-acted play. Jeremy Sisto, as Adam, is
outstanding, but Mia Barron, Charles Borland, Aaron Michael
Davies, Brian Hutchison and Maggie Lacey are not far behind. If
you have a mystical bent, you might even enjoy the weird second
half.  At the  Manhattan Theatre Club  Stage 1, 131 W. 55h St.
Information: +1-212-581-1212;
 http://www.manhattantheatreclub.com 
Rating: ** ½  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 