-- Business Looks to Republicans to Block Obama on Rules, Taxes
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-11-03T19:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/business-looks-to-republicans-to-block-obama-on-rules-taxes.html
The Republican victories in Congress
mean U.S. companies from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . to  WellPoint
Inc . may be able to weaken or block what they consider President
 Barack Obama ’s anti-business policies on health care, the
environment, taxes and financial reform.  Republicans retook the House of Representatives yesterday
with a gain of at least 60 seats, their biggest increase since
1938. The party will use its first majority in the House since
2006 to try to eliminate funding for parts of Obama’s health
care bill opposed by business as well as curb regulations and
government spending,  Jay Timmons , executive vice president of
the  National Association of Manufacturers , a Washington-based
lobbying group, said in an interview before the election.  “Americans voted for jobs and economic growth” and
“resoundingly rejected” Democrats’ policies on taxes and
regulation,  Thomas Donohue , president of the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce , the biggest business lobbying group, said in a
statement last night.  Republicans also scored a net gain of at least six seats in
the Senate, though Democrats retained control of that body.  The results will bolster Republican efforts to extend Bush-
era tax cuts for those earning more than $250,000 and to defeat
Obama’s proposals to increase taxes on companies’ overseas
profits.  Stabilizing Taxes  “When you have 9.6 percent  unemployment  it’s not the time
to be raising taxes,”  John Engler , NAM’s president and the
former Republican governor of Michigan, told reporters today.  On health care, they are “really going to be pushing back
on the regulations,” said  Kim Monk , managing director at the
investment advisory firm  Capital Alpha Partners LLC  in
Washington. “There could be some serious blowback from a
Republican Congress.”  Republicans also are likely to use their new leadership of
House committees to tie up administration officials in hearings
to explain and delay proposed rules on pesticides, ozone
standards and mining, said  Kenneth Green , resident scholar at
the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, a group
critical of Environmental Protection Agency regulations.  The efforts may backfire, especially if Republicans carry
out threats to subpoena members of the Obama administration and
if their push to cut spending results in a government shutdown,
said  Jack Pitney , a political science professor at Claremont
McKenna College in Claremont, California.  Harder Line  “There will be a large number of new members who will
press for a harder line,” Pitney said. “But the new members
are like gasoline: they provide the fuel for the party but they
are also very combustible and can provoke explosions.”  More-ambitious goals sought by some lawmakers and
businesses, such as completely overturning Obama’s health-care
overhaul, probably will remain out of reach for Republicans
because of the Democratic majority in the Senate and Obama’s
veto power.  High-profile objectives, such as repealing the health-care
measure, won’t progress past “symbolic, messaging votes,” said
 Bruce Josten , the top lobbyist for the U.S. Chamber.  The Washington-based Chamber, which led the fight against
Obama on health care and financial regulation and budgeted a
record $75 million promoting pro-business candidates, says it
hopes the acrimony of the election campaign can be put aside and
Republicans can work with Obama to cut the deficit, promote
nuclear power and energy efficiency, and pass long-stalled free
trade agreements.  Bipartisan Potential  Other items may gain support from both the administration
and Congress, such as scaling back business taxes imposed by the
health-care bill, providing highway funding, creating renewable-
energy standards and boosting nuclear power, he said.  “There is a potential here for some bipartisan movement,”
Josten said.  The results of the election are positive for companies in
pharmaceuticals, air-freight and financial services as well as
restaurants, according to a report today by Thomas Lee, chief
equity analyst at  JPMorgan Chase  & Co. in New York. Alternative-
energy stocks such as  First Solar Inc . and  EnergySolutions Inc .
may take a hit because the election makes less likely added
government subsidies or legislation that would drive renewable-
energy demand, Lee wrote in his report.  Bank of America Corp.,  Visa Inc ., Pfizer Inc.,  FedEx Corp .
and  Duke Energy Corp . are among 23 stocks Lee predicts may gain
because a Republican victory means less pressure on them in
Washington.  Credit Expansion  “We could start to see credit expansion next year as a
result of extension of the Bush-era tax cuts,” Lee said on a
conference call today. “This all argues for the markets to hit
1,300 by year end.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which closed at the
highest level since May 3 yesterday, rose 0.12 percent to
1195.52 at 3:01 p.m. New York time today.  “The Republican victory in the House means there will be
an absolute halt to the Obama agenda,” Tom Block, founder of
Tom Block Consults and the former head of government relations
for JP Morgan, said on the call organized by Lee.  Following are assessments of what the new Congress means
for selected industries and issues.  FINANCE  The election will put Republicans in charge of the House
Financial Services Committee that Massachusetts Democrat  Barney Frank  has headed since 2007. A Wall Street critic, Frank and
Senator  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat who is
retiring, wrote the law aimed at reining in abuses that they say
contributed to the financial crisis. The legislation represents
the biggest overhaul of financial regulations in more than seven
decades.  Republicans’ new power gives them the ability to shape more
than 240 rules that may be needed to implement the Dodd-Frank
law, including regulations establishing the direction and
independence of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Rulemaking by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other
agencies on bank capital standards, derivatives and proprietary
trading also will draw increased scrutiny.  “We don’t want them to regulate capriciously, arbitrarily,
without engaging in a cost-benefit analysis,” Representative
 Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican on the financial services
panel, said in an interview.  The regulatory oversight and ability to weaken rules may
benefit banks including Goldman Sachs,  JPMorgan  and  Bank of
America , all of which lobbied against elements of the Dodd-Frank
law, saying they would hurt profits.  On housing, Republicans including Hensarling say they want
a free-market approach that would phase out federal support for
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage companies taken over by
the government after their losses soared.  A legislative stalemate may be fine with financial
companies as well as investors, said  Alison Williams , a
Bloomberg Research analyst. “In general, investors just want
gridlock so the government will be less of a threat,” she said.  HEALTH CARE  House and Senate Republicans have written at least  30 bills 
that would roll back provisions of the health-care overhaul
Obama signed into law in March.  Such efforts may help WellPoint and rival health insurers
escape regulations on how much they spend on patient care and
let  Boston Scientific Corp . and other medical-device makers
dodge $20 billion in tax increases over the next decade.  “You can literally open the bill and point your finger to
a page and say, ‘Here’s something we should go after,’” said
Representative  Michael C. Burgess  of Texas, a Republican who
serves on the House Energy and Commerce health subcommittee.
“It’s all bad.”  The Republicans’ push will force Democrats to vote on
whether to defend the most controversial parts of the law, such
as requiring insurance for all Americans, said  Tom Scully , the
former chief of the Medicare program under President  George W. Bush .  Republicans also want to go after a requirement that
businesses of all sizes report to the Internal Revenue Service
any expenditures of more than $600, and they probably will
target the budgets of agencies that are implementing the law.  The split Congress ensures there won’t be an outright
repeal of the law that Republicans such as Representative  John Boehner , who is in position to become the new speaker of the
House, have called for, Scully said.  “Very little will happen in the next two years, but it
will be a big political battle,” said Scully, senior counsel at
the Washington office of Alston & Bird LLP.  DEFENSE  House Republicans have pledged to cut $100 billion in
domestic discretionary spending, the outlays set by Congress on
a yearly basis that aren’t mandated by law.  Don’t look for them to take the ax to defense spending very
soon, though.  Wary of the growing military might of China, Republicans
are likely to be more aggressive in spending in ways that
respond to that country’s capabilities in naval warfare,
ballistic missiles and air power, even if the overall U.S.
defense budget doesn’t increase.  “We have to look at the totality” of China’s efforts,
said Representative  Randy Forbes , a Virginia Republican who may
become head of the House Armed Services Committee’s readiness
subcommittee. Once lawmakers focus on the emerging challenges,
they will agree on the need for “readiness capability,” he
said.  That would entail devoting more money to weapons programs
benefiting contractors making sea-based, anti-missile systems,
such as  Lockheed Martin Corp.  and  Raytheon Co. , said  Loren Thompson , defense analyst with the Lexington Institute in
Arlington, Virginia.  Also standing to gain are ship- and submarine-makers
 Northrop Grumman Corp.  and  General Dynamics Corp ., said  James McAleese , a consultant to defense companies.  New Republican House defense leaders will also try to
protect military contractors in lawmakers’ districts, Thompson
said.  Representative  Howard McKeon , a California Republican, is
likely to become chairman of the Armed Services Committee.  Bill Young , a Florida Republican, may head the panel of the
Appropriations committee that approves defense spending.  Northrop Grumman was the top defense contractor in McKeon’s
California district with contracts worth $1.01 billion in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lockheed was second
with $253.2 million.  General Dynamics was the largest defense contractor in
Young’s Florida district, receiving $286.2 million, followed by
Raytheon’s $221.8 million.  ENERGY  On energy policy, the first order of business for
Republicans will be to block the Environmental Protection
Agency’s plan to limit carbon emissions.  Congressional Democrats from coal-producing states have
joined Republicans in seeking to stop or postpone EPA regulation
of carbon emitted by power plants and factories. EPA
Administrator  Lisa Jackson  has said Obama “would veto any
attempt to take away authority here.”  The failure to pass his cap-and-trade measure, which would
reduce carbon emissions and create a market in pollution
allowances, may force Obama to take smaller steps to reshape
U.S. energy policy. “We may end up having to do it in chunks,
as opposed to some sort of comprehensive omnibus legislation,”
the president said in an  interview  published in the Oct. 15
issue of Rolling Stone magazine.  Efforts to reach a compromise on energy legislation may
focus on enacting national requirements for the use of non-
polluting renewable energy.  Electricity producers such as  NRG Energy Inc.  may benefit
as Republicans push to include nuclear power in such a standard
along with the wind turbines and solar panels favored by
environmentalists, said  David Crane , chief executive officer of
Princeton, New Jersey-based NRG.  TRANSPORTATION  Airlines such as  United Continental Holdings Inc.  and  Delta
Air Lines Inc.  may gain from the shift in congressional power
because Republicans oppose proposals to limit the outsourcing of
maintenance work abroad and to subject global airline alliances
to antitrust regulation.  House-approved legislation to finance the Federal Aviation
Administration, still pending, would require drug testing and
additional inspections at overseas maintenance centers used by
U.S. carriers, potentially raising costs and making outsourcing
less attractive to the airlines.  The legislation also would restrict global airline
alliances by ending their exemption from antitrust prosecution
after three years. Carriers such as  AMR Corp. ’s American
Airlines and  British Airways Plc , and Delta and  Air France-KLM ,
use alliances to act as single entities in setting prices and
schedules on international routes.  “The current Congress has been anti-airline,”  William Swelbar , a research engineer specializing in air transport at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, said in an interview. “There will be a new set
of ears to listen to the industry.”  The shift in House lawmakers shaping transportation policy
may benefit FedEx, operator of the world’s largest cargo
airline, by ending Democratic efforts to ease union organizing
at the company’s Express unit.  Rival  United Parcel Service Inc.  and the Teamsters Union
backed the provision sponsored by Democratic Representative
 James Oberstar  of Minnesota, chairman of the  Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee , who was defeated in yesterday’s
election.  Automakers such as  Toyota Motor Corp.  of Toyota City,
Japan, which recalled 8 million vehicles in the past year, may
face less scrutiny with the House Energy and Commerce Committee
likely to be led by  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, said
 Michael Stanton , president of the Association of International
Automobile Manufacturers, a trade group based in Arlington,
Virginia. The current committee chairman is Democratic
Representative  Henry Waxman  of California, who led hearings into
Toyota’s handling of the recalls.  TRADE  Republican control of the House may provide the best chance
to pass free-trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and
Panama since they were approved by President Bush in 2007. Obama
has shied away from pushing the deals in Congress as drafted
amid high unemployment and opposition from some fellow Democrats
and labor unions.  “This is one area where Republicans and Democrats can work
together,” said  William Lane , government relations director for
 Caterpillar Inc ., the world’s biggest construction-equipment
maker, which favors free trade.  For companies such as Caterpillar, UPS,  Boeing Co . and
 Citigroup Inc ., getting the agreements passed would broaden
access to markets abroad, with the South Korean deal alone
boosting U.S. exports by $10.9 billion a year, according to the
U.S. International Trade Commission.  Republican leaders such as Kentucky Republican Senator
 Mitch McConnell  and Michigan Republican  Dave Camp , positioned to
be the incoming chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee,
say they want to help Obama get the pending trade deals
approved.  “Under a Republican House leadership, if the president is
serious about moving forward on trade, he will have a serious
partner on Capitol Hill,” Texas Republican  Kevin Brady , the
likely chairman of the trade subcommittee of the Ways and Means
Committee, said at a meeting in Washington Oct. 25. “We believe
the three agreements are critical.”  The South Korean accord, the most important of the three
pending pacts in volume of goods affected, may draw especially
strong bipartisan support. “Korea has broader implications,”
said Laura Lane, head of international government affairs at New
York-based Citigroup, said in an interview.  With almost $68 billion in two-way trade, the deal would be
the U.S.’s largest free-trade pact since the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1994 and may be critical to helping Obama
meet his goal of doubling American exports in five years.  TAXES  International Business Machines Corp ., Microsoft Corp.,
 Blackstone Group LP  and  Occidental Petroleum Corp . all have
lobbied against the Obama proposals to increase taxes on
overseas profits. The election gives them some important allies.  “Republicans have pretty much staked their claim that
they’re not going to raise taxes,” said  John Feehery , who was
an adviser to former House Speaker  Dennis Hastert , the last
Republican to hold that top post. “Republicans are much more
cognizant and care more about the financial impact of these
taxes on jobs.”  Republican control of the House may make it impossible for
Obama to succeed in his bid to boost taxes on profits companies
make overseas. And the gridlock that may result from a divided
legislature would also stave off separate changes proposed by
the administration that would cost oil companies, including
Occidental, tens of billions more a year by raising taxes on
their non-U.S. operations.  “The punitive-type tax changes against the energy industry
will be much more difficult to pass with Republicans in charge
of the House,” said Gerald McPhee, senior vice president of
federal relations at Los Angeles-based Occidental, the fourth-
largest U.S. oil company by market value.  The Republican victory also may allow private-equity firms,
such as New York-based Blackstone, to kill a four-year effort by
congressional Democrats to raise taxes on the incentive pay
earned by their executives known as carried interest.  Besides blocking prospective increases, businesses may find
a ripe political environment for getting some long-sought tax
benefits through Congress. Companies such as San Jose,
California-based  Cisco Systems Inc.  may find new support for a
temporary tax holiday on their foreign earnings that was
rejected by the Senate in 2009.  Businesses “are not going to be seen as a pool of funds to
be pillaged by Congress anymore,” said Curtis Dubay, a senior
tax policy analyst at the Washington-based Heritage Foundation,
a research institution that often sides with Republicans on tax
issues.  IMMIGRATION  Immigration is one area where the Republican ascendency may
prove disappointing to some companies, including  Intel Corp.  and
 Hilton Worldwide Inc.  They want to increase the flow of legal
foreign workers through changes to immigration law.  Republican lawmakers, who will lead the debate on the issue
in the House, plan to focus on border security and cracking down
on illegal immigration first. They say they will consider the
measures sought by business only after fewer illegal immigrants
are coming across the U.S.-Mexico border.  Representative  Steve King , an Iowa Republican slated to
head the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration policy,
says he opposes lifting visa caps for lower-skilled foreign
workers because that would depress U.S. worker wages. He would
support increasing visas for higher-skilled workers only if they
meet criteria to boost the U.S. economy.  That means they should be young, well-educated and able to
speak English, King said. “That’s the indicator of whether they
can assimilate into the broader society.”  Intel and other technology companies such as  EBay Inc . and
 Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp . want Congress to lift the
cap on H-1B visas for skilled workers. The annual limit has been
65,000 since 2004, after expiration of a temporary increase from
2001 to 2003 that raised the cap to 195,000. In fiscal 2010, the
cap was reached in nine months.  Companies also want to lift the 140,000 limit on
employment-based green cards that prove permanent residency.  At Intel, about 6.5 percent of 40,000 workers in the U.S.
are in the country on temporary visas. The company helps those
workers apply immediately for green cards, said Peter Muller,
director of government relations. “We want to keep them,
ideally for their entire career,” he said.  The restaurant and hotel industries need more seasonal,
lower-skilled workers.  Jonas Neihardt , a Hilton lobbyist, is
pushing for a simpler system to verify the legal status of
workers and a boost in H-2B visas for non-farm seasonal
employees, now capped at 66,000.  “We’re anticipating when things get better we’ll need more
of those types of workers,” Neihardt said.  Corporations say they hope the importance of the Latino
vote in the 2012 presidential elections will cause congressional
Republican leaders to support a broad bill.  “It will be an uphill battle, but it could be that the
Republicans would see that it’s to their advantage to get this
issue behind them,” said  Randy Johnson , vice president for
labor policy at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  LABOR  Organized labor faces tougher times on Capitol Hill.  “The election profoundly reshapes labor’s agenda,” said
 Harley Shaiken , a professor of labor relations at University of
California at Berkeley.  Unions face little chance of achieving legislative goals
envisioned from a Democratic-majority Congress, such as easier
organizing rules, mandatory paid sick leave, and bigger fines
for workplace safety violations, he said.  Labor leaders are now likely to scale back their
legislative ambitions and increase efforts to make gains through
regulatory agencies. Unions may still have enough supporters to
make it difficult for business to achieve anti-union
legislation, particularly in the Senate.  “On labor issues, it’s going to be very difficult to move
the ball in either direction,” said Glenn Spencer, who handles
labor matters at the  Chamber of Commerce .  The biggest short-term impact may be for unions
representing construction-trades and public-sector workers.
Republicans have generally opposed union-backed federal stimulus
spending, such as measures that created construction jobs and
saved jobs of teachers, police officers and other public-sector
workers.  Organized labor is counting on Obama to use his veto power
should anti-union legislation emerge from Congress.  “As hard as the Republicans might try, it’s doubtful
legislation attacking workers’ rights would make it to the White
House,” said  Bill Samuel , the top lobbyist for the AFL-CIO
labor federation. “And if it did, I can’t foresee a situation
where President Obama would sign it.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 