-- Californians Reject Suspension of Environmental Law
-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2010-11-03T20:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/california-voters-reject-measure-to-suspend-greenhouse-gas-law.html
California voters rejected a ballot
measure backed by oil refiners that would’ve suspended the
state’s global-warming law signed by Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger .  Proposition 23 was losing 39 percent to 61 percent with 99
percent of the precincts reporting as of 10:34 a.m. local time,
according to the  California Secretary of State .  The vote clears the way for a state law restricting
greenhouse-gas emissions to go into effect in 2012. The law
requires the state cut emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. It will
require utilities to get almost a third of their electricity
from renewable sources such as solar power, and create a market
for carbon-dioxide pollution permits.  The defeat of Proposition 23 by a wide margin sends a
message to the nation that federal global-warming legislation,
can be “jumpstarted again,” Schwarzenegger, a Republican who
leaves office in January, said on a conference call today.  President  Barack Obama  and Democrats in Congress failed to
get approval for legislation that would set a national renewable
electricity standard and create a federal cap-and-trade program,
in which companies buy and sell a declining number of carbon
pollution permits.  Republican Gains  Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives, who won
control of the body in midterm elections yesterday,  have said 
they will block cap-and-trade legislation, which they describe
as a “national energy tax.” Republicans also narrowed the
Democrats’ majority in the Senate.  Voter approval of Proposition 23 would’ve suspended
California’s Global Warming Solutions Act until the state
unemployment rate fell to at least 5.5 percent. The rate in
September for the most populous U.S. state was 12.4 percent, the
third-highest after Nevada and Michigan.  Backers of alternative energy, including  Microsoft Corp .
founder  Bill Gates  and Google co-founder  Sergey Brin , raised
more than $30 million for radio, television and print
advertising saying the measure would undermine the nation’s
largest solar market and threaten $9 billion in venture capital
investments in the state’s fledgling clean energy industry.  The defeat of Proposition 23 is “certainly a positive for
solar project developers active in the state,” said  Nathaniel Bullard , the lead North American solar analyst at  Bloomberg New
Energy Finance , the London-based research firm owned by
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  Renewable Power Requirements  California’s  Air Resources Board , the agency responsible
for enforcing the global-warming law, set a target in September
for utilities to get 33 percent of their power from solar, wind
and other renewable sources by 2020, the most ambitious standard
of any U.S. state.  First Solar Inc. ,  SunPower Corp. , BrightSource Energy Inc.
and Recurrent Energy are among the companies that stand to gain
the most because they have large projects with long-term
agreements to sell their power to utilities, Bullard said.  The air resources board is scheduled to vote next month on
whether to move ahead with the state’s proposed cap-and-trade
program for greenhouse gases. By 2015, the program would cover
nearly 400 million metric tons of carbon dioxide from power
plants, factories, refineries and the tailpipes of cars and
trucks, the air-quality agency said in a  report  last week.  That’s more than double the emissions covered by a state-
run carbon market for power plants in the U.S. Northeast and
almost one-fifth the current size of Europe’s cap-and-trade
program, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Expanding Market  California may expand that market by persuading other U.S.
states and some Canadian provinces to enact similar cap-and-
trade programs, which could be “linked,” the air quality
agency said in last week’s report.   Tesoro Corp. ,  Valero Energy Corp.  and Flint Hills Resources
LLC, a refining subsidiary of Wichita, Kansas-based Koch
Industries Inc.,  raised  about two-thirds of the more than $10
million that financed support of the proposition.  The greenhouse-gas limits won’t “translate into the jobs
or economic activity” promised by environmentalists and
alternative-energy investors, Jack Stewart, president of the
California Manufacturers and Technology Association, said in an
e-mail.  “Venture capitalists will come to California to cash in on
the subsidies, but the lion’s share of the facilities, revenue
and jobs will go to other places, like China, where the cost of
doing business is much more affordable,” Stewart said.  Fee Proposition  Another measure on yesterday’s ballot, Proposition 26, may
help opponents of the California law keep up their fight against
greenhouse-gas limits, said Jon Costantino, a Sacramento-based
adviser with law firm  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP  and a former
official at the state air resources board.  Proposition 26 would require some state and local
regulatory fees to be approved by a two-thirds vote instead of
simple majorities. The initiative was winning 53 percent to 47
percent with 99 percent of the precincts reporting, according to
state election records.  The measure would mean a pollution fee proposed by the air
quality agency to pay for the enforcement of greenhouse-gas
limits “seems to be out the window at this point” and
lawmakers will need to find another funding source in next
year’s state budget, Costantino said in a telephone interview.  Proposition 26 won’t “derail” California’s ability to
enforce its global warming law,  Mary Nichols , chairman of the
air resources board, said on a conference call today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 