-- California Voters Reject Legalization of Recreational Marijuana
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-11-03T20:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/california-voters-reject-legalization-of-marijuana-for-recreational-use.html
California voters rejected a ballot
measure that would have legalized marijuana for personal use,
blocking efforts to expand the industry beyond medical purposes
in the most populous U.S. state.  Proposition 19 failed  54 percent to 46 percent, according
to California’s Secretary of State. Backers included billionaire
investor  George Soros , who contributed $1 million in support.  The proposition lost in  Humboldt , Trinity and Mendocino
counties in northern California, identified in a Rand Corp.
report this year as the center of the state’s pot production.  “Legalization would be competition to the black market,”
Steve Downing, a former deputy chief in the Los Angeles Police
Department, said on a conference call today.  California was the first to legalize marijuana for  medical 
use, in 1996; 13 states and the District of Columbia followed.
Yesterday’s defeat allows the state to sidestep a fight with the
federal government, which had threatened to prosecute marijuana
use if the measure won. Federal law supersedes state law.  Another attempt to legalize marijuana in California will
probably be less broad, said Robert MacCoun, a professor of law
and public policy at the University of California, Berkeley. It
might allow home cultivation or restricted access, like buyer’s
clubs, rather than full-scale retail sales, he said.  Persistent Issue  “The issue is not going to go away,” MacCoun said in a
telephone interview before the election. “The next time around,
we’ll see a proposal that’s more incremental and less radical.”  California residents consume about 1 million pounds of
marijuana each year, according to the state’s tax administrator,
the Equalization  Board .  The  proposition  would have allowed people 21 or older to
possess and grow limited amounts for personal use. It also would
have allowed local governments to tax and regulate its
commercial production, distribution and sale.  Legalizing marijuana might cut its price by as much as 80
percent, as growers shift from secret operations to legal
production, Rand, a research firm in Santa Monica, California,
said in its July  study . The untaxed retail price of high-quality
legal marijuana could drop to as low as $38 an ounce from about
$375 now, the study found.  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said that the Justice
Department would “vigorously” enforce federal law “against
those individuals and organizations that possess, manufacture or
distribute marijuana for recreational use, even if such
activities are permitted under state law,” according to an Oct.
13 letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 