-- California's Jerry Brown Inherits Schwarzenegger's Struggle to Cut Deficit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-11-03T08:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/california-s-jerry-brown-inherits-schwarzenegger-s-struggle-to-cut-deficit.html
California Governor-elect  Jerry Brown 
faces the same dilemma over a widening budget gap that helped
make his predecessor, Republican  Arnold Schwarzenegger , one of
the most unpopular state executives in 50 years.  Brown, a Democrat who defeated former EBay Inc. chief
executive officer  Meg Whitman  yesterday, must close a deficit
for next year that may exceed the $19 billion gap Schwarzenegger
bridged last month. He faces the same fractious Legislature
whose standoff over paring spending or raising taxes left the
state without a budget for a record 100 days.  California , which accounts for 13 percent of the U.S. gross
domestic product, has suffered deficits in seven of the last
nine years as revenue trailed formulas that locked in spending
for programs such health care for the poor. The  state  was forced
to pay bills with IOUs last year as lawmakers and Schwarzenegger
twice deadlocked over back-to-back deficits that combined
exceeded $60 billion.  Brown “has to deal with the same budget numbers and the
same red ink and the same political pain,”  Jack Pitney , who
teaches politics at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,
California, said in a telephone interview before the results
were known.  Schwarzenegger’s approval rating fell to 22 percent in
July, tied with  Gray Davis ’s 2001 trough before the Democrat was
driven from office in an unprecedented recall election because
of his handling of the budget.  Voter Approval  Brown, who served two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983,
has said he won’t raise taxes without voter approval. Without
additional revenue, he’ll be forced to deliver another round of
cuts to schools and to state services such welfare.
Schwarzenegger and lawmakers slashed spending by almost $40
billion in the last two years.  Brown says he’ll employ his political experience and
legislative acumen to push through a budget compromise. “I’ll
start within a week calling all the legislators,” Brown said at
an event in Los Angeles Sept. 2. “I’ll get it done.”  Brown’s first budget, which he is required to unveil seven
days after he’s sworn in Jan. 3, will confront the expiration of
about  $8 billion  in temporary tax increases imposed to help
erase a $26 billion deficit in 2009.  He’ll also have to repay at least $2 billion that
Schwarzenegger and lawmakers siphoned from local governments in
2008. Compounding these problems is the end of federal stimulus
money, which helped backfill $6 billion to local schools in
2009.  Brand Name  “The worst thing about those budget impasses is that they
hurt our brand -- it makes people say ‘I don’t want to go and do
business in California, those people are nuts,’” said  Robert Hertzberg , the Democratic speaker of the Assembly from 2000 to
2002. “The biggest noisemaker is the budget.”  California is likely to face a $5 billion gap in the
current fiscal year after the budget Schwarzenegger and
lawmakers passed last month “relied heavily on one-time
measures, optimistic revenue assumptions, and the receipt of
funds, some of which may not materialize,” Moody’s Investors
Service said Oct. 19. On the same day, Treasurer  Bill Lockyer 
said he anticipated the deficit in the fiscal year that begins
July 1 will match or exceed this year’s.  Brown may be aided by the passage yesterday of a ballot
measure that lowers the threshold for the Legislature to approve
a budget from two-thirds to a simple majority, according to
Davis.  Vote Obstacle  “One obstacle facing all former governors was the need to
get that two-thirds vote,” Davis, who served from 1999 to 2003,
said in a telephone interview. “That inevitably means working
with the minority party and meeting their demands.”  Tax increases will still need a two-thirds vote of the
Legislature to pass, so a budget that included higher taxes
could still face delays, Davis said. Democrats, while in control
of both chambers of the Legislature, lack enough votes to meet
that supermajority.  Brown may have to contend with a proposed  constitutional
amendment  to go before voters in February 2012 that would
require lawmakers to squirrel away 3 percent of revenue each
year into a so-called rainy-day fund of up to 10 percent of the
budget. If Brown calls for a special election for a tax increase
this year, the rainy-day reserve proposal would move forward to
that ballot, according to the Secretary of State’s office. If
approved by voters, Brown’s first budget would be subject to the
new rainy-day provisions.  Opposition  Republicans say their opposition to higher taxes extends to
asking voters for an increase through a statewide ballot.  “I won’t ask them because unless they make fundamental
changes in the way they are spending the money, they are going
to waste that money too,”  Bob Dutton , Senate Republican leader,
said in a telephone interview before the results were known.
“So I’m not prepared to ask them to raise taxes. I can’t in
good conscience ask the people to give us more money if I can’t
fix the problem.”  Standard & Poor’s rates California general-obligation debt
A-, its fourth-highest investment grade and the lowest among
states. Moody’s rates it fifth-highest at A1 and Fitch Ratings
ranks it seventh-highest at A-.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own 10-year California
bonds was little changed yesterday at 126 basis points more than
that provided by AAA rated municipal securities, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from 150 basis points in
March. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Volatility  Brown should address the nature of California’s  tax system 
which relies on volatile sales and income taxes for 85 percent
of revenue, according to  Scott Minerd , the Santa Monica,
California-based chief investment officer at Guggenheim Partners
LLC, which oversees more than $100 billion.  “For the bond market to get comfortable, it would like to
see this structural flaw in the revenue stream fixed,” Minerd
said in a telephone interview before the results were known.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  