-- California Rejects Legal Marijuana as Washington Defeats Income Tax Plan
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-11-03T09:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/california-rejects-legalizing-marijuana-as-washington-defeats-income-tax.html
California  rejected a proposal to
legalize marijuana for recreational use,  Massachusetts  defeated
a plan to slash its sales tax and Washington state struck down a
bid to impose an income tax on its wealthiest residents.  The measures were among the 159 ballot issues decided in 36
states yesterday. California’s Proposition 19 was rejected by 54
percent of voters, with 78 percent of precincts counted,
according to the Associated Press. The measure would have made
it legal for people 21 or older to have, grow and transport
marijuana for personal use.  “There is an undercurrent running in California of people
who were hoping that Prop 19 might mobilize young voters and
Democrats and that that might help candidates in California,”
Jennie Bowser, an elections analyst at the Denver-based  National
Conference of State Legislatures , said in a telephone interview.  Taxes were a central theme among the ballot measures, which
came as Republicans gained control of the House of
Representatives in a blow to the Obama administration. Voters
also considered measures to boost so-called rainy-day funds,
change congressional redistricting rules and a ban on state
borrowing.  Massachusetts Sales Tax  Massachusetts voters rejected reducing their state sales
tax to 3 percent from 6.25 percent as of Jan. 1. Governor  Deval Patrick , who won his re-election bid, and his Republican
opponent,  Charlie Baker , opposed the measure.  The measure would have cut state revenue by more than $2
billion a year, according to the Los Angeles-based  Initiative &
Referendum Institute  at the University of Southern California.
It would have yielded $900 in annual tax savings per family and
$688 per worker, said Carla Howell, chairwoman of the Alliance
to Roll Back Taxes, a Wayland, Massachusetts-based group formed
to add the proposal to the 2010 ballot.  In Washington, one of seven states without an income tax,
voters declined to impose one on the adjusted gross income of
individuals earning more than $200,000 and couples earning more
than $400,000.  “Washington has a long history of not having an income
tax, and I think voters there were afraid that what starts out
as a fairly narrow and targeted income tax might have expanded
to be something broader over time,” Bowser said.  Bill Gates Sr.  Bill Gates Sr., father of  Microsoft Corp. ’s co-founder, was
a leading  advocate  for the proposal.  The proposal would have generated an $11.2 billion increase
in state revenue over five years that would have been directed
to education and health services, according to the state’s
 Office of Financial Management .  “Those to whom it would apply are people who have not been
called upon to pay their fair share of the costs in the state,”
Gates said in an Oct. 27 conference call with reporters.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, the world’s largest
software company with about 90,000 employees, opposed the
measure, called Initiative 1098.  In California, the marijuana vote blocks efforts to expand
the industry beyond medical use in the most populous U.S. state,
the first to make medical marijuana use legal, in 1996.  California Majority  Californians were also leaning toward allowing the
Legislature to pass a spending plan with a majority instead of
the current two-thirds vote. Fifty-four percent of voters backed
the change, with 78 percent of precincts counted, AP said.  The requirement contributed to a record 100-day delay in
approval of a budget this year as negotiators struggled to
broker a compromise that would draw the higher threshold of
support.  Voters in California also rejected a proposal to suspend a
state law requiring reduced greenhouse-gas emissions until the
state’s unemployment rate, which was 12.4 percent in September,
drops below 5.5 percent for a year. Sixty percent of voters
opposed the measure, while 40 percent supported it, with 79
percent of precincts counted, according to AP.  In  Colorado , voters decided not to amend the constitution
to ban state borrowing beginning in 2011. The vote would have
made Colorado the only state barred from issuing bonds to fund
infrastructure projects, according to a report by the
legislative conference. The measure also would have limited
future borrowing by municipalities.  The state issues an average of $2.9 billion in new bonds
annually and spend about $2 billion a year to repay debt,
according to a Sept. 13 booklet released by the Legislative
Council of the Colorado General Assembly.  Virginia,  South Carolina  and Oklahoma voters agreed to
proposals to boost rainy-day funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 