-- Loonie Strengthens for Fifth Day on Optimism Over Fed Stimulus Measures
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-03T21:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/canada-s-dollar-touches-highest-level-in-two-weeks-before-fed-s-statement.html
Canada’s dollar strengthened for a
fifth day as the U.S. currency weakened against all of its major
counterparts as the Federal Reserve said it planned to increase
bond purchase to shore up the economic recovery.  The currency traded near parity with the greenback on
expectations a faster expansion will increase demand in nations
such as Canada that depend on commodities for growth. Prices
fluctuated after the Fed announced $600 billion in purchases of
Treasuries, lower than some economists forecast.  “Some in the market were expecting a Hail Mary, and what
we got here was more like a 20-yard pass,” said  Firas Askari ,
head currency trader in Toronto at Bank of Montreal, Canada’s
fourth-largest lender. “This is in line with what the Fed had
been hinting at of late, but things are still quite choppy.”  The Canadian currency rose 0.3 percent to $1.0052 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0082 yesterday,
after touching C$1.0049, the strongest level since Oct. 15. One
Canadian dollar buys 99.48 U.S. cents.  The Fed said today new purchases of U.S. debt will be about
$75 billion a month in a bid to reduce unemployment and avert
deflation. The U.S. is Canada’s biggest trading partner.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, has rallied 2.2
percent against the greenback on increased risk demand since
Sept. 21, when the Fed said following its previous policy
meeting that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation
if needed” to support the U.S. economic recovery.  “The net new purchase of around $600 billion is probably
about where the market thought the Fed would be,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank,
said. “Given that we’ve seen quite a significant rally in risk
assets recently, I’m not sure there’s that much more juice to be
squeezed out of this particular lemon.”  Outlook for Fed  Fifty-three of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
last week predicted the central bank would announce asset
purchases today, with 29 forecasting a pledge to buy $500
billion or more.  Canada’s currency may get a boost should Industry Minister
 Tony Clement  allow a $40 billion foreign takeover of Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., according to analysts. Clement is
plans to comment on the transaction today.  “The Fed and the Potash decision are significant event
risks,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
National Bank of Canada in Toronto, wrote via e-mail before the
Fed’s decision.  Saskatchewan is poised to sue the federal government if
Canada approves Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd.’s hostile
takeover offer for Potash, Premier  Brad Wall  told reporters
yesterday in Regina.  “It could be good for some Canadian dollar gains,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a currency strategist in Toronto at Bank of Nova
Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, wrote via e-mail, referring to the
possibility that Clement will allow the purchase of Potash.  The loonie reached parity with its U.S. counterpart on Oct.
14 for the first time since April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  