-- Carlyle Sees Profit in Public Markets With Bargain Cash Flow
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/carlyle-sees-profit-in-public-markets-with-bargain-cash-flow.html
Ample corporate cash flows and cheap
stock valuations are helping fuel a rebound in buyouts, led by
Carlyle Group and Bain Capital LLC.  Carlyle, the world’s second-largest buyout firm, and Bain
last month announced three takeovers of public companies worth a
combined $8 billion, almost half the volume of all buyouts in
last year’s fourth quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Stocks outside the financial industry are trading at
the most attractive levels ever when comparing cash flow and
corporate bond yields, making companies receptive to approaches
and deals potentially more lucrative for buyers.  “Managers of certain public companies are frustrated,”
said  Roger Hoit , who advises financial sponsors at Moelis & Co.
in New York. “They’ve stripped costs and tried to improve top-
line growth but their company’s stock price remains stuck,
making them more receptive to a take-private proposition.”  Private-equity firms pool money from investors and obtain
debt to finance takeovers with the intention of selling the
companies later for a profit. Firms focus on the cash flow of
their targets because they use it to service their debts. The
larger the cash flow, the more debt they can service.  So far this quarter, buyout firms spent 44 percent of the
capital invested in deals in which they acquire publicly traded
companies and take them private. That’s the highest percentage
since the buyout boom ended almost three years ago, according to
Pitchbook Data. The number of such deals as a percentage of all
buyouts is on course to be the highest since the end of 2000.  Cash Flow  With the prospect of more asset purchases by the Federal
Reserve System pushing bond yields lower, the cash flow produced
by listed companies is coming at a bargain price.  U.S. corporations excluding financial institutions are
forecast to generate free cash flow next year, or money left
over after capital expenditures, amounting to about 6.9 percent
of their share prices, according to data compiled by Zurich-
based Credit Suisse Group AG. That’s the highest level on record
versus investment-grade corporate bonds.  “A high percentage of cash flow relative to valuation
combined with relatively cheap debt are the hallmarks of a
market ready for more buyouts,” said  Steven Kaplan , a professor
at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.  While the cost of financing a buyout is higher than
borrowing by investment-grade issuers, expectations for another
round of so-called quantitative easing have brought down yields
on junk-rated company bonds. Those yields fell to 7.62 percent
on Oct. 29, the lowest since May 2007, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index.  ‘Hard to Believe’  That compares with yields of 3.61 percent that day for
investment-grade borrowers, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Index data show.  The Fed will probably introduce an unprecedented second
round of unconventional monetary easing today by announcing a
plan to buy at least $500 billion of long-term securities,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The current financing market is excellent,”  Blackstone
Group LP  President  Tony James  said on a conference call with
reporters on Oct. 29 to discuss the firm’s third-quarter
earnings results. “It’s almost hard to believe.”  Carlyle, the Washington-based firm run by  David Rubenstein ,
William Conway and Daniel D’Aniello, last week agreed to buy 
mobile-phone messaging company  Syniverse Holdings Inc.  for $2.6 
billion and fiber-optic cable maker CommScope Inc. for $3.9 
billion. CommScope’s free cash flow has risen more than sixfold 
since 2005, to $443 million last year.  Buyout Rebound  Bain, based in Boston, agreed to buy children’s clothing
retailer Gymboree Corp. for about $1.8 billion, in the biggest
retail-apparel buyout in three years. Gymboree’s cash flow has
tripled since 2008.  KKR & Co., the private-equity firm managed by  Henry Kravis 
and  George Roberts , is in talks to take over Australian asset
manager Perpetual Ltd. for A$1.75 billion ($1.74 billion). New
York-based KKR is scheduled to announce its third-quarter
 earnings  results today.  The deals have helped push the volume of buyouts to $113
billion so far this year, compared with $135 billion announced
in 2008 and 2009 combined, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Blackstone’s James and Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  have
told investors that even with a cheap stock market, they prefer
to seek buyouts outside the exchanges, because competition is
driving prices too high in public offers.  ‘Perverse Incentives’  Public deals invite rival bidders, and stockholder
companies have a responsibility to accept the highest offer.
Private-equity firms are under pressure to spend an estimated
$461 billion in commitments from pensions, endowments and
sovereign wealth funds before they expire.  Funds invested a record $40.1 billion of cash in the third
quarter, according to the Washington-based  Private Equity Growth
Capital Council . Since the start of the year, equity investment
climbed to an all-time high of $94 billion, topping the $80
billion spent in the same period in 2007, when credit markets
began to freeze.  “There are some perverse incentives to get deals done
before your fund runs out of runway,” said  David De Weese , a
general partner of Paul Capital Partners in New York.  Companies entertaining buyout queries may be emboldened by
the premiums private-equity firms are paying. Bain’s $64.50-a-
share offer for Gymboree represented a 57 percent premium.
Carlyle’s  CommScope  deal equaled a 36 percent more than the
company’s stock before the talks were disclosed.  ‘Feeling Unloved’  CommScope’s stock declined 13 percent this year through
Oct. 22, the trading day before the company said it’s in talks
with Carlyle.  Frank Drendel , CommScope’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement announcing the deal that
Carlyle’s offer “appropriately recognizes the value” of the
company.  CommScope’s  net income  and sales rose 10 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stock dropped 21 percent in the same period.  “A CEO looks at his 2011 budget and says to his
management team, ‘We don’t have a great earnings story,’” said
 John Coyle , a partner with private-equity firm Permira Advisers
LLP in New York. “‘We’re unlevered with lots of cash, our
company is increasingly feeling unloved in the equity market,
and it feels like it might be time to consider the alternatives
and do something.’”  Carlyle’s Rubenstein told investors in the Middle East
during the last two weeks the market is open for deals valued at
$3 billion to $5 billion.  ‘Willing Seller’  TPG Capital is weighing a purchase of Seagate Technology
Plc, a disk-drive maker it previously took public a decade ago
with fellow private-equity firm Silver Lake. Seagate has a
market capitalization of about $6.9 billion, indicating a deal
would be well in excess of $7 billion.  “You’ve got equity and debt and all you need is a seller
who’s willing,” said Jack DiFranco, national managing principal
for private-equity services at accounting firm Grant Thornton
LLP.  Deals such as Seagate in part depend on stocks staying
relatively cheap, said Kaplan, the professor. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  has gained about 6 percent this year.  “The funds do have a big overhang of money they have to
invest and they have real incentive to write checks when they
can,” Kaplan said. “The stock market is not particularly
frothily valued. It comes down to whether they can buy these
public companies at cheap enough valuations.”  ‘Macro Matters’  Another wild card is the impact of the Fed’s asset
purchases on the economy. For the deals to produce good returns,
buyout managers need the economy to eventually pick up, Morgan
Stanley analysts led by  Rizwan Hussain  wrote in an Oct. 22 note
to clients.  “We remain wary of prognostications about a return to the
‘good old days’ for private equity,” they wrote. “If the
difficulty encountered by levered capital structures during the
credit crisis has left any important lessons, it’s that macro
matters just as much as the cost of capital, particularly if
organic deleveraging is required to boost equity returns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  