-- Carstens Says He Can't Rule Out Cutting Rates in Mexico, According to UBS
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-11-03T16:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/carstens-says-he-can-t-rule-out-cutting-rates-in-mexico-according-to-ubs.html
Mexican central bank Governor  Agustin Carstens  told economists that policy makers could cut interest
rates if inflation stays benign and the peso continues to rise,
said Rafael de la Fuente, a senior economist at UBS AG.  The  central bank  would have to be certain that increased
capital inflows from investors seeking higher yields will
continue before it reduces borrowing costs, Carstens told
economists yesterday during a meeting in New York, according to
de la Fuente, who attended the discussion.  “He made it look like it wasn’t imminent,” de la Fuente
said. “It’s not a decision they would take lightly because they
would have to have strong fundamental reasons to cut rates.”  Banco de Mexico has kept the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 4.5 percent for 14 straight meetings. Inflation is
below the bank’s forecasts, and policy makers have said the
economy remains vulnerable to the U.S. slowdown.  Mexico’s peso was little changed at 12.2993 per U.S. dollar
at 12:03 p.m. New York time. The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent
bond due in 2024 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 6.33 percent, according to Banco Santander SA.  The central bank’s press office said it couldn’t
immediately comment on Carstens’s meeting yesterday.  RBC Capital Markets in Toronto changed its forecast for
Mexico’s borrowing costs after the meeting with Carstens, saying
the bank won’t raise rates until the second quarter of 2012
after predicting an increase in the third quarter of next year,
according to a report yesterday by  Nick Chamie , global head of
emerging markets. RBC sees a “very low possibility” for a rate
cut, senior analyst  Paul Biszko  said today in a separate e-mail.  Rate Outlook  Morgan Stanley said in a Nov. 1 report that the bank may
lower borrowing costs should the Federal Reserve further ease
monetary policy. Morgan Stanley’s official forecast is for the
bank to hold rates at the current 4.5 percent through 2011.  Foreign investors seeking higher-yielding assets have
turned to emerging markets assets including Mexican government
bonds, pushing yields on the benchmark peso debt to a record low
last month. Other governments such as Brazil and South Korea
have taken actions such as increasing market intervention in a
bid to prevent currencies from rallying amid the inflows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  