-- Casey's and 7-Eleven's Discussions on Possible Takeover Fail Over Price
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-11-03T20:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/casey-s-7-eleven-end-discussions-on-possible-merger-of-convenience-stores.html
Casey’s  General Stores Inc. , the
operator of convenience stores in the U.S. Midwest, said talks
on a takeover by 7-Eleven Inc. fell apart after they failed to
agree on price.  The board decided a revised proposal from 7-Eleven of $43 a
share in cash didn’t reflect the value of the Ankeny, Iowa-based
company and wasn’t in the best interest of  shareholders , Casey’s
said in a statement today. The offer totals $2.1 billion
including net debt.  The $43 offer “would have been approved by the
shareholders, who would not have been unhappy,” said  Bill Kavaler , an analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York with a
“hold”  rating  on the stock. “If you’re turning down $43
because you want $50, I think that’s having unrealistic
expectations.”  Casey’s has now snubbed two suitors this year. The chain,
which owns more than 1,500 convenience stores in states such as
Iowa and Illinois, turned down repeated offers from  Alimentation
Couche-Tard Inc. , a Laval, Quebec-based convenience-store chain.  The Canadian company initially offered $36 a share in April
and raised its offer twice when Casey’s balked. The offers
“substantially” undervalued Casey’s, according to a statement
from Casey’s CEO Robert J. Myers on Sept. 14.  Casey’s fell $2.11, or 5.1 percent, to $39.34 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading , its largest daily drop
since July 2009. The shares have risen 23 percent this year.  Preliminary Offer  7-Eleven earlier made a preliminary offer of $40 a share,
disclosed by Casey’s on Sept. 9.  Analysts  value Casey’s at $45 a
share without pricing in a takeover, the company said in a Sept.
7 statement.  Couche-Tard’s last offer of $38.50 a share expired on Sept.
30. By publicly turning down $43 a share, Casey’s is sending a
signal to the Canadian chain that it must offer $45 to do a
deal, according to Kavaler.  The bid from Couche-Tards have “consistently been well
below the market,” said  Charles Cerankosky , an analyst at
Northcoast Research Holdings LLC in Cleveland. He recommends
buying Casey’s shares.  Couche-Tard couldn’t be reached for comment. Casey’s and 7-
Eleven declined to comment.  7-Eleven, the biggest U.S. convenience-store chain, said
its last offer fairly valued Casey’s. The unit of Tokyo-based
Seven & I Holdings Co. will keep seeking transactions to expand
in the U.S. and Canada, Chief Executive Officer  Joe DePinto  said
in a statement today.  The Dallas-based chain plans to add 300 stores this year to
the more than 8,200 it operates, franchises or licenses in North
America.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex  Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  