-- China’s Stocks Drop for Second Day on Inflation, Valuations
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-03T07:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/china-stocks-drop-for-second-day-on-inflation-concern-commodity-valuation.html
China’s stocks  fell for a second day
on concern the government may join other Asian nations in taking
measures to slow inflation and that valuations for the biggest
commodity producers were excessive after last month’s rally.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  and Datong Coal Industry Co. lost at
least 5 percent on speculation U.S. economic measures may miss
investors’ expectations. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. climbed the most in three weeks, pacing gains for lenders,
on easing concerns over local government loans.  “We haven’t seen the start of another growth cycle for
China’s economy yet and inflation is looming,” said  Zheng Tuo ,
president of Shanghai Good Hope Equity Investment Management Co.
“The current scenario won’t support a further massive run-up
for equities. Consumer stocks may be a good haven for investors
as they will probably pass on rising costs.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, dropped 14.45, or 0.5 percent, to
3,030.99 at the 3 p.m. close, after changing directions about 10
times. The  CSI 300 Index  fell 1.2 percent to 3,420.34, led by
energy, material and technology companies.  The Shanghai gauge has rebounded 28 percent since reaching
this year’s low on July 5 on expectations central banks around
the world will inject more cash into their economies to boost
growth. It remains down 7.5 percent this year after the
government raised bank reserve requirements and curbed lending
growth to avert asset bubbles.  Raw-Material Stocks  Gauges of material and energy stocks  slumped 4.5 percent
and 3 percent respectively today, the two most among the 10
industry groups in the CSI 300. They surged 21 percent and 29
percent respectively in October on expectations debt purchases
by the Federal Reserve will spur demand for commodities as a
hedge against inflation.  The U.S. central bank will probably begin a new round of
unconventional monetary easing this week by announcing a plan to
buy at least $500 billion of long-term securities, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
retreated 6.4 percent to 42.61 yuan, after surging 41 percent
last month.  Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. , the second
largest, lost 6.5 percent to 26.18 yuan. Datong Coal, China’s
third-largest coal company by capacity, slumped 5 percent to
24.70 yuan, after rising to a record high in October.  Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co. , the listed unit of China’s fourth-biggest coal
miner, fell 7 percent to 29.33 yuan.  “The resource stocks have gained too fast, and speculation
that quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve may miss
investors’ expectations prompted some to sell now and take
profit,” said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “A correction of 20
percent for the resource stocks is likely in near term.”  ‘Prudent’ Policy  The Chinese central bank will step up use of price tools to
manage  inflation  expectations, seek “moderate” growth in money
supply and loans, and continue “moderately loose” monetary
policy, the People’s Bank of China said in a  statement  yesterday.  The nation may shift to “prudent” or event “cautious”
monetary policy at the appropriate time,  Li Daokui , an adviser
to the People’s Bank of China, said at a forum in Beijing
yesterday before the central bank’s statement.  “The central bank might hint at a tighter monetary policy
next year,” said  Zhang Qi , an analyst at Haitong Securities Co.
in Shanghai.  A measure of financial stocks advanced 1.1 percent today,
the most among industry groups and trimming its loss to 16
percent this year.  Sufficient Cash Flow  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, added 3.2 percent
to 4.58 yuan, the most since Oct. 15. The bank had 830 billion
yuan of loans to local government financing vehicles as of
September 30, accounting for 12 percent of its total advances,
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. said in a note today, citing figures
disclosed during the Chinese lender’s analyst briefing yesterday.  About 15 percent of these loans do not have sufficient cash
flow to cover interest and principal payments, better than the
23 percent average for “at risk” loans in the sector.  China Construction Bank Corp., the second largest, gained
1.5 percent to 5.28 yuan.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the
third biggest, added 1.8 percent to 2.82 yuan.  The central bank in October raised benchmark lending and
deposit rates for the first time since 2007. The increases were
aimed at curbing speculation in the property market and
controlling inflation expectations, the central bank said.  China’s inflation rate may rise to around 4 percent in
October, UBS AG said in a report obtained today. The government
has set a full-year inflation target of 3 percent.  Consumer Staples  Australia and India raised interest rates yesterday before
central bank meetings in the U.S. and Japan this week. The
Reserve Bank of Australia unexpectedly increased its benchmark
rate on concern stronger economic growth will fuel inflation,
while India raised borrowing costs for a sixth time this year.  A gauge of consumer staples gained 0.1 percent in the CSI
300, benefiting from speculation beverage makers will be able to
increase prices to boost their earnings.  Kweichow Moutai Co., China’s biggest producer of baijiu
liquor by market value, rose 0.4 percent to 163.35 yuan.
Tsingtao Brewery Co., the nation’s second-biggest brewery by
volume, added 2.6 percent to 36.73 yuan.  Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery
Joint-Stock Co.  jumped 3 percent to 226 yuan.  In the U.S., Republicans seized control of the U.S. House
and, while falling short of winning the Senate, narrowed the
chamber’s Democratic majority in midterm elections shaped by
voter anxiety over jobs and the economy.  “The possible implications of the U.S. mid-term elections
are that there will probably be more trade friction between
China and the U.S,” Haitong’s Zhang said.  -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Xiao Yu  in Beijing.
Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Linus Chua   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  