-- Christie's Push for Republicans Yields Mixed Results in New Jersey Races
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-04T01:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/christie-says-voters-want-smaller-government-in-post-election-assessment.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
who campaigned across the U.S. to boost Republicans in the
midterm elections, had mixed results in his own state.  Christie stumped for Republican Jon Runyan, a former
Philadelphia Eagles lineman who unseated first-term Democratic
congressman John Adler, 50 percent to 47 percent, according to
the Associated Press. At least two other Democrats, U.S.
Representatives Rush Holt and Frank Pallone, fended off
Christie-backed challenges.  Republicans gained at least 60 seats in the U.S. House of
Representatives yesterday to wrest control from Democrats.
Christie had projected his party could pick up 65 to 70 seats.
Republicans also now hold 29 governorships, gaining a majority
for the first time since 2006.  “I just tried to help wherever I can help,” Christie said
today. “What role did it play in the end? The campaign is about
the candidate -- I might have given them some help, but that’s
all.”  New Jersey Assemblywoman  Linda Greenstein , a Democrat
buoyed by contributions from unions including those Christie has
attacked, defeated Republican state Senate incumbent  Tom Goodwin 
in a special election. Christie made three campaign appearances
on Goodwin’s behalf, including one the night before the
election.  New Jersey Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  said
Greenstein’s victory showed voters are rejecting Christie’s
stances against public unions. Democrats won another Senate
election in Camden County.  ‘Major Statement’  “This was a major statement to the governor, there were
two Senate seats up in New Jersey and he lost both of them,”
Sweeney said. “The people of New Jersey don’t like ‘my-way-or-
the-highway’ and this was a loud and clear statement of that.”  In New Jersey’s delegation to the U.S. House, Runyan’s
defeat of Adler will reduce the Democratic edge to 7-6 next
year. Christie had called the contest the most important to him
in the state.  Holt, a Democrat from the Princeton area, defeated a
Christie-backed challenge from Scott Sipprelle, and Pallone
overcame Anna Little, according to unofficial results.  In Iowa, where Christie stumped for former governor  Terry Branstad , the Republican beat incumbent Democrat  Chet Culver . In
Oregon, where Christie also made an appearance, Democrat John
Kitzhaber was projected to win by The Oregonian of Portland,
citing the newspaper’s projections.  Christie, 48, said he campaigned in  Connecticut ,  Maryland ,
 New Mexico ,  Illinois  and  Michigan , where he saw prospects of
Republican victories in areas with traditionally Democratic
leanings.  “They want people who are going to take a commonsense
conservative approach to their money,” Christie said. “That’s
a pretty clear message that’s been sent, both here inside the
state and around the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp, in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 