-- Christie Scrapping Tunnel Brings $5 Billion Wage Loss, Threatens Montclair
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-11-03T22:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/christie-killing-new-york-tunnel-erases-wages-risks-montclair-property.html
Governor  Chris Christie  cut off  New
Jersey  from $5 billion in New York-based salaries and diminished
its future role in the world’s second-largest regional economy,
according to government data and former state Commerce
Commissioner  Gil Medina , by ending construction of a Hudson
River  rail tunnel  he said taxpayers couldn’t afford.  The first-term Republican canceled the $9.8 billion tunnel,
the country’s largest federally supported infrastructure
project, on Oct. 27. New Jersey, which already faces a $10.5
billion budget deficit next year, couldn’t accept a “blank
check” on cost overruns that might exceed $5 billion, said
Christie, 48.  Christie’s move means  the state  will have to repay the U.S.
government $350 million already spent on the project, forgo $3
billion in additional federal aid and lose the 3,000
construction-worker openings the tunnel was projected to
generate for the next decade. Canceling the tunnel will also
cost New York and New Jersey 44,000 jobs and $4 billion in
additional income that would have come through economic growth,
according to a 2008 study by New Jersey Transit.  “This tunnel project is vital to the long-term health of
the region and to New Jersey,” Medina, executive managing
director for real-estate firm Cushman & Wakefield, said in a
Nov. 1 telephone interview from his Secaucus office. “We have
to allow for an efficient flow of people, goods and materials
through the region.”  Property Threat  New Jersey residents supported Christie’s decision to kill
the tunnel 51 percent to 39 percent, according to a  Rutgers-
Eagleton poll  by New-Brunswick-based Eagleton Center for Public
Interest Polling of 885 registered voters. The survey was
carried out after Christie said Oct. 7 he would halt project
funding. Among New York commuters, 52 percent said they
disagreed with the decision, according to the poll.  The most direct impact from the cancellation will be felt
by homeowners near rail lines who would have gained swifter
access to Manhattan, said Sean Maher, associate economist at
West Chester, Pennsylvania-based Moody’s Analytics.  “That’s one of the main sources of demand for real estate
in northern New Jersey, as a bedroom community,” Maher said.
“That will most likely slow the area’s population growth even
further -- and it’s already slow. It also reduces property
values.”  Home prices in communities such as  Montclair  that are
served by New Jersey Transit rail lines offering direct access
to Manhattan’s Penn Station rose an average of 6 percent last
year, said Jeffrey Otteau, president of the Otteau Valuation
Group Inc. in East Brunswick. The increase came even as real-
estate prices statewide declined by 2 percent, he said.  $18 Billion Increase  The Regional Plan Association, a New York research group
that supported the tunnel, said home values within 2 miles (3.2
kilometers) of train stations on lines running into the project
would have increased by $18 billion, generating $375 million in
additional property-tax collections each year.  “Rail access increases demand and it increases prices,”
Otteau said in a telephone interview. “If you build this
project, it’s reasonable those communities expand.”  About 373,000 New Jersey residents already earn paychecks
in New York, according to the  New York State Department of
Taxation and Finance . The typical New Jersey commuter was paid
$205,000 in 2007, the last year for which New York has
statistics.  In-State Growth  Christie told reporters today in Trenton that he’s
receiving more inquiries from businesses in other states
expressing interest in coming to New Jersey since he closed a
deficit of $10.7 billion without raising taxes. He said he’s
hopeful about an economic recovery and thinks the state is
better off trying to create its own jobs.  The economic forecast for the tunnel amounted to “a
speculative number of jobs based upon the premise that you’d
have to borrow billions of dollars just to meet that payroll,”
Christie said in Trenton. “At what cost?”  Completion of the so-called ARC tunnel, for Access to the
Region’s Core, would have added capacity for 25,000 additional
daily commuters, according to the Federal Transit
Administration. That equates to $5 billion in earnings, based on
the 2007 salary averages. The New York region’s $1.3 trillion
economy is the world’s second-largest, behind Tokyo, and ranks
15th among countries, Medina said.  New Jersey Economy  New Jersey’s economy, with 3.8 million jobs, has grown to
exceed New York City’s 3.7 million during the past 60 years,
said  James Hughes , dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of
Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University in New
Brunswick. That means an additional link to the city is not as
vital as it was, he said,  Others say New Jersey, which already has $37.7 billion in
outstanding debt and another $100 billion in unfunded pension
and retiree health benefits, can do without the tunnel.  New Jersey commuters will still be able to reach New York
City’s most lucrative jobs in the financial sector through
existing lines served by the Port Authority of New York & New
Jersey’s PATH train line, particularly if firms locate in office
space under construction at the World Trade Center site in Lower
Manhattan, Hughes said. New Jersey Transit trains currently
reach Penn Station through two century-old tubes.  Cost Estimates  At $10.9 billion, the midpoint estimate provided by the
U.S. Department of Transportation last month, the scrapped
project would cost almost $440,000 for each of the 25,000
commuters it added to the transit system, said Gus Milano,
executive vice president of closely held Hartz Mountain
Industries.  “Does that make sense? I don’t think so,” said Milano,
whose firm owns 38 million square feet of commercial and
multifamily property centered near the New Jersey entrance to
the proposed tunnel.  New Jersey’s share of the latest $9.8 billion cost of the
project was to be $3.3 billion, including $1.25 billion in bonds
backed by New Jersey Turnpike Authority tolls, according to the
Federal Transit Administration. Beyond that, the state was
scheduled to be responsible for all costs beyond the $9.8
billion -- a bill Christie said on Nov. 1 could reach $8 billion
to $10 billion.  “Is it the best use of our resources when the state is
effectively bankrupt? No,” said Milano. A North Bergen, New
Jersey, building Hartz owned was among the 13 properties New
Jersey Transit acquired through condemnation for the tunnel
project, state records show.  “If we redeploy the resources, we could improve the
business climate,” Milano said. “If we can reduce the state
budget and reduce taxes, industry will come to the state.”  School Construction  The tunnel cancellation isn’t the first time Christie has
scaled back construction. He has also taken a knife to New
Jersey’s $12.5 billion school-building program.  During the governor’s first nine months in office,
construction spending by the state Schools Development Authority
totaled $210 million, compared with $483 million during the
first nine months of 2009, according to the agency’s latest
 monthly financial report .  At the same time, construction jobs involved in the program
have dropped to 672 from 1,570 a year earlier, according to the
authority report.  Back at the canceled railroad tunnel’s New Jersey entrance,
the mood has darkened at construction-union halls, such as
Teamsters Local 560 in Union City, as the job outlook has
worsened.  Employment Prospects  Workers who’ve been winding down assignments on the $1.6
billion Meadowlands football stadium were counting on the tunnel
to provide continued employment, said Tony Valdner, president of
the 4,000-member local.  “I was looking at from 60 to 80 trucks a day on that
job,” he said. “It’s a long-term thing.”  Employment in the state’s heavy construction industry is at
an annual average of 15,400, the lowest since 1996, according to
state Department of Labor records. Construction employment is
projected to remain below 2008 levels through 2020, even if the
ARC Tunnel were built,  Nancy Mantell , director of Rutgers
Economic Advisory Service, said at a seminar on the New Jersey
economy today.  Building the tunnel would have generated as much as $9
billion in additional economic activity in New Jersey, New York
and Connecticut during construction, including about $4 billion
in wages, according to data filed with federal regulators. Work
on the project also would have generated $1.5 billion in local,
state and federal taxes, the environmental impact statement
said.  “These are jobs that were anticipated were going to be
constructed and worked on from 2011 through 2016,” Robert
Briant Jr., chief executive officer of the 1,000-member Utility
and Transportation Contractors Association, said. “It’s work
that will not be replaced.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net ;
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  