-- Terra Firma Makes Closing Argument in EMI `Cat Fight' Trial With Citigroup
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-03T15:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/citigroup-terra-firma-capital-lawsuit-closing-arguments-begin.html
Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.
lawyer David Boies made closing arguments in a $2.2 billion
lawsuit against Citigroup Inc. over the auction of  EMI Group
Ltd. , a trial the judge called “a cat-fight between two rich
companies.”  Guy Hands , chairman of the private-equity firm, alleged
Citigroup banker  David Wormsley  misled him in the 2007 auction,
causing Terra Firma to overbid for the London-based music
company. Hands claimed during the trial in Manhattan federal
court that Wormsley falsely told him in the days before the May
auction that Cerberus Capital Management LP planned to bid.  Cerberus had decided not to bid, leaving Terra Firma
without competition. Citigroup claims Wormsley said nothing to
mislead Hands, and that Terra Firma only claimed it was
defrauded after unsuccessful negotiations to restructure
debt. Terra Firma said if it knew Cerberus wasn’t bidding, it
would have sought more information about EMI’s finances.  “If they hadn’t believed Cerberus was bidding, if they
didn’t believe there was an active auction, why would they have
gone ahead and submitted a bid?” Terra Firma lawyer David Boise
asked jurors today during his closing argument.  In a series of rulings over the past week, U.S. District
Judge  Jed Rakoff  narrowed the range of damages jurors may
consider in the case, from $8.3 billion to $2.2 billion. Rakoff
also said that punitive damages aren’t appropriate in the case,
which he called “a cat-fight between two rich companies.”  Separately, Rakoff ejected a juror yesterday who had a
link to a Michael Moore film about the 2008 financial crisis.  She was thrown off the jury after the judge commented on
the movie’s alleged appeal to “anti-bank prejudice.”  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  