-- CLP May Use More Fuel Oil, Coal to Produce Power as Gas Supplies Decline
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-11-03T01:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/clp-may-use-more-fuel-oil-coal-to-produce-power-as-gas-supplies-decline.html
CLP Holdings Ltd. , Hong Kong’s
largest electricity supplier, may increase its use of coal or
fuel oil next year as it receives less natural gas from an
offshore field in Hainan, China.  The company is concerned about dwindling output from the
Yacheng field in Hainan province, and may reduce the amount of
electricity produced from gas through 2012, Rick Truscott,
business strategy manager at unit CLP Power Hong Kong Ltd., said
in an interview in Singapore yesterday. The company’s Hong Kong
power plants consume between 0.5 to 1 trillion cubic feet of gas
per year, according to CLP.  “Using ultra-low-sulfur fuel oil will allow us to have
lower emissions than coal,” Truscott said, without disclosing
the amount of gas to be cut.  CLP is in discussions to obtain long-term gas supplies by
pipeline from Turkmenistan and is looking at the possibility of
buying liquefied natural gas cargoes delivered by ship.
Agreements to buy additional supplies may be concluded around
2012, Truscott said.  “LNG could potentially be something traded in the short
term,” Truscott said.  The company produces 40 percent of its electricity from
coal, 28 percent from gas and 30 percent from nuclear, Truscott
said.  Countries like Qatar are diverting gas supplies to China as
demand for the clean-burning fuel outstrips supply in the
world’s biggest energy consumer.  The Hong Kong government wants 52 percent of power produced
from gas by 2015 compared with 39 percent currently, according
to a policy document to be discussed by the city’s Legislative
Council. Just over half of the city’s electricity is now
produced by coal-fired generators, according to a government
public consultation document on reducing greenhouse gas
emissions released Sept. 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  