-- Collahuasi Copper Workers End Talks Without Accord, Paving Way for Strike
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-04T16:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/collahuasi-union-ends-wage-talks-at-chile-mine-vows-to-strike.html
Workers at  Anglo American Plc  and
 Xstrata Plc’s  Collahuasi unit in northern Chile ended wage talks
today without reaching an agreement, paving the way for a strike
at the world’s fourth-biggest copper mine as early as tomorrow.  The union representing workers doesn’t plan to hold any
further talks today, union leader Manuel Munoz told reporters in
Iquique, Chile, after leaving the negotiating table. The union
will hold assemblies later today, according to its website.  “They stuck with their proposal, they didn’t want to
listen to anything else,” company spokeswoman Bernardita
Fernandez told reporters today. “For them it’s that or
nothing.”  Collahuasi , which extended talks with workers past an Oct.
31 deadline, plans to use non-union employees and contract
workers to ensure output continues at full capacity during the
strike, Fernandez said. The company is willing to hold further
negotiations before the workers can legally begin a strike
tomorrow, she said.  Workers are seeking a 350 percent pay rise including added
benefits, she said.  Collahuasi’s workers rejected a company offer on Oct. 27
that included a bonus of 8.9 million pesos ($18,262). The
company increased its offer this week to 11.5 million pesos and
another 2 million pesos in loans, Fernandez said. Workers at BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida copper mine were paid bonuses of more
than 14 million pesos to sign a new wage deal last year.  Company Proposal  Workers are opposed to a company proposal to extend beyond
2013 a routine whereby miners work for seven-day periods
followed by seven days of rest, according to the union.  Collahuasi produced 535,000 metric tons of copper last
year, or 3.5 percent of the world’s output, according to
Standard Bank Plc. Anglo American and Xstrata each own 44
percent and a group led by Mitsui & Co. holds the rest.  The Collahuasi mine located near Chile’s border with
Bolivia in the Andes is unrelated to the San Jose copper mine
where the rescue of 33 miners was watched by millions of people
across the world earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  