-- Colombian Peso Gains for First Time in Four Days on Federal Reserve Easing
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-11-03T20:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/colombian-peso-gains-for-first-time-in-four-days-on-federal-reserve-easing.html
Colombia’s peso rose for the first
time in four days on speculation dollar flows will rise into
higher-yielding emerging markets after the Federal Reserve said
it will pump more money into the world’s biggest economy.  The Fed said it will buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus, as it seeks
to spur inflation and employment.  The peso climbed 0.4 percent to 1,836.95 per U.S. dollar at
3:48 p.m. New York time, from 1,844.30 yesterday. Colombian
markets closed before the Fed’s announcement. Today’s gain
pushed the peso up 11.3 percent this year, the third-best
performance after the Iceland krona and Thai baht among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Much of those flows will continue to flood emerging
markets,” said  David Aldana , head analyst at Bogota-based
brokerage Ultrabursatiles SA.  Measures announced last week by Colombian officials to ease
the peso’s rally helped pare some of today’s gains, according to
Aldana.  Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said Oct. 29 the
government will eliminate most tax exemptions on overseas
borrowing to reduce the inflow of dollars. The government will
also buy as much as $3.7 billion through the currency forwards
market to hedge foreign debt payments, he said.  The same day, central bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe  said the
institution will keep buying a minimum of $20 million a day
through auctions until at least March 15, two months longer than
previously planned. He also left open the possibility of
additional purchases, saying the bank can buy dollars in the
market through a local clearing house “at any time.”  “While the peso’s strengthening trend remains, the
measures will help ease volatility,” said Aldana. He forecasts
the currency will weaken to as low as 1,870 by year-end.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 fell 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.10
percent, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s
price rose 0.051 centavo to 126.672 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  