-- Firms That Fought Dodd-Frank May Gain Under New House
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-11-03T18:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/companies-that-fought-dodd-frank-may-profit-under-republican-u-s-house.html
Republicans will try to rein in
regulators implementing a sweeping overhaul of financial rules
and press for a smaller federal role in the mortgage market as
they return to a majority in the House of Representatives and a
stronger minority in the Senate.  Taking control of the House and bolstering their position
in the Senate will increase Republicans’ sway over the direction
and independence of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and
over any technical fixes Congress makes in rules governing the
trading of derivatives. Republicans retook the House with a gain
of at least 60 seats, their biggest increase since 1938.  Republicans say they will use the House Financial Services
Committee to ensure that regulators such as the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and the new consumer protection
bureau do not write rules that lawmakers consider too
restrictive on the banking industry.  “We don’t want them to regulate capriciously, arbitrarily,
without engaging in a cost-benefit analysis,” Representative
 Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican on the panel, said in an
interview before the election.  A slowdown in rule making or added pressure on regulators
may benefit companies such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp., which lobbied against
portions of the Dodd-Frank law and predicted the measure would
hurt their financial results.  President  Barack Obama  called attention to the Republican
agenda in his weekly radio and Internet address Oct. 23, saying
House and Senate members “are now beating the drum to repeal
all of these reforms and consumer protections.”  “I think it would be a terrible mistake,” Obama said.  Fundamental Reshaping  Because Democrats still control the White House and the
Senate, Republicans will be unlikely to make good on their calls
for a fundamental reshaping or outright repeal of the Dodd-Frank
law or unwinding the government’s role in housing finance.  House Minority Leader  John Boehner , the Ohio Republican in
line to be the next House speaker, told reporters today the
financial-regulation law will “require a significant amount of
oversight so not only will the Congress understand but the
American people understand just what this bill will do to our
financial-services industry.”  Still, the Republican approach will mark a shift from the
era of Democratic control when bankers often were the ones being
called to account before the Financial Services Committee.  Spotlight on Regulators  The Dodd-Frank act, which requires federal agencies to
write more than 240 rules, provide 67 one-time reports and
conduct 22 recurring studies, according to an analysis by  Davis
Polk & Wardwell LLP , will give Republicans a chance to put the
spotlight on regulators, said members, analysts and lobbyists.  “The targets will be bloat and corruption within the
regulatory agencies.” said  Sam Geduldig , a Washington-based
financial services lobbyist for Clark, Lytle & Geduldig and
former Republican leadership aide.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican, is in
line to take the chairmanship of the House Financial Services
Committee from Massachusetts Democrat  Barney Frank , according to
lawmakers and legislative aides. In the Senate, South Dakota
Democrat  Tim Johnson  is in line to replace Banking Committee
Chairman  Christopher Dodd , the retiring Connecticut Democrat.  Bipartisan Compromise  The Republican majority in the House may give Senate
Democrats incentive to reach across party lines on financial
issues, because proposed changes will require backing from both
parties to become law. Bipartisan compromise, which was non-
existent in committee votes during the Dodd-Frank debate, will
need to be a focus next year, Johnson said in a telephone
interview.  “We sometimes differ on how we achieve our goals, but we
have to agree more often than not,” said Johnson, who
represents a state that has backed Republicans in every
presidential election since 1968.  Bachus, through a spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Financial-industry executives who aligned with Republican
lawmakers in opposition to provisions of the Dodd-Frank law may
find themselves at odds with the new House leadership over
federal guarantees for real-estate loans.  “We need to come up with something where we no longer have
an implicit or explicit guarantee on any such entities,”
Representative  Scott Garrett  of New Jersey, a senior Republican
on the House panel, said in a telephone interview.  Phase Out  Republicans including Bachus and Hensarling favor a free-
market approach that would phase out U.S. support for  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , the government-sponsored mortgage giants that
have operated under federal conservatorship since they were
seized amid soaring losses in September 2008.  The government bailout of the two companies, which own or
insure half of the U.S. mortgage market, could be costliest part
of the federal response to the financial crisis. Taxpayers could
spend as much as $259 billion on the two firms through 2013, the
Federal Housing Finance Agency said last month.  “There is likely to be a healthy debate, but I think there
is a sincere interest across the aisle, even if there are
varying views, to try and get something done on this,” said  Ken Bentsen , a former House member who is executive vice president
of public policy and advocacy at the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association in Washington.  Mortgage Guarantees  Companies involved in real-estate sales and financing want
the U.S. to continue guaranteeing mortgages to protect investors
as the housing market recovers from the worst economic collapse
since the Great Depression.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said he will
present the Obama administration’s plan for restructuring
housing finance by the end of January  There is no consensus among Republicans about whether to
restructure Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or to abolish the
government-sponsored enterprise model, said  Bert Ely , a banking
industry consultant. The lack of a united front, combined with
concern over continued weakness in the housing market, is likely
to forestall legislation on the issue in the next Congress, said
Ely, who is based in Arlington, Virginia.  “I think Congress will be too scared of the unintended
consequences of dealing with Fannie and Freddie while this mess
is going on,” he said.  Republican gains in the Senate may help shape the direction
of the new consumer bureau, which will have power to write and
enforce rules for banks, mortgage brokers, retailers, credit-
card companies, debt collectors and credit-scoring firms.  Elizabeth Warren  The Obama administration, which is facing a July deadline
to organize the bureau and name a director, may find it more
difficult to get the 60 Senate votes needed to win confirmation
for its nominee. Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard University law
professor championed by consumer and labor groups, was named as
a special adviser to help shape the agency after Republicans
said they would oppose having her lead it.  Republicans want to limit the bureau’s independence, in
part by bringing its funding under the control of congressional
appropriators, lawmakers said. Currently, the bureau would get
its funding directly from the Federal Reserve.  In narrowing the Democrats’ majority, Senate Republicans
may have gained leverage that will enable them to trade change
in the bureau’s structure for approval of a director, Ely said.  Heavily Invested  Financial companies are heavily invested in the outcome.  Bank of America Corp.  on Oct. 19 reported a $9.87 billion
loss in its card services business after taking a goodwill
charge of $10.4 billion to prepare for Dodd-Frank and a 2009 law
aimed at cracking down on predatory credit cards. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank estimated the new laws could slash as
much as 80 percent of debit-card revenue.  Card issuers such as Bank of America and retailers
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and  Target Corp.  are waiting for
the Fed to write new rules authorized under Dodd-Frank that
would cut the so-called interchange fees that issuers charge
businesses for each transaction. Rate cuts of about 50 percent
are possible, which would hurt issuers but help retailers, who
lobbied for the change.  The Republican takeover may allay issuers’ fears that
Congress will continue to pass financial regulatory legislation,
said  Alison Williams , a Bloomberg Research analyst.  “The worry is that the Fed is going to be regulating debit
interchange rates, and next the government will come after
credit-card interchange rates,” she said in an interview. “If
Republicans win a majority, it’s a lot less likely to happen.”  Technical Fix  Both Democrats and Republicans have signaled willingness to
modify the derivatives section of the Dodd-Frank law, which
expands oversight of a market faulted for fueling the 2008
financial crisis. Frank, who helped craft the legislation, said
a “technical fix” is needed on language that would determine
which firms would be required to post margin or capital for
transactions that don’t move through a clearinghouse.  Republicans including Representative  Ed Royce  of California
say this is also a priority for them.  “Thousands of American businesses, from airlines to
farmers, will find it more expensive to legitimately hedge
market risk,” said Royce, a member of the Financial Services
Committee.  “The committee must ensure businesses that had
nothing to do with the crisis are not unnecessarily punished.”  Derivatives changes could benefit Wall Street banks such as
Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, which lobbied against the rules when
they were being considered. Those companies have been regular
visitors to the CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission as
the agencies attempt to craft the final rules, according to
meeting disclosures posted on the agencies’ websites.  Derivatives Value  U.S. commercial banks held derivatives with a notional
value of $223.4 trillion in the second quarter, according to the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Those banks reported
trading revenue of $6.6 billion in the quarter, a gain of 28
percent from the same period a year earlier.  Derivatives are financial instruments based on the value of
another security or benchmark. Congress took aim at the industry
after soured trades on mortgage derivatives tipped the U.S.
economy into the deepest recession since the 1930s.  Technical amendments or broader changes to derivatives
legislation will hinge on the level of partisanship in the new
Congress, and partisan tensions may make for rough going, at
least initially, analysts say.  “It is natural for new majorities to over-interpret their
mandate,” said William A. Gallston, a former policy adviser to
President  Bill Clinton  who is now an analyst on congressional
politics. “I just hope we end up toward the end of 2011 with a
recognition that the choice is reduced to gridlock or
cooperation.”  After the biggest overhaul of financial regulations in more
than seven decades, a legislative stalemate may be just fine
with investors and financial companies, Williams said. “In
general, investors just want gridlock so the government will be
less of a threat,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Clea Benson  in Washington 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
   pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  