-- Continental AG Raises Forecasts on Car-Market Growth
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-03T18:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/continental-ag-raises-full-year-forecasts-a-second-time-as-profit-recovers.html
Continental AG , Europe’s second-
biggest car-parts maker, raised its 2010 forecasts for the
second time this year after the auto-industry recovery helped
the manufacturer report its third consecutive quarterly profit.  Full-year revenue will exceed 25 billion euros ($35
billion), rising by more than 24 percent from 2009, and earnings
before interest, taxes and one-time items will total 9 percent
of sales, the Hanover, Germany-based company said today in a
statement. That compares with a forecast in July of more than 15
percent growth in sales this year and an adjusted Ebit margin of
8 percent to 8.5 percent.  Car sales in  China , Brazil and other emerging markets have
helped bolster profit at Continental, which is also Europe’s
second-biggest tiremaker. The company, which has sold 3 billion
euros of high-yield bonds since mid-2010 to extend repayment
schedules on borrowings, may be able to reduce net debt to as
low as 7.6 billion euros by the end of the year, Chief Financial
Officer  Wolfgang Schaefer  said.  “The earnings increase comes in large part from the
automotive division, with its strong growth in Asia and South
America,” Schaefer said in a phone interview. “Generating free
cash flow and reducing liabilities will remain one of our main
targets.”  ‘Better Than Most’  The company “is doing better than most others in the
industry, with almost all units back in the black and some with
impressive double-digit margins,” said  Frank Schwope , an
analyst at NordLB in Hanover with a “buy”  recommendation  on
the shares. “They’re really getting the full swing of the
recovery.”  Third-quarter net income was 14.1 million euros compared
with a 1.04 billion-euro loss a year earlier, Continental said.
Profit missed the average 74.8 million-euro  estimate  of five
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Sales rose 22 percent to 6.49
billion euros. For the full year, the company forecast about 400
million euros of net income.  Earnings were held back by income taxes, which totaled
128.6 million euros in the quarter versus a year-earlier credit
of 72.1 million euros, and raw-material costs.  Continental  fell  0.5 percent to 63.43 euros at the 5:30
p.m. market close in Frankfurt, after earlier dropping as much
as 4.5 percent. The stock, which touched a two-year intraday
 high  on Nov. 1, has  gained  74 percent this year, valuing the
manufacturer at 12.7 billion euros.  Tax Rates  The tax rate will be about 50 percent this year as fiscal
policies don’t allow weaker performance in some regions to
offset earnings growth in markets such as China, South America
and eastern Europe, Schaefer said. Continental aims to return to
a 30 percent tax rate in two to three years, he said.  The company reiterated that it’s appealing a German
regulatory decision that raised the tax liability stemming from
the controlling  stake  held by Schaeffler Group, the German ball-
bearing manufacturer that Continental is taking steps to merge
with late next year. Continental also said it no longer expects
to be able to use interest costs carried forward from past years
to reduce tax payments.  Rubber contracts cost 58 percent more than a year earlier
at the end of September at the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and have
risen further since then, with futures touching a 27-month high
on Oct. 26.  Raw-Material Costs  Continental said raw-material costs will cut full-year
profit at the rubber-products division by more than 450 million
euros, which the company will only be able to offset in part
with price increases and production efficiency. The company
plans to raise tire prices again in 2011 after increases this
year, Schaefer said.  “Maintaining the margin at the tire unit will be critical
because it lifts the margin for the entire group,” said  Henning Cosman , an analyst at  WestLB AG  in Dusseldorf who has a
“neutral” recommendation on the shares and expects
Continental’s earnings growth to slow next year. It’s unclear
whether the company will succeed in passing on the higher supply
costs to customers, he said.  Effects on Tiremakers  A jump in rubber costs overwhelmed a sales increase at
 Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. , the U.S.’s biggest tiremaker, and
led to a third-quarter loss. Michelin & Cie., Europe’s biggest,
said on Oct. 26 that full-year expenses will surge by as much as
650 million euros because of higher raw-material costs.
Stuttgart, Germany-based  Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s largest
auto-parts maker, isn’t traded and doesn’t release quarterly
earnings figures.  Continental predicted in February that group sales in 2010
would rise at least 5 percent and that operating profit would
increase by a “significant” amount. The company has been
selling stock and high-yield bonds this year to refinance debt
that stems largely from the 2007 takeover of  Siemens AG ’s VDO
auto-component business.  The  powertrain unit , which narrowed its third-quarter loss,
will post a fourth-quarter and full-year profit for the first
time since the VDO acquisition, Schaefer said. Third-quarter
earnings were held back by development costs for an electric
drivetrain and turbochargers, he said.  A shortage of electronic components trimmed profit at the
vehicle-interior division, Schaefer said. The situation is set
to improve this quarter, he said.  Net debt  as of Sept. 30 narrowed to 8.1 billion euros from
9.5 billion euros a year earlier. Fourth-quarter free cash flow
of about 500 million euros may allow the company to reduce the
net debt figure to as low as 7.6 billion euros, Schaefer said.  The bond sales have reduced the amount of bank loans coming
due in August 2012 to about 5.3 billion euros from 7.5 billion
euros, Schaefer said on an analysts’ conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 