-- Copper Rises 50% in ‘Red Gold’ Rush on China Doubling Usage
-- B y   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-03T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/copper-rises-50-in-red-gold-rush-on-belief-china-to-double-consumption.html
High school rugby coach Bob Markovich
paid $3,812 for 250 shares of the  Global X Copper Miners ETF  in
September. He got the idea from an investment club he advises
for students, including his daughter Lydia.  “It’s the right time to buy it, the right time to
stockpile it and the right time to own it,” said the father of
five who coaches sports at Christian Community School in North
Eaton,  Ohio . His wager, 12 percent higher to date, links booming
demand in China with supply constraints at world copper mines.  Investors are driving up the price of copper and the stocks
of companies that mine the metal used to electrify the world’s
cars, homes and offices. China’s consumption will almost double
by the end of 2020 to account for 49 percent of world copper
sales, according to CRU, a London-based mining and metals
consulting firm. Plans for three exchange-traded products backed
by the metal, including one by BlackRock Inc., the world’s
largest money manager, may increase pressure on suppliers.  “Copper is red gold,” said  Jeremy Gray , global head of
resources at Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong . Gray predicts
the metal could rise by 50 percent to $12,000 a metric ton in 
the next six to 12 months. “We’re on the verge of the biggest
commodities bull market we have ever seen,” he said.  All but two of 81 new copper mining projects due to start
by 2016 stalled after the 2008 financial crisis curtailed
investment, delaying 3.5 million tons of additional capacity,
the Standard Chartered analyst said. The constraints mean demand
will outstrip supply until at least 2013, he said.  2008 Levels  Copper has risen 14 percent this year, with contracts
traded on the  London  Metal Exchange tripling to $8,435 a metric
ton since December 2008. The Bloomberg index of world mining
stocks also has climbed 16 percent in 2010 to the highest level
since Aug. 1, 2008, driven by miners such as Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc.,  Antofagasta Plc  and Ivanhoe Mines Ltd.  Investors are piling in even after warnings from hedge fund
manager  James Chanos  and Harvard University economics professor
Kenneth Rogoff that China’s prosperity is inflated by a real
estate bubble that will burst and slow growth.  Last month, BlackRock, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and London-
based ETF Securities Ltd. each announced exchange-traded
products backed by copper. BlackRock and JPMorgan have filed
plans to raise as much as $1.5 billion to buy and hold the
commodity.  Raising Prices  ETPs, which can be bought and sold like stocks, give
investors access to commodities without having to take physical
delivery. In the gold market, 50 percent of the 1,200 tons
purchased for investment last year went into physical funds,
surpassing coins and bars for the first time, ETF Securities
said in October. Gold is heading for a 10th consecutive annual
advance, the longest winning streak in London since at least
1920, and has risen almost fivefold over the decade.  Funds that own physical supplies may exacerbate shortages
while raising prices “at an accelerated rate,” said  Daniel Brebner , the head of metals research at Deutsche Bank AG in
London. The Frankfurt-based bank will provide trading and
custody services for ETF Securities’ product.  Investors inject a price premium into copper that changes
the economics of manufacturing, said Jeffery Burghardt, a vice
president of Luvata Inc. in Buffalo,  New York . Luvata produces
copper and brass coils for the automotive and construction
industries. At current prices, the metal accounts for as much as
75 percent of the cost of such household applications as light
bulb sockets, Burghardt said.  ‘Dominated by Speculators’  “You have markets set up to be price-discovery vehicles
for the industry that are now investment vehicles,” Burghardt
said. “They are dominated by speculators.”  Marcelo Awad, the chief executive officer of mining at
Antofagasta, the London-based company controlled by  Chile ’s
Luksic family, says fund sponsors are calling up.  “In the last nine months, investment banks and funds have
approached us to discuss new ETF products,” Awad, 54, said in
an interview at his office in Santiago, the capital. “I can’t
identify the firms, but I can say we only listened to them.”
Its stock is up 40 percent this year.  Awad credits China’s purchases with providing a shock
absorber for the South American country during the global
recession, and again after an 8.8 magnitude earthquake upended
the nation’s economy last February. Antofagasta recorded $392.8
million in sales to  China  last year, 13.2 percent of its total.
Awad said the company would generate 25 percent of its revenue
there in 2012.  Bubble Warnings  Not all signs are positive. China’s expansion is creating a
bubble, according to hedge fund trader Chanos, founder of
Kynikos Associates LP in New York. He told an investment
conference sponsored by Grant’s Interest Rate Observer on Oct.
19 that 17 percent of Beijing office space is vacant and rents
there fell 22 percent last year. In  Shanghai , 12 percent of
offices are empty and rents fell 26 percent, he said.  “Large-scale capital projects grow sillier by the day,”
Chanos said. He declined to comment for this story.  The investor frenzy for base metals may not last, said  Charles Kernot , director of metals and mining at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London.  “There is a huge speculative element in metals prices, and
at some stage that bubble will burst,” he said. “Long-only
pension funds will decide that having a ton of copper sitting
underneath their office is actually not a very sensible thing to
do.”  Beijing Meeting  Just how co-dependent China and the world’s extraction
economies are emerged during closed-door governmental meetings
in November 2008. Santiago Gonzalez, then Chile’s mining
minister, said he had grown nervous watching copper’s price
plummet 58 percent from that year’s high of $8,730 a metric ton
to $3,640 on the day the talks began.  Gonzalez, making his first trip to Beijing, said he asked
Xu Shaoshi, China’s minister of land and resources, and Ma Xiuhong, then vice minister of commerce, how the country planned
to respond to the crisis. “If China stopped buying -- or China
stopped investing -- that would immediately drive copper prices
down and we were going to have problems,” he says now.  “They told us not to worry” because that week they would
announce China’s domestic stimulus plan, Gonzalez said. The
government’s $586 billion spending plan was “intensive in
copper use” and “gave us reassurance that Chinese copper
consumption was going to be maintained.”  Spokesmen for the two Chinese ministries declined to
comment. Copper bottomed at $2,845 that Christmas Eve.  “From there it rose, never falling again, and kept going
up and up,” said Gonzalez, who teaches mining development at
Central University in his country’s capital.  Mine Blasts  Chile sold $9.8 billion of copper to China last year,
accounting for 19 percent of the nation’s exports and 6 percent
of its gross domestic product, according to data extrapolated
from the central bank and  International Monetary Fund .  China’s demand for copper is felt around the world from the
blasts at the  Cerro Verde  mine in the desert of southern  Peru  to
children watching television in the hillside village of Bentang,
in  Hunan province , which just got electricity in 2008.  Low rumblings shake the open pit at Cerro Verde most days.
The rock-smashing explosions release energy equivalent to nine
space shuttle liftoffs, according to majority owner Freeport-
McMoRan, of Phoenix, Arizona. Management is spending $50 million
to increase the plant’s capacity by 10 percent a year, adding 30
million pounds (13,607 metric tons), said John Brack, Cerro
Verde’s former president, who returned to the U.S. in October.  Journey to China  “It would be impossible for China to evolve the quality of
life without copper,” Brack, 55, said in an interview in April.
“We get to provide that. It’s pretty cool.” He is now vice
president of Freeport-McMoRan’s New Mexico operations.  Five to six pounds of ore are produced for each ton of rock
processed. Shards seven inches in diameter are crushed and
loaded into 480-ton tumblers filled with steel balls that grind
the stone and mix it with water pumped from the nearby Chile
River. Chemical reagents and air injected into this slurry
attract copper particles that ride the bubbles to the surface. A
fine black powder consisting of 25 percent copper is the plant’s
principal finished product.  Workers load the concentrate into giant urns on rail cars
bound for the port of Matarani on the Pacific Coast, where
conveyors drop the cargo on ocean-going ships.  A crane operator at the Port of Nanjing , on the Yangtze
river, unloaded a 21,000-ton shipment of ore from Cerro Verde in
March as light rain turned spills to mud.  Busy Port  “Shipments of concentrate have risen almost 10 times at
the port over the past decade and we saw a sudden jump in volume
in 2005,” said Cheng Yuming, a dock hand. He’s bought two
apartments, he said, as he joined the burgeoning middle class.  From Nanjing the ore moved to a mill belonging to Jiangxi
Copper Co. in Guixi City, 1,100 kilometers (684 miles) to the
west. The company smelts the powder into copper plates that are
shipped to makers of electricity-conducting wires and rods.  TBEA Co., among China’s largest suppliers of electricity
equipment, uses such products in transformers and reactors. TBEA
recently installed a 500-kilovolt reactor, containing 15 tons of
copper, in Hunan province, where power is pushed out to areas
that formerly relied on hydropower and kerosene lamps.  In Bentang, which is Mandarin for gushing pond, villagers
say they pooled their savings in 2002 to buy 68 cement poles on
which they planned to string wire to bring them electricity.  Cutting Wood  Sixteen townsfolk shouldered each pole up the brush-covered
hillside. Yet they couldn’t afford the cables and transformers
required to connect them to the regional power grid. So they
waited six years while raising funds from selling fir trees at
the local Qiaotou Forest Farm.  Hu Dongmei, a widow living alone in a wooden house, said
she finally plugged in an eight-year-old refrigerator after the
connection was made in 2008.  “We used to spend hours cutting wood in the mountains in
order to cook,” said Xiong Changfang, inside his home where
three light bulbs burn. “With electricity, we can use our time
better, where more money can be made.”  Eight more villages in the forest still have no power. Dao
County, where Bentang is located, will spend 8 million yuan
($1.2 million) to supply them with service by the end of this
year, said Zheng Jiqiu, party secretary of the farm.  State Grid Corp. of China, the country’s largest
electricity distributor, will absorb one million tons of copper
a year until 2015, according to Qu Yi, CRU’s Beijing-based
copper analyst.  Supply Struggle  “We are looking at a copper market globally that is going
to really struggle to keep up with the demand needs, and, in
particular, the demand needs of China,” said Barclays Capital
metals analyst  Gayle Berry  in London.  Barclays introduced an exchange-traded note linked to
copper futures prices in October 2007, just as China stepped up
its buying of reserves from foreign companies and governments.
The Barclays copper note has gained 11 percent this year,
compared with 7.4 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
The metal “is the commodity most exposed to China’s demand,”
said Jigna Gibb, director of commodity structuring at Barclays.  In March, Wheaton, Illinois-based First Trust Advisors LP
introduced an exchange-traded basket of mining stocks, the First
Trust ISE Global Copper Index Fund. It has risen 23 percent.
Five weeks later, New York-based Global X Funds launched its
copper miners product, which is up 17 percent.  Gold Standard  BlackRock’s iShares Copper Trust plans to raise about $1
billion to buy physical copper, according to its Oct. 26
registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The J.P. Morgan Physical Copper Trust registered
Oct. 22 plans to raise about $500 million.  “Physically backed ETFs have become the gold standard for
investing in metals,” said Will Rhind, ETF’s head of sales and
marketing in the U.S. He declined to comment further.  In Ohio, Markovich isn’t just a rugby coach. He is a
managing partner of Grand Rapids,  Michigan-based Nav Capital
Partners LLC , which distributes exchange-traded products. Nav
Capital began marketing Global X funds this month, he said.  While working out of his home in Sheffield, Ohio, he also
manages his own portfolio. He decided to invest one morning
after his daughter’s economics class at her private school
outside  Cleveland , he said. A student in the group of senior-
year students he advises was debating a prospective investment
in Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .
That made Markovich think of the Chinese factories that supply
so many consumer goods, from Android phones to iPods.  “He said, ‘Christmas is coming, incomes are down, so I
think more people will be driven to Wal-Mart to buy Christmas
gifts,’’ Markovich said. ‘‘It hit me: I’m teaching these kids
about supply and demand, and they’re thinking about buying Wal-
Mart. I should be doing that with copper.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 Esmith29@bloomberg.net 
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net 
Robert Blau at   rblau1@bloomberg.net . 