-- Copper Fluctuates With Dollar Ahead of Fed Announcement on Extra Stimulus
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-11-03T06:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/copper-may-increase-on-expectation-fed-stimulus-measures-may-buoy-demand.html
Copper fluctuated with movements in
the dollar before the result today of a Federal Reserve policy
meeting which may agree further stimulus for the U.S. economy.  Three-month-delivery copper dropped as much as 0.5 percent
to $8,395 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange before
trading at $8,426 at 2:26 p.m. Singapore time. The contract
climbed 1.6 percent yesterday to the highest level since Oct. 27.
December-delivery metal on the Comex in New York fell 0.2
percent to $3.833 a pound, while February futures in Shanghai
added 0.9 percent to 64,080 yuan ($9,600) a ton.  The  dollar  fluctuated against a basket of six currencies.
The Federal Reserve policy makers probably will announce a plan
to purchase at least $500 billion of long-term securities,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The market is very nervous” ahead of the Fed’s decision,
Yingxi Yu, an analyst at Barclays Capital in Singapore, said
today by phone. A lower-than-expected spending program may boost
the dollar and weaken copper prices briefly, she said.  Copper increased 14 percent this year as demand gathered
pace in China, the world’s largest user, metal stockpiles shrank
and the dollar weakened. Manufacturing activity picked up last
month in the U.S., China and Europe, suggesting consumption for
metals will remain robust,  Stefan Graber , an analyst at Credit
Suisse in Singapore wrote today in a report.  “Copper is very strong from a fundamental point of view,”
said Barclays’s Yu. Stockpiles monitored by exchanges in
Shanghai, London and New York dwindled 21 percent this year.  The World bank, while recommending China to raise interest
rates further to curb inflation, said in a periodic report
released today the Asian nation’s economic prospects remain
“sound,” and boosted its estimate for China’s growth this year
to 10 percent from a June forecast of 9.5 percent.  Chile Unions  A potential strike at the Collahuasi mine in northern Chile
is also supporting copper prices,  Mark Pervan , an analyst at ANZ
Bank Ltd., wrote in a report today. The mine represents 3.5
percent of the world’s output, according to Standard Bank Plc.  A union at Collahuasi told members to prepare for a
prolonged strike that may start Nov. 5, it said on its website
after rejecting a new wage offer from the company. The mine
management will resume talks with workers today, company
spokeswoman Bernardita Fernandez said yesterday.  Copper consumption in China, the world’s top user, is
estimated to increase by 11.5 percent to 6.8 million tons this
year,  Yang Changhua , an analyst at Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co., said today at the China International Copper
Conference in Ningbo. The estimate exceeds the researcher’s
previous forecast for 10.7 percent growth.  “The investment stimulus package is still playing a role
this year, supporting demand growth,” Yang said, referring to
last year’s 4 trillion yuan government spending program to pump
up growth during the financial crisis.  Zinc Sale  Aluminum and nickel in London were little changed at $2,426
a ton and $23,690 a ton. Tin increased 0.4 percent to $25,899 a
ton, and lead climbed 0.1 percent to $2,493 a ton.  Zinc inventories tracked by the LME expanded almost 30
percent this year to 632,225 tons, according to the exchange’s
report, the highest since January 2005. The metal price slipped
3.7 percent this year, the only loser among the six main base
metals on the bourse.  China will sell 50,000 tons from state stockpiles in a Nov.
9 auction, the National Development and Reform Commission said
in a statement. These reserves were bought from domestic
smelters between February and May last year, it said.  “It will be the first public auction of zinc by the
government,”  Feng Juncong , an analyst at Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co., said by phone today, forecasting a
drop in prices. “It is probably to help offset reduced
production as China is limiting power supplies to smelters.”
Zinc fell 0.4 percent to $2,444 a ton,  -- With assistance from  Matt Craze  in Santiago, Chinmei Sung in
Taipei,  Helen Yuan  and  Helen Sun  in Shanghai. Editors: Matthew
Oakley,  James Poole   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  