-- Cotton in New York, Zhengzhou Advances to Records on China Supply Deficit
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-11-03T02:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/cotton-in-new-york-zhengzhou-advances-to-records-on-china-supply-deficit.html
     Nov. 3 (Bloomberg) --Cotton futures in New York and
Zhengzhou advanced to records on lingering concerns that a
production deficit in China, the world’s biggest buyer, may be
wider than estimated, boosting the nation’s import needs.  Cotton for December delivery on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York climbed as much as 2 percent to $1.369 a pound, the highest
price in 140 years of trading. Futures for May delivery on the
Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange jumped as much as 3 percent to
29,620 yuan ($4,439) a metric ton, rising to an all-time high
for a third straight day.  “We continue to hear of reports of strong physical demand
and concerns about the Chinese cotton crop,” Luke Mathews, a
commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said by
phone from Sydney today. “It’s a global phenomenon that we’re
seeing at the moment, reflective of the fact that global cotton
supplies are extraordinarily tight.”  Global production is forecast to lag behind demand for a
fifth straight year, draining stockpiles to the lowest level in
14 years, according to an Oct. 8 estimate by the U.S. Department
of Agriculture. An 18.5 million-bale production deficit in China
this year may push the nation’s inventories to a 16-year low,
according to USDA data.  The USDA estimates were released before a hailstorm hit
Texas, the largest U.S. growing state, on Oct. 21. The China
Meteorological Center said on Oct. 25 that a cold front moving
across the nation might hamper cotton harvesting and reduce
fiber quality, adding to global supply concerns.  Market Stability  “The textile market faces a shortage in raw materials,”
the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a
report e-mailed today. “Cotton and yarn prices rose sharply,
affecting company profits and endangering company survival.”  The China Cotton Association said yesterday the nation will
boost management of the industry after prices surged. Major
companies were urged to stabilize the market, the group said in
a statement on its website, citing the National Development and
Reform Commission.  The USDA estimated on Oct. 8 that world use will exceed
production by 890,000 tons in the year that began Aug. 1. That
compares with the  International Cotton Advisory Committee ’s
forecast on Nov. 1 that output will be 25.3 million tons in the
year that began Aug. 1, exceeding demand by about 300,000 tons.  The USDA will update its crop  forecast  for the U.S., the
biggest exporter, on Nov. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  