-- Cotton Extends Rally to Record as China Buying Erodes Tight Global Supply
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-11-03T19:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/cotton-extends-rally-to-record-as-china-buying-erodes-tight-global-supply.html
Cotton futures extended their rally
to a record as textile mills in China, which uses more than 40
percent of the world’s output, sought to secure scarce supplies.  The China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing, publisher
of the official Purchasing Manager’s Index, said today that the
textile market has “a shortage of raw material.” China’s 2011
cotton output will fall for a third straight year as mill use
increases, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Prices
have soared 79 percent in New York this year.  “The demand from China shows no signs of slowdown,” said
 Mike Stevens , an independent trader in Mandeville, Louisiana.
“No price level surprises me anymore.”  Cotton for December delivery rose 1.26 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $1.3552 a pound at 2:59 p.m. on ICE in New
York. Earlier, cotton soared to $1.392, the highest level in 140
years of trading.  Prices are rallying on concern that a production deficit in
China, the world’s biggest buyer, may be wider than estimated,
forcing mills to import more from global stockpiles that already
are forecast to drop to a 14-year low. Cotton futures in
Zhengzhou, China, surged today to a record for a third day.  Rising Imports  China’s  imports  were forecast to rise to 13 million bales
this year, from 10.9 million a year earlier, according to the
USDA. A bale weighs 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  The U.S. is the world’s largest exporter. Outstanding-sales
contracts of U.S. upland cotton to China were 2.46 million bales
as of Oct. 21, about 26 times more than a year earlier,
according to the USDA. The fiber is for delivery in the 12
months ending July 31, 2011.  Last week, a cold spell in China and hailstorms in Texas
damaged crops. Before the bad weather, China’s harvest was
expected to be 18.5 million bales less than domestic use this
season, USDA  data  show.  An area of thunderstorms near the Indonesian island of
Sumatra may develop into a tropical cyclone this weekend and
damage cotton crops in India, the world’s second-biggest grower,
according to weather forecaster MDA Information Systems Inc.  Boraas Waefveri AB , a Swedish textile maker, said it filed
for bankruptcy because of the rising cost of cotton and a lack
of sales contracts at the Krenholm Valduse division in Estonia
that prevented the company from returning to profit.  The company, which made the filing at Gothenburg district
court, is likely to be broken up under an administrator, who
will probably be appointed this afternoon, Chairman Stig-Arne
Blom said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 