-- Cuomo Beats Paladino in New York Race for Governor, AP Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-03T09:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/cuomo-defeats-paladino-in-new-york-race-for-governor-ap-says.html
Andrew Cuomo ,  New York’s  Democratic
attorney general, won the race for governor yesterday, defeating
Republican  Carl Paladino , a Tea Party-backed political neophyte
whose campaign faltered after his well-publicized gaffes.  Cuomo, 52, a former U.S. housing secretary under President
 Bill Clinton  and the son of former three-term Governor  Mario Cuomo , led Paladino by 62 percent to 34 percent with 97 percent
of the precincts counted, the Associated Press said.  When he assumes office Jan. 1, Cuomo will confront a $9
billion deficit in the state’s projected $144 billion budget
next year and will need to propose a spending plan within weeks
to meet the April 1 start of the fiscal year for the nation’s
third most-populous state.  New Yorkers “are frustrated with the dysfunction of
Albany,” Cuomo told supporters in a midtown Manhattan hotel
last night. “They are disgusted, and they are right.”  He vowed to create “a government of competence and
performance and integrity, a government that can manage its
finances and balance its budget just like they have to balance a
budget at home.”  In Cuomo, voters selected a candidate who made headlines as
attorney general by targeting Wall Street bonuses, abuses among
student-loan companies and collusion among health insurers. They
rejected Paladino, 64, a Buffalo developer who ran with a “mad
as hell”  campaign  slogan that allowed Cuomo to retort that
anger isn’t a governing strategy.  ‘Paladino’s Ineptness’  “Cuomo’s good fortune has been that Paladino’s ineptness
as a candidate monopolized media attention of the gubernatorial
campaign and enabled Cuomo to follow a ‘Rose Garden strategy’ of
carefully managed appearances and press releases,” said  Ken Sherrill , a political-science professor at  Hunter College  in
Manhattan, before the results were known.  The Republican’s problems included a videotaped shouting
match in which he threatened a New York Post reporter, accusing
his newspaper of assigning a photographer to stalk his 10-year-
old daughter, who was born to a companion in an extra-marital
affair.  ‘Little Speedos’  Paladino, who opposes same-sex marriage, also apologized
for saying children shouldn’t be “brainwashed into thinking
that homosexuality is an equally valid or successful option.”
He fueled more outrage when he expressed disgust at gay pride
parades, where men “wear these little Speedos and they grind
against each other, and it’s just a terrible thing.”  In his concession speech last night, Paladino said his
candidacy had “galvanized New York state voters with a policy
message that reflects the desires of all New Yorkers: lower
taxes, less government spending, more accountability and
transparency of state government, and the end to insider
political dealings in Albany.”  He blamed his poor showing at the polls on the media
coverage of the campaign, telling supporters at a Buffalo hotel,
“You don’t want the media noticing you. It ain’t pretty. And it
sure ain’t fair.”  Some voters formed their first impression of Paladino in
April, when a western New York political blog,  www.WNYMedia.net ,
published e-mails he had forwarded to friends and associates.
They depicted an African tribal dance subtitled, “Obama
inauguration rehearsal,” a picture of the president and first
lady  Michelle Obama  as a pimp and prostitute and a video showing
sex between a woman and a horse.  ‘Human and Imperfect’  “I confess to being human and imperfect, as are all of
God’s children,” he said in April during a Buffalo campaign
appearance. “I say this to the men out there who have never
opened a graphic image on the Internet: Don’t vote for me. For
those who have, I welcome your vote.”  As early as July, Cuomo had collected more than $16 million
in campaign contributions.  “He established a juggernaut that cleared the field of any
Republican heavyweights, such as former Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani ,” said  Douglas Muzzio , professor of urban politics at
Baruch College in Manhattan, in an interview before the
election. “Paladino had some juice with his ‘throw-the-bums-
out’ anger, but everything he said seemed to bypass his brain
and go directly from his spine to his mouth.”  Paladino’s gaffes allowed Cuomo to “sit back and let
Paladino punch himself out,” Muzzio said.  As governor-elect Cuomo confronts a deficit only three
months after legislators closed a $9.2 billion gap in the
current fiscal year.  ‘Free Fall’  “New York government is in free fall, and people feel the
effects of it on the economy,” said  Dick Dadey , executive
director of the  Citizens Union , a non-partisan government
watchdog group. “Although Cuomo should be able to take
advantage of the public dismay over the state’s inability to
manage its finances, it’s still going to be a very tough
challenge because you can’t balance a budget without severe
spending cuts and increases in revenue.”  Cuomo and Paladino each opposed increased taxes and
spending, and vowed to take on a Legislature they described as
corrupt and dysfunctional. Each depicted himself as an outsider
best able to force change upon Albany while describing the other
as an insider beholden to the system.  Paladino threatened to shut down state government in the
event the Legislature failed to meet its March 31 deadline to
approve a budget, and Cuomo vowed to lead a citizens’ coalition
to force lawmakers to enact spending and property-tax caps.  Deep Cuts  It will take deep cuts in education and Medicaid spending
to deliver on those promises, said  E.J. McMahon , director of the
 Empire Center  for New York State Policy, and a senior fellow for
tax and budgetary studies at the  Manhattan Institute , a New
York-based research center that opposes taxes and promotes
outsourcing to private companies and reduced spending.  “It won’t be easy, but it is doable,” McMahon said. “The
more difficult task will come after the first year, when it
becomes clear the state needs structural change that will carry
through for his entire term as governor, not just holding the
line for a year.”  Cuomo replaces Democrat  David Paterson , who assumed the
post in March 2008, when  Eliot Spitzer  resigned in a
prostitution scandal. Paterson chose not to run for a full term.  Father and Son  The Cuomos will be the first father and son to have served
as New York’s governor, according to Stephanie Barrett, a
researcher at the  New York State Library  in Albany. DeWitt
Clinton, governor from 1817 to 1823 and from 1825 to 1828, was
the nephew of George Clinton, the state’s first governor, who
served from 1777 to 1795. Mario Cuomo was governor from 1983 to
1994.  Andrew Cuomo ran for the Democratic gubernatorial
nomination in New York in 2002. He abandoned that candidacy
under pressure from black Democrats who supported former state
Comptroller  Carl McCall  and threatened to withhold their support
from Cuomo in the event he won. McCall lost to former Governor
 George Pataki , who served three terms.  Cuomo who in 2003 divorced  Kerry Kennedy , the seventh child
of former U.S. Senator  Robert F. Kennedy , shares a home in Mount
Kisco, New York, with Food Network television personality  Sandra
Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  