-- Czech Central Bank Cuts GDP Forecast for 2011, Sees Rate Increases Delayed
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-11-04T17:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/czech-central-bank-may-raise-gdp-forecast-hastening-2011-rate-increases.html
The Czech central bank cut its 2011
growth outlook for the economy because of government austerity
measures, pushing back a likely increase in interest rates
toward the end of next year.  The Ceska Narodni Banka board voted 5-1 in Prague today to
leave its benchmark two-week repurchase rate at a record-low
0.75 percent, in line with the forecasts of 13 of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. One board member, who was not named,
voted for a quarter-point increase, central bank Governor
 Miroslav Singer  told reporters.  The  economy  will expand 2.3 percent this year, the central
bank said in a quarterly update of its economic outlook, as a
recovery in demand in western Europe picks up. The bank cut its
2011 growth estimate to 1.2 percent from 1.8 percent for next
year, saying growth will be stunted by government austerity
measures implemented to slash the budget deficit.  “The financial markets had expected central bank to look
at the economy more favorably than in the previous forecast,
which would have moved the start of monetary policy tightening
closer to today and that didn’t happen,” said  Pavel Sobisek ,
chief economist at Czech unit of UniCredit SpA. The new forecast
“moves interest-rate increases further into the future.”  Policy Debate  The bank in August forecast the economy would grow 1.6
percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2011. It then signaled that
interest rates would remain stable until mid-2011. Policy makers
debated the timing of monetary tightening on Sept. 23, when
board member  Eva Zamrazilova  cast the first vote for a rate
increase after almost two years of cuts.  “The fiscal impulses, or the return to fiscal senses, are
more significant than what we had expected,” Singer told
journalists, explaining the reasons for the cut in 2011 GDP
forecast. “The extent of the budget cuts for 2011, which are
aimed at long-term sustainability, exceeded expectations” in
the central bank’s scenarios, he said.  Changes in the outlook for market interest rates for 2011
aren’t “dramatic,” Singer said. “It’s all about the increases
moving into the future, somewhere into the end of the second
half of next year.”  The central bank doesn’t release an outlook for its
official rate, or announces a policy bias. The bank’s forecasts
include an outlook for market interest rates, which serve as an
indication of future policy rate movements.  Austerity Measures  Prime Minister  Petr Necas ’ government, in office since
July, plans to halve the public-finance  deficit  to less than the
European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP by 2013. The Cabinet
has said the 2011 shortfall will be no more than 4.6 percent of
GDP compared with the 2010 ceiling of 5.3 percent.  The Finance Ministry on Nov. 1 raised its 2010 economic-
growth forecast to 2.2 percent from 1.6 percent. Spending
reductions may hurt growth next year, the ministry said, while
cutting its 2011 forecast to 2 percent from 2.3 percent. GDP
expanded an annual 2.4 percent in the three months through June,
the fastest pace in eight quarters.  Plans to narrow the deficit have helped the koruna
strengthen 5.6 percent against the euro since the May 28-29
elections, making it the best performer among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Taming Prices  The stronger koruna contributed to taming consumer prices
as the central bank estimates that a 1 percent gain in the
currency shaves as much as 0.25 percentage point off the
inflation rate.  The koruna weakened 0.2 percent to the euro to trade at
24.515 as of 5:58 p.m. in Prague. Forward-rate agreements
indicating the three-month interbank rate in six months fell to
1.340 percent, from 1.440 percent the previous day, according
Bloomberg data.  Since the September rate meeting, new data showed that
industrial  output  grew an annual 12.9 percent in August, the
second fastest rate in 2010.  Inflation accelerated to an 18-month high of 2 percent in
September, matching the central bank’s target, on rising prices
for food, tobacco and housing. The central bank forecast that
the inflation rate will be 2 percent in the fourth quarter of
next year and 1.9 percent in the first quarter of 2012.  “We don’t agree with the conclusions of the forecast,”
said  Martin Lobotka , an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna AS, the
Czech unit of Erste Group Bank AG. “The central bank appears to
us to be too pessimistic.”  “The Recovery will continue, with the dynamics slightly
slowing, but not as much as expected the central bank.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  