-- Datang's Renewable Energy Unit Said to Seek $1 Billion in Hong Kong Offer
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2010-11-03T18:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/datang-s-renewable-energy-unit-said-to-seek-1-billion-in-hong-kong-offer.html
China Datang Corp. , the nation’s
second-largest power producer, is seeking a $1 billion initial
public offering in Hong Kong for its renewable energy unit,
according to two people familiar with the plan.  China Datang Corp. Renewable Power Co. has applied to list
its shares on Hong Kong’s stock exchange and a hearing is
expected this month, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is private. The unit may list
its shares in late December, one of the people said. Telephone
calls to the office of China Datang President  Zhai Ruoyu  outside
normal business hours weren’t answered.  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  UBS AG  of Zurich, and New York-
based  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  are among the banks managing the sale
for China Datang, the state-owned company based in Beijing, the
people said.  Adam Harper , a spokesman for Credit Suisse in Hong
Kong, declined to comment, as did UBS’s  Chris Cockerill  and
 Marie Cheung  at JPMorgan.  The IPO would add to the record $40.6 billion that
companies have raised through initial offerings in Hong Kong
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg that excludes
shares from overallotment options. Almost 60 percent of the
sales have come from mainland Chinese companies, the data show.  China, the world’s largest power producer, plans to require
power-network companies to buy a portion of electricity supplies
from renewable energy sources, according to an Oct. 18  statement 
on the nation’s draft industrial development for 2011-2015.
Renewable energy is one of seven “strategic” emerging
industries that China aims to promote in the next five years.  The government intends to favor developers of energy
efficiency and renewable energy projects in its electricity
pricing system, according to a  statement  released by the
National Development and Reform Commission on Oct. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at   fhu7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 