-- Deadly Tomas Weakens to Depression; Haiti Braces for Hurricane by Weekend
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-03T10:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/deadly-tomas-weakens-to-depression-haiti-braces-for-hurricane-by-weekend.html
Tomas weakened to a tropical
depression over the Caribbean as Haiti braced for the storm to
possibly strengthen into a hurricane and hit the former French
colony at the end of the week.  Tomas’s maximum sustained winds today dropped below the 39
mile-an-hour (63 kilometer-per hour) threshold for a tropical
storm and were at 35 mph an hour shortly before 5 a.m. Miami
time, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said today in an online
 advisory . The system is forecast to slam into southern Haiti as
a hurricane, with winds of at least 74 mph, on Nov. 5.  Haitian President  Rene Preval  and Prime Minister  Jean-Max Bellerive  yesterday held an emergency cabinet meeting with aid
officials to prepare for floods and mobilize food and shelter,
the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said
in an online  statement . In the eastern Caribbean, nations
cleaned up after Tomas, which Saint Lucia’s government said was
its “worst-ever natural disaster,” killing seven people.  Haiti’s government, the United Nations and humanitarian
agencies are working on a response based on a projection that
the storm  may affect  500,000 people, according to the UN. The
government agreed to allow the ship  U.S.S. Iwo Jima  to dock in
the capital Port-au-Prince if needed for disaster relief.  The nation is already reeling from a cholera outbreak and
the aftermath of a magnitude-7.0 earthquake in January that
killed an estimated 300,000 people and caused $7.8 billion in
damage. More than 1 million Haitians have been living in camps
since the earthquake, while cholera has killed 337 people and
infected more than 4,764, according to the  World Health
Organization ’s regional branch.  Banana Crop Destroyed  Tomas was 410 miles south-southwest of the Haitian capital
and heading west-northwest at 5 mph, according to the U.S.
hurricane center. A hurricane watch was issued for Jamaica, it
said.  “Interests in Haiti, the Dominican Republic and
southeastern Cuba should also monitor the progress of Tomas,”
the center said. “Tomas could pose a significant threat to
those areas later in the week.”  Tomas swept through the Caribbean’s Windward Islands Oct.
29 to 31, damaging 500 homes in Barbados and 1,200 in Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, and wiping out Saint Lucia’s banana
crop, the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency said
yesterday in a  situation report .  Tomas is the 19th storm of the Atlantic hurricane season,
which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30. This year is the third-
most-active on record, tied with 1995 and 1887, according to
 Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for the hurricane center. In 2005, a
record 28 storms formed in the Atlantic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 