-- Devon Profit More Than Quadruples on Asset Sales and Oil, Gas Price Rise
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-03T20:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/devon-profit-more-than-quadruples-on-asset-sales-and-oil-gas-price-rise.html
Devon Energy Corp. , the third-largest
U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by market value,
said profit more than quadrupled on asset sales and higher
prices for crude and gas. Its shares climbed the most in almost
five months.  Net income for the third quarter increased to $2.09
billion, or $4.79 a share, from $499 million, or $1.12, a year
earlier, Oklahoma City-based Devon said today in a statement.
Per-share profit, excluding a gain on the sale of a field in
Azerbaijan and other gains and expenses, was 10 cents more than
the average  estimate  of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Devon this year agreed to sell offshore and overseas assets
totaling about $10 billion to companies including  BP Plc , Apache
Corp., and Cnooc Ltd., a unit of China’s largest offshore oil
producer. It used proceeds to buy back $936 million of stock,
pay down $1.7 billion in debt and buy $1.2 billion of onshore
leases in the U.S. and Canada where wells begin production in
weeks rather than years.  “Production was above expectations, they bought back stock
and they retired debt,” said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York who rates the shares a “buy,”
owns none. “They are doing the best of their group.”  Devon  rose  $2.29, or 3.5 percent, to $68.22 at 4 p.m. in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. It was Devon’s
largest gain since June 15 and the biggest one-day jump among
the 13 members of the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Oil & Gas
Exploration and Production Index . Devon, which has 19 buy and
seven hold  recommendations  from analysts, has declined 7.2
percent this year.  Exploration Spending  Spending on exploration and production will fall in 2011
after the company spent $1.2 billion on acquisitions this year,
Chief Executive Officer  John Richels  said today on an investor
call. Spending will be $4.5 billion to $4.9 billion, down from
as much as $5.8 billion this year, he said.  About 90 percent of next year’s spending will be for oil
and gas liquids, driving up liquids output by 20 percent and
total production by as much as 8 percent, he said.  Devon may sell all or part of 17,000 acres in the
Haynesville Shale region of east Texas that won’t be as
profitable as other holdings,  David Hager , executive vice
president for exploration, said on the call. It has locked in
drilling rights on 110,000 acres in the gas-rich region that
will generate sufficient profit at prices of $5.50 to $6 per
million British thermal units, Hager said.  Third-quarter profit was 6 cents more than the average of
estimates by analysts who included only operations Devon is
keeping,  Vincent W. White , head of investor relations, said on
today’s call.  Rising Prices  Crude-oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose
12 percent from a year ago to average $76.21 a barrel during the
quarter. Natural-gas futures rose 23 percent to $4.24 per
million British thermal units. That made oil three times more
valuable than gas on an energy-equivalent basis, prompting Devon
and other producers to shift drilling to areas that yield oil or
gas liquids.  Sales rose 27 percent to $2.35 billion. Onshore North
American production of oil and gas liquids rose 11 percent to
average 192,700 barrels a day. Total output declined 2.8 percent
as Devon shed offshore U.S. assets and cut back natural-gas
drilling.  “About 85 percent of capital expenses are now going toward
liquid and oil plays,”  Raymond Deacon , an analyst for Pritchard
Capital Partners LLC, based in Warren, Rhode Island, said in an
interview before the results were announced. He rates the shares
as “buy” and owns none. “They’ve ramped up from 13 rigs to 16
rigs in the Permian Basin, where they have excellent assets.”  Permian Basin  Permian Basin output surged 18 percent to 44,000 barrels a
day, and a 17th rig has been added to exploit almost 1 million
acres now leased in the region, Devon said in today’s statement.
Devon announced plans Sept. 16 to develop its third Canadian
oil-sands field beginning late next year.  Devon’s average oil price was $62.31 a barrel, 5 percent
more than a year earlier, when hedging is included. It sold gas
for $4.67 per million British thermal units, 39 percent more
than a year earlier.  Apache Corp. is the largest U.S. independent oil and
natural-gas producer by market capitalization, followed by
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. Independent producers are those without
refining and retail businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  