-- Dollar Drops to Lowest Since January Versus Euro on Fed Easing, Yen Falls
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-03T18:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/dollar-touches-nine-month-low-against-euro-on-fed-monetary-easing-concern.html
The dollar touched a nine-month low
versus the euro after the Federal Reserve said it will pump more
money into the economy by boosting asset purchases to spur
inflation and employment, debasing the world’s reserve currency.  The greenback swung between gains and losses as the Fed
said it will buy $600 billion under quantitative easing, fueling
speculation about responses by other central banks. The European
Central Bank and Bank of England are scheduled to meet tomorrow,
and the Bank of Japan meets Nov. 5.  “Quantitative easing is by its nature corrosive to the
value of the currency,” said  Michael Woolfolk,  senior currency
strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the
world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in
assets under administration. “The larger the quantitative
easing measure, the worse it is for the dollar.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.4026 per euro at 2:32
p.m. in New York, from $1.4034 yesterday. It touched $1.4179,
matching a low reached Jan. 26. The dollar rose 1 percent to
81.48 yen, from 80.63. The Japanese currency dropped against all
major currencies on speculation the Fed’s plan will increase
demand for higher yielding assets.  The Fed plans to buy Treasuries through June, expanding
record stimulus and risking its credibility in a bid to reduce
unemployment and avert deflation. Policy makers, who said new
purchases will be about $75 billion a month, “will adjust the
program as needed to best foster maximum employment and price
stability,” the Fed’s Open Market Committee said in a statement
in Washington. The central bank kept its pledge to keep interest
rates low for an “extended period.”  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, had declined 1.4
percent this year before the Fed’s statement. It has fallen 13
percent since reaching a 2010 high of 88.708 on June 7.  The yen has gained even after Japan’s effort to curb its
advance on Sept. 15, when the Finance Ministry acknowledged
intervening in the market by selling the currency.  Economists’ forecasts for the size of the purchase ranged
from $500 billion to $2 trillion.  A cheaper dollar would boost U.S. growth by helping
American exports, while strengthening currencies abroad and
threatening European and Japanese expansion. Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bankers pledged last month to avoid
“competitive devaluation of currencies.”  Fed Funds  The Fed has held the benchmark interest rate at a record-
low range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to spur
the economy. It bought $1.75 trillion of securities in its first
round of quantitative easing, which ended in March, to help
bring down interest rates on mortgages and consumer loans. The
purchases included mortgage-backed securities and $300 billion
in Treasuries.  Rates for 30-year mortgages fell from 6.46 percent in
October 2008 to 4.71 percent in December 2009 and a record low
4.19 percent last month. Even so,  new home sales  are hovering
near the all-time low annual rate of 282,00, reached in May.  The dollar has fallen 9 percent versus the euro since Aug.
27, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming, the central bank would “do all that it
can” to sustain the recovery.  ‘On the Back Foot’  “The quantitative easing story got credible in the wake of
Bernanke’s speech at Jackson Hole,” said  Richard Franulovich , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York.
“Ever since, the dollar has been on the back foot, it has been
hit across the board.”  Bernanke added in a speech in Boston on Oct. 15 that
additional monetary stimulus might be warranted because
inflation is too low and  unemployment  too high. The jobless rate
has been 9.5 percent or higher for 14 straight months. The
central bank’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, was unchanged in September from the prior month and was up
1.2 percent from a year earlier, the smallest gain since
September 2001. The Fed has a mandate to promote maximum
employment and price stability.  The Fed also began a program in August to reinvest
principal payments on its mortgage holdings into long-term
government debt to keep money from being drained out of the
financial system. It has  bought  $64.82 billion.  Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast the Fed
would announce a plan to purchase at least $500 billion of long-
term securities in a program called quantitative easing. Fifty-
three of 56 said policy makers would begin a new round of
unconventional easing. Twenty-nine forecast a pledge to buy $500
billion or more, while another seven predicted $50 billion to
$100 billion in monthly purchases without a specified total.  Other estimates for the size of renewed  asset-purchases 
ranged from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch to $2
trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  