-- Dollar Advances for Third Day Against Yen Before Federal Reserve Decision
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-03T17:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/dollar-advances-for-third-day-against-yen-before-federal-reserve-decision.html
The dollar strengthened for a third
day against the yen amid speculation the Federal Reserve will
restart purchases of bonds today to spur the U.S. economy.  The Japanese currency tumbled against all 16 of its most-
traded counterparts on speculation the Fed’s plan will spur
demand for higher-returning assets. The New Zealand dollar
reached the strongest since 2008 versus the greenback on
interest-rate differentials. The Fed may pledge to buy $500
billion or more in securities under a policy called quantitative
easing, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The last two months are totally about QE -- it’s becoming
a little old that every single trade in every single market has
a rubber-stamped QE on it,” said  Tom Fitzpatrick , New York-
based chief technical analyst at Citigroup Inc. “We’re disposed
to the idea once this is out of the way, you could get a spike
in euro and downward push in yen right after the meeting.”  The dollar climbed 0.8 percent to 81.26 yen at 1:11 p.m. in
New York and reached 81.51 yen, the strongest since Oct. 28,
from 80.63 yesterday. It touched 80.22 on Nov. 1, the weakest
level since April 1995. The dollar-yen pair will not move out of
its recent range until the greenback strengthens past 82 yen or
weakens below 80, Fitzpatrick said.  The U.S. currency fell 0.1 percent to 1.4054 per euro,
reversing a gain, from $1.4034 yesterday. It depreciated
yesterday to $1.4058, the weakest level since Oct. 25. The yen
dropped 0.9 percent to 114.18 per euro, from 113.15 yesterday.  Stocks Fall  U.S. stocks reversed an advance as economic reports added
to speculation the Fed will announce less bond buying than
forecast. The  Standard and Poor’s 500  Index slipped 0.3 percent.
Gold futures fell as much as 2.2 percent, the biggest intraday
drop in two weeks, to $1,327.10 an ounce. Investors turn to the
precious metal as insurance against fluctuations in the currency
market.  ADP Employer Services reported payrolls swelled by 43,000
in October. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a 20,000-job gain.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of  non-
manufacturing businesses , which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, rose to 54.3 in October, more than forecast, from 53.2
a month earlier, the group said today.  “The data we’ve had today and this week has undermined the
double-dip thesis,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-
10 foreign-exchange strategy in New York at Deutsche Bank AG.
“That’s leading people to take off the quantitative-easing-
related positions. We’re seeing a slightly stronger dollar
tone.”  New Zealand Dollar  New Zealand’s dollar rose against all its major
counterparts and touched 77.71 U.S. cents, the highest level
since June 2008, as the  premium  the nation’s three-year bonds
offer over similar maturity Treasuries widened to 3.63
percentage points, the most since December.  The benchmark interest rate is 3 percent in New Zealand,
versus as low as zero in the U.S. and Japan, attracting
investors to the South Pacific nation’s higher-yielding assets.  The dollar rose against most of its major counterparts
after Republicans took control of the U.S. House and narrowed
the Democratic majority in the Senate in midterm elections,
fueling speculation they’ll advance policies favorable to
businesses. Republicans gained at least 60 seats in the House
yesterday and six in the Senate.  The Fed has kept U.S.  interest rates  at a range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008 and bought $1.7 trillion in
Treasuries and mortgage debt to try to stimulate the economy.
The purchase program ended in March.  Watch for Dissenters  The U.S. currency may find support today if more than one
member of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee
objects to printing new money, according to Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit.  “More than one dissenter would be supportive of the
dollar,”  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist in Hong Kong,
wrote in a research note today. Investors should also study the
details of the decision, because a suggestion there will be
incremental increases that are “data dependent” may also boost
the U.S. currency, Trinh said.  Fed debt purchases may send the euro rising against the
dollar, sparking deflation in Europe, Nobel Prize-winning
economist  Robert Mundell  said in an interview in Beijing today.  He drew parallels between a quantitative-easing-induced
dollar devaluation and the “inflation tax” of the 1970s, where
depreciation caused by rising U.S. prices reduced the value of
dollar holdings of governments and investors around the world.  Pound Climbs  The pound gained against most of its major counterparts
after data showed U.K. services growth unexpectedly accelerated
in October. Sterling rose 0.3 percent to $1.6081 and appreciated
0.4 percent to 87.16 pence per euro, from 87.48 pence yesterday.  “The U.K. growth data continues to surprise on the
upside,”  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency research
in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a note. “The
probability of QE from the BoE should be significantly
reduced.”  The Bank of England meets tomorrow, as does the European
Central Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  