-- ECB Buys Irish Debt as Bonds Slide a Seventh Day, Traders Say
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-11-03T16:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/ecb-buys-irish-debt-as-bonds-slide-a-seventh-day-traders-say.html
The European Central Bank bought
Irish government bonds today, according to two traders with
knowledge of the transactions.  The ECB purchased short-dated maturities, said the traders,
who asked for anonymity because the deals are confidential. A
central bank spokesman declined to comment when contacted by
telephone in Frankfurt.  Irish 10-year bonds slid for a seventh day, driving the
extra  yield  investors demand to hold the debt instead of German
bunds to a record. The cost of insuring the country’s sovereign
debt also rose to an all-time high as credit-default swaps on
Allied Irish Banks Plc subordinated debt signaled a 63 percent
probability of default within five years.  The difference in yield, or spread, between the Irish
securities and benchmark bunds widened 23 basis points to 506
basis points. Ireland’s government will decide the size of the
2011 budget cuts and tax-raising measures at a meeting later
today. The figure will be published by Nov. 5.  The ECB’s bond buying program differs from so-called
quantitative easing policies pursued by the Federal Reserve and
Bank of England because the central bank mops up the liquidity
created by the purchases, meaning the net effect on the money
supply is neutral.  The ECB began the program on May 10 to stabilize markets
rocked by the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The purchases were
part of a European Union-led push to rescue the euro, which fell
to a four-year low on June 7 after Greece’s near default raised
concern that some nations in the region would struggle to
finance their budget deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  