-- South Korea's Lee Expects G-20 Summit Deal on `Guidelines' on Currencies
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-11-03T04:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/lee-expects-g-20-accord-on-currency-disputes-when-leaders-meet-in-seoul.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
said he expects Group of 20 leaders including Chinese President
 Hu Jintao  to agree on “guidelines” for currency policy when
they meet in Seoul next week.  The leaders will discuss how to reduce global trade
imbalances by assessing current-account positions, following up
on an agreement reached at an Oct. 23 meeting of G-20 finance
chiefs last month in Gyeongju, South Korea, Lee said. The accord
fell short of endorsing a U.S. proposal for current-account
targets.  “I believe leaders will be able to reach some kind of
agreement,” Lee told reporters today in Seoul, where the G-20
summit will be held on Nov. 11-12. “I expect positive
cooperation from President Hu Jintao at the leaders’ summit.”  The G-20 finance ministers agreed to refrain from
“competitive devaluation” and to let markets set exchange
rates more. It was the first time the economic policy makers
took a joint stance on exchange rates, having previous resisted
doing so out of concerns it would alienate China.  China faces demands from Western nations to let the yuan
rise more quickly at a time when the U.S. is trying to trim its
trade deficit and European nations are attempting to stem losses
of manufacturing jobs. While China has kept the yuan’s rise to
about 2 percent since a June pledge to increase flexibility, the
Japanese yen has climbed 15 percent against the dollar this
year, the Thai baht 12 percent and the Malaysian ringgit 11
percent.  Won Advances  The Korean won’s 6.4 percent gain in the third quarter
helped slow economic growth to 0.7 percent from a 1.4 percent
expansion in the previous three months. Exports account for
about 40 percent of South Korea’s gross domestic product, making
it the second-most export-dependent economy within the G-20 bloc
after Saudi Arabia, according to data from the  International
Monetary Fund .  “The Chinese government is actively participating in the
global drive to reduce imbalances,” Lee said today.  Lee said on Nov. 1 the currency issue will be on top of the
agenda when G-20 leaders meet in Seoul.  Lee, who ran South Korea’s largest construction company
before entering politics, is also spurring discussions at the
summit on ways to increase growth in developing nations. South
Korea has become Asia’s fourth-largest economy less than six
decades after the 1950-53 war.  The G-20 leaders will come up with an “action plan” on
ways to aid developing nations, to be assessed every year on how
it was implemented, Lee said.  “The North Korean regime can also get this kind of support
if it decides to join the international community,” he said.
“It is entirely up to the North Korean government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  