-- Egypt Government Said to Be Considering Century Bond of Up to $500 Million
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-11-03T13:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/egypt-government-said-to-be-considering-century-bond-of-up-to-500-million.html
Egypt is studying offers from
investment banks to issue 100-year bonds valued at as much as
$500 million, two people familiar with the proposal said.  No investment bank has yet been mandated to underwrite the
bonds, and the discussions between the Finance Ministry and
banks are at an early stage, they said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because the bond hasn’t been agreed upon yet.  Finance Minister  Youssef Boutros-Ghali  told the state-run
newspaper Al Ahram today that the country was considering
proposals for the century bonds from investment banks. He didn’t
disclose the value of the proposed bonds. Boutros-Ghali wasn’t
immediately available on his mobile phone and didn’t respond to
a text message.  “Because the pricing is so low now, everyone is thinking
about issuing long-term bonds,”  Mohamed Abu Basha , an economist
at Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “It’s
not conventional but if they are approached by investors, it may
be something worth considering.”  Still, Egypt is unlikely to issue a 100-year bond before
selling more 10 to 30-year bonds, Abu Basha said.  Egypt raised $1.5 billion in the North African country’s
first overseas sale of dollar bonds in nine years in April to
take advantage of a decline in borrowing costs.  The government sold $1 billion of 10-year notes to yield
5.75 percent, or 199.7 basis points over similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries. It also issued $500 million of 30-year debt to yield
6.95 percent, or 232.8 basis points above U.S. Treasuries.  Egypt is on course to beat its budget deficit target for a
second straight year as the economy recovers from the global
financial crisis, Boutros-Ghali said Sept. 28. The shortfall
will “very likely” decline to 7.5 percent of gross domestic
product in the fiscal year through June from 8.1 percent in the
previous 12 months, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Mahmoud Kassem  in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net  