-- Emergent Asset Sees Africa as Top Investment Opportunity for Next Decade
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-03T14:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/emergent-asset-sees-africa-as-top-investment-opportunity-for-next-decade.html
Investment returns from Africa should
beat those from all other regions for the next 10 years as a
rise in its population drives spending and growth, according to
 David Murrin , chief investment officer of Emergent Asset
Management Ltd., a U.K.-based hedge fund manager.  “I am huge supporter of Africa,” Murrin said in a speech
to the Hedge Funds World Africa conference in Cape Town today.
“I believe the greatest investment in the world is Africa over
the next decade. The driver is demographics.”  Africa’s population reached 1 billion last year and, after
economic growth averaging 4.9 percent from 2000 to 2008, the
number of families with an income of more than $20,000 a year
has exceeded India’s, McKinsey & Co. Inc. said in a report
published in June. Consumer spending in Africa rose at a
compound rate of 16 percent between 2005 and 2008, New York-
based McKinsey said.  Several other presenters at the conference said they
expect Africa and other developing regions to continue yielding
better returns than other markets.  “Everyone is saying Africa’s the next big thing,” Armien
Tyer, managing director of Cape Town-based Sanlam Investment
Management, said in an interview today. “I certainly believe
that, but I think when too many people head for an entrance or
an exit I get nervous. There is a lot of starry-eyed optimism.”  East Africa  “There are places to miss,” Murrin said. “The triangle
between Kenya, Somalia, Ethiopia and Uganda I think is
particularly dangerous. I am not a keen fan of investing in
Kenya. I am very concerned about the tribalism, the lack of
resources, the ability to feed its people and the migration of
Somalis south.”  Many international investors have shied away from placing
money in African hedge funds, possibly because they didn’t want
the costs of researching the region, said Simone Lowe, a fund
manager at London-based Thames River Capital Ltd.  “There has been a significant shift in the last six months
where people, instead of me having to go them to pitch the
story, they are actually saying please tell me about what you
do,” she said. “However, awareness does not necessarily mean
people take some money out of the bank. We are still a long way
away from seeing that big wave of capital come through.”  African equity funds attracted about 1 percent of the money
that has flowed into stock funds in emerging markets this year,
said  Teresa Barger , chief executive officer of Washington-based
Cartica Capital.  “The GDP of the 48 sub-Saharan African countries is
equivalent to that of Australia, for a population 38 times the
size of Australia’s,” she said. “Thirty-four countries have
below $2,000 per-capita income.  “Twenty-eight countries have a stock exchange, but only
five are in any index and only three are in the MSCI Emerging
Markets main index,” Barger said. “Only 138 companies in Africa
qualify as true mid- and large-cap by world standards, with over
$1 billion market cap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 