-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise to Highest in More Than Two Years as Fed Meets
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-03T11:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-highest-in-more-than-two-years-as-fed-meets.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with the
benchmark index climbing to its highest level in more than two
years, as investors bet the prospects of fresh stimulus from the
U.S. Federal Reserve will bolster the global economic outlook.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained 0.7 percent to
1,132.35 at 10:58 a.m. in London, set for its highest close
since June 18, 2008. South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 0.9
percent after Deutsche Bank AG raised its forecast for the stock
index. The  MSCI China Index , which includes Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong, increased 1.7 percent. Russia’s Micex Index
advanced 0.3 percent as oil and metals prices increased.  “With the numbers looking weak in terms of U.S. data,
investors are expecting that any stimulus measures by the Fed
will spur further liquidity into emerging markets,” said  Pankaj Kumar , who oversees about $560 million as chief investment
officer of Kurnia Insurans Malaysia Bhd in Petaling Jaya,
outside of Kuala Lumur.  The Fed is expected to announce the next round of
quantitative easing after its two-day meeting ends today, which
may involve purchases of at least $500 billion of long-term
securities, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
gained 0.6 percent to a three-week high, as improved corporate
earnings bolstered the outlook for economic growth amid surging
inflows from overseas funds.  Fortis Healthcare Ltd. climbed 1.7 percent after boosting
profit more than fivefold. ACC Ltd., a unit of the world’s
second-largest cement maker Holcim Ltd., gained 2.1 percent on
optimism infrastructure spending by the government will increase
demand for the building material.  Profit Growth  “The earnings growth rally continues,” said  Kishor Ostwal , managing director of CNI Research (India) Ltd., a
publicly traded equities research provider in Mumbai.  South Korea’s Kospi closed at the highest level since
December 2007.  The nation’s stocks  will extend a rally into next
year, driven by attractive valuations and earnings growth,
according to Deutsche Bank and Citigroup Inc.  The  Kospi index  may reach 2,200 by June 2011, representing
a 15 percent gain from yesterday’s close of 1,918.04, Deutsche
Bank’s  Chanik Park  said in a report today. Citigroup analysts
led by  Michael Chung  predict the measure will rise to between
2,200 and 2,300 in the first half of next year.  Dongkuk Steel Mill Co. , South Korea’s third-largest
steelmaker, rose 5.6 percent after the company was upgraded to
“buy” from “hold” at Deutsche Bank.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  