-- Lennar Said to Seek $800 Million in Funding for Distressed Unit
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-11-03T21:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/lennar-said-to-seek-800-million-in-funding-for-distressed-unit.html
Lennar Corp. , the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, is seeking to raise about $800 million
from private investors to add funds to its distressed real
estate unit, according to three people briefed on the matter.  A first tranche of the offering is being marketed to U.S.
and Canadian investors and is expected to close by the end of
November, said two of the people, who asked not to be named
because the discussions are private.  Lennar has been expanding its distressed real estate arm,
Rialto Investments, as demand for  new houses  slumps. The company
bought a 40 percent stake in a $3 billion portfolio of loans
auctioned by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in February,
and said last month it acquired an additional $740 million of
distressed loans and property from financial institutions.  “During the last quarter, Rialto represented almost a
quarter of the company’s bottom line,” said  Michael Kim , an
analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, who
rates Lennar “buy.” “This business could act as a hedge
against further weakness in the new home construction market.”  Rialto had operating  earnings  of about $7.7 million in the
quarter ended Aug. 31. The unit’s revenue totaled $38 million,
or 4.6 percent of the Miami-based company’s  total .  Jeffrey Krasnoff , chief executive officer of Rialto,
declined to comment.  ‘Outsized Returns’  “It’s no secret that we’ve been out raising and looking at
fund capital,” Lennar’s CEO  Stuart Miller  said during a Sept.
20 earnings conference call. “Capital wants to invest where
there are outsized returns. There are outsized returns in the
distressed investment vehicles.”  Rialto has about 90 employees in Miami, Atlanta, New York
and satellite offices engaged in loan workout, property asset
management, loan servicing and finance, Miller said on the call.  “This has positioned us extremely well for the large
pipeline of opportunity that’s been building, not just through
the FDIC but through private banks and other holders of
distressed assets that are now beginning to clear,” he said.  Lennar’s first venture into distressed investing was almost
two decades ago. In 1991, it created LNR Property Corp., which
accounted for about half of its net income in the mid-1990s.
Lennar spun off the division in 1997.  “Investing in Rialto is better for Lennar than sitting on
cash,” said  Michael Widner , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in Baltimore. “It has potential to be icing on the cake.”  Lennar fell 18 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $15.45 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange Composite trading. The  shares 
jumped 7.4 percent yesterday on takeover speculation, Jack
Micenko, an analyst at Susquehanna International Group LLP, said
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 