-- Morgan Stanley Sells a Stake in Carbon Credit Developer to Mercuria Group
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2010-11-03T11:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/mercuria-buys-carbon-developer-mgm-from-morgan-stanley.html
Morgan Stanley, which said in 2006 it
would spend about $3 billion on emission credits and greenhouse
gas-reduction projects in five years, sold its stake in a carbon
developer to Mercuria Energy Group Ltd. for an undisclosed sum.  Geneva-based Mercuria bought the stake in MGM International
Group LLC, a Miami, Florida-based developer of carbon credits,
from shareholders including a unit of Morgan Stanley and MGM’s
founders, it said today in an e-mailed statement. Morgan Stanley
said in 2007 that it had bought 38 percent of MGM in the
previous year.  Hugh Fraser , a Morgan Stanley spokesman in
London, declined to comment when contacted by e-mail and phone.  “MGM represents a strategic move for Mercuria and signals
our belief in the long-term opportunities in this market,
including post 2012,”  Andrei Marcu , head of policy and
regulatory affairs at Mercuria, said by phone today. “This
acquisition will provide additional supply” of emission credits
including from China, Latin America and Africa, he said.  The global carbon market fell 9.7 percent to $28 billion in
the third quarter from $31 billion in the year-earlier quarter,
according to estimates from Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the
London provider of research on CO2 markets. United Nations talks
have so far failed to extend or replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol,
which set emission limits for developed nations in the five
years through 2012.  The MGM acquisition boosts ties with potential buyers of
credits, including in Japan and potentially California, Marcu
said. “Japan is where long-term relationships matter.”  Mercuria, which trades oil and other energy commodities, is
beginning to examine entering the Californian carbon market,
Marcu said. “You have to be in the Californian market. We are
not doing this to provide credits only for the remaining two
years of the Kyoto Protocol compliance period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mathew Carr  in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  