-- Merkel's Bond-Pain Plan Provokes Selloff Foreseen by Trichet: Euro Credit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-03T16:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/merkel-s-bond-pain-plan-provokes-selloff-foreseen-by-trichet-euro-credit.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
once again provoking a selloff in the bonds of the region’s most
indebted nations.  After stalling European Union efforts to rescue Greece in
the first four months of this year, Merkel yesterday stepped up
her push to make bondholders pay toward any future bailout of a
euro nation. Her proposal helped worsen a selloff in the bonds
of the bloc’s so-called peripheral nations. The extra yield that
investors demand to hold  Irish debt  over German bunds rose to a
record and the spreads on  Greek  and  Portuguese  debt widened.  “Merkel wants to reassure voters Germany won’t underwrite
the obligations of the rest of Europe,” said  Tom Sartain , a
fund manager at London-based Schroders Plc, which has $245
billion under management and doesn’t own Greek, Irish or
Portuguese debt. “Talk of burden sharing is the opposite of
what bond holders want to hear. The price action vindicates our
decision not to hold these bonds.”  Traders have dumped Irish and Portuguese bonds since EU
leaders on Oct. 29 endorsed Merkel’s push for a permanent debt-
crisis mechanism, renewing speculation that those countries may
follow Greece in seeking a bailout as they struggle to cut
budget deficits.  The premium on Irish 10-year bonds over bunds rose 22 basis
points to 505 basis points at 4:03 p.m. in London. Portugal’s
spread widened 11 basis points to 388 basis points. The Greek
spread reached 844 basis points yesterday, the most in more than
a month.  Trichet Warning  Merkel’s push caused apprehension among some officials even
before this week’s selloff.  European Central Bank  President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  told EU leaders he’s concerned that talk of
a debt restructuring mechanism would hurt the bonds of
peripheral euro nations, according to an EU official familiar
with the talks.  “I’m not surprised” that the proposal has “moved Greek
and Irish spreads,” said  Toby Nangle , director of asset
allocation at London-based Baring Asset Management, who helps
oversee about $46 billion for clients and owned six-month Greek
debt until last month. “These are movements toward private-
sector burden-sharing and markets tend not to like that.”  EU leaders have yet to agree on the shape of any new
mechanism, which would replace the 750 billion-euro ($1.1
trillion) fund set up in May after it expires in 2013. EU
leaders set a December deadline for the European Commission to
sketch out how it might work, how to treat private bondholders
and whether to involve the International Monetary Fund. Spain
has already said that provisions to reschedule or cancel some
debts would expose its bond to selling pressure.  Debt Reality  “The more you talk about restructuring debt, the harder it
is to obtain debt,” Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said
in an interview with Dublin-based RTE television yesterday.
“That is the reality.”  Merkel’s stance echoes her approach to Greece earlier this
year when she initially refused to rush to its aid, sparking
speculation about the euro region’s ability to handle the worst
crisis in its history. While billionaire  George Soros  at the
time said her strategy risked pushing Greece into a “death
circle,” Merkel said the “tough” terms of the country’s
eventual bailout vindicated her policy.  The new push comes as her Christian Democrat party loses
support to the Social Democrats, with an Oct. 27 Forsa poll
putting the opposition 12 percentage points ahead of her CDU-
Free Democrat government. The government also faces regional
elections from March that involve 25 percent of the population.  Time Bomb?  Leaving taxpayers to shoulder the burden of bailouts may
set off “a dangerous social time bomb” of popular
dissatisfaction, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a
speech late yesterday. “The currency union was never designed
as a model for the enrichment of financial speculators.”  Merkel’s government was the biggest contributor to April’s
Greek bailout and would also shoulder the lion’s share of any
rescue under the current temporary backstop.  “These things are more about politics than economics,”
said  Paul Lambert , head of the global macro team at Polar
Capital Holdings Plc in London. “It’s clear that for some
economies in Europe it’s going to be incredibly difficult to
make the fiscal adjustments needed on their own. It’s either
going to mean Germany picking up the tab, or countries in Europe
being cut loose.”  The German proposals are hurting Portuguese debt even after
the nation’s government and biggest opposition party reached an
agreement Oct. 29 on next year’s budget. The country’s bonds are
the third-worst performing government debt securities this year,
down 5.7 percent, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Irish Spread  Only Greece, with a 16 percent decline, and Ireland, with a
6.9 percent drop, fared worse. German bonds earned more than 8.2
percent this year.  The spread on Irish bonds has doubled in the past three
months as the government tries to cut its deficit in the face of
bank-bailout costs that may reach 50 billion euros. The
country’s 10-year bond yesterday yielded 7.63 percent today, the
most since 1996.  “The German government is following what the market is
telling it,” said  Nicola Marinelli , a portfolio manager at
Glendevon King Ltd. in London, which oversees $200 million in
assts. “The Greek government, and probably the Irish and
Portuguese, will need to be bailed out. If you sense that it’s
inevitable then it’s better to have something to manage that
than complete chaos.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  