-- Terra Firma, Citigroup Make Closing Arguments in `Catfight' Over EMI Deal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-03T19:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/terra-firma-citigroup-make-closing-arguments-in-catfight-over-emi-deal.html
Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. and
 Citigroup Inc.  made closing arguments in their $2.2 billion
fraud trial over the auction of  EMI Group Ltd. , a case the judge
called “a catfight between two rich companies.”  Terra Firma’s lead lawyer,  David Boies , argued today that
Citigroup’s  David Wormsley  lied to Terra Firma Chairman  Guy Hands  in a series of phone calls the weekend before the May 2007
auction.  Wormsley told Hands that Cerberus Capital Management LP
planned to submit a bid for EMI, Boies said. In reality,
Cerberus had decided to withdraw from the auction, leaving Terra
Firma without competition. As a result, Terra Firma claims, it
was tricked into overpaying for the 113-year-old music company.  “If they hadn’t believed Cerberus was bidding, if they
didn’t believe there was an active auction, why would they have
gone ahead and submitted a bid?” Boies asked jurors during his
closing argument in federal court in Manhattan.  Boies showed jurors excerpts from the testimony and
documents they have seen in the 2 1/2-week trial. He said that
Wormsley, a former friend and business associate of Hands, told
a series of lies that caused Hands to bid in the deal, which
lost money for all involved.  Alleged Lies  Wormsley lied when he told Hands that Cerberus planned to
bid 2.62 pounds ($4.22) a share for EMI on the morning of
Monday, May 21, 2007, Boies told jurors. Wormsley also warned
Hands not to “play games” on the price, advising that he would
have to pay 2.65 pounds a share to win the auction, Boies said.
In addition, Wormsley said the auction was moved up two days by
EMI and another, non-existent, bidder, according to Boies.  If Hands had known Terra Firma had no competition in the
bidding, it would have withheld its offer and negotiated
directly with EMI for a lower price and more time to study the
company, Boies claimed. In the weeks after the auction, Boies
said, Citigroup covered up its fraud by pretending that Cerberus
had submitted a bid.  “David Wormsley never lied to Guy Hands,”  Ted Wells , the
lead lawyer for New York-based Citigroup, said in his closing
argument. “He never told Guy Hands that Cerberus was going to
bid 262. He never said it.”  Wells said that, out of all the documents introduced in the
trial, none of them recorded what Hands claims Wormsley told him
about the Cerberus bid.  “There is not one e-mail, there’s not a text, there’s not
a file memo, there’s not one single piece of paper that records
that David Wormsley said that Cerberus was going to bid 262,”
Wells argued.  Opera Snacks  In contrast, Wells told jurors, they were shown a document
that records the appetizers each man ordered when they attended
the opera together.  “It’s a wonder they didn’t write down when they went to
the bathroom,” Wells said.  Wells accused Hands of filing the  lawsuit  to shift the
blame for the failed acquisition to Citigroup, which has written
down  $2 billion  on the deal.  “He was like the guy who says, ‘I can turn tin into
gold,’” Wells told the jurors. “‘I got the magic sauce.’ But
the magic sauce didn’t work this time.”  In rulings during the past week, U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  narrowed the range of damages the jurors may consider, to
$2.2 billion from $8.3 billion. Rakoff said that punitive
damages aren’t appropriate in the case, which he called “a
catfight between two rich companies.”  Separately, Rakoff ejected a juror yesterday who had a link
to the  Michael Moore  film “Capitalism: A Love Story,”  leaving
eight jurors to consider the case. Rakoff dismissed the juror
after determining she lied about an unrelated conversation on a
courthouse elevator during a break.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  