-- Metalloinvest, Iron-Ore Supplier to U.S. Steel, Sees Price Gains
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-11-03T06:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/metalloinvest-iron-ore-supplier-to-u-s-steel-sees-price-gains.html
OAO Metalloinvest, the Russian iron-
ore supplier to  ArcelorMittal ,  U.S. Steel Corp.  and  Corus Group
Ltd ., sees prices of the raw material rising as much as a third
in a year and plans to expand production.  The spot prices in China, to which Metalloinvest links its
export contracts, may gain to as much as $200 a metric ton, from
about $150 a ton now, Chief Financial Officer  Pavel Mitrofanov 
said in an interview in his Moscow office on Oct. 29.  Iron-ore companies including Brazil’s Vale SA, the world’s
biggest, are boosting production to meet increasing demand from
China, the largest consumer of the commodity. Vale said Oct. 28
it would almost double its investment next year to $24 billion
as it seeks to expand iron-ore production, as well as expand in
non-ferrous businesses including nickel, copper and fertilizers.  Metalloinvest, Russia’s largest iron-ore producer, plans to
process so-called hematite ores it currently leaves as waste,
adding about 10 percent to its output at a relatively low cost,
Mitrofanov said. The company sees 2010 iron ore production up 20
percent at about 36 million metric tons, it said in June.  Metalloinvest also plans to double output of hot-briquetted
iron, a form of semi-finished steel, to about 4.5 million tons
within several years, the CFO said.  IPO ‘Isn’t Crucial’  The company, which had $6.5 billion of debt in late 2008,
has cut borrowings 31 percent since then as iron ore prices
recover. It has repaid $2 billion of debt, including loans
received under state guarantees, according to Mitrofanov.  While the producer doesn’t rule out the possibility of an
initial public offering, it “isn’t crucial either for debt
repayments, or for business expansion,” Mitrofanov said. The
company generates enough cash flow to service debt and finance
capital spending of about $800 million a year, the CFO said.  Metalloinvest is controlled by Russian billionaire  Alisher Usmanov , co-owner of Arsenal soccer club and internet company
Mail.ru, due to sell shares in London this month. The iron-ore
company also makes steel in Russia and the United Arab Emirates.  Margins on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization are helping the company, Mitrofanov said.  “In the first half of 2010, we generated the highest
Ebitda margin of any ferrous metals and mining company in
Russia,” he said, without giving specific figures.  OAO Novolipetsk Steel , typically Russia’s most profitable
steelmaker, said on Oct. 4 it had first-half Ebitda margins of
30 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 