-- Ethanol Credit for ADM May Be Target of Republican House
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2010-11-03T21:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/ethanol-credit-for-archer-daniels-may-be-target-as-republicans-seize-house.html
A Republican takeover of the House of
Representatives and other election victories yesterday may mean
that U.S. subsidies aiding ethanol producers will be cut after
the party pledged to reduce government spending.  Congressional leadership changes may include  Frank Lucas  of
Oklahoma taking over as chairman of the House Agriculture
Committee from  Collin Peterson  of Minnesota. Democrat  Debbie Stabenow  may replace Senate farm-panel chairwoman  Blanche Lincoln , who lost her race in Arkansas. Poet LLC is the biggest
U.S. ethanol producer, followed by Archer Daniels Midland Co.  Lawmakers who made federal-deficit reduction a campaign
theme may target money for farm programs, which have been
criticized as wasteful, said  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia, the top
Republican on the  Senate Agriculture Committee .  An early test will be whether a lame-duck Congress extends
a 45-cent-a-gallon tax credit for blenders of ethanol that added
more than $4.7 billion to the deficit last year, Chambliss said.
“There are folks who ideologically don’t want to see the tax
credit,” and those legislators will be emboldened by the
election, Chambliss said in a telephone interview last week.  Tax Compromise  Before the new lawmakers take office in January, Congress
may seek a short-term extension of the tax credit at 36 cents a
gallon, said  Kevin Book , the managing director of Clearview
Energy Partners LLC.  That would be less than extensions supported by the
industry, including Poet, Archer Daniels and smaller companies
including  Green Plains Renewable Energy Corp.   Keeping the credit will be “an uphill battle,” said
 Robert Dinneen , the chief executive officer of the Renewable
Fuels Association, a trade group that includes Archer Daniels
and Pacific Ethanol Inc.. The key to maintaining support will be
linking ethanol production to jobs, he said.  “I don’t want to see plants shut down” and jobs lost
should the credit expire, he said.  Biofuels will retain support in Congress because ethanol
remains important to the economies of farm-state Republicans,
Book of Clearview said. Still, the long-term prognosis for
federal support is “grim,” he said.  Bipartisan Effort  Decatur, Illinois-based Archer Daniels has operations in
119 congressional districts. “All companies need to be able to
work with whoever is in office,” spokesman  Roman Blahoski  wrote
in an e-mail.  The U.S. is the world’s largest producer and exporter of
corn, the main crop used to make ethanol.  Lucas of Oklahoma said in a statement that he hopes to
“have the chance to lead the committee as we focus on the needs
of agriculture and rural America.”  A more-conservative Congress will spur more skepticism
toward President  Barack Obama ’s efforts on biofuels,
environmental regulations and climate change, said  Gary Blumenthal , the chief executive officer of World Perspectives
Inc., a Washington agricultural consultant.  EPA Oversight  With more Republicans, Congress will be more critical of
the  Environmental Protection Agency , Chambliss said.  Lucas has called for regular oversight hearings on the EPA.
Groups including the American Farm Bureau Federation say the
environmental agency puts undue burdens on growers and
agribusinesses such as  DuPont Co. , a maker of herbicides, and
 Tyson Foods Inc. , a livestock and meat producer.  “We’re going to see much more oversight of the EPA and
USDA,” Chambliss said. “Farmers are aggravated by the EPA,
which stands above the rest in its overreach.”  A divided Congress also may upend plans to pass a new farm
bill in 2012, a goal pushed by Peterson, Chambliss said.  The $300 billion, five-year bill, which is set to expire in
2013, authorizes all farm-program spending as well as food
stamps and projects that support poor families and rural
development. It benefits companies including  Bunge Ltd.  and
Cargill Inc. by encouraging production, which lowers the cost of
raw materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 