-- Etisalat Starts Due Diligence to Purchase Zain Stake in $12 Billion Deal
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-03T14:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/etisalat-starts-due-diligence-to-purchase-zain-stake-in-12-billion-deal.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. ,
the United Arab Emirates’ largest phone company, said it will
start the due diligence process to buy a 51 percent stake of
rival  Zain  in a deal valued at about $12 billion.  The number of shares to be acquired will represent 51
percent of Zain’s total issued share capital and voting rights,
Etisalat, as Emirates Telecommunications is known, said in an e-
mailed statement today after signing a preliminary agreement
with Zain shareholders. That figure excludes shares held in
treasury and includes all shares which may be issued pursuant to
the exercise of any options.  Abu Dhabi-based Etisalat said on Sept. 30 it offered 1.7
Kuwaiti dinars ($6.1) a share for the stake in Mobile
Telecommunications Co., or Zain as the Kuwaiti company is known.
On the basis of 4.3 billion Zain shares outstanding, the stake
is valued at current exchange rates at about $12 billion.  The deal would extend Etisalat’s reach in the Middle East,
where Zain operates in countries from Kuwait and Iraq to
Bahrain. Etisalat offers telecommunications in 18 countries in
the Middle East, Africa and Asia, counting more than 100 million
customers, according to its website. The seven emirates of the
U.A.E make up about 86 percent of Etisalat’s sales.  The proposal to buy the  Zain  stake will terminate unless
the companies enter into a definitive agreement by Jan. 15,
Etisalat said. The transaction is unlikely to close before the
end of first quarter of 2011, the company said.  Conditions  The deal is subject to a number of conditions, including
the disposal of Zain’s shareholding in Zain Saudi Arabia, Al-
Khair National for Stocks and Real Estate Co. said in a
statement today. Al-Khair is owned by Kuwait’s Kharafi Group,
which is leading the stake sale.  Etisalat agreed in September to buy a 46 percent stake in
Zain. “The 46 percent shareholding to be acquired represents
51 percent of Zain’s total issued share capital excluding shares
held in treasury,” Al-Khair said today.  BNP Paribas , France’s biggest bank, is advising a group of
investors led by Kuwait’s Kharafi Group on the stake sale. Allen
& Overy LLP is the international counsel for the transaction,
while ASAR is the local counsel, Al-Khair said.  Kharafi Group is Zain’s second- largest shareholder  after
the Kuwait Investment Authority, the country’s sovereign wealth
fund. Today’s preliminary agreement was signed by  Bader Al- Kharafi  representing Al-Khair and Etisalat Chairman  Mohammed Omran .  Zain’s board of directors is likely to meet and advise its
management of the actions necessary to go forward, a company
spokesman said, declining to be named in line with internal
policy.  Etisalat had 11.3 billion dirhams ($3.08 billion) of cash
at the end of last year, earnings statements show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 