-- MGM Studios Files Bankruptcy, Rejecting Icahn Bid
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r ,   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-03T21:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/metro-goldwyn-mayer-files-bankruptcy-after-rejecting-lions-gate-takeover.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., distributor
of the James Bond and Rocky movies, filed for bankruptcy in  Manhattan  federal court after rejecting a takeover bid by  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp . and billionaire  Carl Icahn .  The Los Angeles-based studio, which foundered after piling
on debt to go private, filed a Chapter 11 petition today in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court . About 80 percent of its creditors support a
so-called pre-packaged plan to extinguish about $4 billion of
debt and install managers from  Spyglass Entertainment Group
Inc. , the producers of “The Sixth Sense.” Like Tribune Co. and
the former Chrysler LLC, 86-year-old MGM filed for bankruptcy
after a leveraged buyout.  “A balance sheet restructuring was the only viable
alternative for the company to continue to operate as a going
concern,” said Co-Chief Executive Officer Stephen Cooper, who
led Enron Corp. through its bankruptcy. “By sharply reducing
MGM’s debt load and providing access to new capital, the
proposed plan of reorganization achieves these goals.”  MGM plans to spend as much as $125 million on operations in
the next 15 weeks. MGM said it’s has already spent $20 million
to fund production of films based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s novel,
“The Hobbit,” in a co-production deal with  Time Warner Inc .’s
New Line Cinema, and may need to spend more. Three films based
on “The Lord of the Rings,” the sequel to “Hobbit,” grossed
about $3 billion at the box office worldwide, MGM said.  Hobbit Obligations  MGM estimated its total obligations to “The Hobbit” are
$265 million to $275 million. The company said it is looking for
“a third party” to fund those obligations. Its investment
stake would be $40 million while the rest would be funded by a
lender, MGM said. It’s sharing costs and ownership equally with
New Line.  New James Bond films may be released every second year
starting in November 2012, MGM said. It aims to own 50 percent
of Bond 23, due out that year, with an equal partner paying all
of the production costs, it said. Later Bond movies would be
wholly owned and funded by MGM, the company said.  Losers in the bankruptcy may include the 2005 buyout group,
which retains most of MGM’s existing stock. Tokyo-based  Sony
Corp . has a 14 percent stake; the Texas-based private equity
firm TPG Capital, run by  David Bonderman , has 23 percent;
Providence Equity Partners Inc. has 34 percent;  Comcast Corp .
has 21 percent, and  Credit Suisse Group AG  affiliate  DLJ
Merchant Banking Partners , has 8 percent, according to a court
filing.  Equity Holders  Existing equity holders typically get little or nothing in
a bankruptcy. The investment group in 2004 said it would put up
$1.6 billion in equity financing to buy MGM and take on about $2
billion in debt.  The creditors committee that helped negotiate MGM’s debt
restructuring includes Anchorage Capital Group LLC, Davidson
Kempner Capital Management, Highland Capital Management,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Invesco Inc. and Solus Alternative Asset
Management.  Their debt will be converted into most, or all of the
equity in the reorganized company, according to court filings.
The studio has assets of $2.7 billion and total liabilities of
$5.8 billion; under generally accepted accounting principles,
debt is $3.5 billion, MGM said.  MGM said its plan may be confirmed by the court within 30
days. After the bankruptcy, it aims to raise $500 million for
operations, including for new movies and television series, it
said.  Competing Bid  In a competing bid,  Lions Gate , based in  Vancouver , offered
about $1.7 billion in stock and debt to MGM creditors,
representing a 55 percent stake in the combined company.  To win more MGM creditors, Icahn, who is Lions Gate’s
largest shareholder and owns about 10 percent of MGM’s debt,
offered 53 cents on the dollar for senior MGM loans, or about 18
percent more than the 45 cents the debt fetched in the market
before Lions Gate’s Oct. 12 bid.  Icahn, who separately mounted a hostile takeover of Lions
Gate, was sued by the company on Oct. 29 for allegedly
“plotting” a merger of Lions Gate with MGM that would boost
the value of his holdings in the two companies. He denied the
allegations.  Today, Icahn said in an e-mailed statement he reached an
agreement with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. and the lender
subcommittee to support MGM in its prepackaged bankruptcy. He
will have to right to elect a director to MGM’s board after the
bankruptcy, according to his statement.  Pleased  “I am pleased that we were able to obtain an agreement to
make changes to the MGM prepackaged plan that allows me to
support it and enables the company to avoid a potentially costly
and disruptive bankruptcy process,” he said.  While MGM is in bankruptcy court, any rivals will have to
convince a judge as well as creditors that their proposals for
MGM are better than the bankrupt company’s own plan.  MGM said it has enough cash on hand to fund “normal
business operations” throughout its bankruptcy, including a
month’s wages of $1.4 million, officers’ and directors’
compensation of $1.8 million, and as much as $3 million in fees
to lawyers and advisers.  After the bankruptcy, MGM’s top managers will be  Gary Barber  and  Roger Birnbaum , who run Spyglass and produced the
supernatural thriller “The Sixth Sense,” the company has said.  Wizard of Oz  MGM’s 4,000-title film and television library included
“The Wizard of Oz” and “Gone With the Wind.”  The studio was hobbled with debt in the 2005 buyout.
Revenue fell as new technology cut into DVD sales, the most
profitable part of Hollywood studios’ business, according to
 Adams Media Research .  Industry DVD sales dropped about 10 percent to $13 billion
in 2009, according to the research firm in Monterey,  California .
In May 2009, MGM hired investment bank Moelis & Co. to help
restructure its debt.  MGM Chairman Harry Sloan stepped down as chief executive
officer in August 2009, as MGM created an office of the CEO with
film head Mary Parent, Chief Financial Officer Bedi Singh and
Stephen Cooper, a turnaround specialist. Sloan remained as
chairman.  After inviting takeover bids, MGM said it never got an
offer high enough at an auction where bidders included Time
Warner, which bid about $1.5 billion, and  News Corp ., according
to people familiar with the matter.  Buyout Group  Along with Sony and TPG, MGM’s buyout group included
Quadrangle Group LLC, according to the studio’s website.  The  New York  private equity firm Cerberus Capital
Management LP has an investment in Los Angeles-based Spyglass.  MGM’s largest unsecured creditors are NBC Universal Inc.,
with $34.6 million owed; Showtime Networks Inc., with a $25.5
million claim, and Rainbow Media Holdings, with $22.9 million,
according to a court filing. MGM said today it expects to pay
all valid general unsecured claims.  MGM was controlled by billionaire  Kirk Kerkorian  at the
time of the 2005 buyout, which was his third sale of the studio.
He first sold it to  Ted Turner  in 1986 and then bought it back,
leaving the pre-1948 library with Turner, who used it to create
movie-oriented cable networks that included Turner Classic
Movies, now owned by Time Warner.  Kerkorian later sold the part of MGM he retained to Italian
financier Giancarlo Parretti, who lost it to the French bank
Credit Lyonnais SA after defaulting on loans used to buy the
studio.  With studio executive Frank Mancuso, Kerkorian bought MGM a
third time in 1996 for $1.3 billion in cash.  MGM’s filings were made by New York-based Skadden Arps
Slate Meagher & Flom LLP, hired under a retainer to help the
company with its bankruptcy.  The case is In re Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios, Inc. 10-
15774,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 