-- European Union Said to Plan Duties on Chinese Paper Goods to Fight Dumping
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-11-03T16:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/european-union-said-to-plan-duties-on-chinese-paper-goods-to-fight-dumping.html
The European Union plans to impose
tariffs on Chinese paper to counter below-cost imports that have
hurt producers in Europe including  Sappi Ltd. , according to
three people familiar with a trade case that is unprecedented.  The European Commission in Brussels intends to introduce
“anti-dumping” duties as high as 39.1 percent on Chinese
coated fine paper by Nov. 18 in a case that may also lead to the
EU’s first anti-subsidy levies against China, two of the people
said on the condition of anonymity because the plan is still
confidential. The paper is used for books and brochures.  Europe’s 6 billion-euro ($8.4 billion) market for coated
fine paper is the latest focal point of trade tensions after
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao snubbed European pleas last month to
let the yuan’s exchange rate rise faster. To bolster European
exporters and narrow its trade deficit with China, the EU says
the Chinese government should follow up more ambitiously on its
June pledge to ease the yuan off a two-year peg to the dollar.  EU taxes on Chinese coated fine paper would follow similar
U.S. measures and be the preliminary outcome of a probe opened
in February into whether manufacturers in China including Asia
Pulp & Paper unfairly undercut European producers. A second
inquiry begun in April into alleged trade-distorting Chinese
government aid to domestic paper makers may result in the EU’s
first anti-subsidy duties against the country, a step that would
open a new front in Europe’s battle to slow imports from China.  Anti-Dumping Duties  Europe already imposes  anti-dumping duties  on Chinese goods
ranging from textiles and chemicals to shoes and bicycles. China
faces such EU measures on about 50 products, more than any other
nation.  The call for European anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties
against China comes from a group that includes South Africa-
based Sappi, which makes coated fine paper in EU countries
including Germany and the Netherlands. Germany’s  Papierfabrik
Scheufelen GmbH , Spain’s Lecta SA and Italy’s Burgo Group SpA
are also in the alliance seeking trade measures.  The group says Chinese competitors increased their combined
share of the EU market for coated fine paper to almost 5 percent
in 2009 from less than 1 percent in 2005. The anti-dumping
duties to be introduced by the commission will amount to 39.1
percent against all producers in China except Asia Pulp & Paper,
which faces a 19.7 percent levy, said the two people.  Two other producers of coated fine paper in the EU are
Finland’s  Stora Enso Oyj  and UPM-Kymmene Oyj, both of which
declined to give their views on the trade cases when contacted
by Bloomberg News today. Stora Enso makes coated fine paper in
China as well, while UPM-Kymmene doesn’t, the companies said.  The commission, the EU’s trade authority, has nine months
from the start of a trade investigation to decide on provisional
measures. The EU’s 27 governments, acting on a commission
proposal, have 13 months from the beginning of a probe to impose
“definitive” five-year anti-subsidy duties and 15 months to
apply definitive anti-dumping measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  