-- Ex-Arisaig, CLSA Managers Team With Hedge-Fund Firm for Asia Consumer Fund
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-11-03T06:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/ex-arisaig-clsa-managers-team-with-hedge-fund-firm-for-asia-consumer-fund.html
Rory Dickson, previously a research
head at  Arisaig Partners , and  Damian Kestel , formerly of CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets, have teamed up with Coupland Cardiff Asset
Management to start an Asian consumer-related fund.  The managers’ CC Asian Evolution Fund, which will invest in
small and medium-capitalized stocks, will start trading on Dec.
1, Dickson, who is based in Singapore, said in an interview
today. Coupland Cardiff, a London-based hedge fund firm focusing
on Asian investments, managed $600 million as of Sept. 1,
according to the fund’s marketing document.  Joining Coupland Cardiff will enable Dickson, 40, and
Kestel, 41, to focus on running the fund as managers find it
tough to raise assets following the global financial crisis and
regulators increase oversight of the industry, Dickson said.
Institutional investors are paying more attention to the
organizational and risk management setups of managers they
allocate money to.  “We spent months speaking to a number of hedge funds who
might be potential partners based in Singapore and overseas,”
Dickson said. “Three or five years ago it was easy for a one-
man band to set up shop and get off and running; that’s
changing.”  Coupland Cardiff has the back-office and compliance system
in place as well as a marketing team with a “consistent track
record in raising money,” Dickson said. The London-based firm
oversees Asia long-short and long-only funds, an event-driven
portfolio as well as Japan-focused investments, he said.  Growth Region  The CC Asian Evolution Fund will bet on rising share prices
of consumer companies in the world’s fastest-growing region,
including smaller markets such as Vietnam, Sri Lanka and
Bangladesh, Dickson said. It will trade a maximum of 35 stocks,
he said.  “We will be capping our size at $300 million so that we
maintain the flexibility to invest in smaller and more illiquid
companies,” he said.  The managers plan to raise assets from institutional
investors including pension funds and family offices in Europe
and Asia, he said.  The fund will target annual returns of 12 percent to 15
percent, after fees equal to 1.5 percent of client assets and 15
percent of investment profits, Dickson said.  Consumer stocks are underrepresented in the  MSCI Asia ex-
Japan index , accounting for less than 14 percent of the gauge,
compared with about 34 percent for the  Standard and Poor’s 500
Index , according to the manager.  Asian Consumers  Asian consumers spent an estimated $4.3 trillion in 2008,
and they may increase purchases about eight times to
$32 trillion by 2030, accounting for 43 percent of worldwide
consumption, according to Asian Development Bank. The size of
the so-called middle class population in Asia, with the ability
to spend between $2 and $20 a day, rose to 1.9 billion in 2008
from 565 million in 1990, Manila-based ADB said in August.  “You’ve got tailwinds of urbanization, fabulous
demographics, rising disposable incomes, the growth of middle
class, consumer credit,” Dickson said. “Asia is just at the
start of a long, long journey.”  Dickson was previously the head of the Asean Fund of
Singapore-based Arisaig, which invests in emerging-market
consumer stocks.  Kestel, who is also based in Singapore, was a member of the
Asian equity sales team at CLSA and produced the “Bits &
Pieces” weekly research report for the brokerage.  The fund will conform with Europe’s Undertakings for
Collective Investments in Transferable Securities, a regulated
fund format known as UCITS III.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  