-- Texas Republican Governor Perry Defeats White to Win Re-Election, AP Says
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-11-03T01:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/texas-republican-governor-perry-defeats-white-to-win-re-election-ap-says.html
Texas  Republican Governor  Rick Perry ,
the state’s longest-serving chief executive, defeated challenger
 Bill White , a Democrat, to win a third full term.  Perry, 60, beat  White,  56, with almost 57 percent of the
vote to 41 percent, according to the Associated Press, based on
early returns.  The second-biggest U.S. state by population has kept its
budget balanced through the longest recession since the 1930s
and now faces a deficit of as much as $21 billion in its next
two-year fiscal cycle, according to legislative analysts.
Officials have begun cutting spending even as sales-tax revenue,
which funds about half the budget, has begun to rise.  Perry disputed the size of the projected deficit in a
Bloomberg Television interview in September, saying it would be
about $10 billion to $11 billion.  Texas, with a general-obligation debt rating of AA+ from
Standard & Poor’s, its second-highest, went through a
transformation during the past 20 years, S&P said in a report
last month. The demographic and economic changes left it with a
stable housing market, increased commercial diversity, favorable
energy prices and strong fiscal health, which let it come
through the recession ‘relatively unscathed,” S&P said.  Perry ran on his record of managing the Texas economy,
cutting property taxes and securing the state’s border with
Mexico, according to his campaign  website . Perry, a lieutenant
governor who took over after  George W. Bush  was elected
president in 2000, has held the office longer than anyone,
 surpassing  Allan Shivers, who served from 1949 to 1957.  White, who served two terms as Houston’s mayor, challenged
Perry’s long tenure as governor and based his campaign on the
need to improve the state’s economy, education system and border
security, according to his  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  