-- Mexican Yields Touch Record Low After Carstens Says He Can't Rule Out Cut
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-11-03T19:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/mexican-peso-rises-to-strongest-since-may-on-speculation-about-fed-easing.html
Mexico’s peso bonds rose, sending
yields to a record low, after Central Bank Governor  Agustin Carstens  said he hasn’t ruled out lowering borrowing costs.  Carstens told economists yesterday that policy makers would
need to see increased capital flows from investors, benign
inflation and a strengthening currency for cutting rates from
the current 4.5 percent to be an option, said Rafael de la
Fuente, a UBS AG economist who attended the meeting.  “He made it look like it wasn’t imminent,” de la Fuente
said. “It’s not a decision they would take lightly because they
would have to have strong fundamental reasons to cut rates.”  The yield on Mexico’s 9 percent bond due in 2012 fell eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.70 percent. It
reached 4.69 percent earlier, the lowest since the security was
issued in 2003, according to Banco Santander SA. The price of
the security rose 0.15 centavo to 108.71 centavos per peso.  The market is pricing in a 40 percent change that policy
makers will increase the rate by 0.25 percentage point at the
next meeting, said  Siobhan Morden , head of Latin America
strategy at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  “For them to cut rates you are going to need to see
conditions of worsening external situations and a U.S. scenario
of sub-trend growth for a prolonged period,” she said.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 12.2795 per dollar at 2:49
p.m. New York time, from 12.2959 yesterday. The currency has
gained 6.3 percent this year. The peso earlier today touched
12.2574, the strongest since May 4.  The Federal Reserve said today it will purchase an extra
$600 billion of Treasuries through June as part of its record
stimulus and “will adjust the program as needed to foster
maximum employment and price stability.”  Steady Rate  Banco de Mexico has kept the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 4.5 percent for 14 straight meetings. Inflation is
below the bank’s forecasts, and policy makers have said the
economy remains vulnerable to the U.S. slowdown. The central
bank’s press office said it couldn’t immediately comment on
Carstens’s meeting yesterday.  Foreign investors seeking higher-yielding assets have
turned to emerging markets assets including Mexican government
bonds, pushing yields on the benchmark peso debt to a record low
last month. Other governments such as Brazil and South Korea
have taken actions such as increasing market intervention in a
bid to prevent currencies from rallying amid the inflows.  RBC Capital Markets in Toronto changed its forecast for
Mexico’s borrowing costs after the meeting with Carstens, saying
the bank won’t raise rates until the second quarter of 2012
after predicting an increase in the third quarter of next year,
according to a report yesterday by  Nick Chamie , global head of
emerging markets. RBC sees a “very low possibility” for a rate
cut, senior analyst  Paul Biszko  said today in a separate e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  