-- Facebook Users Help Predict Republican Election-Night Victories
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-11-03T18:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/facebook-users-help-predict-republican-election-night-victories.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s most
popular social-networking site, helped predict more than 70
percent of competitive U.S. House and Senate races, based on the
number of people becoming fans of candidates on the site.  Facebook members picked 74 percent of the winning
candidates among 98 hotly contested House races, Facebook said
today. In the Senate, more than 80 percent of candidates with
more Facebook fans than opponents won their elections.  “The ability for social-media participation and activity
to predict election results has been widely discussed over the
past several months as political campaigns across the country
turned to Facebook to communicate authentically with voters as
well as organize supporters,” the company said on its site.  The company, which has more than 500 million users
worldwide, is an increasingly important arena for candidates to
reach voters. Candidates for governor, senator and other offices
relied on the site to show photos of campaign stops or the
latest polling information. Users can click a “like” button on
the site to show their allegiance to a candidate.  In the U.S. House, 69 candidates with more fans won, while
24 candidates with more Facebook fans lost, the company said.
Five races are still too close to call. Forty-six House Democrat
incumbents lost their seats yesterday, and more than 78 percent
of them had fewer fans than their rivals, Facebook said. The
company, located in Palo Alto, California, didn’t base the
findings on formal polling.  In Florida,  Marco Rubio  had the largest fan base of any
senatorial candidate, with more than 132,000. The Republican
beat  Kendrick Meek , a Democrat, and  Charlie Crist , an
independent, to win the election.  Even so,  Alan Grayson , a Florida Democrat, lost a House
race to Republican challenger  Daniel Webster  despite having more
Facebook fans. Grayson had more than 30,000 fans, compared with
Webster’s roughly 4,600, Facebook said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  