-- Facebook Lets Gap, McDonald's Offer Local Promotions to Retail Consumers
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-11-03T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/facebook-adding-places-groups-features-to-android-version-of-application.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s biggest
social-networking site, unveiled a feature that lets merchants
such as  Gap Inc.  and  McDonald’s Corp.  offer discounts to
potential customers when they are near retail stores.  The new program, called Deals, will deliver promotions from
more than 20 companies and organizations, targeting customers
based on geographic location, Facebook said today during a media
event at its headquarters in Palo Alto, California. The company
also added features that make it easier for users to share their
location and sort friends using an Android mobile device.  About 200 million of Facebook’s more than 500 million
members use the service on a handheld device, increasing the
demand for mobile features. With the Deals tool, Facebook is
trying make money from retailers eager to reach social-
networking users when they’re most likely to make a purchase.  “This gives local businesses an opportunity to reach
people on Facebook, push deals to them and get them in the
door,” said  Debra Aho Williamson , an analyst at research firm
EMarketer Inc. in New York.  Facebook is one of the most popular applications for
Android phones,  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and  Research In Motion
Ltd. ’s BlackBerry devices, New York-based research firm Nielsen
Co.  said  in September. That makes it an alluring target for
mobile advertising -- a market that EMarketer predicts will
surge 79 percent this year to $743.1 million.  Gap Jeans  Using Deals,  Gap  will give away jeans to the first 10,000
customers who visit one of its U.S. retail stores and “check
in” using Facebook’s mobile application.  Facebook won’t generate revenue directly from the Deals
promotions. Even so, advertisers may choose to buy ads on
Facebook’s site to inform consumers about the deals, spurring
revenue for the company, said  Shervin Pishevar , chairman of
mobile-games developer  Social Gaming Network  in Palo Alto.  Facebook also added features to its Android app today,
aiming to capitalize on a growing roster of devices. Phones with
the operating system, developed by Google Inc., are offered by
Motorola Inc., HTC Corp. and other manufacturers. Users of
Android will now be able to get Places, letting them broadcast
their location by checking in at an establishment, and Groups,
which helps sort friends into manageable lists, Facebook said.  The company also is in talks with mobile-handset
manufacturer INQ Mobile Ltd. and carrier  AT&T Inc.  to create new
devices with social-networking features, three people familiar
with the matter said in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  