-- Fed Easing May Spur Deflation in Europe, Mundell Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-03T09:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/fed-easing-may-spark-european-deflation-impose-global-tax-mundell-says.html
Federal Reserve debt purchases to
stimulate the U.S. economy may send the euro rising against the
dollar, sparking deflation in Europe, said Nobel Prize-winning
economist  Robert Mundell .  The European Central Bank would be unlikely to stem the
euro’s gains, Mundell said in an interview in Beijing today. In
an earlier speech, he said U.S. quantitative easing would hurt
nations around the world.  Deflation would worsen European sovereign credit woes by
making debts harder to pay off, said Mundell, who won a Nobel
Prize in economics in 1999 and is credited as the intellectual
father of the euro. His warning highlights potential unintended
consequences of U.S. policy after Brazil said last month that
the Fed risks inflating asset bubbles elsewhere.  European governments are imposing austerity measures after
a near-default by Greece, a European Union rescue package, and
debt rating downgrades for nations such as Ireland, Portugal and
Spain. In the U.S., the Fed may announce a second round of
quantitative easing after a two-day meeting ends today in
Washington.  The European Central Bank’s mandate to control inflation
would likely hamper it from stemming the euro’s rise, while the
currency’s gains would “likely lead to deflation,” Mundell
said. Falling prices would increase “the real value of
indebtedness.”  ‘Terrorizing’ the World  U.S. policy makers will restart a program of securities
purchases to spur growth, reduce  unemployment  and increase
inflation, said 53 of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
last week. Twenty-nine estimated the Fed will pledge to buy $500
billion or more.  In an earlier speech at a forum run by Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch, Mundell, 78, said the Fed’s quantitative easing
was “terrorizing” the world economy. In the interview, he drew
parallels between a quantitative easing-induced dollar
devaluation and the “inflation tax” of the 1970s, where
depreciation caused by rising U.S. prices reduced the value of
dollar holdings of governments and investors around the world.  “Dollars were depreciating in value, dollars were the
major reserve, this was a tax on dollars held outside” the U.S.,
Mundell said.  Asset Bubbles  Brazilian Central Bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said
Oct. 26 that an “expansionary monetary policy in some countries,
particularly in the U.S.,” is creating challenges for economies
such as his by leading to currency appreciation and potential
asset bubbles.  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations are seeking to reduce
global imbalances in trade and saving and spending to limit the
likelihood of another financial crisis.  Mundell said that a proposal by U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  to cap current-account imbalances at 4
percent of gross domestic product would be attractive to China,
especially as an alternative to legislation that would give
President  Barack Obama  more power to penalize countries deemed
to have undervalued currencies.  “It’s something China could live with,” said Mundell,
who’s a professor at Columbia University.  He previously called for the European currency to be fixed
against the dollar and described China’s crisis policy of
pegging the yuan to the greenback as a “great source of
stability” for China and the world. It’s a bad idea for the U.S.
to insist China revalue, he said today.  Joseph Yam , the former head of the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority, said today that emerging economies may use measures
such as temporary capital controls and currency appreciation to
cope with capital inflows. He spoke at the same forum as Mundell.  In a report on the Chinese economy today, the World Bank
said that the abundant liquidity from loose monetary policy in
developed nations is likely to flow into fast-growing Asia.  -- Michael Forsythe . With assistance from  Zheng Lifei  in Beijing.
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Sunil Jagtiani .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
mforsythe@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  