-- Fed's Economic Steps to Boost Stocks, Hurt Dollar, Goldman's O'Neill Says
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-11-03T03:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/fed-measures-to-lead-to-stronger-global-equities-o-neill-says.html
The Federal Reserve’s likely measures
to boost the U.S. economy including buying back debt will spur
further weakness in the dollar and gains for global equities,
according to Goldman Sachs Asset Management’s  Jim O’Neill .  “They will make essentially commitments to doing whatever
is necessary to stop deflation in the U.S.,” O’Neill, chairman
of Goldman Sachs Asset, told reporters in Seoul. “If that’s
what they do, I think we will see further easing of financial
conditions, which means almost definitely in the near term more
dollar weakness, stronger stock markets around the world.”  The U.S. central bank will probably begin a new round of
unconventional monetary easing this week by announcing a plan to
buy at least $500 billion of long-term securities, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The dollar fell against
most major counterparts yesterday as investors awaited the Fed’s
decision and an election outcome that may hand Democrats their
biggest defeat in seven decades. The  MSCI AC World Index  rose
for a fifth day, gaining 0.2 percent to 319, the highest since
September 2008.  The 53-year-old London-based O’Neill, creator of the BRICs
acronym to describe large emerging markets, said while a new
“bull market” in global equities probably started in the past
15 months, current valuations are far from “bubble.”  “We will get bubbles in the future, but current valuations
of many equity markets suggest we’re nowhere near those kinds of
issues,” O’Neill said.  BRIC Growth  O’Neill said emerging-market equities may represent 55
percent of global market capitalization by 2030, with China
having 29 percent, India 5 percent and Russia 4 percent. By 2018,
the aggregate gross domestic product of Brazil, Russia, India
and China could become as big as the U.S., he said.  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bond funds, both poised for
their best year since Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  EPFR Global 
started tracking them in 1995. Stock markets in the biggest
developing nations may double as the Fed’s monetary stimulus
sends valuations back to their 2008 peak,  Dylan Grice,  a global
strategist at Societe Generale SA, said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net 
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 