-- Federal Home Loan Bank Debt Falls to Lowest Since 2004 Amid Lending Slump
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-03T14:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/federal-home-loan-bank-debt-falls-to-lowest-since-start-of-2004.html
The Federal Home Loan Bank system,
the series of government-chartered cooperatives owned by U.S.
financial companies, cut its outstanding long-term debt to the
lowest since January 2004 as banks curb lending and tap
alternative funding sources.  The system’s bonds dropped by almost $30 billion last
month to $591.8 billion, down from a record $890.7 billion in
October 2008, according to data e-mailed today by the system’s
Reston, Virginia-based finance office. Total debt, including
notes due in less than a year, fell $7.4 billion to $798.6
billion, the least since March 2004, from a high of $1.33
trillion in 2008.  The Federal Home Loan Bank system was once the largest U.S.
borrower after the federal government, before shrinking below
the size of  Fannie Mae , the U.S.-supported mortgage-finance
company. Prior to tumbling, the collective borrowing of the 12
regional FHLBs soared during the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression as their owners sought funding.  Declines this year in the FHLBs’ lending to their owners,
which the debt sales finance, reflected “high deposit levels”
at banks, the members’ own limited lending and “continued
availability of alternative funding sources,” the finance
office said in an Oct. 29  statement .  When combined, the 12 FHLBs’ net income totaled $732
million in the third quarter, compared with a loss of $165
million a year earlier, amid lower writedowns on mortgage bonds
without government-backed guarantees, according to the
statement.  Offsetting Decline  Offsetting some of the decline in their assets as members’
borrowing fell, the FHLBs this year have added to their
investments in short-term debt and “other U.S. obligations and
government-sponsored enterprises,” the finance office said.  The government-chartered FHLBs lend to almost 8,000
commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions and insurers at below-
market rates, mainly to finance those owners’ mortgage holdings.
They also buy and hold mortgage-related assets.  The FHLBs, whose debt rating-companies say is granted top
grades in part because of the likelihood they would receive U.S.
aid if needed, raise money in the so-called agency-debt market.
Government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the other
largest sellers. Washington-based Fannie Mae’s outstanding
borrowing totaled $830.2 billion as of September.  Reduced supply of U.S. agency debt has helped trim the
extra average yield over Treasury rates on the securities to
0.19 percentage point yesterday from 0.30 percentage point on
Dec. 31, according to Barclays Capital  index data . The notes
include the corporate debt of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, though
not their mortgage securities and U.S.-guaranteed bank bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  