-- Fidelity Nigeria Board Will Decide on Whether to Keep Non-Banking Assets
-- B y   S a m   O l u k o y a
-- 2010-11-03T16:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/fidelity-bank-of-nigeria-will-decide-whether-to-keep-non-bank-assets.html
Fidelity Bank Plc , a Nigerian lender,
will decide at a special board meeting tomorrow whether to
dispose of its non-banking assets, Chief Executive Officer
 Reginald Ihejiahi  said.  “Any company that supports the business of the main bank
will stay; if it does not, it would be disposed of,” he said in
an interview in Lagos today.  The central bank in March asked lenders to separate their
banking and non-banking businesses to allow for better
supervision. Banks also needed to choose whether to operate as
regional, national or international lenders with minimum capital
requirements ranging from 15 billion naira ($100 million) for
regional banks to 100 billion naira for international lenders.  “If there are also other bank-related businesses we need
to start because they will enable our customers do better,
shareholders will start them and we will have all of these
controlled within a holding group,” Ihejiahi said.  The central bank used $4.1 billion to bail out some lenders
after bad debts valued at about $10 billion threatened the
industry with collapse. It fired the chief executive officers of
eight of the banks for their handling of the crisis. Fidelity
wasn’t one of those affected.  Fidelity plans to buy one of Nigeria’s rescued lenders as
part of its expansion program, Ihejiahi said.  “We have gone through the due diligence, we have put in
tender and we are just waiting for the outcome from the
regulators,” he said, declining to name the bank Fidelity is
interested in buying.  “We also plan to increase our branches from 181 to 200 in
the next five months and step up plans to open branches in other
African countries by next year,” he said.  Net income for the nine months through September surged 86
percent to 5.93 billion naira, Fidelity said in a statement e-
mailed by the  Nigerian Stock Exchange  today.  Fidelity shares increased for a third day, adding 2.5
percent to 2.51 naira by the 1 p.m. close in Lagos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sam Olukoya  in Lagos at 
 solukoya2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  