-- Fierce Mongols Had Soft Spot for Puppies, Gold, Actresses, Art
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2010-11-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/fierce-mongols-had-soft-spot-for-puppies-gold-art-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
So wondrous was the court of Khubilai
Khan that its memory floated through the centuries until an
English poet captured it in dreamy rhymes: “In Xanadu did Kubla
Khan/A stately pleasure-dome decree,” wrote Samuel Taylor
Coleridge in 1797.  A portrait of the pie-faced Mongol lord (the grandson of
Genghis Khan), who established the Yuan dynasty in 1271 and
became emperor of China, is among the more than 200 works
evoking “The World of Khubilai Khan,” now at the  Metropolitan
Museum of Art  in New York.  Who knew the Mongols were such aesthetes? After a
successful pillage, artists were usually spared and sent east.
In the new cities of Xanadu (or Shangdu) and Dadu (Beijing), the
well-ordered streets filled up with mansions, theaters, tombs,
looms and studios.  The range is thrilling: huge dragon roof ornaments,
bustling town scenes on hand-scrolls, statues, robes, and some
unforgettable animal portraits. Don’t miss the smiling little
pup from the Capital Museum in Beijing, one of the show’s many
lenders.  I spoke with the mastermind behind the exhibit, James C.Y.
Watt, who heads up the Department of Asian Art at the
Metropolitan.  Hoelterhoff: Within a short period, Khubilai Khan built
himself a new capital called Dadu and Shangdu farther north.
That’s pretty impressive.  Mongol Emperor  Watt: When you are the head of the biggest empire and have
collected thousands of the craftsmen from demolished cities,
that is not so amazing. The Mongols spared the artists but
slaughtered everyone else. Well, women and children were taken
back as slaves.  Hoelterhoff: Marco Polo appears in the show. I thought he
made everything up.  Watt: He certainly was in China, in Dadu. And he did meet
Khubilai. But he knew no Chinese and moved amongst the Mongols
and the Westerners, so he had no contact with the real China.
And not everything he wrote is necessarily true.  Hoelterhoff: The metal passports in the show are
intriguing. So the bearers could travel from Dadu to the western
extreme of the empire?  Watt: All the way into Central Asia at least, as fast as
the horses could gallop. You could go nonstop because stations
were spaced close together, sometimes 20 or 30 miles apart.  Cheering Fans  Hoelterhoff: I like the vitality that comes through the
show. Looking at that enormous model of a theater, you can
easily envision actresses and their cheering fans.  Watt: This was the peak of Chinese theater in terms of the
writing, acting, singing and dancing. Some of their traditions
survive now.  Voltaire wrote a play based on one of the dramas, but the
most famous, of course, is Brecht’s “The Caucasian Chalk
Circle.” It’s the same story -- two mothers vying for a child.  Hoelterhoff: Did the government subsidize the theater?  Watt: It was totally commercial, entirely self-supporting
and popular. The troupes would move around too, not just playing
in one city.  Hoelterhoff: What do we know about Khubilai Khan’s private
life?  Watt: All the Mongols had a chief wife who was powerful.
They sat with the emperor in audiences. We have a portrait of
Khubilai’s chief wife, Chabi.  Hoelterhoff: Who is a vision in red. What is she wearing on
her head?  Watt: It’s the Mongol hat called the gugu, made of birch
bark as the core and then wrapped with silk and sewn with pearls
and stones.  Cloths of Gold  Hoelterhoff: The fabled cloths of gold were often remarked
on by visitors. Were they typically Mongolian?  Watt: No, they were originally manufactured in the rich
cities destroyed by the Mongols. But anything shimmering, the
Mongols desired. They would use gold cups, jewels to dress
themselves and their tents -- these were lined with cloth of
gold.  Some survived, made into chasubles. They reveal incredible
craftsmanship: The gold threads are made by wrapping the
thinnest imaginable gold foil on this little thread.  Hoelterhoff: The Yuan dynasty is so short, falling in 1368,
when the Chinese return. What doomed Mongol rule?  Watt: Basically corruption, and there were too many
factions at court.  Then, in the middle of the 14th Century, a whole series of
calamities happened as floods covered several provinces, totally
disrupting the communication between the capital and the grain-
producing areas in the south.  They had to transport grain and necessities by sea up the
coast, where they were attacked by pirates.  Hoelterhoff: An alluring photograph in the catalogue of the
Rainbow Bridge in Dadu suggests the city was very beautiful. Why
does so little survive?  Watt: It’s now Beijing. The next dynasty was built exactly
on the same site.  “The World of Khubilai Khan: Chinese Art in the Yuan
Dynasty” is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art through Jan. 2,
2011. The sponsor is Bank of America.  ( Manuela Hoelterhoff  is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 