-- Florida Republican Scott Elected Governor After Record Spending
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-11-03T19:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/florida-republican-scott-elected-governor-after-record-spending.html
Republican  Rick Scott , a former
health-care executive, won the Florida governorship as he spent
a record of more than  $78 million  to defeat Democrat  Alex Sink ,
the state’s chief financial officer.  Scott collected 48.9 percent of the votes to Sink’s 47.7
percent, unofficial  results  from the state elections division
show. Sink, 62, conceded at about 10:30 a.m. today in Tampa,
calling on Scott to remember the “2.5 million Floridians who
did not vote for him.” Earlier, with the election too close to
call, she wanted “every ballot” counted.  Scott, 57, promised to unite Florida’s electorate after a
race he won by less than 70,000 votes of the 5.3 million cast.  “I know I have some work to do to earn your support,” he
said, referring to Sink’s backers in his victory speech in Fort
Lauderdale. “Starting today, I work for every Floridian.”  Scott overcame questions about his ethics for $1.7 billion
in Medicare-fraud payments paid by the hospital company he
founded. He capitalized on voter dissatisfaction over President
 Barack Obama ’s policies and record campaign outlays to become
governor of the fourth-most-populous state in his first run for
public office.  “He was successful casting her as an Obama clone at a time
when Obama’s popularity across the state was not very high,”
said  Susan MacManus , who teaches politics at the University of
South Florida in Tampa.  Easy Wins  Republicans easily won other state offices, including
attorney general, chief financial officer and agricultural
commissioner. The three officials, with the governor, make up
the state’s cabinet.  Nationwide, Republicans gained at least 11 governorships
previously held by Democrats. Two formerly Republican states
elected Democratic governors.  Scott, who campaigned as a “conservative outsider,” had
more trouble drumming up support than some other Republicans
because of fraud allegations against his companies, said Joseph
Uscinski, who teaches politics at the University of Miami in
Coral Gables.  “Scott had a background, and it made it easy for him to
get attacked,” said Uscinski. “If you’re wrapped up with the
health-care industry and accused of fraud, that’s not rubbing
people the right way.”  Personal Contributions  Scott and his wife gave more than $73 million to his bid,
according to the  division of elections . His campaign spent $60.9
million as of Oct. 28, breaking the record of $19.9 million
spent by incumbent  Charlie Crist  in 2006, according to division
of elections data going back to 1996. Scott’s political
committee,  Let’s Get to Work , spent an additional $17.4 million.  Sink, a former Bank of America Corp. executive, and her
committee, Hold Them Accountable, spent $10.5 million.  Scott will take over a state with an  11.9 percent
unemployment rate  in September, higher than the national average
of  9.6 percent . It also had the country’s third-highest home-
foreclosure rate, according to RealtyTrac.  He campaigned on a plan to create 700,000 jobs,  cut
property taxes  by 19 percent and phase out the state’s business-
income levy over seven years. Corporate tax comprised 8.3
percent of Florida’s general- revenue  collections in the fiscal
year that ended June 30, according to the state’s monthly
revenue report.  Cost Reductions  Scott also promised to  reduce government spending . He says
he would save $1 billion over seven years by lowering the
state’s $2.3 billion annual prison  operating budget , increase
employee contributions to their pensions to save almost $1.4
billion and slash $1.8 billion from Florida’s health-care
budget.  Scott, married with two daughters, was born in Bloomington,
Illinois, and raised in Kansas City, Missouri. He started
Columbia Healthcare Corp. in 1987 with two hospitals. In 1994,
Columbia merged with HCA Inc. to become Columbia/HCA Healthcare
Corp. It grew to 340 institutions and $20 billion in annual
revenue, according to his  campaign website .  In March 1997, the U.S. government announced an
investigation of the company’s Medicare-billing practices and
Scott left soon afterward. The company, renamed  HCA Inc .,
eventually paid more than $1.7 billion related to the Medicare
fraud claims.  In 2000, in a deposition in a civil suit against HCA
involving a contract dispute, Scott invoked his Fifth Amendment
right to refuse to testify against himself 75 times. Scott
wasn’t charged with wrongdoing.  Civil Case  He went on to start Jacksonville, Florida-based  Solantic
Corp ., another health-care company, where he served as chairman
until January. Six days before he announced his candidacy for
governor, Scott was deposed in a civil case against Solantic in
which a doctor alleged his license had been used improperly. He
has refused to release his deposition.  The lawsuits became fodder for Sink’s campaign advertising,
which included a  mock documentary  entitled “Profits Before
Patients: the Rick Scott Story,” and a television spot where a
sheriff refers to Scott’s  “shady past.”   Florida’s governorship was left open after  Crist , elected
as a Republican in 2006, decided not to run again and to vie
instead for the U.S. Senate as an independent. Crist lost his
Senate bid to Republican  Marco Rubio  49 percent to 30 percent,
according to the division of elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 