-- Viktor Chernomyrdin, Former Russian Premier and Gazprom Chief, Dies at 72
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-11-03T14:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/former-russian-premier-viktor-cherynomyrdin-dies-kremlin-says.html
Viktor Chernomyrdin , the longest-
serving prime minister in post-Soviet Russia and the first head
of state natural-gas export monopoly  OAO Gazprom , died in
Moscow. He was 72.  Former President  Boris Yeltsin  appointed Chernomyrdin to
head the government in December 1992. He held the post until
March 1998. As prime minister, he oversaw the overhaul of
Russia’s economy, including voucher privatization and the loans-
for-shares program that created many of so-called oligarchs who
continue to dominate Russian business.  Chernomyrdin provided “reliable support” for Yeltsin as
the federal government fought a war against separatists in
Chechnya and struggled to rebuild the country after the collapse
of the Soviet Union,  Mikhail Kasyanov , who served as a deputy
finance minister in Chernomyrdin’s government and later became
prime minister, said by telephone.  “He was unique,”  Boris Nemtsov , Chernomyrdin’s first
deputy in 1997-1998, said by telephone. “People of his
generation mostly just liked to talk about Stalin or at most
about Brezhnev. Chernomyrdin fully understood that this was all
nonsense and that we needed to build a market economy.”  1998 Default  Yeltsin replaced Chernomyrdin five months before Russia’s
August 1998 financial crisis, when the government defaulted on
$40 billion of domestic debt.  “It’s true that the conditions for the default were
created on his watch, but it wouldn’t be fair to blame him alone
for that,” said  Alexei Moiseev , chief economist at VTB Group,
Russia’s second-biggest lender. “The direction of Russia’s
political and economic development was such that it couldn’t
have ended differently.”  Moiseev said Chernomyrdin was an economic conservative of
the Soviet school who found it difficult to accept the
“riotous” reforms of  Yegor Gaidar , who had served as acting
prime minister in the second half of 1992 before Chernomyrdin’s
appointment.  “I remember that Chernomyrdin began his duties as prime
minister by trying to regulate the price of bread,” Moiseev
said.  Chernomyrdin will long be remembered in Russia for his
pivotal role in the June 1995 hostage crisis in the southern
city of Budyonnovsk during the first Chechen war. About 200
rebels led by  Shamil Basayev  took more than 1,500 people hostage
in the local hospital. They demanded an end to military
operations in Chechnya and direct talks with the federal
government.  Combat Operations  After a four-day stand-off in which many hostages were
killed in crossfire between the rebels and government forces,
Chernomyrdin negotiated with Basayev by telephone on live
television. In a compromise aimed at securing the release of the
hostages, Chernomyrdin agreed to halt combat operations and
guaranteed Basayev and his group safe passage back to Chechnya.  One hundred twenty-nine people died in the attack and
hundreds more were injured.  Chernomyrdin was born in a village in the Orenburg region
near the border with Kazakhstan. He began his career as a
metalworker at a local oil refinery and rose to head the Soviet
gas ministry in 1985. When the ministry was restructured as a
state company called Gazprom in 1989, Chernomyrdin became its
chairman.  Current Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  called
Chernomyrdin the “founder of Gazprom.”  Following his tenure as prime minister, Chernomyrdin was
elected to the lower house of parliament. In May 2001, then
President  Vladimir Putin  named Chernomyrdin ambassador to
Ukraine. He served as Russia’s envoy in Kiev for eight years.  The cause of Chernomyrdin’s death wasn’t made public today.
He is survived by two sons and four grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  