-- Freddie Seeks $100 Million After Third-Quarter Loss
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-11-03T16:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/freddie-mac-seeks-100-million-in-u-s-aid-as-third-quarter-loss-narrows.html
Freddie Mac , the mortgage-finance
company operating under federal conservatorship, requested $100
million in U.S. Treasury Department aid after reporting a
narrower loss for the third quarter.  The company reported a loss of $4.1 billion for the three
months ended Sept. 30, including $1.6 billion owed to Treasury
as a dividend payment on the federal government’s 80 percent
stake, McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac said today in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Freddie Mac requested
$1.8 billion when it reported a $6 billion second-quarter loss.  The request for aid accompanying Freddie Mac’s fifth
straight quarterly loss adds to the $63 billion the government-
sponsored firm has received since September 2008, when it was
seized by regulators along with Washington-based  Fannie Mae .
Including today’s request, the two firms have received more than
$148 billion in aid and returned $14.6 billion in dividends.  “Although Freddie faces a number of challenges, the
biggest single drain on the bottom line will be the dividends,”
 Jim Vogel , head of agency debt research at FTN Financial in
Memphis, Tennessee, said in an e-mail.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae were chartered by the federal
government to boost homeownership by buying mortgages from
lenders and providing a U.S. guarantee of principal. Freddie Mac
said it owned or guaranteed about 23 percent of single-family
mortgages as of Sept. 30.  Non-performing Loans  Non-performing single-family loans on the company’s books
rose to $112.7 billion in the third quarter from $85.9 billion a
year earlier. Loans at least 90 days past due “remained high
due to the continued weakness in home prices and persistently
high unemployment, extended foreclosure timelines in many
states, and challenges faced by servicers in building capacity
to process large volumes of problem loans,” the company said.  Investments Freddie Mac made in private-label securities
backed by subprime loans continue to deteriorate. The company
said losses on those investment pools grew to $1.1 billion from
$400 million in the second quarter of this year.  Freddie Mac said it is pressing lenders to honor promises
to repurchase nonperforming loans, including those in supbrime
investment pools, if they were issued based on inaccurate data.
Known as representations and warranties, the promises cover
defects such as inflated appraisals or inaccurate information
about a borrower’s income.  In the three months ending Sept. 30, Freddie Mac had $5.6
billion in unpaid repurchase requests outstanding and had
recovered $1.7 billion from lenders. Some of the company’s
largest single-family loan servicers collectively had more than
a third of repurchase demands outstanding for more than four
months, up from 23 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 