-- Free Trade to Gain, Restrictions Ease in New Congress, UPS Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-11-03T15:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/free-trade-to-gain-restrictions-ease-in-new-congress-ups-says.html
Scott Davis , chief executive officer
of  United Parcel Services Inc. , says a U.S. campaign season rife
with blasts at China and sending jobs abroad masks what the new
Congress means for global commerce: a chance to pass long-
stalled agreements to remove trade restrictions.  Before the election, “no one is going to go out there and
support free trade because it doesn’t play well at home,”
Davis, a member of President  Barack Obama ’s export council, said
in an interview Oct. 22. “There will be more attention to get
these agreements going” next year.  Republicans retook the House of Representatives yesterday
with a net gain of at least 60 seats, their biggest increase
since 1938. Next year may provide the best chance to pass free-
trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama since
they were approved by President  George W. Bush  in 2007. Obama
has shied away from pushing the deals in Congress as drafted
amid high unemployment and opposition from some fellow Democrats
and labor unions.  “This is one area where Republicans and Democrats can work
together,” said  William Lane , government relations director for
 Caterpillar Inc. , the world’s biggest construction-equipment
maker, which favors free trade.  Republicans also scored a net gain of at least six seats in
the Senate, though Democrats retained control of that chamber.  Caterpillar, Boeing  For companies such as UPS, Caterpillar,  Boeing Co . and
 Citigroup Inc. , getting the agreements passed would broaden
access to markets abroad, with the South Korean deal alone
boosting U.S. exports by $10.9 billion a year, according to the
U.S. International Trade Commission.  The Obama administration says the U.S. needs changes to the
Korea agreement concerning beef and autos before submitting it
to Congress, and both countries have said they hope to agree on
revisions before a summit in Seoul next week. “If we can reach
a satisfactory agreement on the key issues for American workers,
we will have a deal,” according to a White House statement
yesterday.  Republican leaders such as Kentucky Senator  Mitch McConnell 
and Michigan Representative  Dave Camp , who is in line to become
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, say they want to
help Obama get the pending trade deals approved.  “Under a Republican House leadership, if the president is
serious about moving forward on trade, he will have a serious
partner on Capitol Hill,” Texas Republican Kevin Brady, the
likely chairman of the trade subcommittee of the House Ways and
Means Committee, said at a meeting in Washington Oct. 25. “We
believe the three agreements are critical.”  Replacing Levin  Camp, who has called for passing the Korea deal this year
and the other two agreements within six months, is in line to
replace Democratic Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, who
has pushed the administration to attack trade barriers in Korea
before bringing the deal up for a vote.  While Camp joined with Levin in voting for a measure aimed
at pressuring China to raise the value of its currency, he told
the National Foreign Trade Council on September 29 that the
China bill was “not my trade agenda.” Brady would replace
Democratic Representative  John Tanner  of Tennessee, who has also
supported the accords.  In addition to the free-trade agreements, Congress may face
a vote next year on Russia’s bid to join the World Trade
Organization, which also will be important to the U.S. economy,
said Edward Gresser, president of the Democratic Leadership
Council in Washington.  China, Vietnam  Over the past decade, U.S. exports to countries such as
China and Vietnam that joined the WTO rose by 120 percent, more
than double the increase in exports to countries that approved
free-trade agreements with the U.S. during that period,
according to an analysis of Commerce Department data by Gresser.  The South Korean accord, the most important of the three
pending pacts in volume of goods affected, may draw especially
strong bipartisan support. With almost $68 billion in two-way
trade, the deal would be the U.S.’s largest free-trade pact
since the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994, making it
critical to helping Obama meet his goal of doubling American
exports in five years.  “Korea has broader implications,” Laura Lane, the head of
international government affairs at New York-based Citigroup,
said in an interview. “A number of countries are looking at
what happens with that deal in the hopes that the U.S. will
redouble efforts” in World Trade Organization talks for a
global accord on trade and for a deal in Asia among the U.S.,
Vietnam, Australia and other nations, she said.  Tea Party  The upshot is that even “coming out of an election being
fought on populist grounds, the next Congress could move trade
legislation,” said Phil English, a former Republican House
member from Pennsylvania who is a lobbyist at Arent Fox LLP in
Washington.  While some Tea Party members have criticized free-trade
agreements, saying they create more overseas competition, the
Republican majority and its leaders see approving the accords as
a priority, English said.  Jobs are at stake as well. For every 22 packages UPS ships
in or out of the U.S. every day, it adds an American worker,  Dan Brutto , the president of Atlanta-based UPS International, said
in an interview. The U.S. trade deal with South Korea will cut
the wait time in customs from more than a day now to less than
four hours, and guarantee UPS the ability to set up operations
there, he said.  UPS Globally  “Our business relies heavily on trade,” Brutto said.
UPS’s international shipments surged 17 percent in the first
nine months of this year, compared with 1.7 percent growth for
domestic shipping.  Atlanta-based UPS, the world’s biggest package-delivery
company, also generates bigger profit margins from its
international business, which accounted for 28 percent of
adjusted operating profit in the third quarter on 15 percent of
daily shipping volume, according to the company’s earnings
report. Profit margins on the international business have
averaged 15.6 percent over the past three years, compared with
12.0 percent for the domestic operations, adjusted for one-time
charges.  For Chicago-based Boeing, more than 80 percent of pending
orders are for aircraft that will be shipped abroad. Caterpillar
exports half of what it makes in the U.S. and gets 70 percent of
its revenue overseas.  Pfizer, Merck, Lilly  The world’s largest drugmakers, including  Pfizer Inc. ,
Merck & Co., and  Eli Lilly & Co ., say they are counting on an
accord to roughly double their share of the $10 billion South
Korea pharmaceutical market, which is now dominated by domestic
generics makers. If that happens, it would mean a combined $3
billion more in revenue for Pfizer and the other global firms.  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank, would benefit from
the Korean agreement because it would allow regional data-
processing hubs outside Korea, making it easier to operate and
manage risks. The deal also requires Korea to publish proposed
rules before they take effect and allow companies to comment on
them.  The benefits of free trade weren’t on display during the
election campaign. Candidates criticized trade agreements, China
or companies moving jobs overseas in 90 percent of the
competitive or open House and Senate races this year, according
to an analysis by Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch, a
Washington group critical of free-trade deals.  Only six of the more than 120 Democrats running to retain
their seats spoke in favor of trade deals,  Global Trade Watch 
says. Pushing the agreements “flies in the face of where voters
are going,” said Todd Tucker, the group’s research director.  Portman’s Campaign  Republican  Rob Portman , the winner of a Senate race in
Ohio, listed among his accomplishments as U.S. Trade
Representative under Bush the times he said he forced China to
end trade barriers or filed complaints against them at the World
Trade Organization. His campaign website didn’t mention that he
kicked off negotiations for the free-trade agreement with South
Korea. When describing that deal in a debate, Portman dubbed it
a “trade opening” accord, not a free-trade agreement.  Democratic Representative  Ron Kind  of Wisconsin, who urged
Obama to push forward with the Korea deal earlier this year,
included in one of his last television advertisements a pledge
to increase taxes on companies with overseas operations.  Obama also joined in. At a campaign stop in Philadelphia in
September, the president took aim at Republican Senate candidate
 Pat Toomey , saying Toomey wanted to “make trade deals that send
jobs out of Pennsylvania.” Toomey won the Senate seat
yesterday.  Paul’s Position  The Tea Party could stymie efforts to get the trade
agreements through Congress. While some Tea Party-backed
candidates, such as  Rand Paul , winner of a Senate race in
Kentucky, are outspoken supporters of these deals, 61 percent of
Tea Party voters say trade agreements have hurt the U.S.,
according to a poll by the Wall Street Journal and NBC News in
September.  “It depends on how many Tea Party candidates are elected
and if they are willing to compromise,” said  Bruce Josten ,
chief lobbyist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s
largest business lobbying group.  One of the few areas where Republicans and the Obama
administration are likely to work together in the coming months
is on approving at least the Korea free-trade agreement, Josten
said. The Chamber supports the deals and says they could provide
a much-needed boost to the U.S. economy.  “The first topic that comes up when people talk
bipartisanship is trade, because historically it has been a
bipartisan issue,” said  William Reinsch , president of the
National Foreign Trade Council, a Washington group that
represents exporters. “But it requires the president to decide
he really wants to do this, and the Republicans to want to
reciprocate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 