-- FrontPoint Health-Care Funds May Face Redemptions
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-11-04T20:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/frontpoint-health-care-hedge-funds-may-see-withdrawals-in-galleon-d-vu.html
FrontPoint Partners LLC may see
investor withdrawals from its health-care hedge funds after a
manager allegedly received nonpublic information about  Human
Genome Sciences Inc .’s. hepatitis-C drug Albuferon.  “This fund will be subject to redemptions as the
government will go after illegal profits,” said Peter Rup,
chief investment officer at Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC, a New
York-based firm that allocates money to hedge funds for clients.
“Once one illegal trade by this fund is identified, all others
will now be scrutinized.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission this week filed
a lawsuit alleging that Dr. Yves Benhamou, a French doctor and
former adviser to Human Genome, shared insider information with
a co-conspirator at a hedge fund, allowing that fund to avoid
about $30 million in losses. A person familiar with the
situation identified the hedge-fund firm as FrontPoint, the unit
that’s being spun out of  Morgan Stanley .  FrontPoint’s health-care funds oversee about $1.5 billion,
according to two investors, more than a fifth of the $7 billion
the firm has under management. While the firm hasn’t been
accused of wrongdoing, investors may pull money unless they can
be sure that the Human Genome tips were an isolated incident,
said Craig Lilly, a  Palo Alto , California-based attorney at
Squire, Sanders & Dempsey LLP.  “There are some parallels with the Galleon case,” said
Lilly, whose clients include hedge funds. “The fund will most
likely receive a considerable amount of redemption requests
unless they can demonstrate that the person’s conduct was an
isolated incident.”  Galleon  Galleon Group LLC, the New York-based hedge fund run by  Raj Rajaratnam , shuttered last year after its billionaire founder
was charged with insider-trading. After Rajaratnam was arrested
in October 2009 for  insider trading , his $3.7 billion Galleon
Group hedge-fund firm received $1.3 billion in redemptions in a
matter of days and within a week, he had decided to liquidate
his funds.  FrontPoint, which wasn’t named in the complaint, said in an
e-mailed statement Nov. 1 that it’s “cooperating fully.” Dr.
Chip Skowron, a co-portfolio manager of the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based firm’s health care funds, was placed on leave
pending the outcome of the probe, the firm said.    Steve Bruce , a spokesman for FrontPoint, declined to
comment on redemptions. Skowron didn’t return a message seeking
comment.  ‘Unfortunate Timing’  FrontPoint is in the process of being spun out of Morgan
Stanley, the sixth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, four years after
being acquired as part of a push into alternative assets.
FrontPoint’s managers, led by co-Chief Executive Officers  Daniel Waters  and  Michael Kelly , are gaining a majority stake in the
asset manager and will replace New York-based Morgan Stanley’s
affiliates as the funds’ investment adviser and general partner.  “While this is unfortunate timing, the alleged infraction
occurred while FrontPoint was majority owned by external
shareholders,” said  Peter Douglas , principal of Singapore-based
GFIA Pte, which advises investors seeking to allocate money to
hedge funds and runs a wealth-management business. “As a
principal-owned organization, it has the opportunity to adhere
to much higher fiduciary standards in the future.”  Galleon’s Rajaratnam has denied any wrongdoing. He is
awaiting trial and could face more than 20 years in prison if
convicted.  Health-Care Funds  “Even a yet-to-be substantiated claim of malfeasance
presents potential headline or reputational risk for large
institutional investors,” said Peter Rajsingh, a managing
member of Castellar Partners LLC, a New York-based firm that
advises pension funds and other institutional clients on
investing in hedge funds. “As fiduciaries for a variety of
underlying investors, institutions are generally sensitive about
becoming exposed to forms of non-portfolio risk.”  Artemis’s Rup said scrutiny will probably be limited to
FrontPoint’s health-care funds. Unlike the Galleon case, where
21 people including the firm’s founder were charged, Benhamou is
the only person to be charged so far in the  Human Genome  insider
trading probe.  The FrontPoint Healthcare Flagship Fund has returned 0.7
percent this year through September and 6.4 percent annualized
since inception in 2003, according to an investor letter. The
FrontPoint Healthcare Flagship Enhanced Fund has gained 2.2
percent this year and returned 9.2 percent per year since its
2006 start. FrontPoint also manages the FrontPoint Healthcare
Horizons Fund.  ‘Sell the HGSI’  Hedge funds have returned 4.7 percent this year through
September, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc. in  Chicago .  Clients of FrontPoint’s healthcare funds have until Nov. 15
to put in their withdrawal requests. They can redeem their
investments on a quarterly basis after giving 45 days notice.  Benhamou, who was arrested this week in  Boston , repeatedly
shared nonpublic information he gleaned from working for
Rockville, Maryland-based Human Genome with his co-conspirator
at the fund, prosecutors alleged in court papers.  For example, on Jan. 18, when the company asked Benhamou
for advice on a news release to disclose negative information
about the  Albuferon  trial, he immediately shared the development
with his co-conspirator, prosecutors said. The co-conspirator at
the hedge fund seven minutes later directed a trader at the fund
by instant message to “sell the HGSI” and “all of it,”
prosecutors said.  ‘Little Comfort’  A lawyer for Benhamou, Joseph Zwicker, didn’t return a
voice-mail message left at his office.  Skowron ran FrontPoint’s health-care investments with Dr.
Jason Bonadio, Ajay Bhalla and Kevin Caliendo, according to
FrontPoint’s marketing documents dated September. None of them
has been named by the SEC or prosecutors in connection with the
Human Genome probe.  Before joining FrontPoint, Skowron was an analyst at hedge
funds Millennium Partners LLC in  New York  and SAC Capital
Advisors LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . He graduated with a Ph.D.
in cellular and molecular biology from  Yale University ,
according to the documents.  “They may comfort their clients by offering to absorb the
losses and fees such as Rajaratnam did in Galleon’s case but
that will be little comfort” to investors in FrontPoint’s
health-care funds, Artemis’s Rup said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 