-- Gazprom Discovers Algerian Gas; Eyes Nigerian Assets
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-11-03T17:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/gazprom-says-it-made-its-first-commercial-african-gas-discovery-in-algeria.html
OAO Gazprom , Russia’s state-owned
natural gas export monopoly, made its first commercial African
gas discovery in Algeria, a move that could enable it to expand
gas sales into Spain and Portugal.  Algeria “is extremely important” as it could enable
Gazprom to expand to the only remaining areas of Europe where
it’s not present,  Boris Ivanov , head of the company’s global
exploration and production unit Gazprom EP International B.V.
said in an interview at the Africa Upstream conference in Cape
Town today. Gazprom controls about 30 percent of Europe’s gas
supplies and has the world’s largest gas reserves.  “We are very happy with the well results. It produced
quite sizeable volumes,” Ivanov said, adding the RSH2 well in
Algeria produced at 2.7 million standard cubic feet, or 75,000
cubic meters, of gas a day.  The company plans to drill 18 wells outside Russia next
year, mostly in Africa, he said. It plans to drill another well
next year in Algeria and start an “extensive” drilling
campaign in Libya in the first quarter of 2011, he said, adding
Gazprom will probably spend several hundred million dollars in
Africa next year. He declined to be more specific.  Field Acquisitions  Gazprom is evaluating a “huge list of potential assets”
in Nigeria and has held talks with Royal Dutch Shell Plc over
possible acquisitions of oil fields in the West African country,
he said. Gazprom, which cannot buy Shell’s assets directly under
local rules, has held talks with local Nigerian company Equinox,
Ivanov said.  Gazprom in March began drilling the onshore El Assel field
500 kilometers (300 miles) south of Algeria’s capital after
winning rights to the area in 2008. It holds 49 percent of the
project with Algeria’s state-controlled Sonatrach owning the
rest. The company intends to bid for more blocks during the next
round, Ivanov said.  The Russian company plans to expand cooperation with
Namibia and expects to make an investment decision, together
with its partners, within 12 months to develop the offshore Kudu
gas field, Ivanov said.  Gazprom is working with Tullow Oil Plc, the U.K. explorer
focusing on Africa, as well as Namcor, Namibia’s state-owned oil
company, and Japan’s Itochu Corp. on the development plan for
the Kudu license, which holds about 1 trillion cubic feet of gas
resources. Developing the offshore Kudu gas field could cost
about $1 billion. In addition to that, the partnership could
build an 800 megawatt power plant, supplying electricity to
Namibia and South Africa, Ivanov said.  The partners will carry out front-end engineering and
design studies for the gas-field project next year, Tullow’s
Vice President  Tim O’Hanlon  said today in Cape Town.  Gazprom “tested the waters” in discussions with South
African power utility Eskom Holdings Ltd. about the Kudu
project, he said, adding it’s also discussed Kudu with Standard
Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s largest lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alastair Reed at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net  