-- GDF Suez Posts 9% Gain in Nine-Month Profit on Higher European Fuel Demand
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-11-03T07:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/gdf-suez-nine-month-profit-rises-9-on-improved-european-fuel-demand.html
GDF Suez SA , operator of Europe’s
largest natural-gas network, said nine-month profit rose 9
percent as fuel prices increased in France and industrial demand
in Europe improved.  Earnings  before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, rose to 11 billion euros ($15.4
billion) from 10.1 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based
company said today in a statement. Sales rose 3.8 percent to
60.1 billion euros.  Growth came from electricity sales in Europe and energy
demand in Latin America and Asia, GDF Suez said in the
statement. Economic conditions are “still difficult for natural
gas markets.” GDF Suez kept its Ebitda target for this year and
next. The utility has forecast that measure will rise this year
and gain at least 15 percent by 2011 from 2009.  The former gas monopoly has benefited from rising regulated
French prices this year. The company earlier this year said it
won’t seek additional increases after the regulator said rates
should better reflect lower spot prices and Finance Minister
 Christine Lagarde  called for a temporary price freeze.  “A recovery in volumes that was observed in the second
quarter is expected to be further confirmed,”  Louis Boujard , an
analyst at Aurel BGC in Paris, said in a note on Oct. 29, adding
that improvements in Ebitda will be driven by cost cuts.  U.K. gas futures prices, the largest market in Europe,
doubled in the third quarter from a year earlier as demand
improved and liquefied gas supplies declined.  GDF Suez is expanding outside France and has taken a 9
percent stake in OAO Gazprom’s Nord Stream pipeline project to
bring more Russian gas to Europe. GDF Suez also agreed in August
to join its units outside Europe and assets in the U.K. and
Turkey with those of London-based International Power Plc. GDF
Suez, the result of the 2008 merger of Gaz de France SA and Suez
SA, is a majority shareholder in the enlarged company.  The company, which retains about 90 percent of the French
household gas market, is also seeking to challenge  Electricite
de France SA  by adding power customers.  Still, Chief Executive Officer  Gerard Mestrallet  has seen
his nuclear ambitions curtailed by EDF, which was given control
of a project to develop a plant in Penly, northern France. Asked
last month about a report the utility is pulling out of plan to
hold a stake in the plant, Mestrallet said GDF Suez didn’t want
to be “reduced to being a Belgian financial investor, a
banker” within France’s nuclear industry.  GDF Suez operates seven atomic stations in Belgium through
its Electrabel SA unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 Tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Guy Collins at   guycollins@bloomberg.net  