-- Ghailani Prosecution, Defense Rest Cases in Trial Over Embassy Bombings
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-03T20:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/ghailani-prosecutors-rest-case-in-trial-over-1998-african-embassy-bombings.html
The prosecution and defense ended
their cases in the trial of  Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani , charged in
the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa. Ghailani is
the first Guantanamo Bay detainee tried in a U.S. civilian
court.  Ghailani, 36, is on trial in New York for the Aug. 7, 1998,
bombings of embassies in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi,
Kenya, which killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens.
Testimony began Oct. 12. Ghailani, accused of 224 counts of
murder, may be sentenced to life in prison if convicted.  Prosecutors called Tanzanian witnesses who testified that
Ghailani helped buy the Nissan refrigeration truck used in the
Tanzania blast, and that he and a co-defendant bought high-
pressure metal tanks and filled them with oxygen and acetylene
to magnify its impact.  Ghailani pleaded not guilty. His lawyers told the jury in
opening statements that their client was duped by more worldly
friends who fled Africa after the attacks.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  told jurors they will hear
closing arguments beginning Nov. 8.  Ghailani’s lawyers didn’t call any witnesses. Instead, they
showed jurors a series of documents describing searches of his
home and interviews with witnesses. The presentation of the
documents on facts agreed on by both sides, called stipulations,
took about half an hour.  Unsealed House  The defense’s evidence included a statement from Tanzanian
officials that when they first searched Ghailani’s residence on
Aug. 26, 1998, they didn’t find a blasting cap which FBI agents
testified finding three days later on Aug. 29, 1998.  The Tanzanians said they didn’t secure the house to prevent
anyone from entering the room where the explosive was found, the
defense said.  Ghailani’s lawyers also showed the jury a report saying
that when the mobile-phone salesman was interviewed, he
identified the buyer as someone other than Ghailani.  Before resting their case today, prosecutors showed the
jury a list of the names of all 224 people killed in the attack
and evidence from doctors who performed autopsies showed they
died as a result of the explosions.  The U.S. said 213 people were killed and about 4,000 people
injured in the Nairobi explosion. In the Tanzania blast, 11
people were killed and about 85 injured.  Phone Records  Prosecutors introduced Mobitel Ltd. mobile-phone records
found by U.S. investigators in a search of the house in Dar es
Salaam where witnesses have said Ghailani lived prior to the
bombings.  The telephone was purchased in December 1997 by Rashid
Saleh Hamed, owner of the house, at 15 Amani Street, records
show. The documents showed that when he purchased the phone,
Hamed identified the user as “Ahmed Khalfan,” Ghailani’s first
two names.  Bills were sent to a post office box that the government
said Ghailani used. Records said they were paid by “Ahmed
Khalfan.”  The phone was used in August 1998 to call a house in
Nairobi where prosecutors said the bomb in the Kenya explosion
was made.  Someone using the phone also called the Hilltop Hotel in
Nairobi, where prosecutors said al-Qaeda members held a meeting
on Aug. 1, 1998.  21 Calls  Twenty-one calls were made from Aug. 1 to Aug. 7, the
records showed. The embassy bombings occurred on the morning of
Aug.7.  A register from the Hilltop from August 1998 showed that
someone stayed there using Ghailani’s passport number and
another name in May 1998 and again on Aug. 1, 1998. At least six
other men stayed at the Hilltop on Aug. 1 whom the U.S. has
linked through travel records to the al-Qaeda cell that carried
out the attacks.  Ghailani and his accomplices loaded about 20 acetylene-and
oxygen-filled tanks, each five feet tall and weighing about 150
pounds, into the Tanzanian truck. Prosecutors said. The
government showed the jury airline, travel and customs records
indicating that Ghailani fled Africa for Pakistan the day before
the attack with other al-Qaeda members.  Ghailani’s lawyer, Steven Zissou, told the jury at the
beginning of the trial that his client was innocent and had been
tricked by friends who fled after the attacks. His client didn’t
knowingly participate in the attacks and didn’t share the
others’ goals, the lawyer said.  ‘Running Errands’  “These are the men who used him in this very plot, by
running errands, not because they told him they were going to
blow up an embassy,” Zissou said.  Ghailani went to Afghanistan and worked for several top al-
Qaeda terrorists, serving as a cook and bodyguard in Afghanistan
for  Osama bin Laden , the terrorist group’s leader, the U.S.
said.  Ghailani was indicted in December 1998. He was captured in
Pakistan in July 2004 and held by the U.S. Central Intelligence
Agency. He was questioned and subjected to “enhanced
interrogation techniques,” the U.S. said in court papers.  In September 2006, he was transferred to the U.S. lockup at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He was transferred to New York last year
for the trial. The jury wasn’t told about his detention in
Guantanamo.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 