-- GM $10.6 Billion IPO to Make Treasury Minority Shareholder
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-11-04T13:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/gm-seeks-10-6-billion-in-ipo-to-cut-treasury-canadian-stakes-in-carmaker.html
General Motors Co.  will reduce the
U.S. government to a minority shareholder as it seeks to raise
as much as $10.6 billion in an initial public offering.  GM , 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, will
sell 365 million shares at $26 to $29 each, the company said
yesterday in a filing with the  Securities and Exchange
Commission . The Detroit-based automaker will also offer about $3
billion of preferred shares that later will become common stock.  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  is working toward
returning the $50 billion GM received in a taxpayer bailout last
year. GM and the Treasury, seeking to win higher prices in
future offerings, are selling less than the $12 billion to $16
billion that people familiar with the situation said the company
and its investment banks had considered earlier.  “The IPO is priced in a way that will certainly get the
taxpayers most of their money back,”  Steven Rattner , the former
head of the U.S. government’s Automotive Task Force, said today
in an interview on “InsideTrack” on Bloomberg Television. “It
is a little bit light relative to what some of us expected. I
would’ve liked to have seen $35 or $40 a share.”  For the U.S. to break even, GM needed to sell at an average
price, before splits, of $131 a share, a person familiar with
the matter said in September.  Break-Even Point  With a planned 3-for-1 split, the stock would need to climb
to $43.67 a share -- almost 60 percent more than the midpoint of
the planned offering -- to reach the breakeven point, said a
person familiar with the planning.  The IPO may lower the Treasury Department’s stake to 43
percent, according to the regulatory filing. The UAW’s health-
care trust may reduce its stake to 15.3 percent from 19.9
percent, and the Canadian government may cut its holdings to 9.6
percent from 11.7 percent, the filing said.  The Treasury will likely sell as much as $7.64 billion of
stock, excluding an over-allotment option, the filing showed.  “There’s going to be a certain supply of dollars for an
IPO of a cyclical stock like GM that says it’s at the trough of
a market and so the share price is a bargain,” said  Sean McAlinden , who advised the Obama administration’s task force as
chief economist at the Ann Arbor, Michigan-based Center for
Automotive Research. “The question is whether there’s $10.5
billion that believes that.”  GM said separately yesterday that it had third-quarter  net
income  attributable to common stockholders of $1.9 billion to
$2.1 billion. The company had earnings before interest and taxes
of $2.2 billion to $2.4 billion on revenue of about $34 billion
for the three months ended Sept. 30, according to a statement.  Relative Value  At the IPO’s midpoint price of $27.50 each,  GM  would have a
market capitalization of $41.25 billion, based on 1.5 billion
shares that will be outstanding after the offering, according to
the company’s filing and data compiled by Bloomberg.  That would value the automaker at 7.37 times to 7.73 times
this year’s earnings, based on  GM’s  net income of $4 billion to
$4.2 billion in the first nine months of 2010, the filing and
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shares of Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co.  trade at
 7.33 times  analysts’ estimates for 2010 profit, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  GM needs to fix its unprofitable Europe region and continue
to rebuild the image of U.S. brands to boost investor
confidence, according to  Paul Ballew , chief economist for
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus, Ohio.  GM Europe  “A lot of the things we wanted to do over 10 years have
been done through the bankruptcy,” said Ballew, a former
General Motors Corp. economist. “GM Europe is on the top of
their list in terms of finding a way for that particular
division to return to some semblance of profitability.”  GM said in the regulatory filing that it would have
positive earnings before interest and taxes in the fourth
quarter. The company also said that EBIT would be lower than
prior quarters because it will be building a  different mix  of
vehicles and engineering costs for future models will be higher.
GM is introducing the new Chevrolet Volt gas-electric car and
Chevy Cruze compact during the quarter.  GM’s deliveries in October climbed 3.5 percent to 183,759,
the company said yesterday in a statement. The automaker
exceeded estimates for a decline of 6.3 percent, the average of
three analysts’ projections, as customers bought more Buick and
GMC brand vehicles.  Industrywide  light-vehicle sales rose to a
12.3 million annual rate, the fastest pace since August 2009.  Pricing Date  The offering may price on Nov. 17 and the shares would
begin trading the following day, people familiar with the plans
have said. A roadshow in which GM will pitch investors in North
America and Europe begins this week, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the plans are private.  As many as five sovereign wealth funds are likely to
purchase as much as $2 billion of stock in the offering, a
person familiar with the plans said. Investment bankers for GM
met with the funds and private investors in the Middle East and
Asia to gauge interest in the offering, two people familiar with
the meetings said last month.  SAIC Motor Corp. , which has partnered with GM to make cars
together in China for more than a decade, has said it may
participate in the offering.  The offering comes after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
climbed 13 percent in September and October, the best
performance for those two months since 1998, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A total of 21 companies sold shares
through IPOs on U.S. exchanges last month, the most since 22
initial sales in December 2007, the data show.  ‘Healthy Enough’  “Equity markets have been supportive of IPO activity in
recent months,” said  Lawrence Creatura , a Rochester, New York-
based fund manager at Federated Investors Inc., which oversees
about $350 billion. “The market is healthy enough to withstand
IPOs and that was probably a factor in choosing this moment.”  Akerson, 62, took over as CEO from  Ed Whitacre  in September
and will succeed him as chairman by the end of the year. The
former Carlyle Group managing director has said he wants to
improve quality and accelerate decision-making at the world’s
second-largest automaker.  “I don’t think any investor group has infinite patience,
and I’m sure that the taxpayers of America would like to see a
return on their investment,” Akerson told reporters on Sept.
16. “That’s one of the goals that we have.”  Underwriters  Morgan Stanley ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Bank of America Corp.
and Citigroup Inc. are leading the offering, according to
regulatory filings. Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of
Canada are among the firms also listed on the prospectus.  UBS AG  of Zurich, listed as an underwriter in GM’s
prospectus on Oct. 28, was omitted from the automaker’s latest
filing yesterday with the SEC.  A $10.6 billion share sale by GM would be the biggest U.S.
IPO since  Visa Inc.  raised $19.7 billion in March 2008. The
offering would be the third-largest all-time in the U.S., also
trailing AT&T Wireless Group’s $10.62 billion offering in 2000.  General Motors Corp.  filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on June 1, 2009, after posting $88 billion of losses
since 2004, the last year the company reported an annual profit.
General Motors Co. emerged 39 days later.  GM’s common shares will be listed on the  New York Stock
Exchange  under the ticker GM and on the Toronto Stock Exchange
under the ticker GMM.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 