-- GM, Ford Top Analysts' Sales Estimates in Best Month of 2010
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2010-11-03T20:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/gm-s-u-s-sales-top-analysts-estimates-on-buick-gmc-update1-.html
General Motors Co.  and  Ford Motor Co. 
reported U.S.  sales  increases that topped analysts’ estimates as
consumers returned to showrooms, making October the best month
for vehicle deliveries in more than a year.  GM’s sales climbed 3.5 percent to 183,759, the Detroit-
based automaker said today in a statement. Sales at  Ford 
increased 15 percent to 157,935, the Dearborn-Michigan based
company said in a statement. Five of the top six automakers by
U.S. sales reported gains, and  Toyota Motor Corp.  had a decline.  Industrywide light-vehicle sales rose to a 12.3 million
annual rate in October, researcher Autodata Corp. said today.
That’s the fastest since the U.S. government’s “cash for
clunkers” incentive program lifted the pace to 14.2 million in
August 2009. The average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was for the rate to reach 11.9 million last month.  “Consumers who have a job are feeling a little bit better
and not fearing every Friday anymore,” said  Rebecca Lindland ,
an analyst at researcher IHS Automotive in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “They feel like the worst is over and they’re
starting to trickle back into showrooms.”  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, exceeded expectations for a
decline of 6.3 percent, the average of three analysts’
estimates, as customers bought more Buick and GMC brand
vehicles.  Buick sales climbed 39 percent to 12,569 vehicles, led by a
53 percent increase in deliveries of the Enclave sport-utility
vehicle, GM said today. GMC sales gained 30 percent to 33,136.  Ford Sales  Ford’s  gain  topped the 14 percent average estimate of six
analysts on record sales of Fusion sedans. Fusion sales gained
29 percent, while F-Series rose 24 percent, pushing deliveries
of the pickups past last year’s total in the first 10 months of
this year.  “That’s a good harbinger of the economy starting to move
forward,”  Ken Czubay , Ford’s U.S. sales chief, said on a
conference call with analysts. “It’s good to see the industry
nudging forward.”  Ford will seek to boost Lincoln sales with more marketing
through the end of the year, Czubay said. Lincoln sales rose 1.5
percent in October compared with a 21 percent increase for Ford-
brand vehicles.  “Lincoln just isn’t yet playing in the big leagues with
legitimate luxury cars,” said  Michelle Krebs , an analyst with
automotive researcher Edmunds.com. “Lincoln is in neverland
right now. It needs new products.”  ‘Phenomenal Winner’  Ford rose 75 cents, or 5.2 percent, to $15.18 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , the highest closing
price since July 28, 2004.  “Ford has been a phenomenal winner for us,” said  Frank Ingarra , co-portfolio manager at Novato, California-based
Hennessy Advisors Inc., which  held  407,700 Ford shares as of
Sept. 30. “They were a lot more nimble than their competitors,
moved a lot quicker, took out parts of the company they needed
to and have reemerged.”  The Federal Reserve said today it will buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries through June, expanding record
stimulus in an effort to boost growth and reduce unemployment.
The U.S. economy expanded at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, the Commerce Department reported Oct. 29. The
jobless rate is projected to stay above 9 percent through next
year.  ‘Weight’ on Recovery  “We have a recovery with a lot of weight on its back,”
said  Paul Ballew , chief economist for Nationwide Mutual
Insurance Co. in Columbus, Ohio, and a former General Motors
Corp. economist. “For vehicle sales to jump a heck of a lot
more, it’s going to take stronger growth, job creation and
higher levels of confidence than what we’re seeing.”  Chrysler Group LLC’s sales rose 37 percent from a year
earlier to 90,137 vehicles. The automaker, based in Auburn
Hills, Michigan, posted a 29 percent gain in deliveries of its
namesake brand and said sales of its Jeep line more than doubled
on higher demand for its redesigned Grand Cherokee SUV.
Deliveries of the Ram pickup rose 41 percent to 17,316.  Chrysler was expected to report a 41 percent sales
increase, the average estimate of six analysts.  “Most of what we’re seeing from Chrysler is either fleet-
and rental-based or incentive-fueled sales, so it’s a bit harder
to judge Chrysler,” said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of
industry trends at Santa Monica, California-based TrueCar.com.
“We don’t expect a real recovery in their retail sales until
the Fiats start rolling in next year.”  ‘Good Sign’  The U.S. auto selling rate has stayed above 11 million
since March, according to Autodata, based in Woodcliff Lake, New
Jersey. A rate above 12 million would be “a good sign and an
indication the fourth quarter will be higher,”  George Pipas ,
Ford’s sales analyst, said yesterday in an interview.  “We feel pretty good about October for the industry
overall and for GM in particular,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice
president of U.S. sales, said today on a conference call.  GM today said it will raise as much as $10.6 billion in an
initial public offering that will reduce the U.S. and Canadian
governments’ stakes in the automaker. The company also said it
had third-quarter net income attributable to common stockholders
of $1.9 billion to $2.1 billion.  Toyota ’s U.S. deliveries fell 4.4 percent, the only drop
among the top six automakers. The decline was smaller than the
5.6 percent drop estimated by four analysts, on average. Sales
of the Corolla decreased 25 percent and the Camry slipped 14
percent.  Honda Sales  Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s second-largest automaker, reported
U.S. sales that climbed 16 percent to 98,811 vehicles. The gain
matched the average estimate of four analysts.  Nissan Motor Co.  sold 69,773 Nissan and Infiniti brand
vehicles, up 16 percent, said  Al Castignetti , vice president of
U.S. sales for the third-largest Japanese automaker. The company
was expected to post a 13 percent increase, the average estimate
of four analysts.  Hyundai Motor Co. , Volkswagen AG and  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG  reported U.S. sales increases yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Higgins  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 