-- Gold Demand in China May Double to 900 Tons in Decade, World Council Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-03T11:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/gold-market-in-china-may-double-in-a-decade-on-investment-jewelry-demand.html
China’s gold market may double in the
next decade as retail investment and jewelry demand gain, an
official from the World Gold Council said today.  Consumption may gain to 800 metric tons to 900 tons in the
next ten years, Wang Lixin, the World Gold Council’s Greater
China general manager, said at a Shanghai conference today. “It
probably will be achieved earlier than that.” China’s jewelry
and investment gold demand was 428 tons in 2009, according to
the  council .  Gold climbed to a record $1,387.35 an ounce on Oct. 14 as
investors sought to protect their wealth amid concerns about the
global economic recovery, and is headed for a 10th consecutive
annual increase. China and India will continue to drive demand
for gold jewelry going into the fourth quarter, Bank of China
International Holdings Ltd. said in a report on Sept. 27.  “In the past few years, China’s demand for retail gold
investment has been increasing at about 50 percent each year,”
Wang said. Gold demand from jewelry in China may gain by 8
percent to 10 percent annually, Wang said.  Gold demand in China, the world’s largest producer, already
gained in the first half of this year as government measures to
cool the property market and falling equities spurred
investment, the Shanghai Gold Exchange said July 7.  Sales of gold bars by China’s Zhongjin Gold Co. have jumped
this year as investment demand gains.  “Our sales of investment-level gold bars have reached 10
billion yuan in the first nine months, compared with less than 6
billion yuan for the full year 2009,” Wang Jinding, company
president, said today at the conference. “The surge in gold
prices is largely attributable to investment demand.”  China’s gold output may rise to 340 tons this year, from
314 tons last year, solidifying the nation’s position as the
world’s largest producer, Zhang Fengkui, section chief of the
raw materials department at the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology, said on Oct. 16.  Immediate-delivery bullion was little changed at $1,358.60
an ounce at 6:56 p.m. in Shanghai.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 