-- Hong Kong Biggest Beneficiary of QE2, Global Recovery, Goldman Sachs Says
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e
-- 2010-11-03T04:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/goldman-sachs-says-hong-kong-set-to-benefit-most-from-quantitative-easing.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
12-month target for Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  to 29,000,
saying the city has the most to gain from extra liquidity
released by quantitative easing programs and China’s growth.  Hong Kong will benefit most from a capital relocation away
from developed to emerging markets, Goldman analysts led by
Kinger Lau wrote in a report today. Inflation and low economic
growth are reducing the allure of developed-market assets, the
analysts said. Goldman analysts forecast in December the Hang
Seng Index may reach about 27,000 by the end of 2010. The gauge
climbed 2 percent to 24,132.38 as of today’s trading break at
12:30 p.m. local time.  The U.S. Federal Reserve is likely to announce a plan today
to purchase a further $500 billion of long-term securities to
stimulate the economy in a program known as QE2, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “We suspect the resulting liquidity impact could go beyond
many investors’ expectations,” the analysts wrote. “The
overwhelming importance of China to the growth in Hong Kong may
mask the unfolding trend of gravitational attraction of
international capital.”  Easy liquidity and Hong Kong’s stable regulatory
environment make the city’s real estate market attractive, and
values, which are at 13-year highs, are likely to appreciate,
the report said. Property oriented stocks provided a better
investment option than the physical market, they said.  Asset Bubble  Cheap borrowing costs are driving asset prices higher in
the city, and Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive
Officer  Norman Chan  said Oct. 18 that a housing bubble poses the
biggest risk to financial stability in Asia. Hong Kong’s
government has introduced higher down payment ratios since
August and pledged to increase land supply to cool the city’s
property market, where values have jumped 50 percent since the
start of 2009.  Emerging economies may use currency appreciation and
temporary capital controls to cope with money inflows sparked by
U.S. monetary easing,  Joseph Yam , former head of the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority, said in a speech in Beijing today.  Also reaping gains from loose monetary policy would be Hong
Kong’s financial sector, which is already benefiting from
China’s program of yuan liberalization, the Goldman analysts
said.  “A combination of strong domestic growth and abundant
global liquidity is how we would describe the investment thesis
for Hong Kong,” the analysts wrote.  Property Stocks  The  MSCI Hong Kong Index  offers a better proxy for Hong
Kong growth than the Hang Seng Index, for which China stocks
make up 56 percent of market capitalization, the analysts said.
They raised their forecast for the MSCI gauge to 14,000 from
12,200.  The analysts said Hong Kong property stocks such as  Sun
Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. and  MTR
Corp.  would benefit from liquidity-driven real estate inflation.  Financial stocks such as Bank of China Ltd. and Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. were well positioned to take advantage
of further liberalization of the yuan, the analysts said, giving
the two stocks a “buy” recommendation.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Nick Gentle  at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bbloomberg.net  