-- Google StreetView Sweeps Broke U.K. Data Law, Regulator Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-11-03T13:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/google-broke-u-k-data-protection-law-privacy-regulator-says.html
Google Inc.  violated Britain’s data-
protection law when its Street View mapping unit inadvertently
gathered personal e-mails and passwords from unsecured wireless
networks, the U.K.’s privacy regulator said today.  Google disclosed the security breach in May and said in an
Oct. 22  blog post  that while the data it collected was mostly
fragmentary it included entire e-mails and URLs. The error was a
“significant breach” of the U.K.’s Data Protection Act, the
 Information Commissioner’s Office  said today in a statement.  “The collection of this information was not fair or
lawful,” Information Commissioner  Christopher Graham  said in
the statement. The watchdog needs “written legal assurance from
Google that this will not happen again.”  European countries including Germany, France, Spain and
Italy began probes after Mountain View, California-based Google
said that its Street View cars had collected the so-called
payload data while photographing roadsides. The U.S. Federal
Trade Commission last month ended its probe when Google said it
would improve privacy safeguards.  “We are profoundly sorry for mistakenly collecting payload
data in the U.K. from unencrypted wireless networks,” Google’s
privacy lawyer,  Peter Fleischer , said today in a statement. “We
have cooperated closely with the ICO and worked to improve our
internal controls.”  Delete Data  Google, owner of the world’s most popular Internet search
engine, agreed to delete the data as soon as it confirms there
are no outstanding legal obligations to hold onto it, Fleischer
said. Google also agreed to update certain policies, including
creating a security awareness program for employees, according
to the ICO statement.  Google’s U.K. unit will be audited and required to sign a
so-called undertaking to ensure data protection breaches don’t
happen again, the ICO said. The company faces enforcement action
if fails to do so.  The Cheshire, England-based regulator can fine companies as
much as 500,000 pounds ($805,300) for serious violations of
privacy law.  Phil James , a media and technology lawyer with Lewis Silkin
LLP in London, who isn’t involved in the matter, said the U.K.
should consider issuing fines that are proportionate to a
company’s revenue.  “The rewards for multinationals creating new technologies
are rightly vast, but it is only fair that the penalties for
inadvertently or directly breaching data liabilities are
sufficiently restraining,” James said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  