-- Google, Facebook, Rivals Face Stricter Data-Privacy Rules in EU
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-11-03T10:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/google-facebook-rivals-face-stricter-privacy-rules-in-european-union.html
Google Inc. , Facebook Inc. and other
online companies face stricter privacy-protection rules as the
European Union seeks to change a 15-year-old law following the
emergence of online advertising and social-networking sites.  The rules would make it easier for people to get personal
data corrected, deleted or blocked, the European Commission said
in a document on possible changes to data protection law in the
27-nation EU. Stricter sanctions, such as criminal penalties,
and the possibility for consumer rights groups to sue are part
of the plans, according to the document obtained by Bloomberg
News.  “Rapid technological developments and globalization have
profoundly changed the world around us, and brought new
challenges for the protection of personal data,” the Brussels-
based  commission , the EU’s executive agency, said in the
document, scheduled to be published tomorrow. Online social-
networking “presents significant challenges to the individual’s
effective control” over personal data.  Google and Facebook, the top social-networking service, are
among several Internet companies under scrutiny in the EU for
possible privacy-rule breaches over the way they use personal
data. Data protection officials from 30 European countries have
pushed Google,  Microsoft Corp.  and  Yahoo! Inc.  to limit the
amount of time they store search records. The same group
criticized Facebook in May for policy changes that could have
harmed users’ privacy rights.  ‘Golden Opportunity’  “Much criticism has been laid at the door of the data
protection regime over the years for imposing rules but little
assurance that privacy is actually being achieved in practice,”
said  Nick Graham , head of the information and privacy group at
law firm SNR Denton. “The commission now has a golden
opportunity to remedy this.”  Ways of collecting data have increased, while at the same
time they have become “less easily detectable,” the  commission 
said in the document. Under current rules, the way in which
people can access, change, delete or block their data “is not
harmonized.”  The planned changes are part of a “shift of focus”
triggered by the appearance of social networking sites,
Internet-connected mobile phones and targeted online-advertising
since the existing data protection law came into being 15 years
ago,  Viviane Reding , the EU’s justice commissioner, has said.  This week’s document will form the basis or further
discussion before draft legislation will be proposed in 2011
which will then need the approval of EU nations and lawmakers.  “We are confident that an effective modern privacy
protection framework can support growth in the internet economy
and can enable the free services that consumers value,” said
Justin B. Weiss, Yahoo’s international director of privacy.  Google  spokesman Al Verney said the Mountain View,
California-based company had no comment. Microsoft spokesman
 Jesse Verstraete  in Brussels said the company will comment once
the EU plans are released. Facebook spokespeople didn’t
immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  