-- Dick Grasso Says Election May Bring Regulators, Business Closer
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2010-11-03T16:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/grasso-says-election-may-bring-regulators-business-closer-prevent-crises.html
Yesterday’s elections may mean the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will collaborate more
with the financial industry to increase transparency and prevent
another financial meltdown, according to  Dick Grasso .  Regulators "have to have a real-world sense of how the
markets are evolving,’’ Grasso, the former chief executive
officer of the New York Stock Exchange, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s "In the Loop." “The election says,
‘Enough of the partisanship that we’ve seen. Let’s come to the
middle. Let’s get together with the business community.’”  Republicans seized control of the U.S. House and narrowed
the Senate’s Democratic majority yesterday, capitalizing on
concerns about government spending and delivering a rebuke to
the domestic agenda of President  Barack Obama . U.S. stocks fell
as investors awaited the Federal Reserve’s decision on how it
will stimulate the economy.  He said regulators need to consider replacing outdated laws
that may no longer suit the changing marketplace, not just
making incremental changes to those that already exist.  The country needs “intelligent regulation of
derivatives,” Grasso said. Derivatives should be included "into
the standardized process of clearing and settlement," he said,
"bringing the tools of risk management to a transparency level
that investors can understand.’’  In July, the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul was signed into
law, which gave the Commodity Futures Trading Commission a year
to establish rules governing the $615 trillion over-the-counter
derivatives market, including which companies will be
categorized as swap dealers or major swap participants. The law
aims to stem systemic risk by requiring most interest-rate,
credit-default and other swaps be processed by clearinghouses
after being traded on exchanges or swap-execution facilities.  “There is so much that you can point to as the cause of
the financial meltdown in 2008 that wasn’t subject to regulation
-- products that didn’t exist when the regulations were
written,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 