-- Microsoft Raises Kinect Forecast to 5 Million Units
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-11-03T20:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/microsoft-expects-to-sell-5-million-kinect-gadgets-this-quarter.html
Microsoft Corp.  boosted its forecast
for the Kinect motion-control device for the Xbox gaming system
to 5 million units this quarter, predicting the most successful
Xbox product debut by sales.  Based on pre-sales, retail orders and consumer interest,
the company expects to exceed a previous forecast of 3 million
units,  Don Mattrick , president of Microsoft’s Interactive
Entertainment Business, said in an interview today. The device,
which lets players control games with motion and voice, goes on
sale tomorrow.  Microsoft and  Sony Corp. , with its Move controller, are
competing against Nintendo Co., whose Wii machine set the
standard for motion-controlled gaming.  Microsoft , based in
Redmond, Washington, is using Kinect to attract a larger slice
of the market for casual gamers, while extending the life of its
Xbox 360 console, which went on sale in 2005.  Sony has been selling Move since mid-September.  Michael Pachter , a video-game analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los
Angeles, predicted Sony will sell about 3 million units by the
end of this year.  Microsoft dropped 36 cents to $27.03 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have fallen 11
percent this year.  Price Tag  Kinect costs $149.99 alone and comes bundled with Xbox
machines, starting at $299.99. It sold out in preorders at
retailers such as Amazon.com Inc., Best Buy Co. and GameStop
Corp., according to  David Hufford , a Microsoft spokesman. Those
stores will have more stock when the product goes on sale
tomorrow, he said.  In the U.S., 25,000 retailers will sell the device and
5,000 of those will stay open tonight for customers who want to
purchase Kinect at midnight. Microsoft is holding a midnight
event at the Toys “R” Us store in New York’s Times Square,
Mattrick said.  “They are really defining Kinect as the must-have holiday
item,” Mattrick said of retailers. “It means it’s going to be
our biggest holiday ever.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  