-- Microsoft, De Beers, Hasbro: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-03T11:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/microsoft-debeers-abbott-l-a-printex-red-hat-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp.’s  patent-infringement
claims targeting  Motorola Inc. ’s Android smartphones will be
investigated by the U.S. International Trade Commission.  The trade agency in Washington, which has the power to
block U.S. imports of products that violate patents, made the
announcement on its website yesterday. Microsoft, which is
overhauling its mobile-phone operating system, filed the
complaint last month, as well as a civil suit in federal court
in Seattle seeking unspecified cash compensation.  The dispute is part of the fight for a share of the growing
smartphone market, including cases filed by Oracle Corp. against
Google Inc. and Apple Inc. against HTC Corp. and Nokia Oyj.
Apple filed an ITC complaint against Motorola on Oct. 29, and,
like Microsoft, is seeking to block imports of phones made by
Schaumburg, Illinois-based Motorola.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, claims Motorola is
infringing nine patents, including ones for monitoring memory in
flash-memory devices, a way to update contact databases, and a
program interface for mobile phones. The complaint seeks to bar
imports of the Motorola Droid 2, Droid X, i1, Cliq XT, Devour,
Backflip, Charm and Cliq, along with associated software.  Google, which wasn’t named in the lawsuit, said last month
it would “stand behind” its Android system and the partners
who helped with its development.  Microsoft’s share in the global mobile-phone market fell to
5 percent in the second quarter, from 9.3 percent a year
earlier, according to market-research firm Gartner Inc. Android
climbed to 17 percent from 1.8 percent, while the iPhone rose to
14 percent from 13 percent.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile Devices,
Associated Software and Components Thereof, 337-744, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington). The federal case is
Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Inc., 10cv1577, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Washington (Seattle).  De Beers Infringement Suit Against Adwar Casting Dismissed  A New York-based jewelry casting company won the dismissal
of a patent-infringement lawsuit brought by diamond producer De
Beers.  De Beers sued Adwar Casting Co. and three other defendants
for infringing design patents for its Everlon Love Knot
Collection. The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Kansas City
Missouri, on Aug. 25, alleged that “love knot” jewelry
castings made by Adwar infringed the patents.  Adwar  and Dinaro Creations LLC, also of New York, were both
dismissed from the case, according to a Nov. 1 court filing.  The jewelry caster said in an e-mailed statement that it
had been selling “love knot” castings for 30 years, and has
the right to continue to manufacture and sell the line. Gregg
Adwar, Adwar Casting’s president, said that even though the suit
pertained to “only a small handful” of his company’s products,
“we are please the De Beers decided to dismiss this case so
quickly, after we provided evidence of our long-standing
production of the pieces.”  The case is De Beers UK Ltd. v. Adwar Casting Co, 4:10-cv-
00843-GAF, U.S. District Court, Western District of Missouri
(Kansas City).  Abbott Challenges $1.67 Billion Patent Loss to J&J Over Humira  Abbott Laboratories  urged a U.S. appeals court to throw out
a $1.67 billion patent-infringement verdict, the largest in U.S.
history, set after a jury found the company used  Johnson &
Johnson ’s technology to develop the rheumatoid arthritis drug
Humira.  Abbott is focusing its appeal on the validity of its patent
7,070,775, co-issued to New York University and J&J’s Centocor
unit. Humira, Abbott’s biggest drug, includes human antibodies
that aren’t covered by the patent, a lawyer for the Abbott Park,
Illinois-based company said.  “It was Abbott who invented the first fully human
antibody” used to treat arthritis, William Lee of WilmerHale in
Boston told the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington yesterday. Abbott also contends that even if the
verdict is upheld, the damage award is excessive.  A federal jury in Marshall, Texas, in June 2009 said the
company owed $504 million in patent royalties to J&J based on
sales of Abbott’s Humira arthritis drug, plus $1.17 billion to
compensate J&J for decreased sales of its competing treatments.
The trial judge later added $175.6 million in interest, bringing
the total to $1.84 billion.  Humira generated $4.67 billion in sales in the first nine
months of the year, 19 percent of Abbott’s total revenue, the
company reported Oct. 20. That includes $2 billion in U.S.
sales, a jump of 14 percent from the year-ago period.  “The damage award was as large as it was because the
infringing product, Humira, is as big as it is,” Dianne
Elderkin, a Centocor lawyer at Akin Gump in Philadelphia, told
the three-judge panel.  Humira, which costs about $19,000 a year, blocks action of
tumor necrosis factor, or TNF, which is linked to inflammation.  Abbott said the patent doesn’t cover the human antibodies
that are used in Humira, and they are invalid because scientists
couldn’t make fully human antibodies against TNF in a laboratory
in 1994, the date set by the court as the time of the invention.  In 1994, “no one anywhere on the face of the earth had a
fully human antibody” that would work against TNF, Lee said.
“A lot of people tried and they had failed. How can you have a
written description that says you have something that you don’t
even know exists?”  J&J sells the competing medicine Remicade, made with a
combination of mouse and human antibodies. J&J and NYU contend
the patent covers both the combination and fully human
antibodies against TNF. When the body produces too much TNF, it
can cause the immune system to attack healthy tissue and leads
to inflammation.  “What was invented here was a specific class of
antibodies,” Elderkin said. Abbott’s expert witness at trial
made the same arguments as Lee and the jury “rejected his
testimony,” Elderkin said.  Abbott has filed its own lawsuit against Centocor, claiming
J&J’s arthritis drug Simponi, made with human antibodies and
first sold last year, is infringing an Abbott patent. Abbott
also claims a J&J psoriasis medicine, Stelara, violates two
other patents. Those cases are pending in federal court in
Worcester, Massachusetts.  The case is Centocor Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories, 10-1144,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Centocor Inc. v. Abbott Laboratories,
07cv139, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  Design Patent for 12-Can Beer Holster Issued to Hops Holster  Hops Holster , a Chicago-based company that makes drinking
accessories, received a design patent for a  holster  that will
hold 12 cans of beer.  U.S. Patent D625,514, issued Oct. 19, covers a device with
a 16-inch wide strap and adjustable waistband. According to a
company  statement , the holster can ‘hold and insulate 12 beer
cans at a time “to enable continuous access and consumption.”  The application for the patent was filed in March with the
assistance of  Allen Dyer Doppelt Milbrath & Gilchrist PA  of
Orlando, Florida.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  L.A. Printex, Cato Trade Copyright-Infringement Suits  L.A. Printex, which has filed more than 20 copyright
infringement suits this year, sued a North Carolina company for
infringement.  Cato Corp.  of Charlotte, North Carolina, is accused of
selling fabric and designs that are knockoffs of nine L.A.
Printex copyrights, according to the complaint filed Oct. 29 in
federal court in North Carolina. L.A. Printex is a Los Angeles-
based textile printing mill.  The North Carolina company filed suit in the same court in
September, seeking a declaration of non-infringement. Cato said
it doesn’t infringe any valid and enforceable copyrights
belonging to the printing mill.  L.A. Printex’s complaint included photos of its copyrighted
designs and of garments it claims are sold by Cato. In its
complaint, the company asked the court to bar Cato from
importing, manufacturing, distributing and selling any product
that infringed its designs.  It also seeks awards of money damages and of Cato’s profit
attributable to the alleged infringement. Additionally, it asked
for awards of litigation costs and attorney fees.  L.A. Printex is represented by  Nathan M. Hull  of
Charlotte’s  Hull & Chandler PA  and  Stephen M. Doniger  of  Doniger
Burroughs APC  of Culver City, California. Cato’s lawyer is  J.
Mark Wilson  of  Moore & Van Allen PLLC , also of Charlotte.  The case against Cato is L.A. Printex Industries Inc. v.
Cato Corp., 3:10-cv-00543-FDW-DCK, U.S. District Court, Western
District of North Carolina (Charlotte). Cato’s case against the
print mill is Cato Corp. v. L.A. Printex, 3:10-cv-00462-RLV-DSC,
U.S. District Court, Western District of North Carolina
(Charlotte).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Hasbro Objects to Angle’s ‘Harry Reid Amnesty Game’  Hasbro Inc., the toymaker second in size only to Mattel
Inc., complained that Nevada’s Republican senatorial candidate
infringed the trademarks of its Monopoly game, Huffington Post
 reported .  Sharron Angle , who lost to Democratic Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  in yesterday’s election, was sent a cease-and-
desist letter complaining that her “Harry Reid Amnesty Game”
website used the marks without permission, according to
Huffington Post.  The Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based company told Angle that
aside from protecting its IP rights, it was anxious “to avoid
associations of toys and games with partisan politics,” the
news site reported.  Earlier in her campaign, Angle ran afoul of the Las Vegas
Review-Journal, and was sued for infringement for allegedly
reprinting two articles on her website without authorization,
according to Huffington Post.  Red Hat Society Sues ‘Founding Queen Mum’ for Infringing Marks  Red Hat Society , a membership organization aimed at
bringing women over 50 “life meaning and fulfillment” sued the
head of one of its chapters for trademark infringement.  Mary J. Rausch, who served as “Founding Queen Mum” of the
Phoenix-based “Decadent Dames” chapter, quit paying her Queen
membership dues in June 2010, according to the complaint filed
Oct. 28 in federal court in Los Angeles.  In a letter to Red Hat “hatquarters” in Fullerton,
California, that is included in court filings, Rausch said
although she would quit paying her Queen dues, she would
continue to hold meetings and wear the red hat and purple dress
that is a sign of membership in the group.  Rausch said the society’s move to charge $20 annual dues
for each individual members was harmful to the women in her
community, “many on fixed incomes.”  The society said Rausch infringes its marks by continuing
to use the domain name  azredhats.com , and keeping links to
official society events on the site. It also objects to a letter
Rausch sent to Red Hat Society members inviting them to a Red
Hat convention she would be hosting in March 2011.  Rausch’s actions have caused the society “irreparable
harm” and confused the public, according to court papers. The
society asked the court to order Rausch to quit infringing the
marks and surrender her azredhats.com website.  Additionally, the society seeks money damages, including
extra damages “in a sum sufficient to punish and make an
example” of her, and for awards of attorney fees and litigation
costs.  Red Hat Society is represented by  Judith Beth Gitterman  of
Seattle’s  Perkins Coie LLP .  The case is Red Hat Society Inc., v. Mary J. Rausch, 8:10-
cv-01659-CJC-VBK, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 