-- Time Warner Profit Beats Estimates; Forecast Raised
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-03T20:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/time-warner-raises-forecast-as-tv-licensing-ad-sales-drive-profit-growth.html
Time Warner Inc. , owner of the TNT
and TBS cable networks, beat analysts’ third-quarter profit
estimates on higher TV licensing and advertising sales. The
company raised its 2010 earnings forecast.  Earnings, excluding debt refinancing costs, rose to 62
cents a share from 53 cents, the New York-based company said
today in a statement. Analysts projected 53 cents, the average
of 22  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Advertising sales increased at the cable channels and the
Time Inc. magazines such as Fortune and Sports Illustrated.
Earnings at the Warner Bros. studio fell less than some analysts
expected as network syndication sales of programs such as “Two
and a Half Men” helped mitigate lower movie ticket sales.  “EPS was a solid beat on strong margins, particularly
strong margins in networks,” said  Chris Marangi , an analyst at
Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York. “They had solid advertising and
subscription growth.”  Gabelli is an affiliate of Gamco Investors Inc., which owns
4.95 million shares of Time Warner, according to Bloomberg data.  Time Warner sees percentage growth in the “high 20s” for
adjusted  earnings  from continuing operations this year, from
$1.83 a share last year. That compares with an August forecast
of at least 20 percent. Analysts  project  earnings of $2.26,
implying growth of 23 percent.  Net income  for the third quarter fell to $522 million, or
46 cents a share, from $662 million, or 55 cents, a year ago.
Adjusted earnings exclude a $295 million loss from buying back
debt. Revenue rose 1.8 percent to $6.38 billion, missing the
$6.44 billion average estimate.  The Next Harry Potter  Time Warner, also the owner of HBO, fell 34 cents to $32.07
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have added 10 percent  this year .  Warner Bros., the No. 1 film studio this year, made $460.1
million at the box office in the third quarter with the release
of “Inception,” according to researcher  Box Office Mojo , based
in Sherman Oaks, California. That’s down from $652.5 million a
year ago when blockbusters “Harry Potter and the Half-Blood
Prince” and “The Hangover” lured theatergoers. The next
installment of the Harry Potter franchise comes out Nov. 19.  Operating income for the film division fell 31 percent to
$200 million in the third quarter.  Despite lower overall ratings, ad sales at the cable
channels, including Cartoon Network, TNT and CNN, rose 10
percent, in line with the estimate from  Spencer Wang , an analyst
with Credit Suisse. The unit’s operating income grew 23 percent
to $1.14 billion.  Management Changes  At the magazines, ad sales gained 5 percent, better than
Wang’s estimate for a 4 percent increase. Operating income for
publishing rose 45 percent to $141 million as cost reductions
offset lower subscription sales.  Time Warner has undergone a series of management changes
across its divisions. In August the company hired  Jack Griffin 
as chief executive of the magazine publishing unit, replacing
 Ann Moore . The next month the company extended Warner Bros.
Chairman and CEO  Barry Meyer ’s contract for three more years and
lined up three potential internal successors.  Cable news network CNN faced the most upheaval with the
replacement of Jon Klein as head of the U.S. network. HLN’s  Ken Jautz  takes over amid falling viewership and a new prime-time
lineup featuring  Eliot Spitzer  and Piers Morgan, who will
replace  Larry King .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  