-- Lincare, Apria Among Winning Suppliers for Medicare
-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 2010-11-04T13:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/lincare-apria-among-winning-suppliers-for-medicare-update1-.html
Lincare Holdings Inc. and Apria
Healthcare Group Inc. were among 356 companies that won
contracts to supply oxygen tanks, wheelchairs and diabetes-
testing equipment to Medicare patients in the first year of a
competitive bidding process opposed by the industry.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced
today the  winning bidders  that, starting Jan. 1, can sell their
products to Medicare beneficiaries in nine metropolitan areas
located in California, Florida, Kansas, Missouri,  North
Carolina , Ohio, Pennsylvania and Texas. Medicare, the U.S.
health insurance program for the elderly and disabled, spent
$8.1 billion last year on these supplies.  The competitive bidding program will reduce  U.S. government
spending  on medical equipment by $17 billion and save Medicare
beneficiaries $11 billion over 10 years, said  Jonathan Blum , the
CMS deputy administrator, on the conference call. The program is
starting in nine metropolitan areas and is expected to expand to
91 additional locations in 2013 and nationwide by 2016, the
agency has said.  “We are pleased that Medicare beneficiaries living in the
nine first round communities will be saving money and will
continue to receive high quality service and supplies from the
suppliers who were awarded contracts,”  Donald Berwick , the
administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
said in a  statement .  Industry View  The  American Association  for Homecare, an industry trade
group,  opposes  the program, saying in an Oct. 22 statement that
it encourages bids at too low a price to be affordable for the
suppliers and won’t result in the promised savings. “The
program is designed to artificially reduce the number of
competitors providing cost-effective care in the home,” Michael
Reinemer, a spokesman for the group, said in an e-mail. “Better
price setting mechanisms are available to Medicare.”  The pilot program covers the metropolitan areas of
Charlotte, North Carolina; Cincinnati;  Cleveland ; Dallas; Kansas
City; Miami;  Orlando , Florida; Pittsburgh; and Riverside,
California.  Companies with more than $3.5 million in gross revenue,
such as Clearwater, Florida-based Lincare, Apria Healthcare of
Lake Forest, California, and Brentwood, Tennessee-based American
HomePatient Inc. represent 49 percent of the firms that won
1,217 contracts announced today. Apria was acquired by  New York- 
based  Blackstone Group LP (BBX)  in 2008. Highland Capital Management
Group acquired American HomePatient earlier this year.  Paul Gabos, a spokesman for Lincare, and Stephen Clanton,
spokesman for American HomePatient, didn’t respond to phone
messages left today after their offices closed. Lisa Getson, a
spokeswoman for Apria, said in an e-mail that the company
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  