-- Indonesia Races to Evacuate Merapi After Biggest Eruption Since Oct. 26
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2010-11-03T11:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/indonesia-s-mount-merapi-volcano-spews-ash-isn-t-an-eruption-agency-says.html
Indonesian rescuers raced to evacuate
hundreds of people around Mount Merapi in central Java as they
extended the minimum safety distance from the volcano following
its biggest eruption since the Oct. 26 blast.  The safety distance has extended to 15 kilometers (9.3
miles) from 10 kilometers, with around 3,000 people still
trapped inside the new danger zone, Oka Hamid, a spokesman at
Red Cross Indonesia’s Yogyakarta branch said. Heavy rain and fog
obscure the direction the hot ash cloud is moving, making it
difficult to identify which area to evacuate first, he said.  “We have to work fast,” Hamid said by telephone today.
“We’re using trucks, motorcycles, anything that can move people
to a safer distance.” Indonesian soldiers are helping with the
evacuation, he said.  Merapi, which means mountain of fire, may release clouds of
hot ash for about two months, Subandriyo, an official at the
country’s Volcanology and Geology Disaster Mitigation Center,
said. The death toll from the eruptions since Oct. 26 reached 42,
Agam Ferdhatama, an official the  National Disaster Management
Agency  said today.  Indonesia is battling to recover from two disasters that
struck the Southeast Asian nation within a day apart of each
other. On Mentawai Islands off the west coast of Sumatra, relief
workers are focusing on nursing and providing shelter for the
survivors of a magnitude 7.5 earthquake and tsunami that struck
the island chain Oct. 25, Ade Edward, operational head at the
West Sumatra Regional Disaster Management Agency, said.  “Military and police personnel are already at villages
with good transportation access,” Edward said by phone today
from the West Sumatra provincial capital, Padang. “They will
start building non-permanent houses there.”  The death toll from the Oct. 25 tsunami in Mentawai was
revised down to 427 today from 431 yesterday, with 75 missing,
Ferdhatama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Widya Utami  in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net ;
 Eko Listiyorini  in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  