-- Interline Plans Debt as Sales Taper Off Before Fed Easing: New Issue Alert
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-11-03T09:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/interline-plans-debt-as-investors-wait-for-fed-new-issue-alert.html
Interline Brands Inc., a distributor
of maintenance, repair and operations products, is marketing
debt amid a decline in corporate bond issuance as investors
await the Federal Reserve’s plan to boost the economy and
election results that may divide Congress.  Interline  plans to sell $275 million of eight-year senior
subordinated notes, the Jacksonville, Florida-based company said
yesterday in a statement distributed by Globe Newswire.
Issuance of $6.7 billion this week compares with $8.11 billion
on Oct. 25 and Oct. 26, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Federal Reserve will probably begin a new round of
unconventional monetary easing this week by announcing a plan to
buy at least $500 billion of securities, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Republicans stand to increase their
seats in Congress. Bond sales have slowed as a result, said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC.  “It strikes me as kind of an industry-wide wait-and-see
week,” said LeBas, who’s based in Philadelphia.  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
debt instead of Treasuries narrowed 1 basis point to 178 basis
points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Corporate Master index. Yields fell 3.2 basis points to 3.61
percent, the index data show.  Interline Proceeds  Proceeds from Interline’s debt offering will be used to
repay a credit line and tender for outstanding 8.125 percent
notes maturing in 2014, according to the statement. The debt,
which is non-callable for three years, may be issued as soon as
tomorrow, according to a person familiar with the transaction,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Spreads on high-yield debt narrowed 2 basis points to 594
basis points yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II index. Yields were down 3.3
basis points to 7.72 percent.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The following is a description of at least $5.48 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  SINOCHEM CORP., a Chinese fertilizer importer and
distributor, is marketing 10- and 30-year debt, according to a
person familiar with the transaction. The 10-year notes may have
a spread in the low 200 bas
is-point range, and the 30-year bonds may yield in the mid-200
basis-point range more than similar-maturity Treasuries, said
the person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The benchmark senior debt will be issued through Sinochem
Overseas Capital Co. and guaranteed by Sinochem Hong Kong Group
Co., according to notes from Moody’s and S&P. Moody’s graded the
debt a provisional Baa1 and S&P rated it BBB+. A benchmark sale
is typically at least $500 million.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  Split-Rated  THE SEMINOLE TRIBE OF FLORIDA, owner of the Hard Rock
restaurant, hotel and casino chain, plans to sell $330 million
of taxable gaming division notes due in 2017 that may yield 7.75
percent to 8 percent, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The debt is graded Ba1 by Moody’s. The Seminole Tribe also
plans $37.39 million of tax-exempt gaming division bonds due
2017, according to a statement distributed by PR Newswire.  KAZMUNAIGAZ NATIONAL CO., the Kazakh state-owned oil and
gas producer, hired Credit Suisse Group AG, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG to manage a benchmark sale of
bonds denominated in U.S. dollars, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The notes will mature in April
2021, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Moody’s  grades  the company Baa3 and S&P ranks
it BB+, one step lower.  (Updated Nov. 3. See  KMGZ KZ  .)  Not Rated  HARBINGER GROUP INC ., the publicly traded holding company
majority owned by Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, plans to sell
$325 million of senior secured five-year notes, the company said
in a Nov. 1 statement distributed by Business Wire. Proceeds may
be used for acquisitions and other investments. The funds will
be held in escrow until Harbinger Group exchanges 120 million
shares of its common stock for 27.8 million shares of pet-food
maker  Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc. , in which Harbinger Capital
has a majority interest. The notes will be non-callable for 2.5
years, according to a person familiar with the sale who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set. Spokesman  Jeff Zelkowitz  said the sale is Harbinger Group’s first bond issue.  CYRELA BRAZIL REALTY SA EMPREENDIMENTOS E PARTICIPACOES ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder, hired Banco do Brasil SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley to
arrange bond investor meetings, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Cyrela will meet with investors in Asia, Europe
and the U.S., said the person, who declined to be identified
because the conversations are private.  (Added Nov. 2. See  CYRE3 BZ  .)  SPANSION INC., the maker of flash-memory chips that emerged
from bankruptcy in May, plans to sell $200 million of seven-year
notes, the company said in an Oct. 28 statement distributed by
PR Newsire Proceeds will be used to repay borrowings under a
$450 million term loan, Spansion said.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  INTERLINE BRANDS INC., a distributor of maintenance, repair
and operations products, plans to sell $275 million of eight-
year senior subordinated notes, the company said in a Nov. 2
statement distributed by Globe Newswire. Proceeds will be used
to repay a credit line and tender for outstanding 8.125 percent
notes maturing in 2014, according to the statement.  MERCER INTERNATIONAL INC. , a Vancouver-based pulp
manufacturer, plans to sell $300 million of senior notes, the
company said in a Nov. 2 statement distributed by Globe
Newswire. Proceeds will be used to help tender for the company’s
outstanding 9.25 percent senior debt maturing in 2013, according
to the statement.  NCL CORP., that operator of Norwegian Cruise Line that’s
planning an initial public offering, may issue $200 million of
senior unsecured notes due in 2018 through a private placement,
the Miami-based company said in a Nov. 2 statement distributed
by Business Wire. The debt is graded Caa1 by Moody’s, according
to a note from the ratings company.  PT ENERGI MEGA PERSADA , Indonesia’s second-biggest listed
oil company, hired Nomura Holdings Inc. to help it with a dollar
bond sale, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
formerly known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to Standard &
Poor’s. Proceeds may be used with $340 million of bank debt and
$370 million of new common stock to pay for its acquisition by
Veritas Capital, S&P said.  TRANSDIGM GROUP INC., the aircraft-components manufacturer
that’s buying rival supplier McKechnie Aerospace Holdings Inc.,
plans to sell $780 million of senior subordinated notes to help
fund the acquisition, the Cleveland-based company said in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company
is also planning a $900 million term loan and a $300 million
revolving credit line, according to the filing. The notes were
rated B3 by Moody’s.  FRAC TECH SERVICES LLC plans to sell $550 million of senior
notes due in 2018, according to a statement on its  website .
Proceeds may be used for general corporate purposes and to repay
debt, fund capital spending and return capital to equity owners,
the Cisco, Texas-based company said. The notes may be issued
through the company’s Frac Tech Finance Inc. unit, according to
the statement.  (Added Nov. 2. See {www.fractech.net})  PT MNC SKY VISION, an Indonesian provider of pay-television
services, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Bank
for a sale of five-year senior secured guaranteed notes that are
callable after three years, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  WII COMPONENTS INC., the manufacturer of wood cabinet doors
owned by Behrman Capital LP, plans to sell $115 million of
senior secured five-year notes, the company said in an Oct. 25
statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes may be used to
help fund a tender for outstanding 10 percent senior securities
due 2012, according to the statement. S&P assigned the debt a
grade of B-, it said in a statement.  DUNKIN’ BRANDS INC., owner of Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-
Robbins restaurants, plans to sell $625 million of senior notes
and obtain a $1.35 billion senior credit line to repay
securitized debt and help fund a dividend, the company said in
an Oct. 25 statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes
will be issued through Dunkin’ Finance Corp., according to the
statement. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG will manage
the bond sale, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private.  RURAL/METRO CORP., the provider of medical transportation
and fire protection, plans to sell $200 million of senior notes
due 2018 through a private offering, the company said in an Oct.
18 statement distributed by Marketwire.  {Added Oct. 19. See  RURL US  .)  Offerings in Pipeline  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  INTERNATIONAL PETROLEUM INVESTMENT CO. plans to meet bond
investors in the United Arab Emirates, according to two people
with knowledge of the marketing. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank
of America Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc, National Bank of Abu Dhabi,
Standard Chartered Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
arranging the meetings, said the people, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  QATAR NATIONAL BANK plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The company
will meet with investors in Asia and Europe, said the people,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Barclays
Capital, BNP Paribas SA, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Standard
Chartered Bank will manage the issue with QNB Capital, the
people said.  MB PETROLEUM SERVICES, a Middle East oilfield services
provider, plans to sell $350 million of U.S. dollar-denominated
bonds, according to a person familiar with the transaction. The
securities may yield 10.5 percent to 11 percent, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays Capital, HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc
are managing the issue, which will follow investor meetings in
Asia, the United Arab Emirates, Europe and the U.S., the person
said. The notes will be guaranteed by Mohamed Al Barwani Holding
Co.  PTA BANK , or Eastern and Southern African Trade and
Development Bank, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. to arrange bond investor meetings in Europe and Asia,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The meetings
will be held in Hong Kong, Singapore, Zurich, Geneva and London,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The company may sell dollar bonds after the
meetings, the people said.  MAQUINARIA ESPECIALIZADA MXO TRUST , a special-purpose
company expected to provide construction machinery services to
Corporacion GEO SAB de CV, hired Banco Santander SA to arrange
bond investor meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the sale. A dollar bond sale may follow the meetings, to be held
in London, Boston, New York and Los Angeles, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The sale of
Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING Groep
NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s and BBB-by
S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 