-- U.K. Stocks Advance as BHP Billiton Shares Reach a Record High in London
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-11-04T16:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/invensys-man-group-pearson-plc-tate-lyle-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks rose, sending the FTSE
100 Index to its highest level since June 2008, after the U.S.
Federal Reserve said that it will buy $600 billion of bonds to
boost the economy.  BHP Billiton Ltd. rallied 6.6 percent to a record price in
London after Canada blocked the world’s largest mining company’s
$40 billion hostile takeover bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  Man Group Plc  soared 15 percent and Unilever
climbed 6.3 percent after profit topped estimates.  Rolls-Royce
Group Plc  sank 5 percent after one of its engines exploded in
mid-flight, forcing Qantas Airways Ltd. to ground its  Airbus  SAS
A380 fleet.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  surged 113.82, or 2 percent,
to 5,862.79 at the 4.30 p.m. close in London. The measure
rallied 2.3 percent last month as investors anticipated that the
Fed would kick off a second round of asset purchases, a tactic
known as quantitative easing. The FTSE All-Share Index climbed
1.9 percent and Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  rose 1.6 percent today.  “We think QE2 is going to be more effective than investors
realize,”  Andrew Garthwaite , the London-based head of global
equity strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report.
“We stay overweight equities.”  The Fed will purchase about $75 billion a month through
June. The central bank added that it will “adjust the program
as needed.” Most economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
policy makers would add at least $500 billion to the financial
system. The central bank also left unchanged its pledge to keep
interest rates low for an “extended period.”  Bank of England  The Bank of England kept the size of its emergency stimulus
program unchanged as the strength of the U.K. recovery persuaded
officials not to join the Fed in buying more government bonds.  BHP Billiton surged 6.6 percent to 2,430 pence. Canada’s
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said yesterday that selling the
world’s largest fertilizer company wouldn’t provide a “net
benefit” to the nation. BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  obtained $45 billion of loans in September to fund the
proposed $130 a share acquisition, which met opposition from
politicians and investors.  Man Group soared 15 percent to 290.8 pence, its highest
price since Jan. 15, after the biggest publicly traded hedge-
fund manager posted per-share earnings for the first half of
10.2 cents, topping a 9.5 cents a share projection from its
trading statement on Sept 28. Credit Suisse Group AG analyst
 Rupak Ghose  increased his price estimate on the shares 12
percent to 290 pence.  Unilever Climbs  Unilever gained 6.3 percent to 1,924 pence. The consumer
products maker reported third-quarter volume growth that beat
 estimates  as customers bought more deodorants and ice cream in
western Europe.  Rolls Royce lost 5 percent to 621.5 pence. One of four
Rolls Royce engines on a Qantas A380 airplane failed during a
Singapore-Sydney flight today, scattering debris over an
Indonesian island. The plane, carrying 433 passengers and 26
crew, landed safely.  William  Morrison  Supermarkets Plc, the smallest of the
U.K.’s four main food retailers, lost 3.9 percent to 278.7 pence
after  Richard Pennycook , the company’s finance director, said on
a call with journalists that consumer pressures “show no signs
of easing.”  “By Morrison’s standards, the update is fairly anaemic,
with a combination of higher food price inflation and consumer
caution providing headwinds,”  Richard Hunter , head of U.K.
equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in London, said.  Next Plc lost 2.2 percent to 2,133 pence as JPMorgan Chase
& Co. downgraded the shares to “underweight” from
“overweight.”  “We expect Next to suffer disproportionately as price
increases further reduce store volumes,” analyst  Gillian Hilditch  wrote in a report today.  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc plummeted 13 percent to
46.99 pence, the biggest drop since October 2005. The company
reported profit and sales that missed estimates and analysts
called the company’s cash flow “miniscule.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 