-- Investec Asset Management Cuts Overweight Holdings in South African Banks
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-03T13:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/investec-asset-management-cuts-overweight-holdings-in-south-african-banks.html
Investec Asset Management , a unit of
Investec Plc that oversees about $70 billion, said some of its
funds exited  Absa Group Ltd.  and reduced holdings in  Standard
Bank Group Ltd.  after valuations became “stretched.”  “By the middle of the year it had become clear to us that
the market’s expectations for bank earnings both this year and
next were too high,”  Chris Steward , head of financials at the
Cape Town-based money manager, wrote in a report e-mailed today.
“The potential for disappointment was significant.”  Standard Bank, Africa’s largest lender, is retrenching more
than 2,000 staff after costs continued to rise and revenue
remained muted even after South Africa’s central bank cut
interest rates to boost consumer spending. Absa, the country’s
biggest retail bank, on Aug. 5 said it expects costs to increase
by more than inflation and that second-half revenue growth will
be “subdued.”  Standard Bank is valued at about 12.6 times its estimated
earnings, while Absa has a ratio of 11.7, near the highest level
since 2005, according to Bloomberg data.  “The recent announcement by Standard Bank that they would
have to retrench staff brings into stark focus an issue we have
been concerned about for some time -- South African banks are
finding top-line growth very hard to come by,” Steward said.  ‘Resilient Growth Story’  Investec Asset Management’s remaining investments in the
industry “are geared towards companies that offer a resilient
growth story, even in the event of prolonged tough operating
conditions,” he said. The report cited  African Bank Investments
Ltd. , RMB Holdings Ltd. for potential benefits from its
reorganization, and  FirstRand Ltd.  for its “superior relative
earnings momentum.”  Sanlam Investment Management, with the equivalent of $41
billion in assets, and Coronation Fund Managers said they are
“long-term” investors. Coronation is not reacting to “short-
term news flows,” according to  Neville Chester , who helps
oversee about $22 billion at the Cape Town-based firm.  “We are overweight banks and have been adding to our
position,” said  Patrice Rassou , a portfolio manager at Sanlam.
“We think Standard Bank management is taking the right action
in order to right-size the business. Absa has been hit hard by
cost increases, but this will be out of the base next year.”  Standard Bank and Absa have been the  worst-performing
stocks  in the five-member FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  