-- Iran Says Nuclear Talks Must Include Turkey-Brazil Plan for Uranium Swap
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-11-03T16:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/iran-says-nuclear-talks-must-include-turkey-brazil-plan-for-uranium-swap.html
Iranian Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  said talks with the world powers on Iran’s uranium
enrichment should include acceptance of a May proposal brokered
by Brazil and Turkey for the supply of nuclear-reactor fuel.  If France, Russia, the U.S. and the United Nations’
International Atomic Energy Agency are “prepared to enter
negotiations based on this framework, a time and location for
talks will be agreed on,” Mottaki said today, according to the
state-run Press TV news channel.  The U.S. said on Oct. 28 that will offer a "revised"
proposal for Iran to exchange its low-enriched uranium for fuel
to power a Tehran reactor that produces medical isotopes. The
offer hinges on Iran agreeing to direct talks over its nuclear
program, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said. The
New York Times reported that the terms of the U.S. proposal
would be stricter than those of a 2009 UN plan rejected by Iran.  Uranium enrichment is the key issue in the international
dispute over Iran’s nuclear program, with Iran maintaining the
right to produce the material and the U.S. leading efforts to
force Iran to abandon the work. Enriched uranium can fuel a
reactor and at higher concentrations form the core of a bomb.
Iran denies claims by the U.S. and many of its allies that the
nuclear program may be providing cover for the development of
weapons.  International Sanctions  The European Union proposed a round of nuclear negotiations
with Iran in Vienna for mid-November. The U.S., U.K., Russia,
China, France -- the five permanent members of the UN Security
Council -- and Germany would also participate. The Security
Council approved a fourth round of sanctions against Iran over
its nuclear program in June, followed by a tightening of U.S.
and EU measures in response to the Iranian nuclear program.  Iran, which is under increasing pressure from the
international economic sanctions, has agreed to resume talks
over its disputed uranium enrichment activities after Nov. 10.
Mottaki told reporters today in Tbilisi, Georgia, that Iran is
ready to hold the negotiations in Istanbul or Geneva. The
parties haven’t yet reached an agreement on the content of the
talks, he said.  The proposal brokered by Turkey and Brazil, in which Iran
would swap some of its enriched uranium for fuel in a form
usable only in the Tehran reactor, was rejected by Western
nations because it allowed the country to continue producing
enriched uranium. Iran says it needs the material as part of its
development of nuclear energy.  The plan for the exchange followed an October 2009 proposal
from the UN powers for Iran to send most of its stock of
enriched uranium to Russia to be processed to a higher level of
purity and then to France for conversion into fuel for the
Tehran plant, which is running low on supplies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net . 