-- Ireland Debt Swaps at Record High as Allied Signals 62% Chance of Default
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-11-03T14:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/ireland-swaps-rise-to-record-as-allied-irish-signals-60-chance-of-default.html
The cost of insuring Irish sovereign
debt surged to a record as credit-default swaps on Allied Irish
Banks Plc subordinated debt signaled a 62 percent probability of
default within five years.  Contracts insuring 10 million euros ($14 million) of Allied
Irish’s junior bonds cost about 3.25 million euros upfront and
500,000 euros annually, according to data provider CMA. That’s
up from 400,000 euros a year in April. Swaps on the government’s
debt jumped 27 basis points to 545.  Political pressure for bondholders to share the burden of
losses is growing. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said today the euro’s stability depends on making investors pay
for future debt crises, brushing aside warnings that Europe’s
most indebted countries are being hurt by proposals for a
permanent-debt crisis mechanism.  “People in the market have a real concern Ireland is going
to struggle to fund itself and therefore banks are going to
struggle to fund themselves,” said  Gary Jenkins , head of credit
strategy at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “There’s a
cause and effect between banks and sovereigns. When you have
these problems at a sovereign level, it’s fairly evident that
the next rung down where problems lay is with the banks.”  Investors are turning on Allied Irish after rival Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. last month offered investors 20 cents on the
euro for its lower Tier 2 securities. Swaps on Allied Irish’s
senior debt increased 25.5 basis points to a record 706, CMA
prices show.  Capital Targets  Allied Irish is selling assets to meet capital targets set
by the country’s financial regulator after racking up losses in
the collapse of the country’s real estate bubble. The bank will
not be fully nationalized and will “honor its debt
obligations,” Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said in Dublin
today.  Ireland problems weighed on Europe’s indebted peripheral
nations, with swaps on Portugal climbing 9.5 basis points to 418
and Spain up 3.5 at 228.5. The  Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe
Index  of swaps on 15 governments rose 3 to a five-week high of
161.  The cost of insuring corporate bonds was little changed,
with the  Markit iTraxx Crossover Index  of 50 companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings increasing 3 basis points to
451, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Markit iTraxx Europe index of 125 investment-grade
companies was unchanged at 96.75 and the Markit iTraxx Financial
Index linked to the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers rose
3.5 to 128.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  