-- Israel's SodaStream Jumps After Raising $109 Million in U.S. Initial Sale
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-11-03T21:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/israel-s-sodastream-raises-109-million-pricing-u-s-ipo-at-top-of-range.html
SodaStream International Ltd.  rose 21
percent in its first day of trading after the producer of soda
makers raised $109 million in its U.S. initial public offering.  SodaStream gained $4.12 to $24.12 in U.S. composite
trading. The Airport City, Israel-based company yesterday sold
5.45 million shares for $20 each, the top of its forecast range,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. SodaStream, which will use the
proceeds to repay  debt  and build or buy a facility, increased
the number of shares it offered yesterday from 4.74 million, its
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission showed.  The sale was the second of seven scheduled for this week
and follows the busiest month for U.S. IPOs in almost three
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. SodaStream, which
reported an almost ninefold increase in profit in the first six
months of the year, completed its offering after the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  rallied 13 percent in September and October.  “You have tremendous growth in carbonated water, and I
think they’re looking to tap into that growth,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees $1 billion at YCMNet Advisors in Walnut
Creek, California. “This particular company is in an
interesting niche, and I think it’s caught investors’
attention.”  Revenue Growth  Sales at  SodaStream , whose soda machines transform tap
water into sparkling water and carbonated soft drinks, increased
50 percent to $93.4 million in the six months ended June, the
filing showed. Profit rose almost ninefold to $5.67 million.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. of New York and Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Bank AG  led the offering.  “The success of the IPO, particularly at the top of the
pricing range, is a real testament to the business model and to
the way it’s being received,” Daniel Birnbaum, SodaStream’s
chief executive officer, said in a telephone interview.  SinoTech Energy Ltd. , which provides equipment and services
to boost production from oil fields in China, slumped 19 percent
after completing its initial offering, the biggest first-day
decline for any IPO listed on U.S. exchanges this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Beijing-based company sold 19.74 million American
depositary receipts at $8.50 each today, the middle of its
range, the data show. The stock closed at $6.86.  The company will use the proceeds to buy hydraulic drilling
equipment and repay debt, according to the prospectus. UBS AG of
Zurich was hired to lead the sale.  Chinese IPOs  SinoTech was the second IPO by a Chinese company this week.
 Xueda Education Group , the Beijing-based provider of tutoring
services for primary and secondary school students in China,
surged 32 percent yesterday after raising $128 million.  Five of the 10 largest gains among companies listing in New
York this year have come from China.  JinkoSolar Holding Co. , the maker of silicon wafers in
China’s Jiangxi province, has gained 254 percent since its May
listing.  HiSoft Technology  International Ltd., the Dalian,
China-based company that helps businesses outsource software
development, has risen 188 percent.  ChinaCache International Holdings Ltd. , the Beijing-based
provider of Internet content to businesses, had the biggest
first-day rally for a U.S. initial offering in three years after
its IPO in September.  Demand for offerings from Chinese companies has helped push
the amount raised through Asian IPOs to about $140 billion this
year, the most on record, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
U.S. share of global initial sales dwindled to a record low of
11 percent last month, the data show.  This Week’s Offerings  Costamare Inc. , the Athens-based owner of container ships,
plans to raise $226 million today, Bloomberg data show.  Three U.S. companies will offer shares tomorrow.  Fresh
Market Inc. , the Greensboro, North Carolina-based grocer, is
attempting the biggest IPO of the week with a $264 million
offering, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The grocery chain is selling 13.2 million shares at $18 to
$20 each, its SEC filing showed. At the middle of the forecast
range, Fresh Market would be valued at 16.4 times net assets,
according to IPODesktop.com.  That’s almost six times higher than the ratio of 2.9 for
Austin, Texas-based Whole Foods Market Inc., which Fresh Market
identified as a competitor in its regulatory filing.  Both grocery chains are valued at 25 times estimated
earnings, according to IPODesktop.com.  Primo Water Corp. , the Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
provider of bottled water and water dispensers, and  Cutanea Life
Sciences Inc. , the Malvern, Pennsylvania-based developer of
treatments for skin conditions such as rosacea and acne, are
also scheduled to sell shares on Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 