-- More Than Greed Is Good at Wall Street: Johannesburg Dining
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/it-s-not-just-greed-that-s-good-at-this-wall-street-johannesburg-dining.html
The pinstriped set need not feel out
of place at Wall Street, the new eatery near South Africa’s
 stock exchange , where greed is good and so is the foie gras.  The black-and-white interior of this Johannesburg
restaurant is reassuringly lavish, while the bar, with its deep
couches and thick carpeting, is the place to whet the appetite.  Try the strawberry-and-balsamic martini or the house
special  Hennessy  Autograph: cognac flambeed with maraschino
cherries and orange zest and muddled with fresh Tahiti lime
wedges. It costs 95 rand ($13) and is perfect for celebrating
after a good day’s trading.  The dining room is spacious and quiet, with jazz playing in
the background. That said, it lacks atmosphere and the lighting
is dull rather than subtle. The place could do with bulbs that
don’t save energy and a grand piano. It’s that sort of room.  What isn’t dull is the menu. Or the wine list. Here’s a
place a half a world away from California and yet it’s serving
up  Opus One . And 1989 Chateau Mouton Rothschild. At 5,200 rand
and 7,000 rand, respectively, these are not for those limited by
expense accounts. South African wines are more affordable, such
as Fairview Caldera 2007 at 240 rand.  On the menu, lobster, prawns, sushi, sashimi and local
favorites like firm-fleshed kingklip are some of Wall Street’s
top fishy choices. With pasta, steak, pork, quail and lamb all
vying for attention, this is a restaurant using the scattergun
approach to finding its audience. It’s also a restaurant without
a hint of a truffle anywhere, which is a pity.  Fig Chutney  Don’t be disheartened. If ethics don’t get in the way, try
the foie gras at 145 rand. Put a portion on the thin, crunchy
brioche, add a wee marinated mushroom with a dollop of the
homemade fig chutney and pop it in your mouth. Delicious.  The beef carpaccio, razor thin, deep pink, scattered with
toasted pine kernels and crisscrossed with a sesame oil
dressing, is another starter to wake up the taste buds, while
the duck salad is a haven of fatty, smoky fowl. Avoid the
calamari with an uninspiring apricot glaze, stuffed with
chipolatas and flavored with  Jack Daniels . The calamari is
overcooked, the sausage is just, well, sausage, and there’s no
hint of the Tennessee whiskey.  At Wall Street, owned by restaurateur Desmond Mabuza, 39,
with Robin Freeman the head chef, main courses range from being
good to very good. Good dishes include the slow-roasted,
chardonnay-scented pork belly and the duck leg confit with fig
jus. Very good applies to the quail, the prime rib and the
salmon teriyaki, which is soft and juicy. The quail is moist,
pancetta-wrapped and generously stuffed, while the prime rib in
merlot sauce smells like it’s just come off a barbecue.  Soggy Rosti  The port-glazed beef fillet at 150 rand is just so-so, not
being quite as pink as it should have been and the port jus not
complementing the dish, soggy potato rosti and all.  The paradise fillet is quite a spectacle. Only offered as a
special, the beef is dripping with a subtle garlic sauce and
topped by queen prawns. Beating a path toward the fillet is a
queue of five garlicky snails next to a little pile of exotic
mushrooms with a meaty taste sitting on Egyptian dukka which has
been blended into a nutty powder with muesli.  While few may have the space for dessert, the cheese
platter boasts a selection of Epoisses, Roquefort, Camembert,
Neufchatel and Port du Salut along with an onion relish, berry
compote, fresh apple and Melba toast. Or maybe you’d prefer
chocolate ravioli: sweet pastry stuffed with chocolate ganache
on pineapple carpaccio and topped with zabaglione foam.  In the concrete depths of Sandton, Wall Street offers the
sort of fireworks on a plate you might not always find these
days on the  stock exchange . If you can’t make money trading, you
might as well eat your past rewards.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? At least 1,000 rand for a meal for two.  Sound level? A quiet 70 to 75 decibels.  Inside tip? Ask about the specials and whatever else you
want, the service is reliably excellent.  Special feature? Friendly barmen and great cocktails.  Will I be back? Yes, for the cocktails.  Date place? Yes, after bonus month.  Rating? **  Wall Street is on the corner of Maude Street and Rivonia
Road, Sandton, Johannesburg. For more information call
+27-11-784-6425 or go to  http://www.wallstreetrestaurant.co.za   ( Renee Bonorchis  is a reporter for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 