-- Liverpool Brings in Former Tottenham Director Comolli to Recruit Players
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-11-03T15:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/liverpool-brings-in-ex-tottenham-director-comolli-to-recruit-players.html
Liverpool soccer team named  Damien Comolli  as director of football strategy as it aims to
strengthen its playing squad under new owner  John W. Henry .  Comolli was sacked as Tottenham’s sporting director in
October 2008 after  Harry Redknapp  replaced coach Juande Ramos
following the team’s slump to bottom of the Premier League.
After a spell with Saint-Etienne in France, Comolli will now be
working with Reds coach Roy Hodgson as the 18-time English
champion seeks to rise from 13th place.  In a statement on the club website, Henry said Comolli has
a “proven track record of identifying exciting young
footballing talent.” The Frenchman has also worked as a scout
for Arsenal.  “Working closely with Roy Hodgson and the coaching staff,
I know he will make a valuable contribution to strengthening the
club and the squad as we move forward.” said Henry, whose New
England Sports Ventures also owns the Boston Red Sox baseball
team. Henry completed the 300 million-pound ($482 million)
purchase of Liverpool last month, ending a legal fight with
previous owners Tom Hicks and George Gillett.  While at Tottenham, Comolli helped bring Gareth Bale to the
club from Southampton, although he came under fire from some
critics for what they saw as an overall failure in the transfer
market. Bale starred in Spurs’ 3-1 win over Inter Milan in the
Champions League last night.  “I think we all realize there is a big job ahead, but we
all share the vision that John has for rebuilding the club and
bringing back the success that the supporters deserve,” Comolli
said on the website.  Hodgson has previously expressed dissatisfaction about the
squad he was left at Anfield by coach Rafael Benitez.  “I am looking forward to working with Damien whom I have
known for many years,” Hodgson said. “We all want to see moves
to strengthen the squad and support player development over the
next few years. John Henry and I are totally united in
delivering on that ambition.”  Last week, Liverpool’s new owners said they’re not planning
to sell players after U.K. media reports said goalkeeper  Pepe Reina  and striker  Fernando Torres  will leave during the January
transfer window.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  