-- Ivory Coast's Gbagbo Tops Vote Counting, Opposition's Ouattara is Second
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-11-03T20:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/ivorian-leader-gbagbo-opposition-s-ouattara-split-presidential-ballot.html
President  Laurent Gbagbo  led in  Ivory
Coast’s  election, with votes counted from 16 of the country’s 19
regions, without reaching the majority needed to avoid a runoff.  With almost 3.4 million votes tallied, Gbagbo had 36.9
percent and opposition leader  Alassane Ouattara  had 33.4
percent, according to Bloomberg calculations based on results
from the electoral commission. Former President  Henri Konan Bedie  got 27.5 percent.  The Oct. 31 election was the first in a decade in the
world’s biggest cocoa grower as the country attempts to end an
eight-year division between a rebel-held north and government-
controlled south. Cocoa prices soared to a 17-year high in
October 2002, when a brief war fed concerns that supplies of the
bean would be disrupted.  Cocoa futures for December delivery fell $41, or 1.5
percent, to settle at $2,764 a ton in New York. In London, cocoa
futures for December delivery dropped 43 pounds, or 2.3 percent,
to settle at 1,827 pounds ($2,941) a ton.  A pledge made before the vote by Ouattara and Bedie to
support each other in a second round against Gbagbo may prove to
be a “weak” alliance, said Joseph Lake, an analyst with the
London-based Economist Intelligence Unit.  Doubtful Support  “It is doubtful whether their supporters would adhere to
this pact,” he said in an e-mailed note.  Cristian Preda, head of the European Union’s observer
mission in the country, yesterday criticized the slow pace of
the release of results. Members of the group were denied access
to some vote-counting centers, he told reporters.  The election was held in a “climate of peace and
serenity,” the African Union said in an e-mailed statement on
Nov. 1. Young-jin Choi, the United Nations mission chief in
Ivory Coast, told reporters the country showed “political
maturity and determination to put an end to the crisis.” Voter
turnout was about 80 percent, Choi said.  An “outright victory is highly unlikely to happen” in the
first round, said Rolake Akinola, a senior analyst for West
Africa with London-based Eurasia Group. “Preserving and
maintaining the peace in the intervening period could be key to
longer-term stability,” she said in an e-mail Nov. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 