-- Jefferies Sells Bonds to Keep Expanding Amid Wall Street Slump
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-11-03T20:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/jefferies-to-use-bonds-to-keep-expanding-hiring-amid-wall-street-s-slump.html
Jefferies Group Inc. , the New York
investment bank that raised half a billion dollars in a bond
sale, will plow ahead with expansion as earnings across Wall
Street slide.  The firm, which  boosted  headcount 31 percent in less than
two years, is still hiring “selectively” to build businesses
ahead of an economic recovery, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler , 49, said in an interview after yesterday’s sale. The
funds will be used for growth and refinancing, he said.  “The hiring is a long-term strategic initiative,” he
said. “You can’t just turn off the hiring” if markets slow, he
said, adding that competition for talent is mounting.  Handler is taking advantage of borrowing costs at almost
record lows, as the 48-year-old firm seeks to take business from
the world’s largest investment banks in trading, underwriting
and advising corporate takeovers.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and
 Citigroup Inc.  are among firms that reported drops in revenue in
the third quarter as governments stiffen regulations in response
to the worst economic contraction since the Great Depression.  “In 2008 and early 2009, we grew very aggressively while
things were very tough,” said Handler. Now, “there’s a breadth
to our company that we didn’t have before.”  Handler, who became CEO in 2001, scooped up talent as
competitors cut staff in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008. Its compensation costs were 59
percent of revenue in the third quarter, compared with 56
percent a year earlier. Its target is 55 percent to 58 percent.  Large Boutique  Jefferies  shares  have increased 1.9 percent this year,
compared with a 7.7 percent advance in the 24-company  KBW Bank
Index  and 10.8 percent gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 400
Financials Index  of midcap companies in the industry. The
company’s stock rose 9 cents, or 0.37 percent, to $24.18 today
in New York composite trading.  Among investment-banking boutiques and firms serving mid-
sized companies, Jefferies is the largest and most diversified
by product, industry expertise and geographic reach, according
to a Sept. 24 report by  David Trone , a New York-based analyst at
JMP Securities.  The bank has expanded from trading stocks and high-yield
bonds into equity research, municipal debt, mortgage securities,
investment-grade corporate bonds and prime brokerage. Investment
banking provided almost half its revenue in the last quarter.  Jefferies’s  staff jumped  to 2,971 in August from 2,270 in
December 2008 as larger banks scaled back, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. New York City shed 23,600 jobs in the
period, state Labor Department data show. The firm has more than
600 employees in London and is expanding in Asia, Handler said.  Competition Returning  The “evolution is quite typical of Wall Street’s long
history -- big venerable firms collapse due to risk management
failures, and an aggressive, opportunistic middle-market firm
rises into the void and becomes part of the bulge,” Trone
wrote.  “Pre-2008, it was probably difficult to expand because of
all the competition,” said  Mirko Mikelic , senior portfolio
manager at Fifth Third Asset Management, who oversees $13
billion of fixed-income assets in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The
industry turmoil offered “a lot of opportunities for an
investment bank that wants to expand.”  As banks prepare for economic improvement, that’s changing,
Handler said. “Competition is very keen for people once
again,” he said.  ‘Positive Environment’  Markets have become “much healthier” for Jefferies since
the three months through August, he said. In September, he
characterized those months as “painfully slow” for investment
banks, helping drive down third-quarter net income 46 percent
and revenue 23 percent from a year earlier. That compared with a
21 percent decline in investment-banking and trading revenue
reported by the five largest U.S. securities firms.  Fixed-income trading volume reported by regulators was
about 8.7 percent higher last month than July, according to
analysts at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  climbed 14 percent from the end of August to Nov. 2.
Registrations of new stock issues reached $24.2 billion in
October, almost half the previous three months combined,
according to KBW.  “People are getting back to everyday business,” said
Handler. Jefferies is in the market now with six issues of high-
yield bonds and bank loans for clients, he said. “We are
enjoying a relatively positive environment right now, but you
never know how long that is going to last.”  Low Borrowing Costs  Jefferies sold $500 million of 3.875 percent, 5-year notes
yesterday in an offering that was boosted from $350 million,
suggesting orders for bonds exceeded supply, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In June, it sold $550 million of 6.875
percent debt maturing in April 2021, also slated for business
development and diversification.  Average borrowing costs for investment-grade companies fell
to 3.61 percent yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master index. That’s near the 3.56
percent on Oct. 8, the lowest yield since the index was made
available in October 1986.  This week’s offering “gives us flexibility to continue to
build, and it is a good source for refinancing existing debt,”
said Handler. “It is really a combination.”  The firm must control costs while integrating new hires and
business lines, said  Jeff Harte , a Chicago-based analyst for
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, who has a “hold” on the stock.  “History would suggest that they’ll get the revenues out
of the employees they are bringing in,” Harte said. “But that
is part of the work to be done.”  Growth ‘May Slow’  Last year, the firm hired  Ben Lorello  from UBS AG as global
head of investment banking and capital markets. It’s adding
managing directors in the U.S. and Europe, including sector
group heads, the firm’s executive committee chairman,  Brian Friedman , said Sept. 22. In 2011, it aims to build on equity and
fixed-income platforms established this year in Asia, he said.  Jefferies said yesterday it hired  Douglas Wendell  from
Citigroup as a managing director in the technology investment-
banking group. Last month, the firm said it hired  William S. Newby  from UBS as global head of gaming investment banking.  The expansion “may slow, only because the pronounced
weakness of some of the bigger players in the market is less
than it was,” said  Jason Brady , a managing director at
Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, New Mexico, which
oversees more than $65 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 David Henry  at   dhenry19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 