-- JPMorgan Vice Chairman Black to Leave Early After Losing Operational Tasks
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2010-11-03T21:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/jpmorgan-vice-chairman-black-to-leave-early-after-losing-operational-tasks.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Vice Chairman
 Steven Black  will leave the firm in early 2011, about a year
into a three-year commitment announced in January.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  told employees in an e-
mail today that Black, whom he’s known for 30 years, informed
him of the departure, according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg
News. Dimon told employees Jan. 28 that Black agreed to keep
working with global clients for at least three years, according
to an internal memo at the time.  “He is one of the finest and most capable executives I
have ever met,” Dimon said in today’s message. “He has always
impressed me with his tremendous dedication to the firm, his
candor and his strong character.” Dealbreaker.com reported the
memo earlier today.  Dimon replaced Black and  Bill Winters , who jointly ran the
investment bank since 2004, with  Jes Staley  last year. Winters,
49, was fired, and Black, 58, was named the unit’s executive
chairman. Black lost all of his operational duties in January
when he was promoted to vice chairman of the entire bank.  “The transition to Jes Staley as CEO of the investment
bank has gone smoothly and quickly, and Steve has said that he’s
ready to move on to a new role serving clients across the
firm,” Dimon said in the Jan. 28 memo.  Black met Dimon, 54, in the mid 1980s when Black was at
Smith Barney, before the brokerage firm merged with Salomon
Brothers and later became part of Citigroup Inc. He was not
immediately available for comment.  Kristin Lemkau , a spokeswoman
for JPMorgan, confirmed the contents of the memo.  Staley, 53, joined JPMorgan in 1979. He started in
investment banking on the Brazil desk, later running JPMorgan’s
equity and capital markets group as well as its asset management
division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 Dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 