-- JSW Energy Said to Plan Bid for Canada's CIC Energy This Month to Get Coal
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-11-04T04:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/jsw-energy-said-to-plan-bid-for-canada-s-cic-energy-this-month-to-get-coal.html
JSW Energy Ltd. , the Indian power
producer controlled by the billionaire Jindal family, plans to
bid for  CIC Energy Corp.  to add coal assets in Africa, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  JSW Energy intends to make an offer this month after
completing a review of CIC’s finances and assets, the people
said, declining to be identified before an official announcement.
CIC said in a statement on its website on Oct. 8 it had entered
into exclusive talks to sell as much as a 100 percent stake to a
multibillion-dollar group.  “The company is looking at options to buy stakes in coal
assets abroad,” JSW Energy Chief Executive Officer  Lalit Gupta 
said after announcing second-quarter results on Nov. 1 in Mumbai.
“Right now, there’s nothing to share.”  CIC, which has a market value of C$306 million ($303
million), owns the Mmamabula coalfield that holds 2.6 billion
metric tons of coal in the land-locked country of Botswana in
southern Africa, according to its website. The  coal explorer  and
developer plans to set up a 1,200 megawatt power plant in
Mmamabula and mine 6 million tons of coal, it said, without
giving a timeframe.  JSW Energy  rose as much as 1.1 percent to 1,344.80 rupees
and traded at 1,344.45 rupees as of 9:21 a.m. in Mumbai. The
stock has gained 19 percent this year, compared with an 18
percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index  of the Bombay
Stock Exchange.  CIC  fell 1 percent to C$5.82 yesterday in
Toronto. The shares have jumped almost fourfold this year.  BHP Rejection  Canada, which can block any transaction valued at C$299
million or more, yesterday rejected Melbourne-based BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s $40 billion hostile takeover bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., because it wouldn’t provide a “net benefit”
to the country.  CIC spokeswoman  Erica Belling  declined to comment on JSW
Energy’s planned bid this month, saying in an e-mail that the
information was confidential. The company has received two
proposals for buying as much as 100 percent of CIC, she said.  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. , the Bangalore-based company with
interests in airports, power and roads, has bid for a majority
stake in CIC, the Business Standard reported on Oct. 15.  Exclusive Talks  CIC, which is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, said on
Oct. 8 it entered into exclusive talks to sell between 51
percent and 100 percent at C$7.75 a share, valuing the company
at C$407 million. CIC had received a proposal from “a multi-
billion dollar Indian conglomerate with interests which include
coal mining and power generation,” according to a Sept. 15
statement on its website.  Mumbai-based JSW Energy, part of the group that owns the
nation’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to build a coal-based
power plant and also seek rail linkages from local authorities
to export coal from the Botswana mines, one of the people said,
without saying how much the company plans to pay.  “Having its own coal assets will help JSW Energy lower
fuel costs for its existing and new power projects,” Vice
Chairman N.K. Jain said after the Nov. 1 earnings conference.  JSW Energy operates a 260 megawatt plant and a 600 megawatt
facility at Vijayanagar in the southern state of Karnataka, a
270 megawatt unit at Barmer in Rajasthan and a 300 megawatt
project at Ratnagiri in Maharashtra state. The utility is
targeting a generation capacity of 11,390 megawatts by 2015,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ; 