-- Karl Rove, Republican-Leaning Groups Amass Winning Record in 2010 Midterms
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-11-03T21:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/karl-rove-republican-leaning-groups-amass-winning-record-in-2010-midterms.html
Karl Rove ’s American Crossroads and
other top Republican-leaning groups that spent $167 million on
the U.S. midterm elections came out on the winning side of
almost twice as many races as they lost.  Rove’s  American Crossroads  and Crossroads GPS backed the
victor in 23 of the 36 House and Senate races where a winner was
declared. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce supported the winning
candidate in 38 of 59 contests. American Action Network, which
shared space with the Crossroads groups, won 14 races and lost
10. The groups also spent money in races that have yet to be
undecided.  “The record amount of secret money spent by right-wing
outside groups turned this political storm into a Category 3
political hurricane,” said Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of
Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee.  The election was the first since the U.S. Supreme Court
reversed decades of precedent and said corporations could spend
unlimited sums on federal races. Companies and wealthy
individuals funneled millions into outside groups, many of which
didn’t disclose their donors.  Republican-leaning groups spent $167 million between Sept.
1 and Oct. 31 in support of their party’s nominees, compared
with $68 million by Democratic-leaning organizations,  Federal
Election Commission  reports show.  ‘Caught Up’  “We finally caught up with the Democrats,” said former
Representative  James Walsh , a New York Republican who works for
the lawyer-lobbying firm K&L Gates LLP. “They’ve been doing
this for years.”  Democratic consultant  Peter Fenn , who works on
congressional campaigns, said the money let the Republicans
compete in more House races and use attack ads to “really
seriously pick off some of these incumbents.”  In the 10 races that the Republican groups spent the most
money on, they entered the winner’s circle six times, with the
U.S. Senate race in Washington still too close to call. Among
the winners, all Republicans: Senate candidates  Pat Toomey  in
Pennsylvania and  Mark Kirk  in Illinois, and former Nevada state
Senator Joe Heck in a Las Vegas-area congressional district.  Public Citizen, a Washington-based advocacy group that
supports stronger campaign finance laws,  found  that 58 of 74
winners benefited from more outside spending than their
opponents.  Defining the Message  “When you had a mid-cycle race where the message was
absolutely key, the outside groups played a huge role in
defining that message,” said  Meredith McGehee , policy director
for the Campaign Legal Center, a Washington group that favors
limits on campaign giving.  The outside groups spent $18 million in September and
October on the Colorado Senate race between incumbent Democrat
 Michael Bennet  and Republican challenger  Ken Buck . That’s more
than the $14 million both candidates spent through Oct. 13.
Bennet spent almost $8 million more than Buck; Republican groups
spent $4 million more than Democratic organizations.  American Crossroads discloses its donors and Crossroads GPS
doesn’t. The two groups, advised by Rove, who was President
 George W. Bush ’s chief political strategist, spent $38 million,
all to help elect Republican candidates and more than any other
organization. Crossroads officials regularly met with
representatives of allied groups, such as American Action
Network, to plan strategy.  Team Effort  “This was a great team effort between the conservative
independent groups, the party committees and candidates to
overcome the dramatic advantages Democrats held with entrenched
power,” said  Jonathan Collegio , a Crossroads spokesman.  The Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business
lobby, spent almost $30 million, including $2 million in support
of Democratic incumbents. The chamber, which doesn’t disclose
its donors, fought efforts in Congress to require outside groups
funding political ads to identify the sources of their money;
Senate Republicans blocked the legislation in September.  Chamber President  Tom Donohue  attributed the election
results to voters “who clearly stated that a strong and vibrant
private sector is critical to reviving our economy, creating
jobs and putting us on a path to long-term growth.”  Craig Holman , who handles campaign finance issues for
Public Citizen, said that the 2010 spending was just a taste of
what to expect two years from now, when the U.S. elects a
president.  “The 2010 election provided a preview of the outside
spending expected during the 2012 presidential race,” Holman
said. “Sadly, 2010 was just a practice run for these guys.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
 Traci McMillan  in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 