-- Keneally Says New South Wales Is `On Track' to Complete Power Asset Sales
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-03T06:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/keneally-says-new-south-wales-is-on-track-to-complete-power-asset-sales.html
New South Wales, Australia’s most
populous state, still aims to sell electricity assets by the end
of 2010 after an auditor-general’s report cited continuing
“challenges” facing the government’s 12-year effort.  “The transaction is on track,” with bids due Nov. 15,
state Premier  Kristina Keneally  told reporters in Sydney today.  The state intends to sell retail businesses
EnergyAustralia, Country Energy and Integral Energy and
development sites for new power plants, while contracting the
right to sell power produced by state-owned generators to
private trading companies.  AGL Energy Ltd.  and  Origin Energy
Ltd. , the Australian electricity and gas retailers, have said
they are interested in bidding.  The New South Wales government’s plan is aimed at spurring
competition in the state electricity market and increasing
“private sector” investment in new capacity, the report by
state Auditor-General Peter Achterstraat said.  He referred to “significant uncertainty that may affect
the value of power station assets due to the unknown impacts of
any future carbon pollution reduction” system and because of
the “complexity” of the power-trading rights strategy.  Keneally said the state “would reject the view” that the
plan is too complex. New South Wales Treasurer  Eric Roozendaal 
said there has been a “strong appetite” for the assets.  “Privatizing the NSW electricity industry has been ongoing
for 12 years and continues to present challenges to
government,” according to the auditor-general. The report said
the “formal completion” of the sale is expected in early 2011.  Competition Scrutiny  New South Wales said last month it intends to keep
ownership of the Cobbora coal mine and to develop the resource
to supply state-owned power stations with fuel. A remaining
obstacle to the sale is a review by the Australian Competition
and Consumer Commission, UBS AG said last month.  The competition regulator is considering whether to give
Origin and AGL clearance to bid. The ACCC, which previously
expected to make a ruling on Oct. 28, delayed the decision after
requesting more information from the government.  Origin may spend A$3 billion buying assets, including
EnergyAustralia, from New South Wales, while AGL may spend A$1.5
billion, UBS estimated in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 