-- Kimberley Process May Make Decision on Zimbabwean Diamond Exports Tomorrow
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-11-03T14:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/kimberley-process-may-make-decision-on-zimbabwean-diamond-exports-tomorrow.html
The  Kimberley Process , the global
body that monitors sales of so-called conflict diamonds, may
decide tomorrow whether Zimbabwe can export gems from its
Marange diamond fields, Chairman Boaz Hirsch said.  The announcement will follow discussions from Nov. 1 to
Nov. 4 on  Zimbabwe ’s compliance with Kimberley Process demands,
Hirsch said today in an interview in Jerusalem, where a report
by a review commission sent to the southern African country
earlier this year is being debated.  “The report has found Zimbabwe to be compliant in certain
areas,” said Hirsch. “In other areas, though progress was
registered, there wasn’t yet full compliance. It is still too
early to say” what action may be taken.  Foreign and domestic human-rights organizations have
criticized Zimbabwe for violence against civilians in the
Marange diamond fields of eastern Zimbabwe. The criticism led to
investigations by the Kimberley Process over the past year.  Human Rights Watch , the New York-based advocacy group,
alleged in June 2009 that Zimbabwe’s military may have killed as
many as 200 informal miners working at Marange. The group had
called for a ban on Marange diamonds unless Zimbabwe adheres to
Kimberley Process standards.  Zimbabwean Mines Minister  Obert Mpofu , who is attending the
Kimberley Process meeting in Israel, denied there were any
remaining areas of non-compliance.  “We have gone beyond the minimum requirements even more
than some other countries,” he said in an interview. “We are
happy with the Kimberley Process report and are confident that
Zimbabwe is going to be a major compliant player in the
Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.”  Conflict Diamonds  The Kimberley Process is an initiative by governments,
industry and civil-society groups to certify diamonds as
“conflict-free,” according to its website. Conflict diamonds are
rough gems that have been traded by rebel movements to finance
wars against governments, including those in Angola, Ivory
Coast, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Sierra Leone.  Diamonds from the Marange fields were sold at auction in
Harare, the Zimbabwean capital, with Kimberley Process
certification for the first time on Aug. 12.  Mpofu said in August Marange is the richest diamond field
found in a century and “has the potential to raise as much as
half of Zimbabwe’s budget.”  Zimbabwe may mine 40 million carats of diamonds annually
within three years, the state-controlled Herald reported on Oct.
18, citing Mpofu.  Botswana , the world’s biggest diamond
producer, expects gem production to total 24 million carats this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  at   gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 