-- Kiwi's 54% Gain Leaves New Zealand Paying to Keep `Hobbit' Film
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-03T20:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/kiwi-s-54-percent-gain-since-1999-means-new-zealand-pays-to-keep-hobbit-.html
The New Zealand dollar’s 54 percent
gain since 1999 almost did to Bilbo Baggins, hero of  J.R.R. Tolkien ’s “The Hobbit,” what Smaug the dragon couldn’t.  The kiwi’s advance against the U.S. dollar was the main
reason behind Warner Bros Productions Ltd.’s threat to move
production of its new “Lord of the Rings” prequels away from
New Zealand, Prime Minister  John Key  said last week. In the 11
years since director Peter Jackson first started filming the
“Rings” series in the country, the kiwi has soared to 77 U.S.
cents from 50 cents, inflating costs for the Hollywood studio.  Key last week promised Warner as much as $25 million in
subsidies after the studio demanded incentives to offset the
currency’s gain. His offer ensured New Zealand will provide the
backdrop to Tolkien’s Middle Earth in the two “Hobbit” movies,
nine years after the original “Rings” trilogy finished.  “The big issue for them was the substantial appreciation
in the New Zealand dollar,” Key, former global head of foreign
exchange at  Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc , told reporters after the
deal with Warner. “That’s something that a lot of our exporters
are struggling with.”  For Key, who also serves as tourism minister, the deal with
Warner carries the promise of promoting New Zealand’s tourism
industry. The Rings films added about NZ$350 million ($268
million) to the economy in the three years to March 2002, as
well as boosting tourism from fans who paid to see the locations
where Tolkien’s hobbits battled troops of orcs.  Warner threatened to review the location for “The
Hobbit” after a workers’ boycott of the movie was proposed by
 New Zealand Actors’ Equity , backed by Australia-based Media,
Entertainment and Arts Alliance.  Paul McGuire , a Los Angeles-
based spokesman for Warner, declined to comment.  Threats Mount  The threat was one in a series of holdups for the film.
“The Hobbit” also faced delays after the withdrawal of
director  Guillermo del Toro  in May and a fire at a Wellington
production studio where parts of the movie were to be shot.
Jackson agreed to take over as director.  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., co-owner of “The Hobbit” with
Warner Bros., stopped making debt payments last year. The Los
Angeles-based company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection
today in New York and sought court permission to keep paying its
share of production costs.  MGM said in court papers that it plans to spend as much as
$125 million on operations in the next 15 weeks, including “The
Hobbit,” and has spent some $20 million on the film to date.  Kiwi’s Rise  As the production languished, the dollar rose. New
Zealand’s dollar reached a 27-month high against the U.S.
currency on Nov. 2, six days after Key agreed to Warner’s terms.  Its surge over the last decade was fueled by a housing boom
and rising global demand for commodities which buoyed the
country’s economic growth. That spurred the central bank to
raise the cash rate to a record 8.25 percent high in 2007,
making the currency a favorite of the so-called carry trade.  The New Zealand dollar has been more volatile since the
start of the global financial crisis in mid-2007, when it was
worth 81 U.S. cents. Since 2008, the exchange rate has been
influenced by weakness in the U.S. currency.  “Investment intentions are down,”  John Walley , chief
executive officer of the  New Zealand Manufacturers and Exporters
Association , said in a telephone interview about the strong
kiwi’s impact. “It’s very painful.”  ‘Lot of Money’  Warner executives in Wellington were driven around the
capital city in state-owned silver BMWs as Key took personal
control of the talks to try to keep the film, which details a
quest by Bilbo and his companions to retrieve treasure from
Smaug’s mountain lair.  “There’s no question that Warner Bros lost a lot of money
while they were mucking around with these issues,” said Key.  Other potential film locations included Scotland, Ireland,
Canada, Australia and eastern Europe, Hobbit co-writer  Philippa Boyens  told Radio New Zealand last week.  To keep the films in New Zealand, Key agreed to pay
Warner Brothers extra rebates of as much as $7.5 million per
picture, subject to their success, and rush through changes to
employment laws for film workers. The government will also pay
$10 million toward marketing costs in a partnership with the
studio to promote New Zealand as a film and tourist destination.  ‘Avatar’ Lure  “The Hobbit debacle has gained a level of visibility for a
problem that hard-working New Zealand exporters have failed to
achieve,” Selwyn Pellett, founder of the Productive Economy
Council, said in an Oct. 27 statement.  To entice filmmakers, the New Zealand government introduced
a grant in 2003 that offered overseas studios a 15 percent
rebate on production costs above a certain value. That
encouraged the makers of “Avatar” to film parts of the movie
in New Zealand in 2007, contributing more than $307 million to
the economy, according to the  Ministry of Economic Development’s
website . The government last week widened the grant’s criteria.  “The exchange rate is clearly one factor that the studios
assess when looking at different countries,” Gisella Carr,
chief executive officer of  Film New Zealand , said in an e-mail.
“It is just one factor though.”  The Rings trilogy inspired a host of New Zealand-wide tours
where fans can experience  Jackson ’s vision of Tolkien’s fantasy
world, including a four-day, NZ$5,800 tour of some of the 150
locations used in the films.  In the North Island’s Matamata region, tourists can visit
the site of Jackson’s village of Hobbiton, where  Ian McKellen ’s
wizard Gandalf enlists the help of Frodo, played by  Elijah Wood .
While the original film set has been dismantled, 17 of the 37
hobbit holes still exist, according to the Hobbiton Tours
 website .  “The Lord of the Rings presented New Zealand to the world
in a truly spectacular way,” Suzanne Carter, a spokeswoman for
Tourism New Zealand, said in a statement. “The Hobbit provides
us with another great opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  