-- Korean Won Climbs as Fed Meeting Speculation Spurs Inflows; Bonds Decline
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-03T08:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/korean-won-climbs-as-fed-meeting-speculation-spurs-inflows-bonds-decline.html
South Korea’s won rose to a six-month
high as expectations the Federal Reserve will today add to a
$1.7 trillion asset-purchase program eroded demand for dollars.  The  Kospi  stock index advanced to its highest level since
2007 as foreigners bought more of the nation’s shares than they
sold, building on $14.6 billion of net purchases for the year.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict at least another $500
billion of so-called quantitative easing will be announced after
the Fed concludes a policy meeting today.  “The Fed’s decision will help calm uncertainty, making the
weaker dollar trend official,” said  Ha Joon Woo , a currency
dealer at Daegu Bank in Seoul.  The won climbed 0.3 percent to 1,110.28 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, extending this week’s advance to 1.3
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
1,108.26 earlier, the strongest level since April 30.  Policy makers may intervene to limit appreciation, having
previously been suspected of buying the greenback to prevent the
local currency from strengthening beyond 1,110 per dollar, said
 Ko Yun Jin , a currency trader at Kookmin Bank in Seoul.  The won has gained 9.1 percent since June, the best
performance among Asia’s emerging-market currencies, as near-
zero interest rates in the U.S. spurred demand for higher-
yielding assets elsewhere. Central banks in Australia and India
raised borrowing costs yesterday, adding pressure on the Bank of
Korea to follow suit when policy makers meet Nov. 16.  Government Bonds  South Korea’s government will act preemptively to keep
inflation expectations from rising after consumer prices jumped
in October, MoneyToday reported today, citing Vice Minister  Yim Jong Yong . Government data this week showed South Korea’s
inflation accelerated to a 20-month high of 4.1 percent in
October.  The rate on the 3.75 percent note due June 2013 was 3.41
percent, near its highest closing level in more than five weeks,
according to Korea Stock Exchange. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “There is uncertainty in the bond market ahead of the Fed
decision,” said  Lee Jae Hyung , a fixed-income strategist at
Tong Yang Securities Inc in Seoul. “Investors will probably
wait until we hear results tonight from the Fed before moving
positions.”  The central bank kept its seven-day repurchase rate
unchanged at 2.25 percent for three straight months, after
raising it in July from a record-low 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 