-- NATO Seeking Russian Cooperation on Missile Defense During Lisbon Summit
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-11-03T15:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/nato-seeking-russian-cooperation-on-missile-defense-during-lisbon-summit.html
NATO sees Russia as a strategic
partner and seeks to cooperate on missile defense as leaders of
the former Cold War foes prepare to meet in Lisbon later this
month, Secretary General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen  said.  “I think we can agree on a way forward at this summit,”
Rasmussen told reporters today in Moscow. “We do not want to
impose a specific missile defense architecture on Russia.”  Rasmussen was in Moscow to prepare for the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization summit and meet with President  Dmitry Medvedev , who will attend the meetings in Lisbon. NATO will
choose a missile defense system during the summit, Rasmussen
said today.  NATO doesn’t view Russia as an enemy, and there is an
opportunity “to turn a page” in relations, Rasmussen said. The
secretary general also visited Moscow in December to improve
ties that were strained by the alliance’s expansion toward
Russia’s borders and the 2008 war between Russia and Georgia.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  last year said he was scrapping
former President  George W. Bush ’s plan to deploy a missile
shield in Poland and the Czech Republic in the face of Russian
opposition. He promised a more flexible system to protect
against threats to the U.S. and its European allies, providing
an opportunity to revisit Russian proposals.  “We could restart collaboration on so-called theater
missile defense, which is missile defense to protect troops,”
Rasmussen said today. “We would like to cooperate with Russia
also when it comes to territorial missile defense,” Rasmussen
said, adding that he doesn’t expect an immediate response from
Russia on the proposals.  Developing Cooperation  Medvedev said relations between Russia and NATO have
improved recently.  “We are pleased because it gives an opportunity to more
attentively develop cooperation and create a more sustainable
system of security in Europe and in the world,” he said after
meeting with Rasmussen.  Rasmussen said he expects to reach an agreement with Russia
on broadening cooperation with NATO in Afghanistan. Russia has
allowed the U.S. military to ship cargo across its territory to
Afghanistan. Both sides are in talks for Russia to deliver about
20 transport and military Mi-17 helicopters to Afghanistan.  “In concrete terms, expansion of our transit arrangement,
expansion of our counter-narcotics activities as well as the
helicopter package” are possible, Rasmussen said. “The main
elements will be agreed at the summit and then afterwards we
will have to work out the details.”  Rasmussen said NATO will confirm its decision that former
Soviet republics Georgia and Ukraine can join the alliance once
they fulfill necessary criteria. He also moved to placate
concern in Moscow that the move is directed against Russia.  “It’s essential that the well-known disagreements and
disputes between NATO and Russia don’t overshadow the fact that
there are other areas where we share interests because we are
faced with the same security challenges,” Rasmussen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  