-- New York Fed Statement on More Purchases of Treasury Securities: Full Text
-- B y   W a s h i n g t o n   n e w s r o o m   + 1 - 2 0 2 - 6 2 4 - 1 8 2 0 .   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   J a m e s
-- 2010-11-03T18:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/new-york-fed-statement-on-more-purchases-of-treasury-securities-full-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a New York Fed statement regarding purchases of
Treasury Securities by the Federal Open Market Committee.  On November 3, 2010, the Federal Open Market Committee
(FOMC) decided to expand the Federal Reserve’s holdings of
securities in the System Open Market Account (SOMA) to
promote a stronger pace of economic recovery and to help
ensure that inflation, over time, is at levels consistent
with its mandate. In particular, the FOMC directed the Open
Market Trading Desk (the Desk) at the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York to purchase an additional $600 billion of
longer term Treasury securities by the end of the second
quarter of 2011.  The FOMC also directed the Desk to continue to
reinvest principal payments from agency debt and agency
mortgage-backed securities into longer-term Treasury
securities. Based on current estimates, the Desk expects to
reinvest $250 billion to $300 billion over the same period,
though the realized amount of reinvestment will depend on
the evolution of actual principal payments.  Taken together, the Desk anticipates conducting $850
billion to $900 billion of purchases of longer-term
Treasury securities through the end of the second quarter.
This would result in an average purchase pace of roughly
$110 billion per month, representing about $75 billion per
month associated with additional purchases and roughly $35
billion per month associated with reinvestment purchases.  The Desk plans to distribute these purchases across
the following eight maturity sectors based on the
approximate weights below:  Nominal Coupon Securities by Maturity Range:
1 ½ to 2 ½ years: 5%
2 ½ to 4 years:  20%
4 to 5 ½ years:  20%
5 ½ to 7 years:  23%
7 to 10 years:   23%
10 to 17 years:   2%
17 to 30 years:   4%
(The on-the-run 7-year note will be considered part of the
5 ½- to 7-year sector, and the on-the-run 10-year note will
be considered part of the 7- to 10-year sector.  TIPS 1 ½ to 30 years: 3%
(TIPS weights are based on unadjusted par amounts)  Under this distribution, the Desk anticipates that the
assets purchased will have an average duration of between 5
and 6 years. The distribution of purchases could change if
market conditions warrant, but such changes would be
designed to not significantly alter the average duration of
the assets purchased.  To provide operational flexibility and to ensure that
it is able to purchase the most attractive securities on a
relative-value basis, the Desk is temporarily relaxing the
35 percent per-issue limit on SOMA holdings under which it
has been operating. However, SOMA holdings of an individual
security will be allowed to rise above the 35 percent
threshold only in modest increments.  Purchases associated with balance sheet expansion and
those associated with principal reinvestments will be
consolidated into one set of operations to be announced
under the current monthly cycle. On or around the eighth
business day of each month, the Desk will publish a
tentative schedule of purchase operations expected to take
place through the middle of the following month, as well as
the anticipated total amount of purchases to be conducted
over that period. The schedule will include a list of
operation dates, settlement dates, security types to be
purchased (nominal coupons or TIPS), the maturity date
range of eligible issues, and an expected range for the
size of each operation.  The Desk expects to conduct the November 4 and
November 8 purchase operations that were announced on
October 13, and it plans to publish its first consolidated
monthly schedule on November 10 at 2:00 p.m.  Purchases will be conducted with the Federal Reserve’s
primary dealers through a series of competitive auctions
operated through the Desk’s FedTrade system. Consistent
with current practices, the results of each operation will
be published on the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
website shortly after each purchase operation has
concluded. In order to ensure the transparency of our
purchase operations, the Desk will also begin to publish
information on the prices paid in individual operations at
the end of each monthly calendar period, coinciding with
the release of the next period’s schedule.
 