-- New Zealand Should Cut Spending, Sell Assets, Former Central Banker Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-03T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/new-zealand-should-cut-spending-sell-assets-former-central-banker-says.html
New Zealand should slash government
spending and sell state assets to boost productivity and incomes
so workers don’t leave for higher pay abroad, according to a
report for the government by former central bank Governor  Don Brash .  Prime Minister  John Key ’s National Party government should
also reduce regulation and remove restrictions on foreign
investment, according to the 2025 Taskforce report released in
Wellington today. The findings reiterate themes from its
recommendations a year ago that Key rejected for having a “big
bang” approach.  Brash’s five-person panel was set up last year to recommend
how New Zealand can close the gap with Australia by 2025 to help
make it more attractive to investors and to arrest a trend that
has seen 260,000 people  leave to seek higher wages  in Australia
in the past decade. New Zealand needs to grow slightly more than
2 percent a year faster than Australia to close the gap, Brash
said today.  “New Zealand must create a policy environment that is more
conducive to private-sector investment and where every part of
the private sector plays its part in generating growth,” Brash
said in the report. “New Zealand will need to emulate and
surpass the best of Australian policies that minimize barriers
to growth.”  The  taskforce  estimated Australian incomes are 35 percent
higher than those in New Zealand. If that gap continues, a net
412,000 residents are likely to head overseas, mostly to
Australia, in the next 15 years, resulting in a loss of skills
and wasting money spent on their education and health care,
Brash said.  The taskforce’s recommendations include reducing government
spending to about 29 percent of gross domestic product from
about 40 percent currently, and sales of state companies to
introduce market disciplines and private management.  The government should also foster foreign investment, Brash
said. Recent announcements mean New Zealand has a more
restrictive regime, and the taskforce “can see no national
economic benefit in the current level of restrictions on foreign
investment in New Zealand,” he said.  Brash was  Reserve Bank  governor from 1988 to 2002, when he
resigned to enter parliament. He was leader of the National
Party in opposition and lost the 2005 election before being
replaced by Key, who won a 2008 election and faces reelection
next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  