-- Democrat Schneiderman Wins New York Attorney General Contest Over Donovan
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-03T05:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/new-york-democrat-eric-schneiderman-wins-race-for-state-attorney-general.html
New York  Democratic state Senator
 Eric Schneiderman  won election as attorney general yesterday,
defeating Republican  Dan Donovan  with support from a coalition
of women’s groups, unions and liberal activists.  Schneiderman, a  Harvard Law School  graduate whose Senate
district includes upper Manhattan and parts of the Bronx, was
leading Donovan, the Staten Island  district attorney , by 56
percent to 43 percent with 88 percent of the precincts
reporting, according to the Associated Press.  Schneiderman, 55, had backing from a coalition that
included the  Working Families Party , the  National Organization
for Women , the  Brady Campaign  to Prevent Gun Violence, civil-
rights activist  Al Sharpton  and  NARAL Pro-Choice America .
Donovan, 53, the first Republican elected district attorney in
New York City in more than a half-century, opposes legalized
abortion.  “This was a campaign of activists and, boy, did we show
what activists can do,” Schneiderman told supporters at a
midtown Manhattan hotel. “If you are willing to speak the basic
truths that define what Democrats are supposed to be, you can
win an election.”  Watching Wall Street  The New York attorney general’s office, under the state’s
Martin Act, has the power to prosecute fraud in the sales of
financial securities, property and other assets, which helped
establish former Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer ’s reputation as
“the sheriff of Wall Street.” The office devotes most of its
resources to defending agencies against lawsuits and overseeing
non-profit corporations and charities.  In a state where Democrats hold an almost 2-to-1 voter
registration edge over Republicans, and where Schneiderman had
raised $4.7 million to Donovan’s $1.7 million as of Oct. 18,
Donovan tried to take advantage of voter anger toward a scandal-
tainted Democratic state government that was unable to pass a
budget this year until four months past a March 31 deadline.  Schneiderman argued that Donovan’s anti-abortion views
might make him less inclined to protect women’s health clinics
from protesters. Donovan countered that he would enforce the
state’s anti-trespass law prohibiting such actions, regardless
of his personal views on the issue.  Schneiderman also vowed to pursue investigations of
wrongdoing on Wall Street as his Democratic predecessors,
Spitzer and  Andrew Cuomo  did, while saying Donovan would be less
vigorous in scrutinizing the financial industry. Cuomo was
elected governor yesterday.  ‘Big Money’  “Dan Donovan took big money from Wall Street and says
he’ll go easy on them,” Schneiderman asserted in a campaign
commercial.  “I’m someone who wants to continue Andrew Cuomo’s work as
an activist attorney general, fighting for people’s rights,
standing up to powerful interests on Wall Street, in Albany and
on Main Street,” Schneiderman said in an Oct. 26 debate in
Albany.  Former Democratic Comptroller  Alan Hevesi  pleaded guilty
last month to participating in a pay-to-play scandal at the
state pension fund he once ran, becoming the highest-ranking
official convicted in a three-year investigation by Cuomo.  Spitzer resigned as governor in 2008 amid a prostitution
scandal. The current governor, Democrat  David Paterson , who
replaced him, decided not to run when he became embroiled in
ethics probes, and several legislators have been accused in
criminal charges and civil lawsuits of official wrongdoing,
including former Republican Senate Majority Leader  Joseph Bruno 
and Democratic Majority Leader  Pedro Espada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 