-- New Crisis Besets `Basket Case' Economy: David G. Blanchflower
-- B y   D a v i d   G .   B l a n c h f l o w e r
-- 2010-11-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/new-crisis-besets-basket-case-economy-commentary-by-david-blanchflower.html
The risks to the  U.K.’s recovery  are
rising fast. All of the forward-looking business and consumer
surveys have dropped to the levels of mid-2008, when the economy
was about to spiral out of control. Now we are entering another
slump driven by policy errors.  Given the difficulty of forecasting in an increasingly
shaky environment, the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy
Committee should use this week’s meeting to announce plans to
buy at least another 200 billion pounds ($320 billion) in assets
under its policy of quantitative easing, not least to prevent an
appreciation of the pound.  The MPC simply shouldn’t take the risk that the economy is
headed for a  double-dip recession  or worse. Doing too much in
such circumstances is better than doing too little.  Just as it was clear where the economy was headed before
the financial meltdown, the same can be said today as policy
makers bungle their way toward another crisis. And they will
refuse to take responsibility for it.  According to  Charlie Bean , the deputy governor for monetary
policy at the Bank of England and the person in charge of
forecasting, we shouldn’t have expected the MPC to have seen the
2008-2009 recession coming because it was such a rare event. In
the MPC’s  August 2008 inflation report , the word “recession”
was nowhere to be found.  Recession Missed  The reason for this, Bean argued last week, is that it was
a financial crisis, and the  committee  hadn’t seen one for a
while. I haven’t read such a load of old baloney in a long time.
Of course, we should have been able to call the recession. The
evidence was there for all to see.  Contrary to what Bean says, the recession was predictable.
What happened in the U.S. repeated itself almost precisely six
to nine months later in the U.K. The failure of Countrywide
Financial Corp. in the U.S. made it clear, for example, that
lenders reliant on wholesale markets for funding were going to
be in trouble. The collapse of Northern Rock Plc, which also
relied on wholesale funding, was totally predictable.  Furthermore, consumer and business confidence turned down
in the U.S. in mid-2007 and a few months later they did the same
in the U.K. Many of the surveys had reached levels never seen
before by April 2008 when the U.K. entered recession.  From the moment the new coalition government was formed
this year, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s administration talked
the economy down, saying it was a “basket case” and
“shattered,” which quickly scared the consumer into reducing
spending and made businesses refrain from investing. Why
Chancellor  George Osborne  claimed last month that the country
had come close to bankruptcy, when it had not, is a mystery.  Coalition Jitters  Most of the forward-looking indicators have dropped since
the coalition took office in the spring of 2010. That includes
business-confidence measures, including the British Chamber of
Commerce’s quarterly outlook and all of the recent consumer-
confidence gauges. The October purchasing managers index for
construction, an industry that helped boost third-quarter gross-
domestic-product figures, also dropped more than forecast and
showed a significant decline in employment.  The government’s own forecasts suggest growth will be
driven by big improvements in consumption, net trade and
investment. This looks increasingly unlikely given that retail
sales, investment and exports are all falling. Plus there are
signs that the labor market is loosening further. While
Employment Minister  Ian Duncan Smith  says the unemployed should
“get on a bus” to find work, there are five jobless for every
registered vacancy.  Real-Estate Decline  House prices have started to drop, and may have at least a
further 20 percent to fall as house price-to-earnings ratios are
still high.  Inflation  is the only solution to the problems of
the resulting negative equity, as homeowners can’t walk away
from their losses. So this is no time to raise interest rates,
which would lower house prices even more and weaken consumption.  And that is before the austerity package takes effect. Cuts
in spending of 81 billion pounds along with tax increases of 30
billion pounds announced previously will reduce growth. The big
questions are by how much and how quickly. Banks are still not
lending and the U.K. remains in a financial crisis, something
that Bean says are “ rather different animals ” from your run-
of-the-mill decline. The classic policy error, in such
circumstances, is to tighten too soon.  But then along came the surprisingly upbeat preliminary
economic-growth estimate for the third quarter of 0.8 percent,
which still suggested slowing from the previous three months.
This a backward-looking figure, which suggests the Labour
government’s policies were working. Osborne quickly claimed
these data vindicated his strategy, which they clearly don’t,
given that little of his package has been implemented.  It appears from the data release that a major part of this
growth has been driven by government stimulus, particularly in
construction. The economy looks set to slow as the cuts hit, and
growth will probably turn negative in the first three months of
2011, when the increase in the value-added tax takes effect.  The MPC should act decisively this week and opt for more
quantitative easing. There is no time to waste.  ( David G. Blanchflower , a former member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, is professor of economics
at Dartmouth College and the University of Stirling. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David Blanchflower at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  