-- New York State Pays $247 Million to Exit Swaps as Cost-Savings Dwindle
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-11-03T17:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/new-york-pays-247-million-to-exit-3-35-billion-of-swaps-as-savings-drop.html
New York  has paid $247 million to
firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group  and Citigroup Inc. to exit
$3.35 billion of interest-rate swaps, according to a  report  by
the state Division of the Budget.  Savings on the swaps have dropped 82 percent in two years
to $37 million, the division said. The payments, almost equal to
the savings Governor  David Paterson  sought from state employees
before announcing plans to dismiss 898 workers before year-end,
were paid mostly from proceeds of new fixed-rate bond sales, so
no specific appropriation was required by lawmakers.  The state’s analysis holds that the $247 million paid to
terminate swaps cost the state $66 million instead because it
sold new fixed-rate bonds in the past two years at lower rates
than the 4.59 percent fixed yield it would have had to pay in
2002-2005, when instead it sold floating-rate bonds with swaps
attached.  “A performance analysis should be comparing the costs of
their swaps and related floating-rate bonds, with their
floating-rate assets,” not with the cost of fixed-rate
borrowing, said  Robert Brooks , professor of finance at the
University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa. “That’s what the banks
have been doing for decades.”  By using swaps to convert the floating rate debt to a fixed
rate New York and other local governments have incurred high
costs and bank fees “and are burning through millions every
month while they are getting virtually zero on their floating
rate assets,” such as cash, Brooks said.  Swaps Performance  The budget division’s analysis said the state had savings
of $103 million, down from $207 million in a 2008 swaps
performance report. The savings in both reports were mostly from
the difference between the assumed cost of fixed-rate bonds at
the time it arranged the swaps, and the cost of the variable-
rate bonds, including bank fees. At the end of March, the state
had $3.37 billion of swaps remaining from a peak of more than $6
billion in 2008, before the collapse of credit markets.  Under the state’s fixed-rate swap agreements, it receives a
floating rate equal to 65 percent of the one-month rate for bank
deposits in the London wholesale market, known as  Libor , and
pays fixed rates that average 3.34 percent. The floating rates
the state received on the swaps and what it paid on variable
bonds “are expected to be roughly the same,” the report said,
leaving the state paying the fixed swap rate.  Variable-Rate Bonds  The  cost  of variable rate bonds, beyond the yields paid
investors, has increased because of higher fees paid to banks
for acting as a buyer of last resort of the debt. The cost of
the bank agreements averaged 0.62 percentage points as of June
30, up from a 0.29 percentage point average in the 2002-2008
period, according to the Division of the Budget. About $299.6
million of bank  agreements  costing 0.43 percentage point are
scheduled to expire in July, 2011.  Public Resources Advisory Group , a consultant to the state
on its borrowing, helped prepare the savings analysis, according
to the report. Officials at the company weren’t immediately
available for comment.  Since March 31, the end of the year covered by the report,
the state received payments of $43 million in September from
liquidating variable-rate swaps, according to the  updated budget 
published Nov. 1. In May it paid $47.6 million to exit fixed-
rate swaps, associated with bonds issued by the Empire State
Development Corporation, according to Budget spokesman Erik
Kriss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  