-- News Corp. Profit Rises on Higher Ad, Subscriber Fees
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-11-03T21:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/news-corp-profit-climbs-36-on-higher-ad-subscriber-fees-at-tv-channels.html
News Corp. , the owner of Fox News and
the Twentieth Century Fox film studio, said first-quarter profit
rose 36 percent because of higher advertising and subscriber
fees at its television channels.  Net income  climbed to $775 million, or 30 cents a share,
from $571 million, or 22 cents, a year earlier, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. Excluding a tax
benefit, earnings were 27 cents a share. Analysts on average 
estimated  24 cents, according to Bloomberg data.  Profit was driven by increases in the TV and publishing
advertising markets. The company is also wringing higher fees
out of television distributors for its broadcast and cable
channels. Last week, Fox secured new deals with  Dish Network
Corp.  and  Cablevision Systems Corp. , which agreed to pay what it
called an “unfair price” to end a programming blackout.  “These deals are critical to driving the Fox network’s
financial success to reflect its real value,” News Corp. Chief
Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said today on a conference call.
“Over the next couple of years as we continue to close new
agreements we will be taking this business to a whole new level
of profitability.”  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  wasn’t
on the call because he’s been traveling overseas, the company
said. The last time he skipped an earnings call was November
2006, Bloomberg data show.  Sales in the first quarter ended Sept. 30 gained 3.2
percent to $7.43 billion, compared with the $7.41 billion
average of 11 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Case Closed  News Corp. rose 38 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $15.22 in late
trading after U.S. markets closed. The Class A shares gained 23
cents to $14.84 today in regular Nasdaq Stock Market  trading  and
are up 8.4 percent this year.  Cablevision  and News Corp. resolved their dispute Oct. 30,
after Fox broadcast stations and some Fox cable channels had
been cut off to 3 million customers for two weeks. It was the
longest blackout of a major broadcast network for a million or
more people in at least a decade, and may signal media companies
are gaining the upper hand in seeking payment for over-the-air
telecasts that used to be free.  News Corp. is turning to so-called retransmission fees
after advertising sales took a hit during the U.S. recession.
Fox has also seen viewership fall, 16 percent among viewers 18
to 49 in the first six weeks of the TV season, threatening its
six-year run as the ratings leader.  Cablevision and Dish probably will pay 55 cents per
subscriber per month in the first year, rising to $1 in the
fifth year, analyst  Michael Nathanson  of Nomura Securities
International Inc. estimated in a Nov. 1 report.  TV Profit  Operating profit for the television unit more than doubled
as a 22 percent jump in local-station ad revenue offset higher
programming costs at the Fox broadcast network.  The cable networks, such as FX, increased operating income
28 percent to $659 million, on a 17 percent gain in revenue. At
the U.S. channels, advertising grew 16 percent and affiliate
fees rose 14 percent.  As part of Murdoch’s efforts to add to subscription
operations, the company is bidding for the 61 percent of pay-TV
operator  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  it doesn’t already
own. In June the biggest U.K. pay-TV operator rejected News
Corp.’s  buyout offer  of 700 pence a share, or 7.8 billion pounds
($12.5 billion). BSkyB’s independent directors are seeking more
than 800 pence from News Corp.  Today, News Corp. formally asked for approval from European
Union antitrust regulators, which set a Dec. 8 deadline for
reviewing the BSkyB transaction. U.K. regulators may still
decide to raise objections.  Box Office  During the quarter, the film studio generated $243.6
million at the box office with its top release being
“Predators,” according to Box Office Mojo. That compares with
$333.8 million a year ago when “Ice Age: Dawn of the
Dinosaurs” was released.  Film operating income fell 28 percent to $280 million.  Advertising increased an average of 13 percent at the
company’s newspapers around the world, including the Wall Street
Journal and the Times of London. Publishing operating profit was
up 51 percent to $178 million.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. and its Dow Jones division in providing financial
news and data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  