-- Next Sales Decline Worsens as Spending Cuts Undermine Consumer Confidence
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-11-03T09:15:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/next-third-quarter-sales-fall-as-britons-spend-less-sees-tough-year-end.html
Next Plc , the U.K.’s second-biggest
clothing retailer, forecast a “tougher” end to the year after
a sales decline worsened in the third quarter.  Sales at stores open at least a year fell 3.3 percent in
the period ended Oct. 30, the Leicester, England-based  retailer 
said today in a statement. That follows a 1.5 percent decline in
the first half. The shares fell as much as 4.6 percent in London
trading, the biggest intraday drop since Aug. 24.  Next expects the fourth quarter will be a “little
tougher” and forecasts price rises at the top end of its range
in the following three months as cotton costs increase, Chief
Executive Officer  Simon Wolfson  said in a phone interview. The
Confederation of British Industry said its retail-sales index
fell for the first time in five months in October as the
government’s planned spending cuts hurt consumer confidence.  “Sales were not quite as good as hoped,”  Matthew McEachran , an  analyst  at Singer Capital Markets, said in a
report. “With tougher comparatives to come, sales will probably
fade down the guided second-half range over the course of the
final quarter.” He has a “fair value” rating on the stock.  Next shares  fell as much as 102 pence to 2,127 pence and
traded at 2,138 pence as of 9:14 a.m. The stock has gained 2.6
percent this year.  Inflation Risk  “There is a risk inflation could nudge up if cotton prices
continue to rise,” Wolfson said. The retailer today predicted
retail prices will increase “at the top end” of its previous
prediction of 5 percent to 8 percent in the first quarter. The
price of the fabric accounts for between 30 percent and 40
percent of a garment, Wolfson said.  Cotton futures in Zhengzhou surged to a record for a third
day today, and futures traded in New York reached the highest
price since trading began 140 years ago.  The CEO said he is looking at new suppliers and new
territories such as Vietnam, Bangladesh and southern India to
secure cheaper prices.  Sales at the Directory catalog business rose 7.9 percent
driven by online revenue and improvements to service such as
next-day delivery. The retailer’s new online partnership with
 Sears Holdings Corp. , the largest U.S. department-store chain,
will be a small but profitable business, the executive said.  Next is adding sportswear ranges and “shoe rooms” to its
existing outlets and opening home-furnishing stores to drive
profit as consumers curb spending.  Top-Line Growth  “We are concerned at the lack of top-line growth,”  Tom Gadsby , head of retail research at Matrix Corporate Capital in
London, said in a report before the release. “Store growth in
Next remains very remote, and for all Next’s earnings growth
driven by aggressive share buybacks we believe that the company
may struggle without some support from the top line.” He has a
“reduce” rating on the stock.  The company maintained its guidance for its Next Brand to
grow as much as 3 percent in the full year, though the fourth
quarter has “tougher comparatives” and Next may not “maintain
the current position at the upper end of the range.” Next Brand
sales rose 2.2 percent in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in Berlin through 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 