-- Nigerian Senate Approves Board of Amcon, State Company That Will Buy Debts
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-11-03T17:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/nigerian-senate-approves-board-of-amcon-state-company-that-will-buy-debts.html
Nigeria ’s Senate approved the
appointment of board members for Asset Management Corp.,
allowing work to begin at the state-owned company that was
created to buy bad loans from lenders.  “The Amcon board is expected to commence operations
immediately,” the central bank, based in the capital, Abuja,
said today in an e-mailed statement. The board of directors will
be inaugurated at 8:30 a.m. local time tomorrow, a central bank
spokesman said by phone, asking not to be identified because
he’s not authorized to speak on the matter.  The board’s confirmation was announced by David Mark, the
Senate’s president, during a session in Abuja that was aired
live on state-owned television. The directors were nominated by
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  in September.  The operation of the bank signals “the final stages of the
recapitalization of the rescued banks and the resolution of
their problems,” according to the central bank. The company
will buy bad loans that arose mainly from lending to speculators
in the local stock market and operators in the oil and gas
industry.  The Central Bank of Nigeria used 620 billion naira ($4.1
billion) to bail out some of the country’s 24 lenders after
firing eight banking chief executives for their handling of the
debt crisis last year.  The confirmation of the board will “be a catalyst for
market recovery” and “allow for easy sale of the rescued
banks,” Bismarck Rewane, chief executive officer of Financial
Derivatives Co. Ltd., a fund manager based in the commercial hub
of Lagos, said by phone from the city today.  Nigeria is Africa’s most populous country and top oil
producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Okolo in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 