-- Northern Ireland Loses Out as Job Cuts Ambush Prosperity Pledge
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2010-11-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/northern-ireland-loses-jobs-as-banking-crisis-ambushes-prosperity-pledge.html
Two years ago, Northern Ireland
pinned its hopes on attracting thousands of banking jobs to
Belfast from London and Dublin, a reward for cementing peace in
a region ravaged by paramilitary violence.  Not only did the jobs fail to arrive because of the global
financial crisis, the U.K. province now is bracing itself for
government spending cuts of about 4 billion pounds ($6.4
billion) in four years, part of British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s austerity measures detailed on Oct. 20.  “Public sector cuts will have a massive negative impact on
the economy,” said  Richard Ramsey , chief economist at Belfast-
based Ulster Bank Ltd, a unit of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc . “We are still in the midst of a recession.”  Northern Ireland is more dependent on state jobs than
anywhere else in the U.K. Unemployment already has doubled over
the past three years, house prices have sunk by more than 40
percent and bombings and shootings by dissident terrorists are
back to their worst in a decade.  In 2008, Northern Ireland’s then minister for finance,
 Peter Robinson ,  said  he had forged a “landmark” agreement with
his Irish counterpart,  Brian Cowen , to bring financial services
jobs to Belfast from Dublin. Robinson now leads the power-
sharing assembly in Belfast, while Cowen is premier in Ireland.  “A lot of numbers were bandied about” and no projects
have emerged since the pledge, Bill Montgomery, who leads the
overseas development unit at  Invest NI , a government agency to
attract companies to the region, said in an interview. “When
the markets plunged, it all changed,” he said.  Peace Dividend  About 3,500 people died in Northern Ireland since the
violence, known locally as the “Troubles,” began in the late
1960s. While bombings, kneecappings and shootings largely ended
in 1998 with the  Good Friday Agreement , the legacy of a
shattered economy remains and the so-called peace dividend isn’t
paying out as the politicians expected.  The Emerald Investment Fund, a U.S.-based pool created in
2008 to invest in Northern Ireland, hasn’t deployed any money
because of the economic climate, spokesman Tom Vogel said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Titanic Quarter  in Belfast, a dockside development named
after the ill-fated ship that was built in the city, was
supposed to be a magnet for the influx in financial services
jobs. In February 2009, the company said it was reviewing its
plans in light of the global financial crisis.  “It’s disappointing that the financial jobs haven’t really
arrived in Belfast,” said Jim Berrisford, who set up a
recruitment company in the city in 2008. “We have to direct
people to London. It’s a shame.”  Citigroup Jobs  An external spokesman for Titanic Quarter, where New York-
based Citigroup Inc. has its offices, said the real-estate
developer had no further comment to make.  Citigroup may create 400 new jobs in Belfast, the Sunday
Times reported on Oct. 31, without saying where it got the
information. A spokesman for Citigroup in Belfast declined to
comment on the report and said the company currently employs
more than 900 people in the city.  The banking system in Ireland, which won independence from
Britain in 1922 while six counties in the north remained part of
the U.K., came close to collapse as bad debts surged after a
decade-long real estate boomed crashed.  Cowen nationalized  Anglo Irish Bank Corp . and took control
of EBS Building Society and Irish Nationwide Building Society.
The bailout of the Irish financial system may cost the taxpayer
as much as 50 billion euros ($70 billion), the government said.  Irish Response  “This sector represents an area where economic co-
operation between the two parts of the island can continue to be
deepened,” the Finance ministry in Dublin said in an e-mailed
statement on Oct. 29.  In 2007,  Bank of Ireland  Plc said it planned to create 149
new financial services jobs in Belfast through its fund
administration unit. Now, the bank is selling businesses after
it was forced to turn to the government for a 3.5 billion-euro
rescue in March 2009. The bank employs 20 people in its Bank of
Ireland Securities Services office in Belfast.  “In light of the changing market conditions, the staffing
projections have since changed,” according to an e-mailed
statement from Dublin-based Bank of Ireland in September.  The number of unemployed in Northern Ireland has risen by
146 percent over the past three years, Ramsey at RBS said. The
number of people claiming benefits is at 1999 levels.  More State Workers  Among those in work, 29.4 percent are employed in public
services, compared with 26.1 percent in Wales, 24.8 percent in
Scotland and a U.K. average of 20.9 percent,  based on  data from
the Office for National Statistics.  Robinson, the first minister, told reporters on Nov. 1 that
a freeze on public-sector pay is needed because about half of
spending is related to salaries.  “Prizing the economy away from reliance on public
expenditure is now going to happen by brute force,” said  Mike Smyth , head of economics at the University of Ulster in Belfast.
He forecasts joblessness to rise to 1997 levels.  House prices have plunged 43 percent since peaking in 2007,
according to the latest report from Nationwide Building Society,
the U.K.’s largest customer-owned bank.  Dissident Attacks  Violence is also emerging again. Gun attacks by dissident
terrorists rose 54 percent to 79 in the 12 months through May,
according to the  Police Service of Northern Ireland . That’s the
biggest upsurge in 10 years, the Independent Monitoring
Commission, a government-appointed group set up to report on
Northern Ireland’s paramilitaries, has said.  The Real Irish Republican Army on Oct. 5 exploded a car
bomb outside a branch of Ulster Bank Ltd. in Derry, a city in
the north-west of the region. The Real IRA told the Guardian
newspaper that it would target banks as part of its terror
campaign to re-unite Ireland.  “We are probably going back to 2005, 2006 levels of public
expenditure and when you take it in the context of the credit
crunch, it is just taking away any prospect of a bounce back or
a recovery,” said Smyth. “There is just nothing at all going
on that is going to get jobs, growth growing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  