-- Nuclear Power Benefits From Republican Wins, NRG Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-11-03T19:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/nuclear-power-gains-clout-in-republican-house-takeover-nrg-says.html
Electricity producers such as  NRG
Energy Inc.  and  Southern Co.  will benefit as Republicans who won
control of the U.S. House yesterday promote nuclear power as
part of clean-energy legislation.  Requirements for the use of renewable power to reduce
carbon emissions and encourage U.S. energy independence may win
passage if nuclear plants are added to the wind turbines and
solar panels favored by environmentalists, said  David Crane ,
chief executive officer of Princeton, New Jersey-based NRG.  “A lot of the things we’re trying to do in Washington to
move forward with zero- and low-carbon generation is something
that at least the mainstream of the Republican Party wants to
support -- nuclear power in particular,” Crane said in an
interview. “It’s not just California and Oregon tree-huggers.”  Republicans retook the House of Representatives yesterday
with a net gain of at least 60 seats, their biggest increase
since 1938. They also scored a net gain of at least six seats in
the Senate, though Democrats retained control of that chamber.  NRG, which owns part of a nuclear power plant in Texas, has
applied for a federal loan guarantee to build two more reactors
at the site. Crane was among utility executives who backed cap-
and-trade legislation that passed the House under Democratic
control last year, then languished in the Senate. Republicans
called it an energy tax in disguise.  President  Barack Obama , who supported the cap-and-trade
plan, said lawmakers must work together to better secure U.S.
energy supplies and curb global warming pollution.  “The smartest thing for us to do is to see if we can get
Democrats and Republicans in a room who are serious about energy
independence and are serious about keeping our air clean and our
water clean and dealing with the issue of greenhouse gases, and
seeing are there ways that we can make progress in the short
term,” Obama said today in a news conference.  Upton Backs Nuclear  Representative  Fred Upton , the Michigan Republican who is
in line to head the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
supports nuclear power as a way to create jobs in his state,
which had a 13 percent unemployment rate in September, according
to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Upton would replace Representative  Henry Waxman , a
California Democrat who was co-sponsor of the failed cap-and-
trade bill, which would have set limits on carbon emissions and
established a market for the trading of pollution allowances.  “Obama and his team have wanted a legislative solution,”
said Josh Greene, a partner with the Washington law firm Patton
Boggs LLP. “Obama told the nation today that perhaps there are
other solutions, other ways to get us there, outside of cap-and-
trade.”  In this year’s elections, cap-and-trade was denounced in
ads by candidates of both parties. Democratic Governor  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia, a coal-producing state, literally shot
a hole through legislation labeled “cap-and-trade” in one
television commercial for his Senate campaign.  “Cap-and-trade, I think, is toast,”  American Electric
Power Co.  CEO  Michael Morris , who backed the House measure, said
in an interview. “We’re looking for a realistic compromise that
will give us all certainty about where we’re going.”  EPA Regulation  The prospect for compromise may be undercut by a fight over
plans by the Environmental Protection Agency to impose its own
restrictions on carbon emissions. While administration officials
say Obama would veto legislation barring EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  from putting the limits in place, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce has urged lawmakers to attach a ban on EPA regulation
to spending legislation during the lame-duck closing session of
the current Congress.  “Cap-and-trade was just one way of skinning the cat,”
Obama said. “It was not the only way. It was a means, not an
end, and I’m going to be looking for other means to address this
problem.”  House Republicans may lead investigations next year into
the EPA’s justification for new rules on pollutants and
potential damage to the economy, said  Stephen Brown , a lobbyist
for oil refiner  Tesoro Corp . of San Antonio, which opposes EPA
carbon regulation.  “If you make sure that Lisa Jackson has to testify four
out of five days a week, I don’t see how that creates an
atmosphere for compromise,” Brown said.  Renewable Standard  Legislation setting a national renewable-energy standard
has been championed by Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a Democrat from
New Mexico. His version would require utilities to get as much
as 15 percent of their power from low-pollution sources such as
solar and wind energy by 2021.  Senator  Richard Lugar , a Republican from Indiana who has
worked with Democrats on legislative compromises in the past,
said he plans to introduce renewable-energy legislation next
year that would encourage construction of nuclear and “clean-
coal” plants.  Senator  Tom Carper , a Delaware Democrat who sits on the
Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, said legislation
such as Lugar’s may be one way to “thread the needle” for a
bipartisan compromise.  “It’s pretty clear we still need to get something done on
this front, and maybe the best we can do is a clean-energy
standard that gives initial credit to nuclear and clean coal but
eventually provides greater emphasis on true renewables,”
Carper said.  Environmental Groups  Nuclear power remains a tough sell among some environmental
groups. The U.S. has no long-term plan to dispose of spent
reactor fuel, and building nuclear plants remains prohibitively
expensive without government subsidies, said John Walke, clean-
air director for the New York-based Natural Resources Defense
Council.  “Washington is a town of negotiation and compromises, and
the nuclear and coal sectors have always been very successful
feeding at the Washington trough,” Walke said in an interview.
“But I don’t think you will have public policy being made on
the representation that either nuclear power or coal power is
renewable.”  A renaissance in nuclear power may be stalled regardless of
action by Congress, said  Chris Gadomski , the lead analyst for
nuclear power with Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “I don’t think you can legislate new nuclear, especially
in an environment when there is a lot of unconventional natural
gas to be tapped and the cost of natural-gas generating
facilities are about one 10th of nuclear,” Gadomski said.  Hydraulic Fracturing  House Republicans also will resist efforts to limit
hydraulic fracturing, a technique used in drilling for natural
gas in which chemically treated water is pumped underground to
loosen rock and let gas flow. The EPA is conducting a study of
potential environmental impacts of the practice.  Wind, solar and other renewable sources excluding
hydroelectric power accounted for 3.8 percent of the total U.S.
energy supply in the year ended in July, up from 3.4 percent in
the same period a year earlier, according to the Energy
Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department.  The U.S. got 19.5 percent of its power from nuclear
reactors in the recent year. Obama has called for increasing
federal guarantees for new nuclear plants to $54 billion from
$18.5 billion currently.  Reactor Applications  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has received applications
for 26 new reactors, according to the agency. Southern Co. has
begun work on what may be the first new reactors to come online
in the U.S. since 1996, said  Steve Kerekes , a spokesman for the
Washington-based Nuclear Energy Institute.  Southern won a $3.4 billion federal loan guarantee to add
two nuclear reactors to the Vogtle station near Waynesboro,
Georgia. The company expects to receive an operating license
late in 2011, Kerekes said.  The Republican takeover of the House also puts
Representative  Doc Hastings  of Washington state, an opponent of
new restrictions on offshore oil and gas drilling, in line to
take over the Natural Resources Committee. Hastings denounced a
measure, passed by the House after the  BP Plc  oil spill in the
Gulf of Mexico, that would remove a $75 million cap on liability
for leaks and bar London-based BP from new U.S. leases.  Landrieu Compromise  The issue remains unsettled because the Senate never took
up its version of the drilling bill. Under a compromise proposed
by Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, companies would
pay into an insurance pool based on how much offshore oil and
gas they produce, with the fund paying for the first $10 billion
in spill damages.  While supporters of cap-and-trade legislation once
envisioned sweeping legislation akin to Obama’s health-care
overhaul, the president said he was reconciled to smaller steps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 