-- Obama Says He Plans Outreach to Business Community
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-11-03T20:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/obama-pledges-he-ll-reach-out-to-business-community-for-improved-relations.html
President  Barack Obama  said he is
humbled by the ”shellacking” his party took in the midterm
U.S. congressional elections and takes responsibility for
changing the administration’s approach to business to make
“absolutely clear” that its success is crucial to the economy.  Obama, at a White House news conference to give his
assessment of yesterday’s elections in which Republicans gained
a majority in the House, said one of the keys to spurring
economic growth is to encourage expansion and hiring by
companies.  The administration needs to find the “right balance in
making sure that businesses have rules of the road and are
treating customers fairly,” Obama said, “but also making
absolutely clear that the only way America succeeds is if
businesses are succeeding.”  Sluggish growth and an  unemployment rate  that has equaled
or exceeded 9.5 percent for 14 consecutive months were major
issues in yesterday’s elections.  Republicans netted at least 60 House seats, the biggest
gain since 1938, when Democrats lost 72 seats, and will take
control of the chamber in January for the first time since 2006.
Republicans scored a net gain of at least six Senate seats with
two races undecided, short of the 10 needed for a majority.  Winning Governorships  They also won governorships held by Democrats in at least
10 states, giving them a majority of top state executive posts.  Obama recalled that Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  Bill Clinton  lost seats in Congress during midterm elections two
years into their presidencies. President  George W. Bush  called
his party’s loss of House seats in a 2006 midterm vote “a
thumpin’.”  “This is something that I think every president needs to
go through,” Obama said. “Now, I’m not recommending for every
future president that they take a shellacking like I did last
night,” he said. “I’m sure there are easier ways to learn
these lessons.”  Voters surveyed in exit polling yesterday voiced deep
dissatisfaction with the economy, with 83 percent saying the
national economy is in bad shape, according to ABC News.
Fourteen percent said their own family’s situation had improved
since 2008, when Obama was elected president.  ‘Deeply Frustrated’  Obama said he recognized that voters are “deeply
frustrated” by the pace of the recovery from the worst
recession since the Great Depression. The president said he
plans greater outreach to the business community to get
companies to spend some of the almost $1 trillion in cash that
Moody’s Investors Service says they are holding.  “Setting the right tone publicly is going to be important
and could end up making a difference at the margins in terms of
how businesses make investment decisions,” Obama said, without
giving details of his plans.  During the election campaign, Obama repeatedly said
Democrats would defend middle-income taxpayers against “Wall
Street banks,” “corporations,” the “oil industry,” the
“insurance industry” and “credit-card companies.”  “If the other side wins, they’ll try their hardest to give
rein back to the insurance companies and the credit-card
companies and the Wall Street banks that we’re finally holding
accountable,” Obama told a crowd of supporters Oct. 10 in
Philadelphia.  Criticizing Obama  Companies from  Procter & Gamble Co ., the world’s largest
consumer-products producer, to  Caterpillar Inc. , the largest
maker of construction and mining equipment, have gone public
with their criticisms of the administration.  Companies’ complaints center on Obama’s efforts to overhaul
rules for Wall Street, raise taxes on overseas income, tighten
environmental reviews and rework pending free-trade agreements.
They also criticize the president for not having any Cabinet
secretaries or top aides with business experience.  The Bloomberg Global Poll in September found 77 percent of
U.S.-based Bloomberg subscribers say Obama is too anti-business,
and his favorability among the 1,408 investors worldwide is down
to 49 percent from 73 percent in July 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 