-- Obama Calls Republican Leader Boehner as Republicans Take Control of House
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-03T14:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/obama-calls-republican-leader-boehner-as-republicans-take-control-of-house.html
President  Barack Obama  called
Republican  John Boehner , who will likely be speaker of the U.S.
House of Representatives next year after his party gained a
majority of seats in yesterday’s midterm elections.  Obama called Boehner to congratulate him on the Republican
victories, according to a statement from Boehner’s office, which
said the two had a “brief but pleasant conversation.”  The two discussed ways to work together on “the top
priorities of the American people,” which Boehner told the
president should be cutting government spending and reducing
unemployment, according to the statement.  Obama also called the current Democratic leaders in the
House, Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  and Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , as
well as  Mitch McConnell , the top Republican in the Senate,
according to a White House statement.  The president told each of the Republican leaders that he
was “looking forward to working with him and the Republicans to
find common ground, move the country forward and get things done
for the American people,” the statement said.  The president is scheduled to hold a news conference at 1
p.m. Washington time at the White House to talk about the impact
of the election.  Midnight Call  Obama called Boehner at about midnight, after it became
clear that Republicans had seized control of the House in
midterm elections. The party gained at least 60 seats in the
435-member chamber. Republicans scored a net gain of at least
six seats in the Senate, short of the 10 needed for control.  In remarks last night in Washington, Boehner called the
election a “repudiation of Washington” and said Obama needs to
listen to the message sent by voters.  “We hope President Obama will now respect the will of the
people, change course, and commit to making the changes they are
demanding,” Boehner said. “To the extent he is willing to do
this, we are ready to work with him.”  Boehner, 60, was first elected to Congress from Ohio in
1990. He has been the top Republican in the House since 2006.  Promising Bipartisanship  On the campaign trail, Obama and Boehner accused each other
of failing to live up to promises of bipartisanship made after
the 2008 elections.  Obama has said Republicans made a political calculation to
oppose all of his policies.  “Their basic theory was, you know what, the economy is so
bad, we made such a mess of things, that rather than cooperate,
we’ll be better off just saying no to everything,” he said at
an Oct. 31 campaign rally in Cleveland, Ohio.  Boehner has countered that Obama and Democrats rammed
through Congress legislation such as the economic stimulus
measure and health-care legislation without including Republican
ideas.  “We need a new majority in Congress that will stand up to
President Obama and insist that he starts listening to the
American people,” Boehner said in an Oct. 8 campaign speech in
West Chester, Ohio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  