-- Obama, Lee Express Hopes of Completing Trade Deal at G-20 Summit in Seoul
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-11-03T04:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/obama-lee-express-hopes-of-completing-trade-deal-at-g-20-summit-in-seoul.html
Presidents  Barack Obama  and  Lee Myung Bak  expressed hopes to use next week’s talks at the Group of 20
summit in Seoul to make progress on completing a free-trade
agreement between the U.S. and South Korea.  “If we can reach a satisfactory agreement on the key
issues for American workers, we will have a deal,” the White
House said in a statement yesterday. Lee, speaking to reporters
in Seoul today, said he discussed the FTA when he telephoned
Obama to talk about next week’s G-20 meeting in South Korea.  “There can be differences in each industry, but in
general, the Korea-U.S. FTA will help create jobs in both
countries and bring a positive effect for economic growth,” Lee
said.  At the last G-20 summit, Obama set the goal of finishing a
deal during his visit to Seoul, with plans to submit a reworked
accord to Congress.  The free-trade pact, signed by the two countries in 2007,
was never sent to lawmakers in the U.S. and has been reopened to
address objections from industry and labor groups on issues
including autos and beef. Agreements with Colombia and Panama
also are pending.  In the current talks, the U.S. is urging that South Korea
accept American car safety and emissions standards on vehicles
sold in that country. Lee didn’t mention safety and emissions
standards when he took questions from reporters in Seoul today.  Ford Motor Co. and the United Auto Workers say South Korea
has used tax and regulatory barriers to block sales of U.S.
automobiles in that country.  Completing the accord with South Korea is central to the
U.S. president’s goal of doubling exports over the next five
years to help American manufacturing and agriculture.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has  estimated  that failure to
enact the accord with the world’s 14th largest economy means the
loss of $35 billion in exports and 345,000 jobs. South Korea
signed a rival agreement with the European Union last year that
calls for 99 percent of commerce to be duty free within five
years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  