-- Obama Says He'll Negotiate With Republicans on Bush Tax Cuts
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/obama-says-he-will-negotiate-with-republicans-on-extending-bush-s-tax-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama  said he is
“absolutely” ready to negotiate this month with congressional
Republicans, whose success in the Nov. 2 midterm elections has
hardened their stance that Bush-era tax cuts set to expire next
month should be extended for high-income taxpayers.  Obama, a Democrat, said yesterday that he hopes to avoid
“brinkmanship” in the lame-duck session of Congress when he
deals with Republicans on preventing the expiration of lower tax
rates on wages, investments and multimillion-dollar estates
enacted in 2001 and 2003. Unless Congress acts, those tax
policies expire Dec. 31.  “My goal is to make sure that we don’t have a huge spike
in taxes for middle-class families,” Obama said at a White
House news conference when asked if he would seek a compromise
with newly empowered Republicans on such matters as preserving
the tax cuts on the first $1 million of income.  Obama has been adamant that the U.S. can’t afford to extend
policies that benefit high-income Americans, whom he defines as
individuals earning more than $200,000 annually and couples
making over $250,000. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has
said that doing so would add $700 billion to the national debt.
Obama’s proposal itself would add about $3 trillion to the debt.  “My hope is, is that given we all have an interest in
growing the economy and encouraging job growth, that we’re not
going to play brinkmanship but instead we’re going to act
responsibly,” the president said.  While Democrats will still be in charge of both houses of
Congress when lawmakers return for the lame-duck session that
starts the week of Nov. 15, the tax-cut battle will test whether
Obama and Republicans can find common ground on divisive issues.  Historic Party Loss  Republicans gained at least 60 seats in the House of
Representatives -- 21 more than needed to win control in the
next session, starting in January -- and won at least six new
seats in the Senate, narrowing the Democrats’ majority. It was
the Democrats’ biggest defeat since 1938, when the party lost 72
seats in the House.  “We continue to believe that extending all of the current
tax rates for all Americans is the right policy for our economy
at this time,”  John Boehner  of Ohio, the House Republican
leader and the likely speaker in the next Congress, said
yesterday.  Republicans have faulted Obama and Democrats for failing to
act earlier to extend the tax cuts enacted during President
 George W. Bush ’s administration. Among other things, the
policies established lower marginal tax rates, eliminated the
so-called marriage penalty, doubled a child tax credit to
$1,000, lowered rates on most capital gains and dividends to 15
percent, and phased out the estate tax.  Tax Rate Increase  If Congress takes no action, individual income tax rates
will increase to 15, 28, 31, 36, and 39.6 percent from 10, 15,
25, 33, and 36 percent now, respectively. Reinstated limits on
certain deductions and exemptions would push rates even higher
for taxpayers in the top two brackets.  Many married couples would pay more in income tax than if
they were single. The child tax credit would be reduced to $500.
Rates on capital gains would revert to 20 percent, and dividends
would again be taxed at ordinary income rates. The estate tax,
repealed for this year only, would affect estates exceeding $1
million and would have a top rate of 55 percent.  Obama campaigned on preserving the tax cuts only on the
first $250,000 of a couple’s income. That would mean increasing
the top two marginal rates and higher rates on capital gains and
dividends; Obama has sought to cap the dividend tax rate at 20
percent. The president also wants to exempt the first $3.5
million of estates from taxes and levy any excess with a top 45
percent rate, reverting to the rules that existed in 2009.  Renew Them All  Republicans have long insisted that all of the Bush-era tax
cuts should be renewed. Doing so would cost the government about
$5 trillion in foregone revenue and interest costs on the debt
over the next decade, according to an Oct. 27 report by the
nonpartisan Congressional Research Service.  Michigan Representative  Dave Camp , the Republican in line
to become chairman of the tax-writing House Ways and Means
Committee in January, said he also will insist on extending
Bush’s tax policies for all income levels.  “I do think we can’t increase taxes on any American with
the economy still over  9.5 percent  unemployment,” he said in an
interview yesterday.  Camp also said he would prefer to find a long-term
solution. “I don’t think a short-term extension gets the kind
of certainty that I’m hearing from employers and analysts that
they need,” he said.  Reid ‘Laser’-Focused  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , who won a close bid for
re-election in Nevada, told reporters yesterday that the
Democrats are still “focused like a laser” on extending tax
cuts to middle-income taxpayers. He said permanently extending
all the Bush-era cuts would be “a road to a $4 trillion debt.
That won’t happen.” Reid’s $4 trillion figure doesn’t include
interest costs.  Obama also said he would push to renew dozens of expired
breaks that primarily benefit businesses, including a tax credit
that subsidized research and experimentation. Separately,
Congress must act to roll back a $70 billion alternative minimum
tax increase, already in force for 2010, that would affect more
than 30 million households.  Pat Heck, a partner at the Washington law firm K&L Gates
LLP, said the need to prevent the increase in the alternative
minimum tax will be the biggest catalyst for Obama and lawmakers
to strike a deal.  “That absolutely has to be done,” Heck said. “Without
the AMT patch you’re going to have 25 million taxpayers get hit
by a tax bill next year that they hadn’t planned on.”  A short-term compromise is most likely on the Bush-era tax
cuts, he said. “I think there’s enough time for them to come
together; it’s not rocket science.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  