-- Lockheed, Northrop May Gain on China Even as Defense Cuts Loom
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-11-03T02:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/lockheed-northrop-may-gain-on-china-as-republicans-take-control-of-house.html
Victorious House Republicans are
likely to advocate a more muscular approach toward China,
offering a potential boost to defense contractors such as
 Lockheed Martin Corp.  and  Northrop Grumman Corp.  even as
Congress comes under pressure to rein in the Pentagon’s budget.  “We have to look at the totality” of China’s efforts,
said Representative  Randy Forbes , a Virginia Republican who may
become head of the House Armed Services readiness subcommittee.
Once lawmakers focus on emerging challenges in areas from cyber
warfare to aircraft carriers to missiles, they’ll say, “We
better be changing our readiness capability.”  That would entail shifting more money toward weapons
programs, rather than increasing spending, benefiting makers of
sea-based anti-missile systems, submarines, destroyers and long-
range drones. Another winner could be  Alliant Techsystems Inc. ,
which is developing targets to test defenses against a
supersonic Chinese anti-ship missile.  Still, with U.S. troops deployed in two wars and concern
over the  federal deficit  growing, Congress is being urged to
curb the overall defense budget. Midterm elections yesterday
gave Republicans a majority in the House and narrowed the
Democrats’ margin in the Senate, according to television network
projections.  House Republicans pledged to cut $100 billion in domestic
discretionary outlays -- the spending set by Congress annually
that isn’t mandated -- yet have exempted military funding, which
makes up more than half of non-mandatory expenditures.  The political impetus to cut defense spending may grow when
a bipartisan commission appointed by President  Barack Obama  next
month releases recommendations on how to rein in the  federal
deficit . The Pentagon budget, which totaled $691 billion last
year, may be one target.  ‘1% Real Increase’  And Democrats retain control of the White House, which will
submit a basically flat 2012 defense budget. The Senate also can
block any moves by the House.  “The administration is saying there will be a 1 percent
real increase in defense,” said  Todd Harrison , an analyst for
the  Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments  in
Washington. “If that’s the case, I don’t think either party
would produce a significant increase beyond that, given the
growing pressure to reduce the deficit.”  As a result, investors have soured on the defense sector
and sent stocks of the top five contractors including Lockheed,
Northrop, General Dynamics, Raytheon and L-3 Communications
Inc., down by 3.8 percent since the beginning of the year,
according to Bloomberg data. The broader  Standard & Poor’s 500 
index has gained 7 percent.  Shifting the Money  Concern over the deficit won’t stop House Republicans from
exploring ways to raise missile-defense spending and ensure the
administration carries out plans to shift more money to weapons
systems.  The Republicans will also probably press to continue
funding  General Electric Co. ’s F136 backup engine on the F-35
fighter over the objections of both the administration and the
military, and maintain strict oversight of the entire $382
billion aircraft project, the Pentagon’s No. 1 defense program.  The party has also come under fire from supporters in the
Tea Party movement over the engine, which is partly made in
Indiana. Indiana Representative  Mike Pence , the House’s third-
ranking Republican, defended the project in July, saying, “It
is in the interest of taxpayers in the long run to have more
than one source, more than one manufacturer of that engine.”  China’s Capability  On China, Republicans say the debate over how the U.S.
should respond to the country’s military capability will shape
the budget for weapons procurement and research, which is $187
billion in the 2011 budget that Congress is considering.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  is trying to maintain growth
of 2 percent to 3 percent through 2015 in those accounts. The
new House majority will try to make sure his plan to move $100
billion from accounts not directly related to arms making into
weapons and research programs by 2015 is implemented.  China is strengthening military capabilities to extend its
reach beyond its shores toward the Indian Ocean and the Pacific,
in areas where the U.S. is seeking stronger alliances, the
Pentagon said in an annual report to Congress in August.  Republicans want the Pentagon to release more information
on China’s strategy of developing weapons designed to deny U.S.
forces access to areas near Chinese waters, Forbes said.  Lockheed, Raytheon  The changes the Republicans will seek could benefit sea-
based missile-defense companies such as Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed and Waltham, Massachusetts-based and  Raytheon Co. , said
 Loren Thompson , a defense analyst with the Lexington Institute
in Arlington, Virginia.  Also standing to gain are ship and submarine-makers
Northrop Grumman, based in Los Angeles, and General Dynamics
Corp., based in Falls Church, Virginia, said  James McAleese , a
consultant to defense companies.  A representative of the  Aerospace Industries Association 
said concern about “near-peer competitors” like China was
likely to drive defense policy and budget decisions.  House Republicans may place a “greater focus on
modernization, research and development and looking at near-peer
competitors than ongoing operations,” said  Cord Sterling , vice
president of the Arlington, Virginia-based group, which
represents companies such as Lockheed, Raytheon and  Northrop
Grumman . “Strategic defense, including missile defense, space,
shipbuilding and aircrafts are all areas where investment is
needed to focus on near-peer threats,” he said.  Protecting Home Turf  Lockheed  and  Raytheon  are the Pentagon’s primary makers of
the Aegis air-defense network on Navy carriers, destroyers and
cruisers and the Standard-missile family of interceptors
designed to stop anti-ship missiles.  Republican House defense leaders will also try to protect
contractors in lawmakers’ districts, Thompson said.  Representative  Howard McKeon , a California Republican, will
become chairman of the Armed Services Committee.  Bill Young , a
Florida Republican, may replace  Norm Dicks , a Washington
Democrat, as head of the panel of the Appropriations Committee
that approves defense spending.  Northrop Grumman  was the top defense contractor in McKeon’s
California district with contracts worth $1.01 billion in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  Lockheed  was
second with $253.2 million, and  Raytheon  received $87.6 million.  General Dynamics  was the largest defense contractor in
Young’s Florida district, spending $286.2 million, followed by
Raytheon’s $221.8 million, Bloomberg Government data shows.  Afghanistan, Iraq  House Republicans have also signaled plans to review the
administration’s July 2011 date to begin a gradual drawdown of
U.S. troops from Afghanistan. And with the end of the U.S.
military commitment in Iraq in December 2011, the Republicans
will focus on State Department plans to administer the increased
U.S. diplomatic presence, including whether it’s receiving
enough money and manpower to accomplish the mission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net . 