-- Oil Markets Point to Global Energy-Stock Rebound: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-03T15:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/oil-markets-point-to-global-energy-stock-rebound-chart-of-the-day.html
Oil markets are sending signals that
it’s time for energy companies to start beating stock-market
benchmarks, according to  Pierre Lapointe , a strategist at
Brockhouse & Cooper Inc.  The MSCI World Energy Index, consisting of oil and gas
producers based in developed markets, gained just 0.4 percent
this year through yesterday. The MSCI World Index increased 5.6
percent during the same period.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows two gauges that point to a
reversal in the industry group’s performance, according to a
report today. The white line depicts oil-futures trading by
speculators, based on data compiled by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. The red line displays an oil-volatility
index from the Chicago Board Options Exchange.  Speculators’ holdings of crude-oil contracts exceeded the
number of short positions by 125,271 contracts in the week ended
Oct. 26, the CFTC’s data shows. The number jumped about 12-fold
in the last seven weeks. Short positions result from the sale of
futures to profit from lower prices.  The  CBOE Crude Oil Volatility Index , which is similar to
the VIX Index for U.S. stocks, dropped to 33.33 yesterday from
this year’s peak of 47.15 on June 4. Lower readings for the so-
called fear gauge tend to coincide with higher prices for oil,
Lapointe and economist  Alex Bellefleur  wrote in the report.  “Taken together, these two indicators suggest that market
sentiment towards oil -- and, by extension, the energy sector --
is changing” for the  better , they said. The analysts
recommended that investors favor energy shares as well as
countries where oil and gas producers account for much of the
stock market, including  Brazil ,  Canada ,  Norway  and  Russia .  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  