-- Oil Advances to Six-Month High on Weaker Dollar, Fed Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-03T11:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/oil-advances-to-six-month-high-on-u-s-stimulus-bets-fuel-supply-forecast.html
Oil advanced to a six-month high of
more than $85 a barrel on signs U.S. crude inventories are
dropping and speculation stimulus measures by the Federal
Reserve will weaken the dollar.  Crude stockpiles  in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, dropped 4.1 million barrels last week, the most since
July, the industry-backed American Petroleum Institute said
yesterday. The Energy Department will release its own report
today. The Fed, wrapping up a two-day meeting today, may
announce a plan to purchase at least $500 billion in long-term
securities, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “We can expect higher prices, maybe up to $90 or even
higher,” said Sintje Diek, an analyst with HSH Nordbank in
Hamburg. “We’ve seen higher prices in the last days because of
quantitative easing. This means higher inflows into riskier
assets. But the fundamental picture hasn’t changed. We’re still
oversupplied.”  Oil for December delivery rose for a third day, gaining as
much as $1.14, or 1.4 percent, to $85.04 a barrel on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, the highest price since May 4. The
contract was at $84.92 at 11:41 a.m. London time. Brent crude
for December settlement was up $1.09, or 1.3 percent, at $86.50
a barrel after climbing as high as $86.63 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London.  The dollar has dropped more than 10 percent versus the euro
since Aug. 27, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank “will do all that it can” to sustain economic
growth, fueling speculation that a resumption of asset purchases
would debase the dollar.  Quantitative Easing  This policy, known as quantitative easing, may weaken the
dollar, bolstering investors’ demand for oil. The U.S. currency
declined against most of its major counterparts yesterday,
falling 1 percent to $1.4034 per euro in New York.  “The news tonight from the Fed on the quantitative easing
will be the big thing for the oil market,” said  Serene Lim , an
energy and commodity strategist at Australia and New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “Everyone is a bit cautious
ahead of the report. The inventory levels being drawn down are
seen as a positive.”  U.S. crude stockpiles decreased 1.1 percent last week to
367.6 million barrels, according to yesterday’s API report.
Gasoline supplies declined by 3.2 million barrels to 219.7
million and distillate inventories dropped 4.7 million to 161.4
million, the industry group said.  An Energy Department report today is forecast to show
distillate fuel stockpiles, including diesel and heating oil,
fell to their lowest level since July. Inventories probably
declined 1 million barrels in the week ended Oct. 29, according
to the median estimate from 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. All respondents said supplies would fall.  U.S. crude inventories  probably increased  1.5 million
barrels, the survey showed. Stockpiles rose 5.01 million barrels
to 366.2 million in the week to Oct. 22, the highest level since
July and 13 percent above the five-year average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  