-- Dollar Tumbles on Prospects for ECB to End Stimulus as Fed Sets Purchases
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-04T19:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/oil-to-surpass-6-month-high-as-fed-stimulus-weakens-dollar-energy-markets.html
Oil may return to $100 a barrel for
the first time since the 2008 financial crisis as the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s stimulus measures weaken the dollar, drawing
investors to raw materials.  Crude may rally to three digits next year as central banks
pump cash into their economies to revive growth, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The
 Dollar Index  sank 7 percent in the past two months as the Fed
moved closer to extending a bond-purchase program, luring
investors to commodities including oil.  “It’s likely to push prices upwards,” said  Antoine Halff , head of energy research at Newedge USA LLC in New York
and former principal administrator at the International Energy
Agency. “The past few years have shown that the more liquidity
in the system, the more cheap money in the system, the more
money flows into commodities, in particular energy.”  The Fed said yesterday it will spend $600 billion buying
long-term securities in a program known as quantitative easing.
A Labor Department report tomorrow will probably show the U.S.
 unemployment rate  held at 9.6 percent for a third month,
according to a Bloomberg  survey .  Oil has climbed 9 percent this year, lagging behind other
commodities that typically benefit from a depreciation of the
dollar, as U.S. crude  inventories  remain above their five-year
average. Gold has gained 25 percent, trading at a record in
London last month. Cotton has risen 86 percent, reaching an all-
time high today.  Dollar’s Decline  The dollar declined versus 14 of its 16 most-traded peers
this year, losing 15 percent against the Japanese yen. The U.S.
currency slipped as much as 1 percent today to $1.4282 a euro,
the lowest level since Jan. 20.  Crude for December delivery rose $1.80, or 2.1 percent, to
end the session at $86.49 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange following the Fed’s announcement. It was the highest
settlement price since April 6. The commodity last traded above
$100 on Oct. 2, 2008.  “Quantitative easing will reassert the strong, negative
pressure on the dollar,” said  Lawrence Eagles , global head of
commodities research at JPMorgan in New York. “If we see the
dollar shift, all other things being equal, oil prices will
rise.”  Gains in commodities may stoke inflation in the biggest
consumer nations just as they emerge from the recession. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  must follow a “careful tightrope act”
to prevent higher inflation expectations from taking hold,
according to James D. Hamilton, a University of California, San
Diego economist and former visiting scholar at the Fed board and
the New York and Atlanta district banks.  ‘Balancing Act’  “The Fed is clearly worried that the recovery is taking
too long, so they want to be proactive,” said  Adam Sieminski ,
chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Washington.
“Bernanke has a delicate balancing act. He wants to stimulate
the economy, without increasing inflation fears.”  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
have signaled they may seek a higher price range for oil as the
depreciation of the U.S. currency erodes the purchasing power of
their dollar-denominated exports.  Saudi Arabia’s Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said in Singapore
on Nov. 1 that a range between $70 and $90 a barrel is
satisfactory for consumers. The kingdom had previously indicated
a preferred target of $75 a barrel.  OPEC’s Range  “Al-Naimi spoke of a $70-to-$90 range for the first
time,” said  Francisco Blanch , head of commodity research at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research in New York. “The
next threshold is $90 if al-Naimi says he won’t be putting any
more oil in the market until we get to that level.”  Growth in emerging markets will help reduce stockpiles of
crude in 2011, said  David Greely , head of energy research at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York. Inventories rose 1.95
million barrels to 368.2 million last week, the highest level
since May, the Energy Department said yesterday.  Global oil demand will climb by 2.1 million barrels a day
to 86.9 million this year and to 88.2 million in 2011, the
Paris-based  IEA  said on Oct. 13. OPEC  spare production capacity 
dropped to about 5.8 million barrels a day last month, down from
a seven-year high of 6.8 million in March 2009, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of oil companies, producers and analysts.  “You have high U.S. inventories which are beginning to
draw, and OPEC spare capacity which will need to return to the
market in 2011,” Greely said. “As that OPEC spare capacity
begins to draw down, you set the stage for higher prices.”  ‘Forecasts Overblown’  Forecasts that oil will exceed $100 a barrel are
exaggerated because of the supply surplus, according to  Sarah Emerson , managing director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield, Massachusetts.  “This is a well-supplied market and that won’t be changing
anytime soon,” Emerson said. “At the end of the day
fundamentals matter. That’s what 2008 shows.”  Oil surged to a record $147.27 a barrel on July 11, 2008,
before plunging 78 percent in the next five months to a low of
$32.40 as the financial crisis unfolded. It has traded in a $23
range this year, the narrowest since 2006.  “There are guys on Wall Street who think this market
should be at $95 and have tried to take it there several times
over the last year and a half, and have been wrong,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of Schork Group Inc., a consulting
company in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  Hedge funds and other large speculators  increased wagers  on
rising crude prices by 9.3 percent in the seven days ended Oct.
26, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Oct.
29 Commitments of Traders report.  “The one key risk for the Fed is that energy prices will
get out of hand,” Merrill Lynch’s Blanch said. For oil, “we
will probably move past $90 by the end of the year, and then
$100. We aren’t likely to see oil rise to $130 or $140, which
would put us back in a recession.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  