-- Oil Rises to Six-Month High on U.S. Fuel-Supply Drop, Fed Move
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-11-03T21:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/oil-advances-to-six-month-high-on-weaker-dollar-fed-stimulus-speculation.html
Oil rose to the highest level in six
months after a U.S. government report showed that fuel supplies
tumbled and the Federal Reserve said it will buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries through June to boost the economy.  Oil jumped 0.9 percent as  gasoline inventories  fell 2.69
million barrels to 212.3 million last week, the lowest level
since Nov. 20, 2009, the Energy Department said. The dollar
touched a nine-month low versus the euro after the Fed said it
will boost asset purchases to spur economic growth.  The product supply drop “caused a knee-jerk reaction, and
prices rallied,” said  Matt Smith , a commodities analyst for
Summit Energy in Louisville, Kentucky. “The Fed move is going
to create weakness in the dollar and it shows that the Fed is
going to be proactive about stimulating the economy in the long
term. Both of those factors are bullish for crude.”  Crude oil for December delivery advanced 79 cents to $84.69
a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
settlement price since May 3. Futures have risen 6.4 percent in
the past year.  Brent crude for December settlement gained 97 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $86.38 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Distillate supplies , which include heating oil and diesel,
fell 3.57 million barrels to 164.9 million. It was the biggest
drop in distillate fuel supplies since the week ended Sept. 19,
2008. Inventories were 19 percent above the five-year average.  Gasoline stockpiles were forecast to be little changed from
the previous week’s total of 214.9 million barrels, according to
the median of 17 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
They were 6 percent above the five-year average.  Gasoline Increases  Gasoline for December delivery gained 2.84 cents, or 1.4
percent, to settle at $2.138 a gallon, the highest level since
Oct. 18.  “The big drops in fuel stocks are due to the low
production we are seeing right now,” said  Carl Larry , president
of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston. “The margins are
still weak, so refiners see no need to ramp up production any
time soon.”  Inventories of  crude oil  rose 1.95 million barrels to 368.2
million, the department said. Supplies were forecast to climb by
1.5 million barrels. They were 14 percent above the five-year
average.  Fed Purchases  Crude oil also advanced on projections that the Fed’s
stimulus measures will weaken the dollar, bolstering the appeal
of commodities to investors.  The dollar dropped 0.7 percent to $1.4136 per euro at 4:04
p.m. in New York. It touched $1.4179 after the Fed announcement,
matching a low reached Jan. 26.  The U.S. currency has decreased 11 percent versus the euro
since Aug. 27, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank “will do all that it can” to sustain economic
growth, fueling speculation that a resumption of asset purchases
would debase the U.S. currency.  The Fed purchases “may actually lead to economic growth
and improved demand, which will send oil higher,” said  Chip Hodge , who oversees a $9 billion natural-resource bond portfolio
as senior managing director at MFC Global Investment Management
in Boston.  Fed policy makers, who said new purchases will be about $75
billion a month, “will adjust the program as needed to best
foster maximum employment and price stability.”  Quantitative Easing  The Fed’s Open Market Committee was forecast to announce
purchases of at least $500 billion in securities at its meeting
in Washington under a policy called quantitative easing,
according to 29 of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before the announcement.  The Fed said the economy has been “disappointingly slow”
to meet its objectives.  “I guess it’s nice that they’re doing something, but I
don’t know that this is going to translate into increased
physical demand for petroleum,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “It’s an
influence on market sentiment and can have an impact in that
way.”  Gains in U.S. manufacturing and employment may spur fuel
consumption, causing additional increases in oil prices. Demand
for fuels, averaged over four weeks, rose for the first time
since September in the Energy Department report, gaining 1.2
percent to 18.9 million barrels a day.  Manufacturing, Unemployment  The Institute for Supply Management reported services in
the U.S. expanded in October at the fastest pace in three
months. The  index  of non-manufacturing businesses, which covers
about 90 percent of the economy, rose to 54.3 from 53.2 in
September. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Companies in the U.S. boosted payrolls by more than
forecast in October, according to figures from ADP Employer
Services. Employment increased by 43,000 after a revised 2,000
drop in September.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 659,675
contracts as of 4:05 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 503,256
contracts December, 28 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.43 million contracts, the
highest level in more than two weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 