-- London Commuters Face Disruptions as Subway Unions Continue 24-Hour Strike
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-11-03T15:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/londoners-face-travel-delays-as-subway-workers-start-third-24-hour-strike.html
London’s 3.5 million subway commuters
will face more travel misery getting home tonight with London
Underground unlikely to return to a normal service until
tomorrow morning after a 24-hour strike.  The stoppage on the subway, known as the Tube, by the Rail,
Maritime and Transport Union and the Transport Salaried Staffs’
Association is protesting against 800 planned job cuts. The
strike began at 7 p.m. yesterday.  “The service won’t be back to normal until tomorrow
morning,” Candice Jones, a spokeswoman for Transport for
London, said by telephone this afternoon. “The strike ends at 9
this evening and some people might come back to work after that,
but people should expect the same level of service as we’ve been
running all day.”  About 50 percent of the Tube’s trains have been running
throughout today, and around 75 percent of stations remained
open, TfL said in a statement. Those numbers are “complete
fiction,” RMT general secretary  Bob Crow  said at a press
conference at the TSSA’s offices this afternoon.  The stoppage is the sixth to shut London Underground since
2002 and the third in as many months. Another 24-hour walkout is
planned for Nov. 28, and neither union leader ruled out further
stoppages after that.  “Our members will make the final decision,” TSSA leader
Gerry Doherty told reporters at the union’s office.  “The talks we’ve had with TfL so far aren’t making much
progress,” Crow said. “If there are further job cuts and they
involve RMT members, we’ll ballot for strike action.”  ‘Rock Solid’  The strike remained “rock solid” across London today with
every line either suspended, part-suspended or running trains
through unstaffed stations, according to an e-mailed statement
from the RMT. Pickets are in operation at more than 100
stations, according to the statement.  The proposed job losses among ticket-office workers and
station managers could affect passenger safety, the  RMT has
said,  a claim TfL denies. Talks between London Underground and
the unions broke down on Sept. 22.  “TfL have been running an unsafe service today, with
stations being manned by untrained staff and others left
completely open overnight,” Crow said at today’s conference.  The previous strike was estimated to have cost businesses
48 million pounds ($77 million), according to forecasts by the
London Chamber of Commerce and Industry. TfL has laid on more
than 100 extra buses and capacity for around 10,000 more river
journeys today to get Londoners to work.  “Whether by bus, boat or bike, when Londoners beat the
strike for a third time I hope the RMT and TSSA leaderships will
face facts and see that their action achieves nothing aside from
depriving their members of another day’s pay,” Mayor  Boris Johnson  said in the TfL statement Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  