-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise to Two-Year High; Developers Lead Gains
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-11-03T08:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/hong-kong-stocks-climb-to-two-year-high-as-goldman-raises-index-estimates.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose, pushing the
benchmark index to its highest close in more than two years,
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the city will benefit from
extra liquidity released by central banks and China’s growth.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , the city’s No. 1 developer by
market value, jumped 6.6 percent after Goldman Sachs named the
stock as a possible beneficiary of liquidity. Cosco Pacific
Ltd., a container-terminal unit of Asia’s largest shipping
company by market value, surged 5.6 percent.  The  Hang Seng Index  climbed 2 percent to 24,144.67, its
highest close since June 2008, with developers posting the
biggest gains. Stocks rose ahead of the conclusion of a U.S.
Federal Reserve policy meeting which economists reckon will lead
to further purchases of securities to stimulate growth.  “There are expectations of quantitative easing in the
U.S., which I don’t believe the U.S. government can afford not
to extend to the maximum amount given the economy’s lack of
momentum,” said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research director
at Cinda International Holdings Ltd.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares
of Chinese companies jumped 2.2 percent to 13,820.99.  The main Hang Seng Index has gained 10 percent this year on
expectation that growth in corporate earnings will weather
concerns about the pace of the U.S. economic recovery and
China’s steps to curb rising property prices.  Shares  in the
gauge trade at an average 15.3 times estimated earnings,
compared with about 17.2 times at the start of the year.  Liquidity-Driven Gains  Goldman Sachs raised its 12-month target for the Hang Seng
Index to 29,000. Hong Kong will benefit most from a structural
capital relocation away from developed markets to emerging ones,
according to a Goldman Sachs report today.  Cosco Pacific surged 5.6 percent to HK$13.26. China
Merchants Holdings (International) Co., which has stakes in
ports that move about a third of the nation’s container traffic,
climbed 5.1 percent to HK$29.10.  Sun Hung Kai rallied 6.6 percent to HK$144.50, the biggest
gain on the  Hang Seng Index . Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the
city’s No. 2 developer by market value, rose 2.6 percent to
HK$126.10. Property stocks such as Sun Hung Kai and Cheung Kong
would benefit from liquidity-driven real estate inflation, the
Goldman Sachs report said.  Land Auction  The Hang Seng Property Index’s 3.4 percent increase was the
biggest among the four industry groups tracked by the Hang Seng
Index.  New World Development Co. , a Hong Kong-based developer,
advanced 2.9 percent to HK$16.22.  Stocks advanced even after the Hong Kong government sold a
building site in Kowloon Tong to Chinachem Group for HK$2.17
billion ($280 million) at an auction today. That was below the
HK$2.7 billion median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp.  rose 4.6
percent to 69 Hong Kong cents after China’s biggest chipmaker
reported a second straight quarter of profit. Net income was
$30.4 million in the third quarter, compared with a loss of
$69.3 million a year earlier, the company said.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s
largest lender by market value, climbed 4.5 percent to HK$6.69
after telling  analysts  that three-quarters of loans to local-
government finance vehicles are backed by sufficient cash flows
to cover payments.  Theme Town  Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s third biggest by market
value, advanced 2.3 percent to HK$4.96. The lender won’t need
additional fund-raising over the next three years based on
current conditions, President Li Lihui said.  SMI Corp.  climbed 3.2 percent to 49 Hong Kong cents. The
company, which produces television dramas and invests in
property, said it has signed a letter of intent to buy a 90
percent stake in a Beijing “theme town” project for no more
than 930 million yuan ($139 million). The target project will
contain film-production, hotel, shopping and entertainment
facilities, SMI said.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index increased 1.6 percent to
24,065. All but four stocks rose among the measure’s 45
constituents.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 