-- Hong Kong's Sale of Kowloon Tong Site Raises Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-11-03T08:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/hong-kong-land-sale-may-fetch-60-more-than-bid-that-triggered-the-auction.html
Hong Kong sold a building site for
about 20 percent less than surveyors estimated ahead of rules
that restrict sellable areas in apartments as the government
tries to stem a surge in home prices.  Chinachem Group  paid HK$2.17 billion ($280 million) for the
site in Kowloon Tong, the same district where the developer
bought a plot of land in October to set a record price for the
Kowloon Peninsula. Today’s price was below the HK$2.7 billion
median estimate of seven surveyors Bloomberg News surveyed.  The auction was the first after Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said Oct. 13 the government will restrict buildings’
common feature areas, tighten regulation of sales tactics and
study asking builders to list saleable floor areas instead of
building areas when calculating prices.  Home prices  in the city
have surged about 50 percent since the beginning of last year to
their highest since 1997.  “The price is reasonable,”  Shun-Mo Ng , Chinachem’s sales
director, told reporters after the auction. “Bidders were
conservative because of the new rules. It doesn’t show they are
not optimistic about the outlook for the property market.”  The government plans to restrict common features, including
clubhouses, developers claim as part of apartments to 10 percent
of gross floor area from next April, Tsang said in the Oct. 13
policy address. The government also will consider requiring
builders to list saleable floor areas instead of building area
when calculating per-square-foot prices, he said.  ‘More Conservative’  “In the upcoming land auctions, we are likely to see
developers becoming more conservative in bidding as their cost
has increased because of the new rule that limits the common
areas in apartments,” said Hong Kong-based Yu Kam-hung, senior
managing director of valuation and advisory services for Greater
China at CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. Yu said he estimates
sellable areas can currently be inflated by about 30 percent.  Hong Kong has accelerated land auctions since August as
home prices  surged  on record-low mortgage rates and an influx of
wealthy mainland Chinese buyers.  Chinachem paid the equivalent of HK$9,537 per square foot
today for the Inverness Road site which has a maximum buildable
area of 21,138 square meters (227,529 square feet). The auction
was triggered in September after an unidentified developer
promised to pay a minimum of HK$1.716 billion for the land,
according to a  statement  on the government’s website.  Closely held Chinachem will build four 10-story blocks with
a total of 160 units on the site, Ng said. The construction cost,
including the land cost, will be about HK$3 billion, he said.  It’s unlikely Chinachem would be able to submit the
building plans for approval before the deadline for the new
rules, he said.  Land Auctions  A day before the policy address, Chinachem bought a plot on
Ede Road in Kowloon Tong for HK$1.63 billion. The HK$17,976 per-
square-foot price broke a record for the Kowloon Peninsula set
by an adjacent site bought in August by  Kerry Properties Ltd.   Hong Kong has also raised down-payment ratios and stopped
offering residency to foreigners who buy property in the city to
discourage speculation.  Home prices surged 49 percent since the beginning of 2009,
according to an  index  compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd.,
to the highest since 1997, when the city slid into its first
recession in more than a decade after the 1997-1998 Asian
financial crisis, sending property values more than 50 percent
lower until they started recovering in 2003.  An index of private home prices compiled by the Rating and
Valuation Department in Hong Kong shows real-estate values
almost quadrupled from 1990 to the peak in 1997.  Land Auctions  Most government land sales in recent years have been
triggered by the so-called application system whereby developers
promise to pay minimum amounts for sites on a list of available
lots, leading to a public auction.  Land auctions where the government offers plots for sale
without going through the application system have been partially
resumed this year after they were halted in 2004 to support
falling home prices.  Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief Executive Officer Norman
Chan told lawmakers in Hong Kong Nov. 1 that the home market is
overheating, and cautioned that buyers should consider
affordability because interest rates can’t fall further. Hong
Kong rates tend to follow those in the U.S., which are close to
zero, because the local currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  