-- Monte Paschi Plans to Sell First Italian Mortgage Bonds Since 2007 Crisis
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2010-11-03T16:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/monte-paschi-plans-to-sell-first-italian-mortgage-bonds-since-2007-crisis.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, 
the world’s oldest bank, is selling the first Italian mortgage-
backed securities since the start of the credit crisis.  The notes will be sold through Siena Mortgages 7, a vehicle
set up to pool loans into bonds, according to two people with
knowledge of the sale. The Siena, Italy-based lender’s issue is
the first Italian deal since Banca Popolare di Novara SpA and
Credito Bergamasco SpA sold 1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion) of
the debt in June 2007, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show.  Europe’s mortgage-backed securities market virtually shut
after notes linked to U.S. subprime debt slumped in 2007,
causing investors to shun hard-to-value assets. Sales in Europe
restarted last year, led by issues secured on U.K. and Dutch
home loans.  “It’s good news for Italian banks to have securitization
among their funding tools again,” said  Paolo Binarelli , who
helps to manage 1 billion euros of assets at P&G SGR Alternative
Investments SpA in Rome, and was invited to buy the notes.
“Italian transactions will help investors to diversify after
public transactions in Europe have been coming exclusively from
U.K. and Dutch lenders.”  Investors demand 165 basis points more than the euro
interbank offered rate to buy top-rated bonds backed by Italian
mortgages, the lowest spread since May, JPMorgan data show. That
compares with 19 basis points in July 2007. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  European banks sold 71.2 billion euros of asset-backed
securities this year, mostly using residential mortgages and car
loans as collateral, according to JPMorgan data. That compares
with 8.8 billion euros in 2009.  Monte dei Paschi will offer two portions of top-rated
bonds, one with an expected maturity at about 1.6 years and the
other with an average life of three to 3.5 years, the people
said.  JPMorgan and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc will manage
the sale with MPS Capital Services, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Gutscher at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net  