-- Too-Big-to-Fail Lenders Must Curb Pay, Japan Bank Lobby Says
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-11-04T02:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/too-big-to-fail-banks-must-rein-in-pay-japan-banking-lobby-chief-oku-says.html
Banks deemed too big to fail must
rein in executive pay to curb the excessive risk taking that
helped cause the global financial crisis, the head of Japan’s
banking lobby said.  “Compensation levels for the financial industry should be
similar to the range of paychecks for other industries,”
 Masayuki Oku , chairman of the  Japanese Bankers Association , said
in an interview in Tokyo this week.  Pay in the tens of millions of dollars spurred U.S. bankers
to assume greater risks and focus on short-term profit, leading
to the 2008 meltdown, says  Katsuyuki Kubo , a commerce professor
specializing in corporate governance and executive compensation
at Waseda University in Tokyo. The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision last month said lenders are failing to implement
bonus limits that would help to avoid a repeat of the worst
financial turmoil since the Great Depression.  “To prevent the financial sector from derailing,
governance issues such as executives’ ethics and wage policies
must be reviewed and improved,” Oku, 65, who is also chairman
of  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. , said in the Nov. 2
interview.  Executive Pay  No executives at Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest
bank, were paid more than 100 million yen ($1.2 million) in the
12 months ended March. Average pay among 17 top executives at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the third-biggest U.S. bank, was $8.8
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan had
at least $69 billion of losses and writedowns since the credit
crisis started, compared with about $1.3 billion at Sumitomo
Mitsui, Bloomberg data show.  In 2008, U.S. lawmakers criticized bank executives for
reaping bonuses while shareholders bore the brunt of writedowns
on mortgage assets and credit losses.  Richard Fuld , former chief executive officer of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. received $40 million for 2007, almost all
in the form of restricted stock, the company said in March 2008.
Merrill Lynch & Co. said in November that year it would pay  John Thain , then-chief of the U.S. bank, at least $44 million in
bonuses, salary and stock grants for the year.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Japan’s third-biggest lender,
paid only six of its directors more than 100 million yen last
fiscal year. Mizuho’s losses and writedowns during the crisis
exceeded $10 billion, more than any other Asian bank.  Capital Surcharges  Oku said extra capital surcharges or financial rule changes
similar to the U.S. Dodd-Frank law aren’t needed for Japanese
lenders because they mainly focus on commercial banking and
don’t try to boost profits through leveraged financial products.  “Whether to impose surcharges on systemically important
financial institutions should hinge on each government’s
decision,” Oku said. “A one-size-fits-all approach wouldn’t
work because banking business varies from company to company and
from country to country.”  Global regulators are searching for ways to ensure the
world’s most important lenders can withstand financial shocks.
Financial Stability Board Chairman  Mario Draghi  has said capital
and liquidity rules for too-big-to-fail banks may differ between
countries.  The U.S., U.K. and Switzerland are considering imposing
capital surcharges on their largest lenders on top of minimum
rules for banks proposed by the Basel Committee in September.
Japan’s Financial Services Agency said on Oct. 6 that it’s not
considering extra capital requirements for big banks.  Raised Capital  Sumitomo Mitsui, Mizuho and larger rival Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. raised about 4.5 trillion yen in total by
selling shares in the past two years, bolstering their balance
sheets as regulators called for lenders to hold more capital.  “Japanese banks should go abroad at a faster pace and
invest in more assets there to seek profit growth,” said
 Yoshinobu Yamada , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.
“They wouldn’t see a brighter future if they stay inside
Japan.”  Mitsubishi UFJ is in talks to buy project-finance assets
valued at about 4 billion pounds ($6.4 billion) from Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc., two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said yesterday.  Oku said that while Japanese banks will meet the new Basel
standards, they face a challenging few years as the need to hold
more capital limits the risks they can take to increase profit.
The  Topix Banks Index  dropped to a record low on Nov. 1 as
Japan’s stagnant  economy  dimmed domestic earnings prospects. The
index climbed 1.6 percent at the 11 a.m. break in Tokyo today.  “How to address these regulation changes is the biggest
issue for banks over the next two years,” Oku said. “Bearing
these rules in mind, we need to determine how we can enter
growing markets to expand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 