-- Morgan Stanley-Backed Atlantis Targets India, China for Tidal Power Plants
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-11-03T09:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/morgan-stanley-backed-atlantis-targets-india-china-for-tidal-power-plants.html
Atlantis Resources Corp., an ocean-
current turbine maker backed by Morgan Stanley, plans to expand
in China, India and South Korea after winning a bid in the U.K.
to build the world’s largest tidal-power project.  Atlantis Resources may start building a 50 megawatt tidal
farm by 2012 in Gujarat, a western Indian state, and conduct
commercial-scale trials in South Korea,  Timothy Cornelius , the
chief executive officer, said an interview today.  “China’s the next big market for tidal energy,” Cornelius,
34, said in Singapore at the Clean Energy conference. “It has
the most natural tidal resources in the world and can be home to
more than 1,000 megawatts of tidal energy.”  Global production of electricity harnessing the ocean waves
may climb ten-fold to as much as 300 megawatts in the next
couple of years, said Cornelius, a former submersible engineer
who splits his time between Singapore and London. The potential
to produce marine power economically is about 24,000 megawatts,
he said. It costs 2.5 million pounds ($4.01 million) per
megawatt for a minimum 200 megawatt-tidal project, he said.  The Singapore-registered Atlantis Resources, which
outsources turbine making, is seeking a global manufacturing
site once tidal energy expands, Cornelius said. Producing
turbines in China can halve costs for Atlantis, which has been
approached by Chinese companies, he said.  Morgan Stanley,  International Power Plc  and Atlantis
Resources won a contract to develop a tidal power project in
waters off northern Scotland. The project, if it receives
permits necessary for construction, could eventually generate
400 megawatts of electricity, the equivalent needed to power
400,000 homes, according to a statement on Oct. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  