-- Lloyds Names Santander's Horta-Osorio CEO, Replacing Daniels
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-11-03T16:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/lloyds-said-to-be-set-to-name-santander-s-horta-osorio-as-chief-executive.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, named  Antonio Horta-Osorio  as chief
executive officer, depriving Banco Santander SA of the executive
preparing its U.K. division for an initial public offering.  The Portuguese national will replace  Eric Daniels  as Lloyds
CEO on March 1, the London-based lender said in a statement
today. Daniels, 59, led Lloyds’ takeover of HBOS Plc in Sept.
2008, a purchase that forced the lender to seek a 17 billion-
pound ($27 billion) government bailout.  Horta-Osorio, 46, led Santander’s expansion in Britain
during the past two years, buying up Alliance & Leicester Plc as
well as parts of Bradford & Bingley Plc and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  during the credit crisis, to add to the Abbey
unit Santander acquired in 2004. The bank is preparing to sell a
stake in its U.K. division in an IPO next year.  “It’s now going to be difficult to proceed with the IPO,”
said  Andrea Williams , who helps manage about $1.1 billion at
Royal London Asset Management in London. “It’s quite a
surprise. He’s done a good job at Santander.”  Ana Patricia Botin , daughter of Santander Chairman Emilio Botin , will succeed Horta-Osorio, according to two people
familiar with the situation. Officials at the banks declined to
comment. She was previously chairman of  Banco Espanol de Credito
SA .  Lloyds  gained  2.7 percent to 69.2 pence at the close of
trading in London, valuing the bank at 47.2 billion pounds.
Santander, based in the Spanish city of the same name, dropped
3.5 percent to 8.69 euros in Madrid.  ‘Might Struggle’  Santander “might struggle to IPO Abbey with an
unfamiliar” CEO,  Bruce Packard , an analyst at Seymour Pierce
Ltd. in London, wrote in a note to clients today. “From a
Lloyds perspective, we think he is a credible external
appointment.”  Daniels said in September he would step down within 12
months after the bank returned to profit. Lloyds yesterday
forecast a “good” financial performance for 2010. The lender
posted a profit in the fiscal first-half, its first since the
HBOS purchase.  Horta-Osorio joins a bank that’s been shrinking following a
taxpayer-funded rescue. Lloyds has sold assets, among them its
Bank of Scotland Integrated Finance investment unit and cut more
than 22,000 jobs since its rescue. The bank still has to sell
600 branches by 2013 to comply with European Union state aid
rules. In all, Lloyds plans to shrink its balance sheet by 200
billion pounds by 2014.  Government Inquiry  At Lloyds, Horta-Osorio will also face a government inquiry
into competition among British lenders. The panel, led by  John Vickers , may decide to recommend breaking up some of Britain’s
banks. Lloyds has a 28 percent share of the mortgage lending
market following its takeover of HBOS.  He will also have to cut the lender’s dependence on about
120 billion pounds of central bank funding and oversee the
reduction of the government’s 41 percent stake in the lender,
analysts said.  “We have appointed a very well-qualified person to this
job,” Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman  Steve Field  told
reporters in London. “It is in the taxpayer’s interest that the
bank is run well,” he said.  “We will be able to turn around this bank into the next
phase of its development and this will be good news for the
taxpayers, the employees and ultimately the U.K. economy,”
Horta-Osorio told reporters today.  Three New CEOs  Lloyds is the third of Britain’s banks to name a new CEO in
the past two months.  Barclays Plc , Britain’s third-biggest
lender, said in September that American-born  Robert Diamond 
would replace  John Varley . The same month, HSBC Holdings Plc,
Europe’s biggest bank, replaced CEO  Michael Geoghegan  with
 Stuart Gulliver .  Horta-Osorio began his career at Citibank in Portugal,
where he was head of capital markets, according to Santander’s
website. He worked for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  in New York and
London in corporate finance, and in 1993 joined Santander has
head of Banco Santander de Negocios Portugal.  He joined Abbey as a non-executive director in November
2004 and became CEO of the division in August 2006. He is a
member of Santander’s management committee.  Santander U.K. had a 19 percent share of mortgage lending
in the third quarter and a 14 percent share of total mortgage
stock. Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, last week said it will
miss its 2010 earnings goal after bad loans caused its lowest
quarterly profit in more than four years. Net income at Horta-
Osorio’s U.K. unit has doubled to 1.55 billion euros ($2.2
billion) in the first nine months of this year, compared with
743 million euros in the same period of 2006.  ‘Emotionally Difficult’  The decision to leave Santander was “emotionally very
difficult,” Horta-Osorio said. “There is nothing about
Santander that I have to say in any negative way.”  Horta-Osorio will be taking a “major reduction in his
compensation” when he joins Lloyds, Chairman  Win Bischoff  told
journalists in a conference call.  He will be given a package worth as much as 7.5 million
pounds including an annual salary of 1 million pounds, an annual
bonus of as much as 225 percent of salary and a long term
performance-based share incentive of as much as 420 percent of
salary for 2011 that vests in three years. He’ll also be
compensated for loss of deferred cash and shares and pension
benefits that he is forgoing at Santander. His U.K. salary and
short-term bonus at Santander is 3.4 million pounds, excluding
performance awards, said Bischoff.  His performance will also be judged against the bank’s
lending to “small and medium-sized” businesses, Lloyds said.  Daniels was paid 1.12 million pounds last year, including a
salary of 1 million pounds, according to the bank’s annual
report. He waived his bonus for the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  