-- Toyota's Lexus Widens Luxury Sales Lead Over Mercedes, BMW
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-11-03T21:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/toyota-s-lexus-widens-u-s-luxury-sales-lead-over-mercedes-bmw.html
Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Lexus, buoyed by
consumer discounts, beat out Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW brand in October to lead
monthly U.S. luxury-auto sales for the first time since May.  Lexus sales rose 8.1 percent to 21,091 vehicles, the Toyota
City, Japan-based automaker said yesterday in a statement. On
Nov. 2, BMW reported a 17 percent gain to 19,272 and Mercedes
posted an increase of less than 1 percent to 18,351.  Lexus, the top-selling U.S. luxury brand since 2000, is
being challenged this year as Toyota copes with  record recalls 
and as Mercedes and BMW benefit from new models. Lexus more than
doubled average incentive spending in October to $2,152 a
vehicle from $923 a year earlier, according to TrueCar.com, an
auto pricing website.  The Toyota unit has been “much more aggressive than
they’ve ever been,”  Jim O’Donnell , president of BMW’s North
American unit, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve now got
Lexus joining the fray where they’ve always stood on the
sideline and sort of watched.”  U.S. sales for this year through October totaled 183,529
for Lexus, 178,080 for Mercedes and 176,736 for Munich-based
BMW, the global leader in luxury-vehicle deliveries.  The totals don’t include non-luxury models such as BMW’s
Mini cars or Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler’s Smart cars and
Sprinter vans.  Toyota’s incentive spending and increased advertising in
October helped boost Lexus sales,  Jesse Toprak , vice president
of industry trends at Santa Monica, California-based TrueCar,
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  ‘Photo Finish’  “They clearly want that No. 1 spot for the year,” he
said. “Don’t know if that necessarily is going to happen.
Looking at the historical sales in December, Benz tends to do
quite well. I think it’s going to be a photo finish.”  The Toyota unit used “moderate incentives” to help trim
inventory, Mark Templin, U.S. group vice president for Lexus,
said on a conference call yesterday.  The automaker enhanced incentives on 2010 models in
particular in anticipation of higher volume than actually
occurred, he said. As a result, “I think we’ll carry out our
2010 incentives for remainder of the year,” Templin said.  Mercedes has been helped this year by a 53 percent jump in
sales of its redesigned E-Class, introduced in 2009. The Daimler
unit boosted average incentive spending 9.4 percent in October
to $4,389, according to TrueCar.  “They are coming out with a lot of attractive lease
deals,” Toprak said.  ‘Be Competitive’  Mercedes isn’t planning to increase incentive spending at
the end of the year,  Michael Slagter , vice president of sales
for the brand’s U.S. unit, said in an interview.  “We’ll be competitive and do what we need to do to be
competitive in the market,” he said.  BMW’s October gains were held back by lack of inventory of
the new X3 sport-utility vehicle, which is reaching showrooms
late this year, O’Donnell said in the Nov. 2 interview. Sales of
the redesigned 5 Series rose 62 percent to 4,925, helped by the
arrival of the sedan’s all-wheel-drive version that makes it
more competitive with the Mercedes E-Class, he said.  The 5 Series still has room for sales growth,  Jessica Caldwell , an analyst at auto-information website Edmunds.com in
Santa Monica, said in a telephone interview. “It’s probably
going to take a little bit more time to catch on.”  BMW’s average incentive spending fell 34 percent in October
to $3,179, TrueCar said.  Cadillac, Lincoln  Sales for  General Motors Co. ’s Cadillac luxury division
rose 15 percent to 13,393 last month, as the redesigned SRX
sport-utility vehicle gained 27 percent. Cadillac cut average
incentives 12 percent to $4,896, according to TrueCar.  “More than half of SRX buyers came from non-GM vehicles,”
said  Don Johnson , Detroit-based GM’s vice president for U.S.
sales. Cadillac has increased sales for nine months in a row and
“continues to be the industry’s fastest-growing luxury brand,”
he said.  The GM unit’s deliveries gained 40 percent this year
through October.  Ford Motor Co.  sold 6,834 Lincoln luxury vehicles in
October, a 1.5 percent increase from a year earlier, according
to a statement from the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker.
Sales of Lincoln’s Town Car more than doubled to 988. The
brand’s incentive spending rose 14 percent to an average $4,797,
according to TrueCar.  Honda Motor Co., based in Tokyo, said sales for its Acura
brand rose 13 percent to 11,011 last month.  U.S. deliveries of Wolfsburg, Germany-based  Volkswagen AG ’s
Audi brand were up 10 percent to 8,128 vehicles. Stuttgart-based
Porsche SE, which is merging with Volkswagen, reported that
sales increased 61 percent to 2,647.  Tata Motors Ltd.  posted gains of 47 percent to 1,295
vehicles for the Mumbai-based company’s Jaguar brand and 37
percent to 2,958 for Land Rover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  