-- HP Accuses Oracle of Harassing New CEO With SAP Trial Subpoena
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/hp-refuses-trial-subpoena-for-apotheker-to-testify-in-lawsuit-against-sap.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. , accusing Oracle
Corp. of harassing its new chief executive officer, refused to
accept service of a subpoena requiring  Leo Apotheker  to testify
at a trial over SAP AG’s downloading of Oracle software.  SAP, the largest maker of software for business
applications, is defending itself against a 2007 lawsuit by
Oracle over what SAP has acknowledged were “inappropriate”
downloads by a now-defunct software maintenance unit. Oracle
will show a videotaped deposition of Apotheker, SAP’s former
CEO, today and Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison  will testify tomorrow,
SAP said yesterday.  Mylene Mangalindan , a spokeswoman for HP, said in an
e-mailed statement that Oracle chose not to include Apotheker as
a live trial witness until he was named CEO of HP.  “Oracle had ample opportunity to question Leo during his
sworn deposition in October 2008,” Mangalindan said. “Given
Leo’s limited knowledge of and role in the matter, Oracle’s
last-minute effort to require him to appear live at trial is no
more than an effort to harass him and interfere with his duties
and responsibilities as HP’s CEO.”  Oracle , in its trial that began this week in federal court
in Oakland, California, is seeking billions of dollars in
damages from SAP, according to court documents. A lawyer for
Oracle told jurors on Nov. 2 that Apotheker “was very
involved” with the unit, called TomorrowNow.  “Mr. Apotheker started work for HP on Monday, but it now
appears that the HP Board of Directors has decided to keep him
away from HP’s headquarters and outside the court’s
jurisdiction,” Oracle’s spokeswoman,  Deborah Hellinger , said in
an e-mail. “We will continue to try to serve him.”  Replacing Hurd  Apotheker went to HP after  Mark Hurd  resigned as CEO amid a
scandal over a personal relationship with a company contractor.
Ellison, 66, hired Hurd, saying in a letter to the New York
Times that HP’s board had made “the worst personnel decision
since the idiots on the Apple board fired  Steve Jobs  many years
ago.”  Apotheker, 57, didn’t become SAP’s sole chief executive
until after TomorrowNow was shut down in 2008, said  Bill Wohl ,
an SAP spokesman. The executive was an SAP board member when
Walldorf, Germany-based SAP bought TomorrowNow, a Bryan, Texas-
based company that offered to maintain and support software for
customers of Peoplesoft Inc. and JD Edwards & Co., both acquired
by Oracle.  Illegal Copies  Oracle claims TomorrowNow made thousands of illegal copies
of its software by using customers’ access codes instead of
licensing the code from Oracle. SAP’s aim was to use TomorrowNow
to steal customers from Oracle, lawyers for the company told the
jury in opening arguments.  SAP has accepted liability for the unit’s conduct, says it
never had access to Oracle’s intellectual property and claims
Oracle’s $2 billion damage estimate is grossly exaggerated. SAP
owes Oracle at most $40 million in damages, SAP’s lawyer told
the jury on Nov. 2.  Hellinger declined to comment about Ellison’s appearance.
She said in an e-mail that the company will call former Oracle
president  Charles Phillips  and SAP executive  John Zepecki  as
witnesses today. She said Zepecki will be questioned by  David Boies , an attorney for Oracle.  Boies, managing partner at Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP,
represented the U.S. in its antitrust case against Microsoft
Corp. and Vice President  Al Gore  against  George W. Bush  in the
2000 presidential election.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 