-- Titanium Find in Paraguay May Be World’s Largest
-- B y   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h ,   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-11-04T13:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/paraguay-titanium-find-may-be-world-s-largest-american-prospector-says.html
The American explorer who discovered
the world’s biggest copper deposit in  Chile  has staked a claim
in Paraguay to what he says may be the largest titanium find.  David Lowell, 82, the president of closely held CIC
Resources Inc., controls mineral rights to at least 185,000
hectares (457,000 acres), according to Paraguay’s sub-ministry
of mining and energy. That is an area the size of  London . The
possible resources are 21 billion metric tons, Lowell said.  “Our deposit could control the world titanium market, a
big enough piece of production that whoever operates it would
dictate what the price is going to be,” Lowell said in an
interview. “And the price, presumably, would be reduced by
having higher-grade ore and large tonnage.”  The geologist is in Hong Kong this week presenting his
discovery to investors at a conference on the global titanium
market sponsored by TZ Minerals International, a Western  Australia  consulting firm that specializes in the mineral. The
project could produce between 5 million and 10 million tons of
titanium ore per year with a potential operating life of 100
years, he said today outside the conference.  Indicated and inferred resources are 5.3 billion tons at an
ore grade of 7.8 percent, Lowell said. Ore concentrate is quoted
at $90 to $110 a metric ton depending on the grade, according to
Reg Adams, a titanium dioxide researcher at Artikol N.L. in
London.  Save Costs  Chinese companies are among potential buyers Lowell said he
is talking with. The nation’s manufacturing and construction
industries are driving demand for ore that produces the white
pigment found in paint, paper, plastic and even toothpaste as
well as light-weight aerospace materials.  Boeing Co .’s new 787
Dreamliner, which is slated to enter service this year, and the
construction of industrial plants such as water-desalination
facilities, also boost demand for the metal.  The mineral “has a high strength-to-weight ratio,” Lowell
said. “If you could reduce the price sufficiently, you could
build all commercial airliner bodies out of it and save fuel
costs on long flights. The same goes for automobiles.” His
company, CIC Resources, is based in  Vancouver .  While the material is abundant in the earth’s crust, the
2008 financial crisis delayed new ore production, says Gary
McMahill, a senior consultant at DuPont Titanium Technologies,
the world’s largest manufacturer of titanium dioxide pigment. It
is a unit of DuPont Co. in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “Now what we’re seeing is a tightening of supply,”
McMahill said in an interview.  Economies of Scale  Lowell’s claim is in the Alto Parana district in eastern
Paraguay near the border with  Brazil . The ore he says he has
found is known as ilmenite, the type predominately used in  China . Some of the world’s largest known deposits of ilmenite
are in Mozambique, Madagascar and South Africa, according to Ben
Coetzee, a TZMI consultant based in Durban,  South Africa .
Continental Africa accounts for half the world’s supply of the
material, he said.  “If you find an ilmenite deposit that is rich enough and
large enough, that would be interesting to us,” Victor Hugo,
general manager for product and technical development at
Australia’s  Iluka Resources Ltd ., said at the conference. Iluka
is a Perth-based titanium miner and processor.  Mining ilmenite needs economies of scale because it’s a
low-cost input in a range of products, said Trevor Arran,
executive general manager for mineral sands and base metals at  Exxaro Resources Ltd ., a South African producer of titanium,
zinc and coal.  The project would require a $500 million investment to get
5 million metric tons a year of ore, Lowell said.  Price Projection  Two of the world’s largest mining companies, Melbourne,
Australia-based  BHP Billiton Ltd . and London-based Rio Tinto
Group, jointly operate the Richards Bay Minerals titanium
dioxide mines in South Africa, among the world’s biggest. Rio
Tinto also owns a titanium dioxide operation in  Quebec .  Producers include  Huntsman Corp ., based in Salt Lake City,  Kronos Worldwide Inc . in  Dallas  and National Titanium Dioxide
Co., part of Saudi Arabia-based Cristal Global.  Asia-Pacific demand for pigment was expected to grow 30
percent to 2.16 million metric tons between 2008 and 2013,
according to a TZMI estimate published earlier this year by
Cristal Global.  Paraguay Legislation  In March 1981, Lowell unearthed the Escondida copper
deposit, the world’s largest, in Chile’s Atacama Desert. It
produced $6 billion of copper last year, according to majority
owner BHP. Two Chinese companies paid a combined $1.5 billion
for two copper discoveries he made earlier this decade in Peru
and Ecuador.  In September, the lower house of Paraguay’s congress passed
a law to strengthen mineral claims in a country that has no
history of large-scale mining. Juan Antonio Denis, head of the
mining and energy committee in the Chamber of Deputies, said in
an interview that Lowell requested the legislation.  Lowell “told us we had to adjust our legislation to
regional standards, and that’s what we set out to do,” Denis
said. “We want David Lowell to come work in Paraguay.”  The legislation is now before the senate.  “There will be a time lag inevitably to get the mine
constructed, at least three to five years,” said Adams at
Artikol. “In a place like Paraguay, they may be into making
infrastructure improvements as well.” He described Lowell’s
discovery as “huge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elliot Blair Smith in  Washington  at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Wing-Gar Cheng in  Hong Kong  at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 