-- Paulson's Biggest Hedge Fund Said to Advance 2.6% in October
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-11-03T16:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/paulson-s-biggest-hedge-fund-said-to-advance-2-6-in-october.html
John Paulson , who became a
billionaire by betting against U.S. mortgage markets, gained 2.6
percent with his largest hedge fund in October, extending a
rebound from losses earlier this year, said two people briefed
on the performance.  The Advantage Plus Fund, which uses strategies designed to
profit from corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies,
beat the 0.6 percent loss by an index of similar hedge funds,
according to Hedge Fund Research Inc. in Chicago. The fund is up
2.5 percent in 2010, compared with the 1.4 percent gain by the
HFR Event Driven Index.  Paulson & Co., which oversees about $32 billion, had bet on
an economic recovery by 2012, before the New York-based firm
scaled back its bullish investments. Paulson, 54, said in
September that he believes the global recovery remains intact,
and that he expects to make money in the next two years with the
stocks of companies going through bankruptcies, restructurings
and reorganizations.  Paulson’s smaller Advantage Fund gained 1.7 percent in
October and 1.4 percent this year, according to the people, who
asked not to be named because the information isn’t public. The
Credit Opportunities Fund rose 2.7 percent last month, bringing
its year-to-date return to 12.4 percent.  The Recovery Fund advanced 0.5 percent last month and 7.8
percent this year, while the Gold Fund jumped 3.5 percent in
October and 26 percent this year. Paulson’s Partners Enhanced
Fund, which seeks to profit on mergers, rose 7.3 percent in
October and 16 percent for the year.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  