-- Paul, Portman, Rubio Lead Fresh Lineup in Congress After Republican Gains
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t ,   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2010-11-03T05:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/paul-portman-rubio-lead-fresh-lineup-in-congress-after-republicans-win.html
Voter frustration over the economy
and dissatisfaction with Washington returned control of the U.S.
House of Representatives to Republicans and strengthened the
party’s hold on the  Senate.   The newly elected Republican senators include Tea Party-
backed candidates like  Rand Paul  of Kentucky, son of the 2008
presidential aspirant, Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, and
Florida’s  Marco Rubio , who defeated a sitting governor in his
bid, and establishment candidates such as  Rob Portman  of Ohio, a
former budget director for President  George W. Bush .  The new House Republicans include  Tim Scott , the first
black lawmaker from South Carolina since 1897,  Stephen Fincher ,
a farmer and gospel singer from Tennessee, and  Jon Runyan , a
former offensive lineman for the Philadelphia Eagles.  “When you have these tide elections, you get a lot of
amateurs coming into Congress, and the corollary to that is they
don’t know how to govern and, in this particular group, doesn’t
particularly want to govern,” said  Linda Fowler , a professor of
government at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire.  Replacing Democratic leaders who have backed  President
 Barack Obama ’s agenda come Republicans who are ready to extend
the Bush-era tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 for all income levels,
repeal and replace the health-care law, thwart any “cap and
trade” energy legislation and freeze spending at 2008 levels
with a $100-billion cut in domestic spending.  Here are profiles of a dozen new Republican and Democratic
lawmakers in the House, and the same number in the Senate:  HOUSE  Stephen Fincher  Stephen Fincher , a Republican farmer and gospel singer,
focused his campaign on opposition to Obama’s record to win the
House seat in Tennessee being given up by Democrat  John Tanner .  Fincher, 37, a native of Frog Jump in western Tennessee,
defeated Democratic state Senator  Roy Herron . Calling for repeal
of the health-care overhaul passed by Democrats this year,
Fincher traversed the district in a bus with a sign saying
“Stop Obama Pelosi,” referring to House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi ,
a California Democrat.  A political novice, Fincher didn’t attend college. He
joined his family’s farming business, which grows cotton,
soybeans and other crops. At age 9, he became part of the
 Fincher Family  singing ministry, a gospel group led by his
grandmother that traveled to county fairs.  Although he advocates a free-market-oriented agenda,
Fincher wasn’t initially embraced by Tea Party activists who
support limited government, in part because he accepts about
$200,000 annually in federal farm subsidies.  Fincher supports permanent extension of the Bush-era tax
cuts for all income groups. On his website, he advocates working
“toward abolishing the capital-gains tax and business tax.”  His campaign spent $2.2 million through Oct. 13, with
$290,478 coming from the agricultural industry.  Tim Scott  Tim Scott  won an open South Carolina House seat, defeating
Democratic businessman Ben Frasier to become the first black
Republican to represent the state in Congress in more than  100
years .  Scott, a 45-year-old state legislator and insurance
salesman, won the seat of retiring Republican Representative
 Henry Brown Jr . after defeating  Paul Thurmond  -- son of the late
Senator  Strom Thurmond  -- in a June runoff for the party’s
nomination. There hasn’t been a black Republican in the House
for eight years.  With backing from former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin  and
Tea Party activists, Scott advocated a low-tax, less-government
message in the Charleston-area district. He criticized
congressional earmarks as “corrupt,” described Democrats as
“socialists,” and said he wanted to move the Republican Party
toward “the far conservative right.”  Scott also calls the recently enacted health-care law
unconstitutional, opposes regulation of carbon emissions, and
urges that the Bush-era tax cuts be extended for all income
levels.  As a member of the Charleston County Council, he displayed
the Ten Commandments outside council chambers, triggering a
judge’s order to take the display down. In the state
legislature, he introduced an immigration bill modeled on the
new Arizona law. His campaign spent $734,501 through Oct. 13,
with $69,750 raised from real-estate interests. The  Club for
Growth , which promotes  curbs on spending and taxes , raised
$58,650.  Daniel Webster  Republican Daniel Webster  of Florida triumphed over one of
his party’s top targets, freshman Democratic Representative  Alan
Grayson , an outspoken advocate of the health-care law.  Webster, 61, has a long legislative career, serving as
speaker of the Florida House and state Senate majority leader.  He has carried his own philosophy into politics. Webster
home-schooled his six children with the curriculum of the
 Institute in Basic Life Principles , a Christian organization he
credits with influencing his life.  In the state Senate, he led efforts to prolong the life of
Terri Schiavo, who was being cared for at a Florida hospice,
over the objections of Michael Schiavo, her husband. Terri
Schiavo had suffered severe brain damage due to a cardiac arrest
in 1990; eight years later she was determined to be in a
persistent vegetative state. After a protracted legal battle
over removal of her feeding tube, she died in 2005.  Webster supports eliminating the estate tax and ending
taxes on investments. He calls for strengthening U.S. borders to
prevent immigrants from entering illegally and for stronger
penalties for employers hiring them.  Grayson spent more than $5 million on his losing effort
through Oct. 13, who spent less than $1 million. The Republican
was aided by outside groups not required to disclose their
donors; these organizations spent $1.2 million on ads between
Sept. 1 and Oct. 24. Webster received $22,650 from employees in
the real-estate industry.  Cory Gardner  Republican  Cory Gardner , a state representative and former
aide to a U.S. senator, defeated one-term Democratic
Representative  Betsy Markey  in a sprawling district in northern
and eastern Colorado.  Gardner, 36, was praised by Republican leaders, including
Representative  Kevin McCarthy  of California, chief recruiter of
his party’s candidates this year.  “He’ll be able to put things together in the House,”
McCarthy said.  During the campaign, Gardner targeted Markey’s votes for
the economic stimulus package, a “cap and trade” energy bill
and the health-care overhaul.  He opposed Congress’s overhaul of financial regulations,
complaining that it didn’t do anything to transform  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage-finance companies operating under
U.S. conservatorship. He also ran as an opponent of federal
“bailouts,” including the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief
Program and the “cash for clunkers” program to boost
automobile sales.  Gardner will be an ally of any Republican effort to repeal
or scale back the Democratic-written health-care law. He says
that small businesses should pool their risk and that
individuals should be allowed to purchase insurance across state
lines.  He supports a balanced-budget constitutional amendment to
help reduce the  debt  and calls for cutting spending at federal
agencies. He backs free-trade agreements as a boon to the
district’s agricultural economy.  Gardner spent $1.9 million on his campaign through Oct. 13.
Individuals and groups linked to the oil and gas industry
donated $88,690.  Jon Runyan  Jon Runyan , 36, unseated one-term Democratic Representative
 John Adler  in a swath of south-central New Jersey that has
traditionally voted Republican.  Though he was a first-time candidate, Runyan already was
well-known locally as a former offensive lineman for the
National Football League’s  Philadelphia Eagles , who have plenty
of fans in southern New Jersey. He played 13 years in the NFL,
retiring after the 2009 season.  Runyan supports cutting income-tax rates across the board
by 15 percent and reducing the corporate tax rate to 25 percent.
He would cut the capital-gains tax by at least half and
permanently repeal estate taxes. He supports a balanced-budget
constitutional amendment and a supermajority requirement to pass
a tax increase.  He supports creating a “red ink tax force” to review the
federal budget and weed out inefficiencies.  Runyan backs term limits for members of Congress and has
pledged to serve no more than eight years. He would replace the
Obama administration’s  health-care overhaul  with a market-based
plan, including a provision to allow individuals to purchase
insurance across state lines.  Runyan spent $947,000 on his campaign through Oct. 13. He
received $4,800 from Christopher Myers, a vice president of
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp . He took in $2,500
from the political action committee of  Reynolds American Inc. ,
based in Winston Salem, North Carolina.  Scott Rigell  Scott Rigell , a wealthy car dealer and first-time candidate
for political office, unseated one-term Democratic
Representative  Glenn Nye  in a district in and around Virginia
Beach.  Rigell, 50, ran as a critic of the Obama administration’s
 economic policies , including its stimulus law and overhauls of
health-care policy and financial industry regulations. He would
vote to repeal the health-care law and replace it with market-
based solutions to insure more Americans and lower costs, which
critics say would offer coverage to far fewer of the uninsured
than the Obama plan.  Military readiness is a concern for Rigell, who will
represent a district that includes the  world’s largest naval
base in Norfolk  and wants to secure a seat on the Armed Services
Committee. He supports increasing military spending and beefing
up security along the U.S.-Mexico border.  Rigell signed a pledge from  Americans for Tax Reform , an
anti-tax advocacy organization, that he would never vote for a
tax increase. He supports increasing H1-B visas to bring
scientists and technology engineers to the U.S. from overseas
and backs increased penalties for businesses that knowingly hire
illegal immigrants.  Rigell spent $2.8 million on his campaign, including more
than $2.4 million of his own money. People in the automotive
industry donated $56,550.  Bill Flores  Bill Flores , an oil and gas executive who formerly headed
Phoenix Exploration Co., defeated 10-term Democratic
Representative  Chet Edwards  in a central Texas district that
includes Waco and former President  George W. Bush ’s ranch in
Crawford.  A ninth-generation Texan and one of just a few Hispanic
Republicans in the next Congress, Flores, 56, promoted his
business experience during his first campaign for political
office. Flores, who holds a master’s degree in business, said he
helped create 500 jobs.  A self-described “limited-government conservative,”
Flores said he would vote to cut corporate tax rates.  “The federal government does not create private sector
jobs,” he said during an Oct. 24 debate with Edwards.  Flores wants to end Obama’s economic stimulus plan and
 health-care overhaul .  He supports a  balanced-budget  constitutional amendment and
the elimination of earmarks, the federal funding that lawmakers
obtain for home-district projects.  He spent $2.6 million on his campaign as of Oct. 13 and was
its biggest donor, putting in more than $1.1 million of personal
funds. He received about $127,000 from the oil and gas industry.  Nan Hayworth  Nan Hayworth , an ophthalmologist, rode the election’s
Republican wave to defeat two-term Democrat  John Hall  in New
York’s Hudson Valley-based House district. Hall was a singer-
songwriter with the group  Orleans , best known for the 1976
single “Still the One.”  Hayworth, 50, cautioned during the campaign that the
Federal Reserve would have to raise interest rates if the
deficit is not reduced. Still, she champions proposals that some
say would widen the  deficit : extending all of the Bush-era tax
cuts, eliminating the estate tax and ending the alternative
minimum tax. She calls for a freeze on non-military
discretionary spending, which would affect most government
agencies.  A political newcomer, she also proposes tax credits to
encourage the development of alternative energy such as solar,
wind and bio-fuels. She opposes additional government aid to
failing banks.  Hayworth, 50, cited her experience as a physician in
opposing the health-care overhaul. She said that under the law,
“health care will effectively be nationalized.”  She lent her campaign $500,000 and spent $1.5 million
through Oct. 13; Hall spent $1.9 million. Hayworth received
$112,950 from health-care professionals and $93,131 from those
working in the securities and investment industry, including
$72,400 from Vestar Capital Partners, a New York buyout firm.  Vicky Hartzler  Vicky Hartzler , a former Missouri state representative,
unseated 17-term Democratic Representative  Ike Skelton , the
chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.  Hartzler, 50, was the spokeswoman for a 2004 effort to ban
same-sex marriage in Missouri and is the author of a book,
“Running God’s Way.” She says her focus in Congress will be on
boosting the economy in west-central Missouri.  She wants to repeal the estate tax and provide small
businesses with a 20 percent tax deduction to help them create
jobs. She also wants to repeal as much of the health-care
overhaul as possible. To get expenses more in line with revenue,
she supports a  balanced-budget amendment  and presidential line-
item veto as well as a freeze on non-defense discretionary
spending.  House Minority Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio has promised
Hartzler a seat on the Armed Services Committee. She would
enhance security on the U.S.-Mexico border and mandate the use
of the E-Verify system to confirm immigrants’ eligibility for
employment.  Hartzler spent $730,946 on her campaign through Oct. 13.
She received more money from agriculture interests, $47,781,
than any other industry. American Farm Bureau employees gave her
$5,000, crop production and basic processing interests $23,081.  Steve Stivers  Steve Stivers , a onetime bank lobbyist, won a central Ohio
House seat for Republicans in a rematch with freshman Democrat
 Mary Jo Kilroy .  The incumbent sought to contrast her support for reining in
Wall Street against Stivers’ career promoting the financial
industry. That pitch resonated two years ago, when Kilroy
defeated Stivers by about 2,300 votes.  This year, Kilroy promoted her backing of the financial-
regulation overhaul. That took a back seat, though, to the
economy and jobs in the Columbus area, where  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  is the largest private employer.  Stivers, 45, is a former state senator who worked as a
lobbyist for Bank One. He opposes the financial regulation law,
saying, “Overall, it costs too much money and it costs jobs.”  He also changed some positions this year to reach out to
Tea Party activists pushing limited government. While open in
2008 to requiring everyone to buy health insurance, he said this
year that he opposed the health-care law because it would drive
up business costs.  His campaign spent $1.7 million through Oct. 13, with
$83,300 raised from law firms and $76,500 from health-care
professionals. His biggest source of campaign donations came
from employees of  American Electric Power Co. , based in
Columbus, Ohio, who gave $46,700.  Paul Gosar  Republican  Paul Gosar , once voted Arizona’s dentist of the
year, ousted freshman Democrat  Ann Kirkpatrick  in an Arizona
House district.  Helping Gosar win his party’s nomination was an endorsement
from former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, who highlighted his
opposition to the health-care overhaul and Kirkpatrick’s vote
for it.  Gosar, 51, emphasized the business and medical expertise he
gained operating his dental practice. He calls for more
competition among health insurers and for legislation to make it
harder for people injured by medical malpractice to sue for
damages.  During his campaign he said it was  “astonishing”  that
Congress passed new regulations on the financial industry in
response to the economic crisis. Instead of new laws, he said,
the Securities and Exchange Commission and other enforcement
agencies should do their jobs better.  He supports extending all of the Bush-era tax cuts. Asked
by the Flagstaff, Arizona-based Daily Sun newspaper about the
causes of the recession, he identified “the cornerstone of the
problem as being government.”  Gosar spent $707,738 on his campaign through Oct. 13.
Kirkpatrick spent $1.7 million. Dentists and other health
professionals gave him more than $200,000. He also was helped by
$675,689 in spending by pro-Republican outside groups, which
aren’t required to list their donors.  John Carney  John Carney  of Delaware is a Democrat who won a Republican-
held House seat, a rarity in the midterm elections. A former
lieutenant governor, Carney was elected to the seat  Mike Castle 
gave up to seek the Republican Senate nomination.  Carney, 54, got his break in the race when the Republican
favored by state party leaders,  Michele Rollins , lost the
nomination to developer  Glen Urquhart  in the primary. Both
Urquhart and  Christine O’Donnell , who beat Castle for the
Republican Senate nod, were supported by Tea Party activists
calling for less government spending. O’Donnell lost her general
election bid.  Before serving as lieutenant governor from 2001 to 2009, he
was state finance secretary.  He supports a temporary extension of all Bush-era tax cuts
scheduled to expire at year’s end, including those for upper-
income Americans. He told the Lewes, Delaware-based Cape Gazette
newspaper that he wants to create job opportunities “in new,
green energy industries, like building the supply chain for
offshore wind development.”  Carney spent $1.2 million on his campaign through Oct. 13.
Top donors included employees of the U.S. subsidiary of London-
based  AstraZeneca Plc , who gave $21,050, and of Stamford,
Connecticut-based  General Electric Co ., who donated $14,300.  SENATE  Pat Toomey  Republican  Pat Toomey  succeeded in his second try for a
Pennsylvania Senate seat, defeating Democrat  Joe Sestak  and
adding to his party’s growing caucus.  The seat had been occupied for 30 years by  Arlen Specter , a
Republican until he switched parties in 2009. Specter lost the
Democratic primary earlier this year to Sestak, a two-term House
member.  A onetime derivatives trader who worked at Chemical Bank
and Morgan, Grenfell & Co., Toomey served three House terms,
giving up his Lehigh Valley-based seat to challenge Specter in
the 2004 Republican Senate primary. He narrowly lost that race.  After leaving Congress, Toomey led the Washington-based
 Club for Growth , which supports lower taxes, spending cuts,
Social Security privatization, expanded free trade, and taxpayer
subsidies for private or religious schools.  Toomey, 48, calls for eliminating capital-gains taxes and
cutting taxes on payrolls and corporations. He opposed taxpayer
assistance for banks and the auto industry. He supports new
efforts to secure U.S. borders, while opposing providing a path
to citizenship for those in the country illegally.  Toomey spent $12.7 million on his race through Oct. 13. His
donations included $611,404 from employees in the securities and
investment industry. Employees of the U.S. subsidiary of  UBS AG 
gave $14,950 and  Bank of America Corp.  employees $14,433.  Rob Portman  Rob Portman , who defeated Democratic Lieutenant Governor
 Lee Fisher  for the seat vacated by the retirement of longtime
Republican Senator  George Voinovich , is the ultimate insider in
an anti-establishment election year.  Portman, 54, represented the Cincinnati area in Congress
for a dozen years, leaving in 2005 to join President  George W. Bush ’s administration as the top international trade official.
He later served as White House budget director.  He ran on a plan to “focus like a laser on jobs and Ohio’s
economy,” which is beset with  10 percent unemployment . He
supports a one-year suspension of payroll taxes on the first
$50,000 of wages, expanding loans for small businesses, and
cutting the business-tax rate.  He also backs trade agreements that create markets for the
state’s products. “We need to increase exports in order to
create  Ohio jobs ,” he told Bloomberg Television in October.  He says he would reduce the federal deficit in part by
cutting discretionary spending and wants to return to the
treasury any unused funds of the Troubled Asset Relief Program,
which rescued banks after the financial crisis.  Portman spent about $10.5 million on his campaign.
Employees in the securities and investment industries gave him
$697,224 and the insurance industry gave $575,134.  Marco Rubio  The election of former state House Speaker  Marco Rubio ,
winner of Florida’s open Senate seat, caps the ascendance of a
leader whose support offered an early indication of the power of
the Tea Party movement in the 2010 election.  He defeated independent Governor  Charlie Crist  and
Democratic Representative  Kendrick Meek  in a three-way contest.  Rubio was elected to the  Florida House  in 2000 at the age
of 28 and became speaker in 2006. His book, “ 100 Innovative
Ideas for Florida’s Future ,” put him on the national political
map. This year, at 39, he emerged as a Republican star after
forcing Crist out of the race for the party’s Senate nomination.  Born in Miami to parents who fled Castro’s Cuba, Rubio
proposes cutting corporate income taxes, ending the estate tax,
freezing non-defense and non-veterans discretionary spending at
2008 levels and banning congressional earmarks. While boosted by
early Tea Party support, he eventually set himself apart from
activists who call for privatization of Social Security and
staked a moderate stance on immigration.  He supports free-trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and
South Korea.  His campaign spent $15.8 million through Oct. 13, with
$792,000 from Republican and conservative groups and $382,493
from contributors in the securities and investment industry. He
also received $252,558 from employees in the real-estate
industry and $109,351 with oil and gas industry employees.
Employees of Elliott Management Corp. of New York, which manages
hedge funds, gave $112,942.  Kelly Ayotte  Former New Hampshire Attorney General  Kelly Ayotte  defeated
Democratic Representative  Paul Hodes , keeping the Senate seat of
retiring  Judd Gregg  in Republican hands.  As the state’s first female attorney general, Ayotte
supported tougher crackdowns on sexual predators and fought
against gun bans, establishing her Republican credentials for
higher office. A Nashua native, she survived a challenge for the
Republican Party nomination from  Ovide Lamontagne , an attorney
backed by Tea Party groups.  Ayotte, 42, became one of the few candidates from the more
establishment wing of the party to emerge as a nominee. She
still enjoyed some Tea Party advocates’ support and was endorsed
by Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin  as one of her “mama grizzlies.”  Campaigning with an appeal to New Hampshire standards,
Ayotte signed a Taxpayer Protection Pledge to oppose income-tax
rate increases. She has called for ending earmarks -- the funds
members of Congress appropriate for pet projects -- and has
endorsed a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced  budget .  She supports Arizona’s immigration law giving expanded
powers to police.  Her campaign spent $3.4 million through Oct. 13, with
$297,000 coming from donors in the securities and investment
industry. She received $81,442 from employees of Elliott
Management Corp. of New York and $23,250 from employees of
 WellPoint Inc.  and other Blue Cross/Blue Shield companies.  Rand Paul  Republican  Rand Paul , an early Tea Party favorite, defeated
Democratic state Attorney General Jack Conway to fill the
Kentucky Senate seat held by Republican  Jim Bunning , who will
retire.  Paul, an ophthalmologist and son of Texas Representative
 Ron Paul , claimed the Tea Party message of “take our government
back” when he beat the Republican establishment’s preferred
candidate, Secretary of State  Trey Grayson , in the primary.  Paul, 47, shares some of the libertarian views of his
father, a 2008 presidential candidate. Rand Paul wants an audit
of the  Federal Reserve , blaming the housing bubble on the
central bank’s keeping interest rates low. He would eliminate
the Department of Education, opposes federal involvement in drug
enforcement and calls federal bailouts of private companies
unconstitutional. He also opposes U.S. involvement in the United
Nations and the World Bank.  When Congress sought to increase BP Plc’s liability after a
deep-water oil-drilling rig exploded in the Gulf of Mexico, Paul
opposed the move, saying “sometimes accidents happen.” He drew
protests by opposing parts of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that
forced businesses to desegregate and has since said that he
supports the act. He was critical of the Americans with
Disabilities Act.  His campaign spent $6.1 million through Oct. 13, with
$157,000 from health-care professionals and $10,000 apiece from
the American Bankers Association political action committee and
the Credit Union National Association PAC.  John Boozman  Republican  John Boozman , an optometrist who currently
serves in the House, defeated two-term incumbent  Blanche Lincoln 
in Arkansas’ Senate race.  A one-time guard on the University of Arkansas football
team, Boozman, 59, first won his House seat in a November 2001
special election. He has unsuccessfully pushed bills to abolish
the tax code and require the Bible’s  Ten Commandments  to be
posted in the House and Senate chambers.  This session, he voted against the $814 billion stimulus
package, the health-care overhaul and toughened regulations for
the financial industry. He backs a permanent extension of Bush-
era tax cuts for all income levels. He also supports eliminating
the federal estate tax.  Boozman has said that the Federal Reserve should undergo an
audit and be subject to new transparency requirements. He has
been an advocate of so-called fast-track authority to make it
easier for presidents to negotiate trade agreements.  He spent $2.5 million on his campaign through Oct. 13.
Boozman took in $117,001 from securities and investment
employees, his biggest industry source of campaign donations.
Employees of New York-based hedge-fund manager Elliott
Management Corp. gave $39,032, while employees of Little Rock,
Arkansas-based Stephens Group LLC, parent of an investment
banking firm, gave $29,700.  Ron Johnson  Ron Johnson ’s defeat of three-term Senator  Russ Feingold 
put an end to a run of seven consecutive Senate victories by
Wisconsin Democrats.  Johnson, 55, the co-founder of  Pacur , an Oshkosh-based
plastics manufacturing company, promoted his business experience
and cultivated an image as a political outsider who would serve
in the Senate as a “citizen legislator.” His campaign had the
backing of the Tea Party movement, which seeks limits on
government spending and taxes.  Johnson says he would permanently extend all tax cuts
enacted in 2001 and 2003. He would place a cap on federal
government spending and vote for a  balanced budget  amendment. He
advocates free-trade agreements and opposes the rescue of banks.  An opponent of  Obama ’s health-care overhaul, he proposes
instead a package that includes curbs on medical malpractice
lawsuits and provisions to allow individuals to purchase
insurance across state lines.  Johnson spent $10.5 million on his campaign as of Oct. 13
and lent his campaign more than $8.2 million. Health-care
professionals gave more than $50,000. He received $46,700 from
employees of the securities and investment industries. Employees
of Chicago-based Fiduciary Management Associates LLC gave
$18,400.  Mark Kirk  Mark Kirk , a Republican congressman, scored a symbolically
important victory by wresting control of the Illinois Senate
seat once held by Obama.  Kirk, 50, beat Democratic state Treasurer  Alexi Giannoulias 
for the seat, which had been held by appointed Democrat  Roland Burris .  Kirk backs a presidential line-item veto and a  balanced
budget  amendment. He sees free-trade agreements as a way to
expand exports. He would repeal the health-care overhaul and
implement curbs on medical malpractice lawsuits and provisions
allowing individuals to purchase insurance across state lines.  In the House, he opposed most Republicans in voting to fund
embryonic stem-cell research and spend more on children’s health
insurance. He backed a “cap and trade” energy bill in the
House; in September 2009 he reversed course, saying that as a
senator he would vote against it.  During the campaign, Kirk, a former congressional staff
member, promoted his two decades of service in the U.S. Navy
Reserve -- and apologized for exaggerating aspects of his
military career.  Kirk spent more than $10.5 million on his campaign and
raised $934,329 from employees of the securities and investment
industry. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Republican strategist
 Karl Rove ’s Crossroads GPS poured an additional $6.2 million
into the race between Sept. 1 and Oct. 27.  Roy Blunt  In the year of political momentum for outsiders,  Roy Blunt 
is a successful insider.  He has represented southwestern Missouri in the U.S. House
of Representatives for 14 years and defeated Democratic
Secretary of State  Robin Carnahan  for the Senate seat of
retiring Republican  Kit Bond.   Blunt, 60, served as majority whip from 2003 to 2007 and
minority whip from 2007 to 2009, though his star dimmed after he
lost a race for majority leader in 2006. He left Republican
leadership after his party’s losses in the 2008 election.  As party whip in 2008, Blunt rounded up Republican votes
for the $700 billion  Troubled Asset Relief Program .  He backs a balanced-budget constitutional amendment and
presidential line-item veto to rein in federal spending.  A leading Republican voice on health policy, Blunt would
replace the Obama administration’s  health-care overhaul  with a
plan that includes incentives for small businesses to offer
insurance and curbs on medical malpractice lawsuits.  Blunt spent $9.1 million on his campaign through Oct. 13.
He developed close ties to lobbyists as a Republican leader and
raised about $200,000 from lobbyists for his Senate campaign.
Employees of the securities and investment industry contributed
$440,972.  Dan Coats  Dan Coats , who will make his second appearance as a senator
from Indiana, has experience on both sides of the legislative
process -- as a lawmaker and as a lobbyist.  Coats, who defeated Democratic  Representative Brad
Ellsworth , served in the Senate from 1989 to 1999 and in the
House for eight years prior to that.  Coats, 67, will succeed retiring two-term Democratic
 Senator Evan Bayh , who succeeded him in the Senate. He served as
U.S. ambassador to Germany from 2001 to 2005. He then joined
King & Spalding LLP as senior counsel, leaving earlier this
year; the law and advocacy firm lobbied for  Google Inc. ,  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Lockheed Martin Corp.  and others.  Coats would cut the corporate tax rate and also make
permanent the tax credit on research and development.  He backs a presidential line-item veto and restrictions on
new spending programs unless they are offset by reductions
elsewhere in the budget.  An opponent of the Democrats’ health-care overhaul, Coats
would prefer a plan that has provisions to curb medical
malpractice lawsuits and promote health-savings accounts and
competition across state lines.  Coats spent $3.4 million on his campaign through Oct. 13.
Securities and investment interests gave $181,651, lawyers
donated $127,221 and lobbyists donated $82,700. Employees in the
oil and gas industry gave $77,500. Employees of Bank of
America gave $13,200 and Morgan Stanley employees donated
$10,600.  Richard Blumenthal  Richard Blumenthal, a veteran Democratic state attorney
general, beat Republican  Linda McMahon , former chief executive
officer of World Wrestling Entertainment Inc., to capture the
Connecticut Senate seat of retiring Democrat  Christopher Dodd .  With a long record in public office, including stints in
the Connecticut General Assembly and as U.S. attorney for
Connecticut, Blumenthal was considered a shoo-in for the Senate
until allegations were made that he misrepresented his military
service. He said he had unintentionally misspoken in claiming
that he served in Vietnam.  In 20 years as state attorney general, Blumenthal
challenged tobacco, energy and insurance companies on behalf of
consumers. One of his biggest victories came in 1998 as lead
negotiator in a $206 billion tobacco settlement between 46
states and the four biggest U.S. cigarette makers -- Altria
Group Inc.’s  Philip Morris USA ,  Reynolds American Inc. , Brown &
Williamson Tobacco and  Lorillard Inc .  Blumenthal, 64, mostly shares Obama’s views. He called the
health-care overhaul law “a good first step,” while saying
more must be done to control medical costs. He praised the new
regulation of Wall Street, particularly the creation of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Breaking with Obama,
Blumenthal opposed the bailout of banks.  He spent $6.2 million through Oct. 13, with members of his
profession, lawyers, contributing $336,249 and the securities
industry donating $320,875. Blumenthal received $21,049 from
employees of the law firm of Early, Ludwick, Sweeney & Strauss
and $11,100 from employees of Cooney & Conway. Both firms
specialize in representing victims of asbestos exposure.  Joe Manchin  West Virginia Governor  Joe Manchin  won a special election
for the Senate seat held for more than four decades by Democrat
 Robert Byrd . He replaces Democrat  Carte Goodwin , whom he
appointed to the seat in July after Byrd’s death, and will take
office immediately.  Manchin, 63, defeated Republican businessman and Tea Party
favorite  John Raese . After six years as governor, Manchin had
public-approval ratings approaching 70 percent. He took credit
for cutting the state food tax in half, reducing corporate
income taxes and helping 240 companies expand or locate in the
state.  He served in the state legislature from 1982 to 1996, was
secretary of state from 2000 to 2004, and was elected governor
in 2005. Although his victory keeps the seat in Democratic
hands, Manchin has made clear his determination to steer an
independent course as he represents a state that rejected Obama
two years ago.  Manchin vowed to “repeal the bad parts” of health-care
overhaul. He called for extending President  George W. Bush ’s tax
cuts for all incomes, while Obama would limit them to households
making less than $250,000 a year. A campaign ad showed Manchin
shooting a bullet through “cap and trade” climate-change
legislation that was strapped to a tree.  He spent $2.7 million through Oct. 13. Labor contributed
$158,500, his largest source of campaign cash. Employees of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  gave $12,000. Employees of electric
utilities contributed $74,400.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net 
 Greg Giroux  in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net 
 David Lerman  in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 