-- Pay India Swaps on Bond Buying, Interest-Rate Outlook, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-11-03T08:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/pay-india-swaps-on-bond-buying-interest-rate-outlook-morgan-stanley-says.html
Investors should pay India’s
interest-rate swaps as the central bank will resume raising
borrowing costs in 2011 after policy makers signaled a pause for
the next three months, Morgan Stanley said.  The U.S. bank recommended paying a fixed rate to receive
floating rates on one- and two-year contracts and predicted
tomorrow may offer a good opportunity to enter the trade as the
Reserve Bank of India conducts its first open-market bond
auction since 2009, Hong Kong-based analysts  Pieter Van Der Schaft  and  Rohit Arora  wrote in a research note released today.  The cost of swaps used to hedge against changes in local
interest rates may decline as the bond purchase floods the
market with cash and lowers money-market rates. The central bank
said yesterday it will offer to buy as much as 120 billion
rupees ($2.7 billion) of government debt.  “We expect the RBI to hike rates and money-market rates
will remain tight for the majority of the next 12 months,” Van
Der Schaft, the head of Asian rates research at Morgan Stanley,
said in a telephone interview today. “The fair value for one-
year and two-year rates are higher than where they are
trading.”  The one-year and two-year swap rates both declined one
basis point to 6.60 percent as of 12:52 p.m. in Mumbai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley expects
both rates to climb to 6.9 percent, today’s note said, without
specifying a timeframe.  Three Month Pause  The 12-month swap rate yesterday plunged 12.5 basis points
to 6.61 percent, the biggest daily drop since August, after
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said the RBI probably won’t raise
borrowing costs in the next three months. The central bank
yesterday lifted its  repurchase rate  for a sixth time this year
to 6.25 percent.  Morgan Stanley predicts the repurchase rate will rise to
7.25 percent by October 2011, starting with a 25-basis point
move as early as next March, according to the research note.  Subbarao’s priority is to slow the fastest inflation behind
Argentina among the Group of 20 nations this year to protect the
purchasing power of the 75 percent of Indians who live on less
than $2 a day.  Wholesale prices  gained 8.62 percent in September
from a year earlier, following an 8.51 percent increase in
August. Annual inflation was 11 percent in April, the highest
this year.  “Inflation is coming from food, energy and also strong
domestic demand,” Van Der Schaft said. “The pressure will be
on the upside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  