-- Petrobras Gains to 1-Month High as BTG Says Buy as `Vicious Cycle' Wanes
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-03T20:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/petrobras-gains-to-1-month-high-as-btg-says-buy-as-vicious-cycle-wanes.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA  rose to the
highest close in a month in Sao Paulo trading after Banco BTG
Pactual SA recommended buying the oil producer, saying a
“vicious cycle” since its share sale is unwarranted.  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, gained 2.4 percent to
27 reais, the highest price since Oct. 4, at the 4 p.m. New York
close. The shares slumped 1.2 percent since its $70 billion
offering on Sept. 23 through yesterday, compared to a 4 percent
advance for the benchmark  Bovespa  index.  The state-controlled company has suffered too much given
its exploration potential,  Gustavo Gattass  and  Rafael Fonseca ,
analysts at BTG, wrote in a note to clients today. BTG
reinstated coverage of the stock, maintaining its previous
“buy” rating, according to the note.  “Petrobras is out of favor with investors, but we see
relevant upside to its core assets,” the Rio de Janeiro-based
analysts wrote. “Many investors simply asked for much more
shares than they effectively wanted or could take in the
offering, believing real demand from other investors would make
the stock perform well after the end of the offering.”  15 Billion Barrels  Brazil’s oil regulator said last week the Libra field, in
the so-called pre-salt region, may hold reserves of as much as
15 billion barrels, which would make it the biggest discovery in
the Americas in more than three decades. Under proposed
regulation, Petrobras will operate all new concessions in the
pre-salt.  BG Group Plc increased estimates for energy resources
offshore Brazil, boosting optimism on Petrobras reserves,
according to  Daniella Marques , who helps manage the equivalent
of $171 million as partner at Oren Investimentos in Rio de
Janeiro. Gross resources at fields in the Santos Basin may be
10.8 billion barrels of oil equivalent, 34 percent more than the
previous estimate, BG, the U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas
producer, said yesterday in a statement.  Petrobras Chief Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli 
said the company may have 35 billion barrels of oil reserves
within as little as 4 years, according to comments he made today
to CNBC.  Concern persists the company will carry out another share
sale, according to Gattass and Fonseca. To account for earnings
dilution from the September offering, they reduced the 12-month
price forecast by 25 percent to $46 on the  American depositary
receipts  that correspond to two preferred shares each.  “If Petrobras ever tries another one of these capital
increases, we think it may lose investor faith forever,” the
BTG analysts wrote. “But in light of share performance, this
seems less likely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  