-- Pimco's El-Erian Says Fed QE2 May Backfire, Spur Global Currency Tensions
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-04T03:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/pimco-s-el-erian-says-fed-qe2-may-backfire-spur-global-currency-tensions.html
The Federal Reserve’s plan to buy
$600 billion of Treasuries to spur the economy will probably
backfire, said Mohamed A. El-Erian, Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s chief executive officer.  Some of the money pumped into the U.S. will leak out to
other nations, strengthening currencies in countries that need
weaker exchange rates, El-Erian said in an ft.com article. That
increases the risks other nations will impose capital controls
and trade protectionism, he wrote in the article, published on
the website of Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, which runs
the world’s biggest bond fund. The Fed may also need to carry
out more easing beyond the current round, he said.  “The rest of the world does not need this extra
liquidity,” El-Erian wrote. “Several emerging economies, such
as Brazil and China, are already close to overheating. And the
eurozone and Japan can ill afford further appreciation in their
currencies.”  The Thai baht approached a 13-year high and Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said low U.S. yields will
drive money out of America. The Fed retained its pledge to keep
the target for overnight bank lending near zero when it
announced its asset purchases yesterday.  Its buying is known as quantitative easing because it aims
to increase the quantity of money in the economy. This round is
being called QE2 because the bank also scooped up debt last
year.  The baht rose 0.1 percent to 29.72 per dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It gained to 29.63 yesterday, the
strongest level since July 1997. Rising currencies make a
nation’s goods more expensive to overseas buyers.  Flows Into Asia  Money may continue to flow to emerging markets, Philippine
central banker Tetangco said today in a mobile phone text
message.  “Funds will flow into Asia to take advantage of the better
economic conditions than the U.S. and that keeps the trend of
currency appreciation in the region in place,” said  Kozo Hasegawa , a Bangkok-based foreign-exchange trader at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp., Japan’s third-largest bank.  The Fed won’t be able to bring down U.S. unemployment by
itself, El-Erian wrote in the article, “Blunt QE2 Instrument
Likely to Backfire.” The U.S. jobless  rate  has been above 9
percent since May 2009.  “The unfortunate conclusion is that QE2 will be of limited
success in sustaining high growth and job creation in the U.S.,
and will complicate life for many other countries,” El-Erian
wrote. “With domestic outcomes again falling short of policy
expectations, it is just a matter of time until the Fed will be
expected to do even more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 