-- Pioneer Food Group Expects to Pay Premium for Acquisition of Winemaker KWV
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-03T14:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/pioneer-food-group-expects-to-pay-premium-for-acquisition-of-winemaker-kwv.html
Pioneer Foods Ltd.  expects to pay a
premium for its acquisition of  KWV Holdings Ltd. , the country’s
second-largest wine and spirits company, Managing Director  Andre Hanekom  said.  Pioneer will proceed with the takeover once South Africa’s
Competition Tribunal has approved a settlement agreement with
Pioneer amounting to 1.05 billion rand ($152 million) for
violating antitrust laws, Hanekom said. Pioneer on Oct. 29 said
it approached KWV about buying the company.  An offer for  KWV  is still a “work in progress,” Hanekom
said in an interview in Pretoria yesterday. KWV, which trades
through brokers, was priced between 10 and 11 rand a share when
Pioneer approached the company, he said. “There has to be a
premium. I don’t think we’re going to buy the business for a
discount, but the numbers also need to make sense for us.”  Pioneer, which produces Weet-Bix cereal and Heinz Tomato
Ketchup, wants to use its South African distribution network to
boost sales of KWV’s top wine brands, Hanekom said. KWV could be
placed into Pioneer’s Ceres Beverage Co., which already owns
Hooch, Pepsi, Mountain Dew and 7-Up.  Paarl, Western Cape-based Pioneer yesterday settled
antitrust fines administered against it by South Africa’s
Competition Commission for contravening the nation’s competition
laws in its flour and corn milling unit and its bakeries, eggs
and poultry businesses. The settlement is the largest settlement
yet in Africa’s biggest economy for antitrust breaches.  ‘Rubber Stamp’  The tribunal “must still put the rubber stamp on” the
settlement and “then we can really start to positively look at,
and finalize the KWV deal,” Hanekom said. South Africa’s
Competition Commission investigates antitrust complaints and
makes recommendations to the Tribunal, which rules on them.  “We must make sure the synergies” from the takeover are
possible, he said. “We have to determine a final price. We’ve
got to make the offer price work for us and for the shareholders
of KWV.”  KWV, started two years before Pioneer in 1918 and whose
brands include Imoya VSOP Alambic Brandy, Pearly Bay and
Roodeberg wines, last traded at 12 rand a share, according to
its  website . Pioneer rose 2 rand, or 4 percent, to 52 rand, its
highest since April 23, 2008, where it was trading as of 4:25
p.m. in Johannesburg.  Pioneer is interested in the “top-end wines” in KWV’s
portfolio and not lower-end products, such as the “papsak,”
Hanekom said, referring to a lower-quality wine that is sold in
thick foil bags. While focusing on more expensive wines may
limit growth, there is scope for those labels to win market
share, he said.  Offer by Next Month  An offer could be made to KWV shareholders by next month,
Hanekom said, adding a deal may be concluded between March and
April if it goes ahead.  KWV’s international reach may also help to improve
Pioneer’s exports. “There are synergies and it will open more
markets for us on the Ceres side,” he said.  Pioneer is also in talks to expand its agriculture
business. “We want to increase our broiler business and we are
busy with negotiations on that.” Hanekom said. “In the next
three or four months we must do something.”  Looking beyond South Africa, Pioneer wants to boost
earnings from the rest of the continent after increasing the
number of its managers to focus on its existing businesses in
Namibia, Botswana, Uganda and Zambia. A decision still needs to
be made on whether to enter new markets or grow existing ones,
Hanekom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  