-- Poland Set to Offer Stakes in Rabobank Unit, JSW After Record IPOs in 2010
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-11-04T16:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/poland-to-offer-stakes-in-rabobank-unit-and-jsw-after-record-share-sales.html
Poland may sell shares of three
companies next year in initial public offerings, including its
stake in a Warsaw-based unit of Rabobank Groep NV, following a
record volume of IPOs in 2010.  The government plans to offer its 37 percent stake in
agricultural lender  Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA , the
Rabobank subsidiary known as BGZ, in late April or May, as well
as coal producer Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA and a new real-
estate holding company by the end of 2011, Deputy Treasury
Minister  Krzysztof Walenczak  said in an interview in Warsaw.  “The first two offers are already in our pipeline and BGZ
will be the sole retail bank controlled by Rabobank” to go
public worldwide, Walenczak said. “The offering of the real-
estate holding might take place in the first or second half,
depending on the progress of consolidation.”  Poland has had the highest number of IPOs in central Europe
each year since at least 2004, and 61 deals have raised $4.38
billion in 2010, excluding the Warsaw bourse’s own share sale,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sales are part of a
plan for 55 billion zloty ($19.6 billion) of asset sales in
2010-2013 to help finance the budget deficit and curb borrowing.  Insurer  PZU SA , utility Tauron Polska Energia SA and the
Warsaw Stock Exchange sold a combined 13.5 billion zloty of
shares in IPOs this year, a record value offered by state-owned
companies in Poland in a single year.  PZU, PKO Bank  The bulk of the revenue will come from cutting the state’s
stakes in PZU and  PKO Bank Polski SA , the nation’s largest bank,
to 25 percent from 45 percent and 51 percent respectively,
according to government plans published on Aug. 6. At current
prices, the sales would fetch a combined 21 billion zloty,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  The 37 percent stake in BGZ is valued at 1.7 billion zloty
based on the bank’s equity at the end of June and the average
price-to-book-value ratio of 1.89 for  Polish banks  traded on the
Warsaw bourse, according to Bloomberg data.  JSW , the European Union’s largest coking-coal producer,
plans to sell 3.5 billion zloty of shares, Chief Executive
Officer  Jaroslaw Zagorowski  said in an interview on Oct. 25.  The Treasury Ministry needs to take over supervision of JSW
from the Economy Ministry to begin planning for the IPO,
according to Walenczak.  “As for the real-estate holding, we eventually plan to
sell all our shares, but at this stage it’s too early to say
what stake could be offered in an IPO,” said Walenczak. “That
will depend on the market appetite for this transaction.”  Regional Dominance  The Warsaw Stock Exchange lists companies with market
capitalization of $198 billion, making it the third-largest in
emerging Europe after Russia and Turkey. The benchmark  WIG20
Index  jumped 2 percent to 2,721.43 at the 4:30 p.m. close in
Warsaw, climbing to the highest level in more than two years.  Walenczak, 42, who joined the ministry in November 2009
from the London-based unit of Nomura International Plc, declined
to say whether the government in 2011 would offer more shares in
 PGE SA , the country’s largest power utility, and copper producer
 KGHM Polska Miedz SA  after selling on the market 10 percent
stakes in each of the companies this year.  “Private ownership of economic entities is superior to
state ownership, and no one in this ministry has any doubts
about that,” said Walenczak. “The question of how quickly, and
to what extent, the government can exit various companies will
depend on the amount of public support for such projects,
because whether we like it or not privatization is not only an
economic but also a political process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  