-- Porsche Is Likely to Win Appeal in 2009 Meeting Dispute, German Judge Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-03T14:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/porsche-s-failed-bid-for-vw-revisited-in-suit-over-09-shareholder-meeting.html
Porsche SE , the maker of the 911
sports car, is likely to win an appeals case over a shareholder
meeting during its failed bid to take over Volkswagen AG, a
German judge said in a preliminary assessment of the case.  Minority investors may not win their bid to invalidate
shareholder votes over directors’ approval of an
“unconscionably” high salary for Chief Executive Officer
 Wendelin Wiedeking  and other officials, Presiding Judge Eberhard
Stilz said at a hearing at the Stuttgart Higher Regional Court.  “It’s important to stress that it is not our task to rule
on whether the compensation was illicit or whether the bid to
take over Volkswagen was handled in line with the law,” Stilz
said today. “We only have to judge whether the shareholders’
decisions were taken wrongfully, and that only indirectly
touches these issues.”  The failed bid led to Wiedeking’s ouster in 2009,
regulatory probes, and lawsuits in U.S. and Germany. Volkswagen
agreed to join with Stuttgart-based Porsche in August 2009 after
the sports-carmaker’s debt tripled to more than 10 billion euros
($14 billion) following the failed bid. Porsche in fiscal 2008
paid 143.5 million euros to its management board.  Shareholders have wide discretion when deciding whether to
discharge directors and executives from liability over their
actions, Stilz said. The court may still change its view after
hearing the parties’ arguments, according to the judge. The
court scheduled a ruling for Nov. 17.  ‘Carte Blanche’  “If this court grants a carte blanche to Porsche over
these issues, it would be a catastrophic signal, also in terms
of the competition of financial markets,” said Martin
Weidemann, a lawyer for the plaintiffs. “It will also be an
issue what courts in this country can offer investors.”  The suit seeks to invalidate the votes to discharge
executives and directors from liability for their actions in
fiscal 2008. The case also targets the votes approving the
appointment and remuneration of supervisory board members.  The minority investors are appealing a lower court ruling
that rejected their claims. The shareholder meeting in today’s
case took place in January 2009, before Porsche’s takeover bid
was abandoned.  Porsche considers the claims unfounded, company spokesman
 Albrecht Bamler  said in an interview yesterday.  Questions  The investors argue Porsche should have answered more
questions at the meeting about its strategy leading to an
October 2008 announcement that it controlled 42.6 percent of
Volkswagen shares and had secured so-called cash-settled options
for another 31.5 percent.  The statement caused VW shares to surge as short sellers
were forced to buy shares borrowed in a bet that Volkswagen
stock would fall. Previously, Porsche had said it was seeking a
50 percent stake in the company.  The events led to probes by Germany’s financial-market
regulator BaFin and prosecutors. Short sellers have filed U.S.
lawsuits claiming the sports car-maker secretly cornered the
market in VW shares and caused them more than $1 billion.  Porsche was right not to answer all questions about
derivatives it used in the process, because such disclosures
could have damaged the interests of the company, Stilz said.  The case is OLG Stuttgart, 20 U 2/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Stuttgart via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 