-- Portugal Budget Vote `Just the Start' of Battle to Cut Deficit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-03T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/portugal-s-budget-vote-just-the-start-of-battle-to-cut-widening-deficit.html
Portugal’s parliament is set to
approve the 2011 budget today, starting the Socialist
government’s battle to implement the deepest budget cuts in
three decades without choking the  economic recovery .  Parliament is due to vote on the fiscal plan today after
the final stage of the debate starts at 3 p.m. in Lisbon. The
government’s budget is set to pass after the opposition Social
Democrats agreed on Oct. 29 to let it through by abstaining.  “The vote is just the start, then you have to implement
these measures,” said  Luigi Speranza , an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in London. “The market is probably pricing in most
of the good news and the focus is now on the feasibility of the
adjustment.”  Portugal, whose central government budget gap continued to
widen through September, is trying to prove it can rein in the
deficit and avert following Greece in seeking an international
bailout. The  extra yield  on its debt compared with Germany’s
surged to a three-week high yesterday of 375.2 basis points,
wider than the spread on Greek debt 10 days before it sought a
European rescue on April 23.  “We need to see spending actually being reined in and this
has to be demonstrated quite fast,” said  Gilles Moec , an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “We need to see things
changing in the first months of 2011 to be fully reassured.”  Wage Cuts  The government plans to cut its total wage bill by 5
percent, freeze hiring and raise value-added tax by 2 percentage
points to 23 percent. After talks with the Social Democrats,
Prime Minister Jose Socrates’s minority government also agreed
to reconsider some public works projects.  Miguel Macedo , a Social Democrat lawmaker, said yesterday
his party agreed to let the budget through as “the alternative
would have meant the country’s bankruptcy.” Finance Minister
Fernando Teixeira Dos Santos has said the country doesn’t need
to tap the European Union’s 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion)
rescue fund.  Parliament votes on the measures as the extra yield
demanded to hold Irish and Portuguese debt surged after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel stepped up demands for private
investors to “make a contribution” to resolving future
European debt crises, rather than leaving European taxpayers
“on the hook.”  Risk to Growth  The budget cuts, the biggest since the 1970s, will be a
“massive” drag on gross domestic product, particularly in the
absence of structural measures to spur growth, Speranza said.  Portugal’s  economic growth , which has averaged less than 1
percent a year in the past decade, will slow to 0.2 percent next
year from an estimated 1.3 percent in 2010, according to the
government’s forecasts. Standard & Poor’s, which has cut its
rating on the country three times in the past two years to A-,
said on Oct. 4 it expects the Portuguese economy to shrink 1.8
percent next year and stagnate in 2012.  The nation’s budget gap reached 9.3 percent of GDP last
year, the highest in the euro region after Ireland, Greece and
Spain. The government aims to lower the shortfall to 7.3 percent
this year, 4.6 percent in 2011 and meet the EU’s 3 percent limit
in 2012. Still, in the first nine months of the year, its
central government budget deficit widened 2.3 percent from a
year earlier to 9.32 billion euros, the Finance Ministry said on
Oct. 20.  Socrates’s government is betting on exports to spur the
recovery. About a quarter of the country’s foreign sales go to
Spain, which is struggling to emerge from the worst recession in
six decades as it implements its own measures to cut the budget
deficit by half in two years. More than 70 percent of exports go
to the European Union.  “If core Europe slows down, which I think it could into
next year, then we’re going to be looking at the problem of what
do the small peripheral economies do with a deceleration in
their main trading partners,” said  Guillaume Menuet , senior
European economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London.
“It’s a pretty tough environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  