-- Portugal’s Borrowing Costs Rise, Demand Falls at Bill Auction
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2010-11-03T12:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/portugal-s-borrowing-costs-rise-demand-falls-at-bill-auction.html
Portugal’s borrowing costs rose and
demand fell at a sale of 1.03 billion euros ($1.5 billion) of
three- and 12-month bills amid mounting concern that investors
may need to share the burden of losses from future debt crises.  The government sold 500 million euros of securities due in
February to yield 1.818 percent, the debt office said today in a
statement. That compares with a yield of 1.595 percent at the
previous auction on Oct. 6. Investors bid for 2.2 times the debt
offered, down from 3 times last month. The yield rose and the
bid-to-cover ratio declined on the 12-month bill sale.  “It wasn’t marvelous,” said  Huw Worthington , a fixed-
income strategist at Barclays Capital in London. “Confidence in
peripheral countries is not high.”  Yields on European peripheral nations’ debt are climbing as
politicians step up pressure on bondholders to help pay for
losses arising from any restructuring. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the euro’s stability depends on making
investors responsible, underscoring Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
push to shield the nation’s taxpayers from the risk of bailing
out other euro-region members.  Irish 10-year bonds fell, driving the extra yield, or
spread, that investors demand to hold the securities instead of
German bunds to a record for the third consecutive day. The
 spread  increased to 499 basis points, according to Bloomberg
generic data. That’s the most since Bloomberg began collecting
the data in 1991.  Spread Widens  The Portuguese-German 10-year yield spread increased seven
basis points to 384 basis points, the highest since Oct. 13,
based on closing yields.  The 531 million euros of bills due in October 2011 were
issued at an average yield of 3.260 percent. That compares with
a yield of 2.886 percent at the previous sale on Oct. 20. The
bid-to-cover ratio was 2.2 times, down from 2.4.  “Both bills were sold at a yield slightly higher than the
market ahead of the auctions,”  Chiara Cremonesi , a strategist
at UniCredit SpA in London, wrote in a note. “In the last few
days, periphery has been under strong pressure, with Ireland,
Portugal and Greece being the hardest hit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  