-- Private Equity Returns Tripled in Emerging Markets, Boston Consulting Says
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/private-equity-investment-returns-triple-in-emerging-markets-study-says.html
Returns on private-equity investments
in emerging markets from 2000 through 2006 more than tripled as
managers took advantage of growing economies and company
earnings, research shows.  The average rate of return rose to 17 percent from 5.3
percent during the 1990s and 4.4 percent earlier, according to a
report today from  Boston Consulting Group  Inc. and  IESE Business
School  at the University of Navarra in Spain.  Minority-stake investments were more successful than
majority purchases, a strategy that private-equity firms often
avoid in developed markets. Profits from minority investments in
countries such as China, Brazil and Malaysia could make firms
more open to that kind of transaction in the U.S. and the United
Kingdom, said Heino Meerkatt, senior partner of the Boston-based
consulting firm and an author of the study.  “Finding shareholder agreements where you as a minority
shareholder can have influence on the strategy of management and
the exit terms -- there is maybe a learning for mature
markets,” Meerkatt said yesterday in a telephone interview from
Munich.  Minority-stake investments accounted for 86 percent of the
emerging-market deals tracked, using figures from Washington-
based International Finance Corp. that included 176 private-
equity funds with holdings in 75 developing markets.  Businesses in emerging-market countries tend to be in the
early stages of development, so owners are less willing to sell
majority stakes, the study says.  The portion of private-equity deals involving emerging-
market companies rose to 30 percent in 2009 from 12 percent in
2005. Their share of dollar volume increased to 21 percent from
8 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 