-- FrontPoint, Prudential, Citigroup, SAP in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-03T10:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/prudential-toyota-human-genome-fsa-citigroup-fannie-mae-in-court-news.html
Hedge fund FrontPoint Partners LLC
employees were allegedly tipped by a French doctor working as a
consultant for  Human Genome Sciences Inc . on the results of
trials for the hepatitis-C drug Albuferon, a person familiar
with the matter said.  Dr. Yves Benhamou, 50, was charged yesterday by federal
prosecutors with insider-trading. Benhamou, whose expertise is
hepatitis and liver diseases, was arrested in Boston on two
charges filed in  Manhattan  federal court.  FrontPoint, which is being spun out of  Morgan Stanley , said
in an e-mailed statement that it’s “cooperating fully.” Dr.
Chip Skowron, a co-portfolio manager of the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based firm’s health care funds, was placed on leave
pending the outcome of the probe, the firm said.  Benhamou held dual roles, acting as a paid consultant to at
least six hedge funds while working as an adviser to Human
Genome, a developer of gene-based drugs, and serving on its
steering committee for Albuferon trials, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission alleged in a parallel lawsuit also filed
yesterday. Benhamou is no longer a Human Genome consultant and
the company has “cooperated fully” with the SEC, Jerry Parrot,
a company spokesman, said.  “By profiting from his sensitive position and providing
the hedge fund an unfair advantage, Benhamou undermined the
integrity of the securities market and sold out his employer,”
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement.  Messages left by Bloomberg News for Skowron weren’t
returned.  The case is U.S. v. Benhamou, 10-MAG-2424, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The SEC case
is SEC v. Benhamou, 10-CV-8266, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Prudential Veteran Accounts ‘Dishonest,’ American Legion Says    Prudential Financial Inc .’s practice of collecting interest
on unpaid veterans’ life-insurance benefits is “unlawful and
dishonest,” the American Legion told a judge.  The American Legion, the largest U.S. veterans’ service
organization with 2.5 million members in almost 14,000 posts
worldwide, asked permission to file a legal brief supporting a
pending case in Springfield, Massachusetts, against Prudential
Insurance Co. of America, a unit of Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial.  The pending lawsuit by the families of deceased veterans
accuses the insurer of failing to pay beneficiaries in a lump
sum as required by U.S. law and the language of the policies.
Instead, the lawsuit says that Prudential strongly encourages
beneficiaries to keep the money in accounts with the company,
which pays them a small amount of interest.  The “practice is unlawful and dishonest,” the American
Legion said in a Nov. 1 court filing. “It is especially
objectionable because sophisticated money managers are making an
unwarranted and unlawful profit from the deaths of those who
have given the most to preserve our nation’s way of life.”    Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for Prudential Financial,
declined to comment on the filing. He has previously said that
the company informs beneficiaries of their payment options and
that they may immediately withdraw the money from their
Prudential Alliance Accounts and invest it wherever they choose.  Prudential has asked the judge to dismiss the case, saying
the insurer’s delivery of a “checkbook” to beneficiaries
complies with its legal obligation. Lawyers for beneficiaries
who brought the case yesterday filed a separate brief opposing
Prudential’s request.  The case is Lucey v. Prudential Insurance Co. of America,
10-30163, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Springfield).  For more, click here.  Icahn Opposes Lions Gate Demand to Reveal MGM Plans  Carl Icahn, saying he publicly disclosed his interest in
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., denied claims by  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp . that he was trying to discourage a merger
while improving his position.  Attorneys for Icahn disputed Lions Gate’s claims in a
filing yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. Lions Gate
accused the billionaire, its biggest shareholder, in a lawsuit
filed Oct. 28 of secretly acquiring MGM debt at the same time he
was telling Lions Gate shareholders that the studio’s pursuit of
MGM was a “misguided strategy.”  Lions Gate lawyers asked U.S. District Judge Harold Baer on
Nov. 1 to order expedited legal disclosures by Icahn while it
seeks a court order barring Icahn from increasing his stake in
the Vancouver-based film and television studio.  “Lions Gate management has given new meaning to the word
‘entrenched’ by digging themselves in and engaging in a
successive volley of poison pills, dilutive stock issuances and
legal proceedings” to avoid accountability, according to
Icahn’s filing.  Icahn, Lions Gate has alleged, undermined the prospective
acquisition of MGM by calling it a “financial debacle.”  Icahn acquired a sufficiently large position in both
companies “at depressed prices to ensure that he maximized his
own profits,” Lions Gate said in court filings.  He was aided by Mark Cuban, who sold his 5.4 percent stake
in the company to Icahn in June for $7 a share, after Lions Gate
told Cuban another buyer was willing to pay more, according to
the complaint.  Icahn yesterday denied having any “side deals” with
Cuban. He said Lions Gate’s claims based on information from
unidentified sources are “insufficient to warrant further
inquiry.”  Cuban, the billionaire co-founder of the TV network HDNet
and owner of the Dallas Mavericks basketball team, isn’t named
as a defendant in the Lions Gate lawsuit. Cuban has said he
didn’t have any side deals with Icahn.  The defendants in the case include Icahn, his Icahn
Partners LP and his son Brett Icahn.  The case is Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. v. Carl Icahn,
10-cv-08169, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Toyota Says Acceleration Suits Don’t Identify Defect  Lawsuits against  Toyota Motor Corp . claiming sudden-
acceleration recalls caused economic damages fail to identify an
“actual defect” and should be dismissed, the company said in
court papers.  Toyota faces about 400 suits alleging lost vehicle value or
injury or death from sudden acceleration. The economic loss
lawsuits, brought as class, or group, actions claim a defect in
Toyota’s electronic throttle control system can trigger episodes
of inadvertent acceleration.  The plaintiffs haven’t defined a technical problem with the
electronic throttle control system in Toyota vehicles, the
company said in a court filing Nov. 1. Few of the vehicles in
question experienced any sign of sudden, unintended acceleration
and few owners sustained any loss, Toyota said.  “The most interesting point may be plaintiffs’ continued
inability to point to an actual defect in the automobiles at
issue,” the company said. “The suggestion that at some
undisclosed time in the future, when these plaintiffs might
attempt to sell their vehicles, they will suffer some loss
legally traceable to a defect that they have never experienced,
is sheer speculation.”  The economic loss lawsuits, combined for pretrial filings
and rulings in federal court in Santa Ana,  California , claim
Toyota drove down the value of vehicles by failing to fix or
disclose defects that triggered unintended acceleration. Federal
lawsuits claiming death or injury caused by such episodes are
also combined in the Santa Ana court.  “We believe the evidence clearly shows that Toyota
recognized -- and could replicate -- sudden, unintended
accelerations with their vehicles for nearly a decade,”
plaintiffs’ attorney Steve Berman, of Seattle-based Hagens
Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP, said yesterday in an e-mail. “We also
believe Toyota knew how to fix the problem using a brake-
override system -- standard equipment with other carmakers.”  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  FSA Arrests Two in  London  in Insider-Trading Probe  The U.K.’s financial regulator and police searched
buildings in London and  Germany  and arrested a “city
professional” as part of an insider-trading investigation.  The Financial Services Authority arrested a 37-year-old man
and a 28-year-old woman in London, the regulator said in  a
statement  yesterday. City of London Police and the FSA also
searched two addresses in London and worked with police and
prosecutors in Hesse, Germany, to conduct a search there.  Frankfurt prosecutors assisted the FSA in the probe, Doris
Moeller-Scheu, spokeswoman for the Frankfurt prosecutors’
office, said in an interview yesterday. She declined to comment
further.  The case isn’t related to any ongoing insider-trading
investigations, the regulator said. The FSA is currently
prosecuting 11 people for trading with insider information and
has convicted six men for the crime since March 2009. The agency
never prosecuted a criminal insider-trading case before 2008.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Juror Thrown Off Terra Firma Case Against Citigroup  A juror was thrown off Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.’s
lawsuit against  Citigroup Inc . yesterday after Citigroup lawyers
tried to have her dismissed because of her connection to a
Michael Moore film.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff did excuse the woman, a New
York dancer and performer who was Juror No. 6, determining that
she lied about an unrelated conversation on a courthouse
elevator during a break, according to a court transcript.  “It seems to me, that given that we have a juror who has
lied to the court about an important matter, that we need to
excuse her,” Rakoff told lawyers in the case.  The dismissal leaves eight jurors to begin deliberations
today on Terra Firma’s $2.2 billion claim against Citigroup over
the 2007 sale of EMI Group Ltd.  Ted Wells, the lead lawyer for Citigroup, told Rakoff
yesterday morning that the juror and her husband were among
dozens of people thanked in the credits of “Capitalism: A Love
Story.”  Rakoff, who said he hadn’t seen the film, said it appeared
to be “an extremely one-sided, scurrilous appeal to anti-bank
prejudice.” The 2009 film explores “the disastrous impact of
corporate dominance on the everyday lives of Americans,”
according to Moore’s website,  michaelmoore.com .  Wells argued that Juror No. 6, on the basis of her
connection to the film, should be thrown off the Manhattan
federal jury.  Wells said his side searched the juror’s name on Google.com
yesterday and discovered her connection to the film.  Moore said he had never met the juror but that she may have
been someone hired for a scene not included in “Capitalism: A
Love Story,” in which he led a group that went to the
headquarters of American International Group Inc. with balloons,
teddy bears, and an oversized card, as if for a sick patient.  “I think he’s amazingly perceptive,” Moore said about
Rakoff’s opinion of his work. “It’s kind of like if I were
making a documentary about slavery, it would be kind of one-
sided in favor of the slaves and against slave-holders.”  “You’ve got to feel sorry for Citigroup,” Moore said.
“They’re paying all this money to their attorneys and they
didn’t bother to Google her till last night.”  After Citigroup raised questions about the juror, a court
reporter told Rakoff that she shared an elevator with four
jurors, including Juror No. 6, at the lunch break.  “The juror in question said, ‘What could they possibly
have this afternoon?’” said the court reporter, Rebecca Forman,
according to a transcript. “‘It seems they’re just carrying on.
The problem with too much information is you don’t know what to
focus on.’”  When Rakoff questioned the juror about the elevator
incident, she denied making the remarks.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  SAP Board Knew of Copying, Oracle Says as Trial Opens    Oracle Corp . told a federal jury that  SAP AG ’s board of
directors knew as far back as 2005 that a software maintenance
unit was illegally downloading Oracle software and infringing on
its copyrights.  Instead of competing fairly after Oracle threatened SAP’s
dominance in the business software market through acquisitions,
Germany-based SAP purchased a U.S. company in 2005 that was
improperly accessing Oracle’s intellectual property,  Geoffrey
Howard , the company’s attorney, said yesterday.  “It chose to buy TomorrowNow, a company that the board of
directors of SAP knew was infringing Oracle’s software,” Howard
said in opening arguments at a trial in Oakland, California.
“They chose to take that risk because they expected to make
enormous amounts of money.”    Leo Apotheker , SAP’s former chief executive officer who is
now head of Oracle rival  Hewlett-Packard Co ., was “very
involved” in the purchase of TomorrowNow “and very involved in
TomorrowNow after that,” Howard said. He showed a photo of
Apotheker on a screen with a quote attributed to the executive
that said, “The entire software industry was founded on IP
rights.”  Oracle sued in 2007 and seeks at least $2.3 billion in
damages for what its German rival acknowledges were
TomorrowNow’s “inappropriate” downloads of Oracle materials.  Howard told jurors they would hear testimony from Apotheker
and other SAP executives, as well as Oracle CEO Larry Ellison
and former Oracle president Charles Phillips.  SAP, the world’s biggest maker of business-management
software, says its executives were unaware of the downloading at
TomorrowNow, which was closed in 2008. Oracle’s damage estimates
are “grossly exaggerated” and the lawsuit is aimed at
harassing competitors, SAP’s lawyers said in court filings.  “The whole goal here is humiliation,” said Joshua
Greenbaum, a software industry analyst at Enterprise
Applications Consulting. In saying it might call Apotheker as a
witness, Oracle “has now extended that to Hewlett-Packard,”
Greenbaum said.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Toll Brothers to Pay $25 Million to End Lawsuit    Toll Brothers Inc ., the largest U.S. luxury-home builder,
agreed to pay $25 million to settle a lawsuit that alleged the
company misled investors about its ability to weather the slump
in the housing market.  The City of Hialeah Employees’ Retirement System in Florida
sued in April 2007, claiming directors misrepresented demand for
Toll’s new homes in fiscal year 2005 and growth projections for
2006. The Laborers Pension Trust Fund for Northern California
joined as co-plaintiff seeking to represent investors who bought
shares from Dec. 9, 2004, to Nov. 8, 2005. Toll denies any
wrongdoing.  Toll and its board “wish to eliminate the uncertainty,
risk, burden and expense of further litigation, and to permit
the operation of the company’s business without further
distraction,” according to settlement papers filed Oct. 28 in
U.S. District Court in Philadelphia.  Martin Connor, Toll’s chief financial officer, declined to
comment on the settlement.  The case is City of Hialeah Employees’ Retirement System v.
Toll Brothers Inc, 07-cv-1513, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Drop Law Firm Faulted for Foreclosures  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the mortgage-finance companies
operating under U.S. conservatorship, said they cut ties with a
Florida law practice whose filings in foreclosure cases have
been questioned.  The government-sponsored companies, which own or guarantee
more than half of the U.S. mortgage market, suspended dealings
with David J. Stern PA after the firm came under scrutiny from
the Florida attorney general’s office amid claims that documents
used in home seizures were fraudulent or improperly prepared.  “We’ve terminated Stern as one of our designated
counsel,” Freddie Mac spokesman Brad German said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “We’ve also started taking possession of
all files of Freddie Mac-owned mortgages from Stern’s offices.”  Freddie Mac, based in McLean, Virginia, will review the
files before transferring them to new law firms for processing,
German said. Fannie Mae, based in  Washington , will retrieve its
documents this week and find new law firms to process them,
company spokeswoman Amy Bonitatibus said yesterday in an e-mail.  Jeffrey Tew, an attorney for Plantation, Florida-based
Stern, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  On The Docket  Mazda Seatbelt Case Prompts Automaker Appeal for Claims Shield  The automobile industry, in a case involving  Mazda Motor
Corp ., is seeking the U.S. Supreme Court’s help in limiting
lawsuits that accuse carmakers of failing to install the best
safety equipment.  Toyota Motor Corp., facing more than 300 lawsuits over
alleged unintended acceleration, could have a big stake in the
outcome of the dispute. The high court will hear arguments
today.  “This case raises issues of enormous importance to auto
manufacturers,” said Charles Territo, a spokesman for the
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers. The fear, he said, is that
federal regulations will be “superseded” by a patchwork of
state laws on personal injury claims.  The auto industry and its allies are asking the court to
reinforce a 2000 decision that said federal law shields
automakers from state law claims over how quickly manufacturers
installed air bags, now required in vehicles sold in the U.S.  The case is Williamson v. Mazda Motor of America, 08-1314,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington.)  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 