-- Qatar Stocks Advance on Speculation Declines Are Overdone Given Growth
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-03T12:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/qatar-stocks-advance-on-speculation-declines-are-overdone-given-growth.html
Qatar  shares  rose for the first time
in four days on investor speculation declines were overdone
given the outlook for economic growth and as the U.S. Federal
Reserve decides on economic stimulus.  Industries Qatar , the Gulf emirate’s state-controlled
petrochemicals company, climbed to the highest since April.
 Qatar Telecom QSC,  the state-owned phone company known as Qtel,
increased for the first time in more than a week. The  QE Index 
advanced 0.4 percent, the most since Oct. 24, to 7,799.24 at the
12:30 p.m. close in Doha. The measure has gained 12 percent this
year. Oil rose to a six-month high.  “There was a bout of unjustified profit-taking the past
few sessions,” said Ahmed A. Hadi, general manager of equity
brokerage at Dlala’ Brokerage & Investment Holding Co. in Doha.
Gains are being driven by “positive movements in global markets
before the Federal Reserve meeting and strong oil prices,” he
said.  Emerging market and European stocks climbed for a fifth
day, with the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gaining as much as 0.9
percent. Investors are awaiting the results of a Fed policy
meeting today, which economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
reckon will lead to an unprecedented second round of monetary
easing. That may include a plan to buy at least $500 billion of
long-term securities, economists said.  Bank of Japan  policy
makers are due to meet on Nov. 4-5.  Fastest Growth  Oil for December delivery rose as much 1.4 percent to
$85.04 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest
since May 4. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
made up of Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait, Oman and Bahrain, supply about a fifth of the world’s
oil.  Qatar’s economic growth is expected to almost double this
year to 16 percent, making it the fastest growing economy in the
Middle East, Central Bank Governor Sheikh Abdullah Al Thani said
Oct. 31. The central bank’s projection for economic growth is in
line with those of the International Monetary Fund, which
expects the economy of the emirate to expand 18.6 percent in
2011.  Industries Qatar climbed 0.6 percent to 116.8 riyals and
Qtel increased 0.6 percent to 176 riyals.  Oman’s  MSM30 Index  gained 0.3 percent. Dubai’s  DFM General
Index  lost 0.4 percent and Abu Dhabi’s  index  declined 0.1
percent.  Kuwait Stock Exchange Index  dropped 0.2 percent and
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  lost 0.5 percent.
Bahrain’s  gauge  was little changed. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index 
decreased 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 