-- Qualcomm Shares Jump After Profit, Sales Forecasts Top Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2010-11-04T20:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/qualcomm-s-profit-sales-forecasts-exceed-analysts-predictions.html
Qualcomm Inc. , the biggest maker of
mobile-phone chips, rose the most in more than three months on
the Nasdaq after its profit and sales forecasts topped analysts’
estimates amid the increasing popularity of smartphones.  Earnings in the  current quarter  will be at least 58 cents a
share, and sales will be $3.05 billion to $3.35 billion, San
Diego-based Qualcomm said yesterday. Analysts projected profit
of 52 cents and sales of $3 billion, the average of  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Qualcomm, whose chips run the radio functions in phones,
benefits as consumers buy more devices that can surf the Web.
The shift to higher-end models helps its technology-licensing
income, which is based on the average price of phones sold.
While Qualcomm gets most of its  sales  from chips, the majority
of its profit comes from licensing code division multiple
access, or CDMA, technology to makers of phones, phone networks
and service providers.  “The bar was certainly fairly high for this company, and
they definitely delivered,”  Michael Burton , an analyst at FBN
Securities Inc. in New York, said in an interview. He rates the
shares “ outperform ,” and doesn’t own any himself.  Qualcomm  jumped $2.65, or 5.8 percent, to $48.34 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest gain
since July 22. The stock has advanced 4.5 percent  this year .  Net income  rose 7.7 percent to $865 million, or 53 cents a
share, in the three months ended Sept. 26, from $803 million, or
48 cents, a year earlier. Sales increased 9.7 percent to $2.95
billion. Analysts had predicted third-quarter profit of 46 cents
a share on revenue of $2.87 billion.  ‘Exceptional Quarter’  “Exceptional quarter -- well above expectations,”  Edward Snyder , managing director at Charter Equity Research in San
Francisco, said in an interview. He recommends buying Qualcomm
shares and says he owns some. “Next quarter will also be very
good. They’ve got a nice run ahead of them.”  Qualcomm, which suspended sales of its Flo TV devices last
month, said yesterday it’s evaluating options for the business.
That may include a sale, joint venture, operating it under a new
wholesale service, or selling the spectrum licenses and
discontinuing the network. The company said it would incur
charges of $125 million to $175 million in fiscal 2011 to exit
the business.  Qualcomm chips were found in 77 percent of 57 phones that
run  Google Inc. ’s Android software, according to consulting firm
PRTM. The phones came from 12 manufacturers, PRTM said.  Tablet computers with the Android operating system are also
reaching the market, and Qualcomm makes Snapdragon processors
that run these devices.  Maynard Um , an analyst at UBS AG in New York, increased his
12-month share price target for Qualcomm last week to $49 from
$45, citing opportunities with tablet computers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Olga Kharif  in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  