-- Raiffeisen Sees Central, East European Mergers, Acquisitions Rising 50%
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-11-03T15:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/raiffeisen-sees-central-east-european-mergers-acquisitions-rising-50-.html
Mergers and acquisitions in central
and east Europe are set to rise 50 percent this year as
economies pick up and companies still have low valuations, said
Raiffeisen Investment AG board member  Heinz Sernetz .  The region, spanning the Baltics to the Balkans, and Russia
and Ukraine, will see an increase in deals to as much as 65
billion euros ($91.34 billion) this year, after a historic low
of 43 billion euros in 2009, Sernetz said in an interview in
Sofia yesterday.  After the global crisis forced eastern mergers and
acquisitions to drop 72 percent in 2009 from a record 154.3
billion euros in 2007, governments are putting up state-owned
enterprises including phone companies  VAT Ukrtelecom ,  Telekom
Srbija AD  and  PTK JSC  and Polish utility Enea SA for sale.
Poland alone plans to raise more than $8 billion in 2010 to
slash the budget before euro adoption.  “Governments are starting to privatize whatever is left
because of the debt burden and weak economy,” Sernetz said.
“Tycoons who started their business 20 years ago, are now
selling their business and big multinational companies are
interested in gaining market shares in those countries.”  Mergers and acquisitions carried out in the year to date
amount to 59.5 billion euros, with 564 transactions, and are
outperforming the total in 2009, according to Raiffeisen
Investment, a unit of  Raiffeisen Bank International AG , the
Austrian lender that operates in 17 former communist countries.
That shows there is a turnaround since the second quarter and
the “trough seems to be passed over,” Sernetz said.  Playing Catch-Up  East Europe, including Russia, has an average per-capita
gross domestic product amounting to 20 percent of the average
U.S. level and 25 percent of the euro-zone level, all of which
have similar populations of about 300 million, Sernetz said.  “This is a source of outperforming growth levels as
countries catch up with Western levels of economic activity,”
Sernetz said. The GDP growth forecast for 2011 in central and
eastern Europe is 3.2 percent, while in the U.S., it’s 1.4
percent and the euro zone’s forecast is 1.2 percent, he said.  East European companies are trading at a historic low as a
result of the recession, while peers in Asia and Latin America
cost more. The economies of China, India and Brazil have double-
digit growth, which makes acquisition there much more expensive,
Sernetz said.  Handling Crises  “Companies in central and eastern Europe have experience
in operating in a crisis environment with smaller turnovers,”
Sernetz said. “Attractive company valuations and a
significantly improved corporate performance show that 2010-2011
is the right time to invest in CEE.”  Among sales,  Enel SpA , Italy’s largest utility, is offering
73 percent in its Bulgarian unit, the Maritsa East Three coal-
fired power plant, as it disposes of some of its assets in the
region.  “The transaction may conclude in several weeks,” Sernetz
said. Raiffeisen Investment advises one of the possible buyers,
he said, declining to elaborate.  Ukraine, struggling to meet bailout loan austerity terms,
will sell state phone company Ukrtelecom, while the Serbian
government plans to raise as much as 1.4 billion euros by
offering a 51 percent stake in Telekom Srbija.  Slovenia, the only former communist nation in the Balkans
region that uses the euro, may earn as much as 1 billion euros
in the sale of Nova Ljubljanska, the country’s biggest lender,
Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic  said Oct. 21.  Bulgarian Transactions  Most of the transactions are taking place in the consumer
goods, energy, telecommunications and technology industries. The
trend will be led by Russia, Poland and the Western Balkans, he
said.  Central European Media Enterprises  led transactions in
Bulgaria with a 296.3 million-euro purchase of Bulgarian channel
bTV from News Corp. That brought the volume of Bulgarian mergers
and acquisitions to 682 million euros in 10 deals in January-
October, at par with Poland and exceeding Hungary and Croatia
with 500 million euros and 200 million, respectively. Serbia and
Romania had no deals in this period according to Raiffeisen
Investment.  Raiffeisen Investment is the region’s top adviser, managing
10 transactions in the first half of 2010 worth 5.48 billion
euros, followed by Goldman Sachs with three transactions worth
5.25 billion euros, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  