-- Randy Moss Is Claimed by Tennessee Titans as Merriman Joins Winless Bills
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/randy-moss-is-claimed-by-tennessee-titans-after-being-waived-by-vikings.html
Randy Moss  is headed to his third
team in as many months after being claimed off waivers by the
Tennessee Titans, who lost leading receiver  Kenny Britt  to a
hamstring injury last week.  The Titans added the four-time All-Pro selection a day
after his four-game stint with the Minnesota Vikings ended. The
Buffalo Bills also claimed a former All-Pro off waivers
yesterday, picking up linebacker  Shawne Merriman .  Moss, 33, ranks second in National Football League history
with 153 career touchdowns, trailing only Hall of Fame receiver
Jerry Rice. Five of Moss’s 22 catches this season have gone for
touchdowns.  “It was a good pick-up by the Tennessee Titans,” former
NFL quarterback  Phil Simms , now an analyst for CBS Sports, said
in comments distributed by the network. “They run the football
and when they throw it, they throw it down the field. And Randy
Moss, he can go get it.”  With a 5-3 record, the Titans are a half-game behind
Indianapolis in the American Football Conference’s South
Division. They lost Britt indefinitely to a hamstring injury,
one game after he caught seven passes for 225 yards and three
touchdowns in a win against the Philadelphia Eagles.  The Titans have a bye this week and next play Nov. 11 at
the Miami Dolphins, giving the 6-foot-4 Moss added preparation
time.  “We had an opportunity to upgrade our offense and Randy
has been a tremendous threat wherever he has been,” Titans
coach  Jeff Fisher  said in a statement. “We will bring him up to
speed as quickly as possible.”  Moss’s Salary  The Titans will have to pay the rest of Moss’s $3.39
million in base salary this season.  The NFL’s waiver-claim process goes in inverse order of the
current standings, so the Titans had the 22nd opportunity among
the league’s 32 teams to add Moss.  Moss’s departure from Minnesota came two days after he had
one catch for eight yards in the Vikings’ 28-18 loss at New
England. During his postgame news conference, he complimented
Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  and his former teammates while
criticizing the Vikings’ coaching staff.  Moss also alienated Minnesota teammates by berating
employees of a St. Paul restaurant who catered the team’s post-
practice meal last week, according to  Yahoo! Sports .  “It didn’t work out,” Childress said yesterday at a news
conference. “I’m not going to get into any particulars. I
wished and hoped that it would’ve worked out. But it was a
pragmatic non-fit.”  Fisher and Moss  Simms said Fisher is the perfect coach to handle Moss, who
is three seasons removed from setting an NFL record with 23
touchdown catches.  Fisher is in his 16th season with the Titans, the longest
active tenure with one NFL team.  “If there is a coach out there that can handle Randy Moss,
Jeff Fisher knows how to handle players,” said Simms, whose son
Chris played in Tennessee in 2008. “He does it very well.
That’s the reason why he’s been there so long.”  The Titans’ final nine games are against teams with .500
records or better, including two meetings with the Colts in the
last four weeks of the regular season.  Tennessee hasn’t won a postseason game since 2004. The
Titans passed on taking Moss in the 1998 draft, when they chose
wide receiver  Kevin Dyson  with the 16th pick. Moss was the
second receiver drafted, at No. 21 by the Vikings.  Merriman, who was the NFL’s 2005 defensive rookie of the
year in 2005, joins a Bills defense that’s allowed a NFL-high
30.1 points per game this season.  The NFL’s lone winless team at 0-7, Buffalo has also
surrendered 1,321 rushing yards, the most in the league.  “This is a good opportunity to make our defense better,”
Bills General Manager  Buddy Nix  said in a statement.  Merriman was released two days ago, less than a month after
being placed on the reserve-injured list with a “minor-injury”
designation for a calf problem. The designation meant the
Chargers had to waive Merriman when he was healthy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  