-- Randy Moss's Next NFL Team Might Be Rams or Seahawks, Oddsmakers Predict
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-03T12:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/randy-moss-s-next-nfl-team-might-be-rams-or-seahawks-oddsmakers-predict.html
The St. Louis Rams are the favorites
to land wide receiver  Randy Moss  after his release from the
Minnesota Vikings, according to oddsmakers.  Moss, whose 153 touchdown receptions rank second behind
 Jerry Rice ’s 197 in National Football League history, was waived
by the Vikings yesterday, one month after being acquired in a
trade with the New England Patriots.  The Rams are 7-2 favorites to add Moss as a target for
rookie quarterback  Sam Bradford , according to Antigua-based
sports gambling website  Bodog.com . The Seattle Seahawks are
second favorites to sign the four-time All Pro selection at 4-1,
followed by the Washington Redskins at 9-2.  The Patriots have 5-1 odds of bringing back Moss, though
that would require 31 other teams to pass on putting in a waiver
claim by 4 p.m. New York time today.  Bodog didn’t give a reason for listing the Rams as
favorites.  Any club that claims Moss, 33, would be responsible for the
remainder of his $6.4 million base salary for this season.  If Moss clears waivers, the Vikings would have to pay the
$3.39 million he’s still owed. Moss could then sign a new
contract with another team as a free agent.  The NFL’s waiver-claim process goes in inverse order of the
current standings, so the 0-7 Buffalo Bills would have the first
opportunity to add Moss. The Patriots, with the best record in
the NFL at 6-1, are last.  Waiver Order  The Rams are 13th, after the Bills, Carolina Panthers,
Dallas Cowboys, San Francisco 49ers, Denver Broncos, Detroit
Lions, Vikings, Cincinnati Bengals, Cleveland Browns, San Diego
Chargers, Arizona Cardinals and Jacksonville Jaguars.  St. Louis has a 4-4 record and the Rams’ top receiver is
second-year wideout  Danny Amendola , who has 45 catches for 379
yards and two touchdowns. Moss had 22 receptions for 313 yards
and five scores in eight games for the Patriots and Vikings.  “We are constantly looking for ways to add to our team and
we factor in many areas,” Rams General Manager  Billy Devaney 
said yesterday when asked about Moss’s availability during a
live chat on the team’s website.  Devaney said he couldn’t comment specifically on Moss
because the player hadn’t officially been placed on waivers at
the time.  Moss’s release came two days after he had one catch for
eight yards in the Vikings’ 28-18 loss at New England and then
complimented Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  and his former
teammates. He also criticized the Vikings’ coaching staff during
his postgame news conference.  The NFL’s waiver claim period is 24 hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  