-- Real Madrid Scores Late, Joins Chelsea, Bayern in Champions League Last 16
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-03T23:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/real-madrid-scores-late-joins-chelsea-bayern-in-champions-league-last-16.html
Real Madrid scored in injury time to
tie 2-2 with AC Milan and advance to the Champions League round
of 16 alongside Bayern Munich and Chelsea.  Pedro Leon’s goal in the fourth minute of stoppage time
gave the record nine-time European soccer champion the draw last
night in Italy. Chelsea beat Spartak Moscow 4-1 and Bayern
defeated Cluj 4-0 to join Real as the first teams to qualify for
the last 16 with two group games left.  “We qualify, we didn’t lose, we keep going in the
Champions League without defeat,” Real manager  Jose Mourinho 
said in an interview with Sky Sports. “Overall, I can say I am
happy.”  Shakhtar Donetsk prevented Arsenal from advancing by
beating the Gunners 2-1 as Roma, Auxerre and Braga also won,
while Marseille secured a record 7-0 win at Zilina. The top two
teams in each of the eight groups progress to the knockout stage.  Real’s late rally keeps the Spanish league leader five
points ahead of seven-time European champion Milan atop Group G.  Gonzalo Higuain  put Real in front just before halftime
before  Filippo Inzaghi  came off the substitutes’ bench to score
two goals within 10 minutes to give Milan the lead.  With Mourinho on the brink of his first loss in 13 games,
in his return to the San Siro after leading Inter Milan to the
Champions League title last season, Leon took a pass from fellow
substitute  Karim Benzema  and drilled a shot past goalkeeper
 Christian Abbiati .  In the other Group G game, Auxerre kept alive its chances
of reaching the knockout stage by beating four-time champion
Ajax 2-1 on a goal by Steven Langil in the 84th minute. Ajax has
four points, with Auxerre on three.  Goal Gluts  Mario Gomez  scored a hat trick to lead four-time winner
Bayern past Cluj.  Thomas Mueller  also scored for Bayern, which
lost last season’s final to Inter Milan.  Bayern has 12 points in Group E, six more than Roma, which
beat Basel 3-2 to move into second place. Cluj and Basel have
three points each.  Branislav Ivanovic  scored twice and  Nicolas Anelka  and
 Didier Drogba  added one each as Chelsea got four second-half
goals at Stamford Bridge in London to open a six-point lead over
Spartak and Marseille in Group F.  “Our aim was to qualify and we’ve qualified,” Chelsea
manager  Carlo Ancelotti  said in an interview with Sky Sports.
“Now we have to fight for first place.”  Record Win  Andre-Pierre Gignac scored three goals and Lucho Gonzalez
had two in Marseille’s 7-0 rout of Zilina in Slovakia. It was
the biggest away victory in Champions League history.  The French team, which had won just two of its previous
nine games on the road in the competition, now faces a fight
with Spartak for the second qualifying spot in Group F.  “Now we need to win in Moscow and finish what we started
in Zilina,” Marseille coach  Didier Deschamps  said in comments
on UEFA’s website.  Former Arsenal striker  Eduardo da Silva  scored the winner
for Shakhtar Donetsk, which ties the Gunners atop Group H with
nine points.  Arsenal took the lead after 10 minutes on a goal from  Theo Walcott  before Dmytro Chygrynskiy drew Shaktar level with a
header which went in off the Gunners’ Craig Eastmond. Eduardo,
who joined Shahktar in the off-season, then scored just before
halftime off a pass from Darijo Srna, who took the ball off
defender  Gael Clichy .  Braga is third in the group with six points after beating
Partizan Belgrade 1-0 on a goal from defender Moises.  The next round of matches will be played Nov. 23 and 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 