-- Treasury 30-Year Bonds Tumble as Fed Purchases Other Securities
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-03T21:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/treasury-30-year-bond-yields-rise-as-federal-reserve-plans-debt-purchases.html
Treasury 30-year bonds fell the most
in two months after the Federal Reserve said it will buy fewer
of the securities than anticipated by investors in its $600
billion program of purchases to boost the economy.  The difference between rates on 30-year bonds and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities touched the widest since May 2008
on concern the Fed will be successful in reigniting inflation.
The Fed said in a  statement  at the end of a 2-day Federal Open
Market Committee gathering that it will make 4 percent of its
purchases in the 17- to 30-year sector. In its first round of
purchases, ended in March, the Fed bought $1.7 trillion in
securities, including $300 billion in Treasuries, in an effort
to spur economic growth strong enough to lower unemployment from
near a 26-year high.  “The yield curve should start to steepen because the Fed
will focus on 5- to 6- years,” said  William Larkin , a fixed
income portfolio manager in Salem, Massachusetts, at Cabot Money
Management, which manages $500 million. “The risk once they
finish is that inflation will be elevated. There’s a good chance
we’ll be rip-roaring in terms of growth and inflation.”  Thirty-year bond yields rose 11 basis points to yield 4.04
percent at 5:07 p.m. in New York, after earlier reaching the
biggest rise since Sept. 9. The 3.875 percent bonds due in
August 2040 rose 1 30/32, or $19.38 per $1,000, to 97 4/32.  Near Record  The yield on the 10-year note fell 2 basis point to 2.57
percent after touching 2.63 percent. The two-year note yield
fell 2 basis points to 0.33 percent, near the record low 0.3270
percent on Oct. 12.  The  difference  between rates on 30-year bonds and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities touched 2.74 percent, the highest
since May 2008 when the financial crisis was intensifying. The
figure is a gauge of trader expectations for the annual increase
in consumer prices during the life of the securities, known as
the break-even rate.  The  difference  between yields on 30-year bonds and 10-year
notes climbed to 1.498 percentage points, the highest ever.  The Fed said it will focus  the majority  of its purchases on
the intermediate part of the yield curve, and will make 23
percent of its purchases in the 5 1/2- to 7-year sector and an
equal amount in the 7- to 10-year sector. It plans to make about
86 percent of its purchases in securities maturing between 2.5
years and 10 years, the statement said.  Buy Zones  “The long end is almost assuredly getting hit because the
announced purchases at the longer end are much smaller than
everywhere else,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  The Fed said it is temporarily relaxing a 35 percent per-
issue limit on asset holdings as part of the central bank’s plan
to expand its balance sheet to spur growth, according to a
statement. The central bank will allow individual security
holdings to top the 35 percent level “only in modest
increments,” the New York Fed said.  The Fed left the  target rate  for overnight loans between
banks at a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it
has been since December 2008. Policy makers, who said new
purchases will be about $75 billion a month, “will adjust the
program as needed to best foster maximum employment and price
stability,” the Fed’s Open Market Committee said in a statement
in Washington. The central bank retained its pledge to keep
interest rates low for an “extended period.”  Bernanke’s Moment  This expanded quantitative easing marks the signature
action to date of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , defining him as
was the case with predecessors  Paul Volcker , known for deploying
record-high interest rates to wring inflation from the economy,
and  Alan Greenspan , who described  “irrational exuberance” to
help pop a bubble in equities markets in response to his
monetary policy.  “Bernanke will be viewed admirably as a Fed chairman who
took over under difficult circumstances and wasn’t afraid to use
unconventional means to stem a crisis,” said  Jeffrey Caughron ,
associate partner in Oklahoma City at the Baker Group LP, which
advises community banks on investing assets totaling $23
billion. “There’s no question the economic conditions are the
most serious since the Great Depression.”  Estimates for the size of additional asset purchases ranged
from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch Global
Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  ‘They Got it Wrong’  “The fact that they are looking to do another QE program
suggests the first one wasn’t enough,” said  Guy LeBas , chief
fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, before the announcement. “They got it
wrong the last couple of times.”  Treasury said it plans to $72 billion in its quarterly
sales of long-term debt next week, as lower projected budget
deficits have allowed the government to reduce borrowing.  It will auction $32 billion in three-year notes on Nov. 8,
$24 billion in 10-year notes Nov. 9 and $16 bilion in 30-year
bonds Nov. 10. The total amount was in line with the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of bond dealers and signals
a pause in the Treasury’s auction cutbacks until the fiscal and
economic outlook becomes clearer.  Bernanke told central bankers gathered in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, on Aug. 27 that “preconditions for a pickup in growth
in 2011” appear to be in place. Even so, he said policy makers
are “prepared to provide additional monetary accommodation
through unconventional measures if it proves necessary,
especially if the outlook were to deteriorate significantly.”  Prepared to Act  Fed policy makers said in a statement on Sept. 21 they were
prepared to act to support the recovery and increase the
inflation rate, raising speculation they would increase their
government bond purchases.  Consumer prices excluding food and fuel costs rose 0.8
percent in September from the year before, the smallest  year-
over-year  gain since 1961, figures from the Labor department
showed Oct. 15.  PCE core, the Fed’s preferred annual measure of inflation,
was unchanged from the prior month and was up 1.2 percent last
month from a year earlier, the smallest gain since September
2001, government figures showed Nov. 1. The figure tracks the
personal consumption expenditures price index excluding food and
energy.  The  difference  between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for the annual increase in consumer prices over the life of the
securities, known as the break-even rate, widened 34 basis
points in October to 2.15 percentage points, showing Fed’s
attempts to increase inflation expectations are working.  Inflation Protection  “The Fed is looking to protect, six to 12 months from now,
core inflation from going negative,” said LeBas at Janney
Montgomery Scott. “The fact that break-evens are rising
suggests the market believes the Fed will be successful in
preventing deflation.”  A $10 billion sale of five-year TIPS on Oct. 25 drew a
yield of minus 0.55 percent, the first negative rate at a U.S.
note or bond sale, as investors speculated they will have
positive returns when inflation picks up.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual rate from
July through September, in line with economists’ forecasts,
Commerce Department figures showed Oct. 29. The pace was 1.7
percent in the second quarter and 3.7 percent in the first.  U.S. employers added 60,000 positions in October, after a
loss of 95,000 in September, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before the Labor Department’s Nov. 5 report. The
unemployment rate is forecast to be 9.6 percent for the third
straight month, which would make it the 15th month of
joblessness at 9.5 percent or higher, the longest stretch since
records began in 1948.  Mark MacQueen , a partner and portfolio manager at Austin,
Texas-based Sage Advisory Services, which oversees $9.5 billion,
said the steps by the Fed may lower interest rates, while
proving ineffective in nudging the economy.  “We will continue to see low growth and high unemployment
even after QE2,” MacQueen said. “Unemployment will stay
stubbornly high and inflation will increase over the long run.
The dollar will decline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  