-- Treasuries Advance on Prospects Federal Reserve Will Boost Debt Purchases
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-03T17:37:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/treasuries-hold-gain-on-prospects-federal-reserve-to-boost-debt-purchases.html
U.S. Treasuries rose, sending the
yield on 30-year  bonds  to the lowest level in more than a week,
amid speculation the Federal Reserve will announce more debt
purchases today to support economic growth.  Two-year yields were near a record low as Republicans
seized control of the U.S. House of Representatives in elections
yesterday, adding to speculation gridlock in Washington will be
good for bonds. The Treasury announced it plans to raise $72
billion in notes and bond auctions next week.  “Treasuries are rallying ahead of expectations the Fed
will announce gradual asset purchases.  Martin Mitchell , head
government bond trader at the Baltimore unit of Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., a St. Louis-based brokerage firm. ‘‘The long end of the
curve is pulling everything higher amid speculation that the Fed
may announce purchases further out the curve as they’ve
expressed the desire to keep long-end rates low.’’  The yield on the 30-year bond fell six basis points to 3.86
percent at 1:33 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data, and touched the lowest since Oct. 25. The 3.875 percent
security due in August 2040 rose 1 4/32, or $11.251 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 6/32. The yield fell seven basis points
yesterday, the most since Oct. 6.  Two-year notes yielded 0.35 percent, and the yield on the
10-year note fell six basis points to 2.53 percent.  Fed View  Fed policy makers said after their last meeting on Sept. 21
they were prepared to act to support the recovery and increase
the inflation rate, raising speculation they will add to their
government bond purchases. That helped send the two-year note
yield to an  all-time low  0.327 percent on Oct. 12.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg said the U.S. central bank
will announce plans to buy at least $500 billion of securities
following a meeting today.  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note may fall to
2.25 percent should the Fed renew large-scale asset purchases,
said  Richard Berner , co-head of global economics at Morgan
Stanley in New York.  ‘‘I think we are already in a new rate regime,’’ Berner
said in a Bloomberg Television interview on ‘‘Surveillance
Midday’’ with  Tom Keene . ‘‘I think the Fed is trying to make
sure we don’t become Japan. That is really the effort.’’  The Institute for Supply Management’s  non-manufacturing 
index, which covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose to
54.3 last month from 53.2 in September, according to the
organization. The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected the ISM index would rise to 53.5.
Estimates ranged from 52 to 55.2.  The gauge, in which readings greater than 50 signal growth,
averaged 56.1 in the five years to December 2007, when the last
recession began.  Jobs Watch  Companies in the U.S. boosted payrolls by more than
forecast in October, data from a private report showed today.  Employment increased by 43,000, according to figures from
ADP Employer Services. The median estimate of 38 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 20,000 gain. Forecasts
ranged from a decline of 10,000 to a 50,000 increase.  The Treasury plans to auction $32 billion of three-year
notes, $24 billion of 10-year notes and $16 billion of 30-year
bonds, according to the Treasury department.  In August, the Treasury sold $34 billion of three-year
debt, $24 billion of 10-year notes and $16 billion of 30-year
bonds. The 18 primary dealers are required to bid at the
government debt sales.  President  Barack Obama  has increased the U.S. publicly
traded  debt  to a record $8.5 trillion as he tries to sustain the
nation’s economic expansion. Republicans gained House seats
yesterday across the country, capitalizing on concerns about
government spending and delivering a rebuke to the domestic
agenda of Obama. They fell short of winning the Senate, while
narrowing the chamber’s Democratic majority.  Just as  Bill Clinton  was forced to abandon spending
initiatives after Republicans took over the House and Senate in
the 1994 elections, President Barack Obama’s agenda may be
constrained as voter concerns over the budget deficit grows.  Spending Block  With spending held in check, 10-year Treasury yields fell
to 5.57 percent by the end of 1995 from 8.03 percent after the
November 1994 election while stocks rallied and the Fed cut
interest rates as the economy slowed.  The conventional wisdom that a gridlocked congress is good
for the economy does not apply in the current atmosphere where
companies and individuals are still dealing with the
consequences of taking on too much debt in the run-up to the
financial crisis,  Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive officer of
Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, said in a note on the company’s website.  ‘‘‘The resulting debt overhangs act as strong headwinds to
growth and employment generation,” he said. “These realities
make it necessary for Washington to resist two years of gridlock
and policy paralysis. Democrats and Republicans must meet in the
middle to implement policies to deal with debt overhangs and
structural rigidities.”  U.S. yields indicate investors are adding to bets the Fed’s
asset purchases, a strategy known as quantitative easing, will
increase costs for goods and services.  Fed Policy  The  spread  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for inflation over the life of the securities, widened to 2.19
percentage points from this year’s low of 1.47 points in August.
Treasury 10-year note yields suggest that investors should
follow the old adage of “buy the rumor and sell the fact” if
the Federal Reserve announces additional asset purchase today,
according to Citigroup Inc.  “Previous examples of QE by the Fed show that buying the
rumor and selling the fact is what seems to work,”  Tom Fitzpatrick , Citigroup analyst wrote. “The dominant trend ahead
will take the U.S. 10-year yield to the 200-day moving average,
currently at 3.17 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  