-- REC `Pursuing Opportunities' to Export Its Solar Electric Panels to Asia
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-11-03T15:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/rec-pursuing-opportunities-to-export-its-solar-electric-panels-to-asia.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA , the
Norwegian maker of solar energy components, is “pursuing
opportunities” to raise exports from its Singapore plant to
Thailand, Australia and Japan, its chief operating officer said.  The Norwegian maker of solar energy components is currently
exporting 75 percent of its modules made in Singapore to Europe,
and 15 percent to the U.S., with the remainder sold in Asia,
REC’s  John Andersen  said in an interview in Singapore.  “There are some indications this ratio may change,”
Andersen said. “As an industry, we are too dependent on the few
markets in Europe. In the next couple of decades, electricity
demand will increase in China and India.”  The Singapore plant has a planned production capacity of
740 megawatts of wafers, 550 megawatts of solar cells and 590
megawatts of modules, the company said in April. REC aims to
boost output of modules in Singapore to 800 megawatts by 2012,
it said in a press release yesterday.  REC is closing a plant in Europe and built the Singapore
plant to be closer to fast-growing economies such as China and
India who are turning to solar power to reduce carbon emissions.
The company said in September it was closing its 150-megawatt
module facility in Glava, Sweden, to reduce costs.  Japan, China and India combined are forecast to make up 15
to 21 percent of the world’s demand for solar modules by 2014 
from 9 percent last year, said Andy Wickless, associate 
director of Chicago-based Navigant Consulting Inc.  In comparison, Germany, which was the world’s biggest
consumer of solar modules last year with 53 percent of global
demand, may see its share fall to as low as 18 percent, Wickless
said in an interview in Singapore.  “What is going to create photovoltaic markets is
government policy. China and Australia are rich in resources
including coal, but both have greenhouse gas concerns,” said
Wickless.  REC said in October that earnings may be flat in the last
three months of the year amid falling silane gas sales and
pressure on module prices because of cuts in German subsidies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  