-- Record Cotton Prices ‘Endanger’ China Textile Makers, CFLP Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   J a y   W a n g
-- 2010-11-03T03:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/record-cotton-prices-endanger-china-textile-makers-survival-cflp-says.html
Textile makers in  China , which uses
more than 40 percent of the world’s cotton, face a supply
shortage that has sent prices to a record and is “endangering”
their survival, an industry group said.  “The textile market has a shortage of raw material,”
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing, which publishes
the country’s official Purchasing Manager’s Index, said in a
report e-mailed today. “Cotton and yarn prices rose sharply,
affecting company profit and endangering company survival.”  Cotton futures in Zhengzhou surged to a record for a third
day today, and futures traded in  New York  reached the highest
price since trading began 140 years ago. Prices have jumped
because of lingering concerns that a production deficit in
China, the world’s biggest buyer, may be bigger than estimated,
boosting the nation’s import needs and draining global
stockpiles that are already forecast to drop to a 14-year low.  China’s production of the fiber in the year that began Aug.
1 was forecast by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  to lag
behind domestic consumption for a 12th straight year, shrinking
the Asian nation’s inventories to a 16-year low.  The latest USDA estimate on China’s crop was released on
Oct. 8, before the China Meteorological Center said on Oct. 25
that a cold front moving across the nation might hamper cotton
harvesting and reduce quality, adding to global supply concerns.  China’s cotton imports were forecast to rise to 13 million
bales this year, from 10.9 million bales a year earlier, as
global stockpiles decline, according to the USDA.  Outstanding sales contracts of U.S. upland cotton to China
were 2.46 million bales as of Oct. 21, about 26 times more than
a year earlier, according to the USDA. The fiber is for delivery
in the 12 months ending July 31, 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  