-- Red Bull's $675 Million Formula 1 Spending Spree Helps Brand Top Ferrari
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-11-03T14:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/red-bull-s-675-million-formula-1-spending-spree-helps-brand-top-ferrari.html
Red Bull GmbH leads Formula One
brands including Ferrari SpA in television exposure after
spending more than $675 million in five years, research shows.  The energy drink maker, its logo emblazoned on four racing
cars, got 4 hours, 27 minutes of TV airtime at the first 15
races this season compared with about 52 minutes for  Ferrari ,
research by Guildford, England-based Margaux Matrix Ltd. found.
Only series sponsor  LG Electronics Inc. , with almost 11 hours,
had more coverage.  Red Bull spent an average $135 million a year on its main
Milton Keynes, England-based team since 2005, according to
company filings in the U.K. by Red Bull Technology Ltd.,
allowing it to rely less on sponsorship from other companies to
cover costs, said Mick de Haas, a motor sports sponsorship
consultant who has advised  ING Groep NV .  “Red Bull is a brand that’s still emerging and it’s
looking for as much publicity as possible,” De Haas said.
“It’s all over the place.”  Fuschl am See, Austria-based Red Bull also runs a second
team, Toro Rosso, and last year had a deal with Kimi Raikkonen
under which the former champion drank from a branded Red Bull
bottle when racing for Ferrari. Red Bull said in an e-mail it
spends “30 to 40 percent” of company sales on marketing,
including F-1 expenditure. It had net income of 123.1 million
euros on sales of 1.85 billion euros last year, according to a
filing with the Austrian company register.  Market Share  Closely held Red Bull was the 7th biggest maker of soft
drinks last year, with 0.7 percent of the American market,
according to industry journal  Beverage Digest . While volume in
the U.S. total soft drink industry declined 2.1 percent, Red
Bull’s rose 1.2 percent. Red Bull sold about 4 billion cans of
its energy drink last year, and plans to increase volume by more
than 10 percent this year, Chief Executive Officer  Dietrich Mateschitz  told the Sonntag newspaper.  It purchased Ford Motor Co.’s unprofitable Jaguar Racing
team in 2004 to enter Formula One. Its sports portfolio includes
soccer’s New York Red Bulls, while it sponsors Olympic downhill
champion skier Lindsey Vonn among other athletes.  In the racing series, Red Bull’s  Mark Webber  trails
championship leader  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari by 11 points
ahead of the Nov. 7 Brazilian Grand Prix, the second-to-last
race. McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton  is 10 points further back, four
ahead of another Red Bull driver,  Sebastian Vettel .  Ferrari, in Formula One since 1950, doesn’t spend any
additional money on marketing, team spokesman Luca Colajanni
said by telephone. He declined to discuss team costs. The
carmaker said in May it planned to maintain production at 6,000
road models this year.  Limited Market  “Ferrari’s audience is limited” to the high-end car
market, De Haas said. It’s in Formula One to associate itself
with elite technology, he added.  To be sure, Red Bull ceded space on its racing cars this
year as part of “healthy seven-figure deals” with LG and FXDD
Malta Ltd., said Zak Brown, chief executive of Just Marketing
International, which brokered the deals.  It may come under pressure to sell the Toro Rosso team to
reduce costs further, according to Mark Jenkins, a business
strategy professor at the U.K.’s Cranfield University who has
written about Formula One.  “They’re sinking a lot of money into Formula One,”
Jenkins said. “It doesn’t make any sense with the current
regulations for Red Bull to own two teams.”  Red Bull said it has no “concrete” plans to sell the
squad, whose top-ranked driver  Sebastien Buemi  is 16th in the
championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  