-- Surfing Champion Andy Irons Dies at Age 32 After Withdrawing From Event
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-03T17:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/three-time-world-surfing-champion-andy-irons-dies-at-age-32-tour-says.html
Andy Irons, a three-time world
surfing champion who won at every location on the elite men’s
professional circuit, died from an illness on his way home from
an event. He was 32.  Irons passed away during a layover en route to Kauai,
Hawaii, after withdrawing from a competition in Puerto Rico, the
Association of Surfing Professionals said yesterday. He was said
to have been battling dengue fever, the association added.  Irons, who began his professional career in 1998, won three
straight world titles from 2002 to 2004 and is the only surfer
to win at every location on the elite tour, where he collected
20 victories. He last competed in September in Tahiti. He earned
$104,000 from events this year, giving him a career total of
$1.49 million,  the ASP said .  “Andy was one of the greatest surfers of our time,”
 Billabong International Ltd. , the surfwear maker that sponsored
Irons, said in a tribute on its website. “More than that, he
was a much loved son, a devoted husband and a soon-to-be
father.”  Irons’s pregnant wife, Lyndie, is due to give birth to the
couple’s first child next month.  The surfer was found in a hotel room at Dallas/Fort Worth
Airport.  Mark Occhilupo, the 1999 world surfing champion, said that
Irons had struggled with dengue fever since first contracting
the viral disease in Bali, Indonesia.  “When he gets run down it comes back,” Occhilupo said in
a televised interview with Australia’s Fox Sports News.
“Somehow he tried to get home and he didn’t make it. Words
can’t explain it. He was such a vibrant and lovely person to be
around.”  Irons was ranked 16th this year by the ASP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 