-- Religious School Case Morphs Into Debate on Taxes Before U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-11-03T18:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/religious-school-case-morphs-into-debate-on-taxes-before-u-s-high-court.html
A religious-school funding case at
the  U.S. Supreme Court  morphed into a philosophical clash over
the government’s taxing power.  The day after a congressional election that focused on
taxes and government spending, the justices held their own
debate on the subject in Washington. They are considering the
constitutionality of an Arizona tax credit for donations to
organizations that provide scholarships at private schools.  The outcome may hinge on how the court classifies the money
that flows to those organizations: as government funds that must
be distributed in a religiously neutral way or as private money
that individuals can spend as they wish. Several of the court’s
Republican appointees signaled they favored the latter
interpretation and were poised to uphold the program.  “This is a very important philosophical point here,”
Justice  Samuel Alito  said to a lawyer challenging the Arizona
system. “You think that all the money belongs to the government
except to the extent that it deigns to allow private people to
keep some of it.”  The justices are reviewing a federal appeals court decision
that let a group of taxpayers press a challenge to the Arizona
program, which has been in effect since 1997. The taxpayers say
the program violates separation of church and state by using
religious organizations to award scholarships and letting those
groups require that recipients enroll in sectarian schools.  Obama Stance  The Obama administration is joining Arizona officials in
defending the tax credit. Acting U.S. Solicitor General  Neal Katyal  argued today that the taxpayers lack the legal right, or
standing, to have a court consider their suit because “not a
cent” of their money goes toward funding religion.  That contention got considerable traction among the court’s
Republican-appointed justices, including  Antonin Scalia  and
 Anthony Kennedy .  “This money has never been in the government’s coffers,”
Scalia said. “The government has declined to take this money.”  Kennedy, often the court’s swing vote on religion issues,
said he had “some difficulty” with the notion that “any money
that the government doesn’t take from me is still the
government’s money.” He also aimed skeptical questions at the
government lawyers defending the program and didn’t clearly
indicate how he will vote.  Who owns the money is a central question because of a 1968
ruling that said taxpayers could challenge statutes that
directed government money to be spent for religious purposes.
That decision, known as Flast v. Cohen, marked an exception to
the general rule that Americans can’t go to court to contest how
their tax dollars are spent because they don’t have enough of an
individual stake in the outcome.  Tax Credit  The taxpayers challenging the Arizona program say it is
government money that reaches the so-called school tuition
organizations, known as STOs. The Arizona tax credit is unusual
because it applies after taxpayers have computed how much they
owe for the previous year. At that point they can send as much
as $500 to an STO, reducing their tax liability by the same
amount.  That structure makes the Arizona program different from tax
deductions that kick in only after a person makes a contribution
to a church or other charitable organization, said Paul Bender,
the lawyer representing the challengers.  “This is not private charity,” Bender said.  Bender drew words of support from the court’s four
Democratic appointees, led by  Stephen Breyer  and  Elena Kagan .
Breyer said Katyal’s position eviscerated the 1968 Flast ruling.  Kagan, who was Katyal’s boss when she was solicitor
general, said the government lawyer’s position would have
stripped the court of authority to decide a half-dozen cases it
considered in recent years.  The court ruled in 2002 that tax-funded school vouchers are
constitutional so long as parents have a “genuine choice” not
to send their children to religious schools.  The cases are Arizona Christian School Tuition Organization
v. Winn, 09-987, and Garriott v. Winn, 09-991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 