-- Republican Election Gains May Stall Business's Immigration Push
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-11-03T02:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republican-election-victories-may-stall-immigration-push-by-hilton-intel.html
Intel Corp. ,  Hilton Worldwide Inc. 
and other companies seeking a larger number of legal foreign
workers through changes to immigration law likely will find
their push thwarted by the Republicans’ sweeping election gains.  Lawmakers who will lead the debate in the new Republican-
controlled U.S. House say they want to focus on securing the
border and cracking down on illegal immigration, rather than
other matters. Only after it is shown that fewer illegal
immigrants are coming across the U.S.-Mexico border will they
consider the revisions to immigration law sought by businesses,
they say.  Representative  Steve King , an Iowa Republican slated to
head the House Judiciary Committee’s immigration policy
subcommittee, said in an interview that he opposes lifting visa
caps for lower-skilled foreign workers because doing so would
depress U.S. workers’ wages. He said he would support increasing
the number of visas for higher-skilled workers only if the
potential employees meet criteria to boost the U.S. economy.  That means they should be young, well-educated and be able
to speak English, King said. “That’s the indicator of whether
they can assimilate into the broader society,” he said.  The business agenda calls for increases in worker visas for
skilled and unskilled labor, along with more employment-based
“green cards” -- proof of permanent residency in the U.S.  Political Change  Corporate officials and lobbyists must deal with midterm
election results, in which the Republicans have won a majority
of seats in the House, according to network projections.  “We’re as anxious as anyone else to see how it shakes out
and whether this will be on the agenda next year,” said Peter
Muller, director of government relations at Intel Corp.  Technology companies such as  EBay Inc . and  Cognizant
Technology Solutions Corp . want Congress to lift the cap on H-1B
visas for skilled workers. Since the start of the 2004 fiscal
year, when a three-year temporary increase in the cap to 195,000
expired, the annual limit has been at 65,000. In fiscal 2010,
the cap was reached in nine months.  Companies also want to lift the limit on employment-based
green cards, now set at 140,000.  At Intel, about 6.5 percent of the company’s 40,000 U.S.-
based employees hold temporary visas granted foreign workers,
and the company helps those workers apply immediately to get
green cards. “We want to keep them ideally for their entire
career,” Muller said.  Still, the wait often is eight to 10 years, causing
uncertainty both for the workers and for their employers.  Lower-Skilled Workers  The agenda for restaurant and hotel industries is focused
on seasonal, lower-skilled workers.  Jonas Neihardt , a lobbyist
for McLean, Virginia-based Hilton, is pushing for a simpler
system to verify the legal status of workers and a boost in the
number of H-2B visas for non-farm seasonal employees, now capped
at 66,000. Neihardt is urging that changes be made before the
economy improves.  “We’re anticipating when things get better we’ll need more
of those types of workers,” he said.  Senate Democrats in April outlined a rewrite of immigration
law that, along with proposing a crackdown on drug trafficking
and illegal immigration at the U.S.-Mexico border, sought
changes that included a pathway to permanent legal residency for
some of the estimated 11 million undocumented people in the U.S.
It also called for a new three-year visa for temporary, low-
skilled workers with an annual limit that adjusts with the
economy, as well as immediate green cards for foreign students
who get advanced degrees in engineering or math from a U.S.
university.  The effort was hamstrung when Senator  Lindsey Graham , a
South Carolina Republican, stopped working with Democrats on a
compromise, urging them to wait until 2011.  Latino Vote  Corporations are holding out hope that the importance of
the Latino vote in the 2012 presidential elections will cause
congressional Republican leaders to support a broad bill next
year.  “It will be an uphill battle, but it could be that the
Republicans would see that it’s to their advantage to get this
issue behind them,” said  Randy Johnson , vice president for
labor policy at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  That hope belies the views of some of the Republicans
ascending to power.  In the House, King is in line to replace Representative  Zoe Lofgren  as immigration subcommittee chairman. Lofgren, a
California Democrat and one-time immigration lawyer, supports
the comprehensive approach to rewriting policy.  King, 61, said he favors a piecemeal approach, with the
initial spotlight on border security. He also wants to help
draft legislation that would revoke birthright U.S. citizenship
for so-called anchor babies of illegal immigrants.  Business Deductions  His priorities for business include a measure that would
boost taxes on employers found by the Internal Revenue Service
to have hired illegal immigrants. Those companies wouldn’t be
able to treat the illegal workers’ wages and benefits as a
deductible business expense, and they would also pay a penalty.  “It takes a $10-an-hour illegal and turns them into a $16-
an-hour illegal,” King said.  Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican expected to
become chairman of the  Judiciary Committee , said in an interview
that while he would favor holding hearings about foreign worker
visas and other immigration issues, next year he wants to draft
legislation dealing only with border security.  “I’m still of the mind we have to secure the border
first,” he said in an interview.  In 2007 Senator  Jon Kyl  of Arizona, the chamber’s No. 2
Republican, worked with Democrats on a comprehensive immigration
bill that failed. He said in an interview that he won’t support
anything beyond border security until the fight against illegal
immigration improves in parts of his state.  “There has to be more of an effort to actually secure the
border -- not just to spend money, not just to say we have more
resources than ever before,” he said.  Kyl also said companies must realize that the recession --
which became the nation’s worst since the Great Depression --
changed the immigration debate.  He said labor unions are more opposed to expanding the pool
of foreign labor now than before. “The temporary-worker program
has gone backwards in terms of a consensus,” Kyl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  