-- Republican Win May Be Tax Boon for Companies, High Incomes
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-11-03T16:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republican-sweep-may-mean-tax-boon-for-u-s-multinationals-high-incomes.html
Americans with the highest incomes
and U.S. corporations, especially those with international
operations, stand to be big winners as newly elected
congressional Republicans signal they will extend existing tax
benefits and push for new ones.  Republicans will use their new majority in the House to
bolster their campaign to extend Bush-era tax cuts for couples
earning more than $250,000. They’ll also side with companies
such as  International Business Machines Corp .,  Microsoft Corp. ,
 Blackstone Group LP  and  Occidental Petroleum Corp. , which have
lobbied against President  Barack Obama ’s proposals to increase
taxes on overseas profits.  “Republicans have pretty much staked their claim that
they’re not going to raise taxes,” said  John Feehery , who was
an adviser to former House Speaker  Dennis Hastert , the last
Republican to hold that top post. “Republicans are much more
cognizant and care more about the financial impact of these
taxes on jobs.”  Midterm elections yesterday gave Republicans a majority in
the House of Representatives with a net gain of at least 60
seats, their biggest increase since 1938. Republicans also
scored a net gain of at least six seats in the Senate, though
Democrats retained control of that body. Analysts say the new
makeup improves the chances Congress will prevent any  Bush-era
tax cuts  from expiring as scheduled at year’s end. Businesses
will get powerful allies as they seek to forestall tax
increases sought by Obama to fund other priorities.  ‘Pillaged by Congress’  Businesses “are not going to be seen as a pool of funds
to be pillaged by Congress anymore,” said  Curtis Dubay , a
senior tax policy analyst at the Washington-based Heritage
Foundation, a research organization that usually sides with
Republicans.  Still, even with the gains in the House, the Republicans
will need to reach compromises with Democrats to achieve
anything of substance. The president has veto power and the
Democrats retain a majority in the Senate that allows them to
prevent any measure from getting the 60 votes required to
overcome procedural hurdles.  Immediately at stake is the renewal of more than $5
trillion of tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 that expire Dec.
31. These include lower income-tax rates and reduced rates on
most capital gains and dividends.  Permanent Cuts  Republicans want the cuts extended permanently for all
Americans; Obama and most Democrats favor extending them only
on the first $250,000 of a couple’s income. The parties also
disagree on what to do about the estate tax, which was repealed
for one year for 2010. Failure by Congress to act would trigger
$400 billion in scheduled tax increases this year and next.  “We’re hoping the president puts the class warfare
rhetoric aside, puts the redistribution ideology aside and
works for the better of the economy and sends a signal to the
markets that we’re going to prevent these tax increases,” said
Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan , the Republican likely to
chair the House Budget Committee in the next Congress. Ryan
said Republicans would seek to retroactively renew the Bush-era
tax cuts next year if no action is taken in 2010.  If Congress fails to act, income tax-rates are scheduled
to increase across the board. The $1,000 per child tax credit
will be cut in half and other benefits for adoption, college
tuition and child care will be reduced or lapse.  Capital Gains  In addition, incentives for small businesses to invest
will decrease and tax rates on most capital gains and dividends
will rise to 20 percent and as high as 39.6 percent from 15
percent now. The federal tax on estates, which lapsed for 2010
only, is scheduled to return with a top 55 percent rate on
estates of more than $1 million.  Most lawmakers in both parties favor retaining lower taxes
for joint filers earning less than $250,000. Republicans want
to extend the cuts for everyone, while Democrats want to
increase the two top rates -- currently 33 percent and 35
percent -- to 36 percent and 39.6 percent. Republicans also
want to keep the preferential tax rates on investments and a
repealed or lower estate tax.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service  estimated
on Oct. 27 that it would cost the government $5 trillion in
revenue and interest costs on the  national debt  to extend the
Bush-era tax cuts for all income classes through 2020.  Lame-Duck Session  The interim period and the looming deadline for expiration
of the Bush tax cuts will present Republicans with a dilemma:
They will need to decide whether it would be most beneficial to
make a deal during a so-called lame-duck session, before the
next Congress convenes and during which Democrats still have
majorities, or whether they would prefer to negotiate with
Obama on a reinstatement of the tax cuts on their own terms in
2011, said former Texas Representative  Bill Archer .  “It’s not going to be easy for them to cut what I would
consider to be a good deal with Democrats who’ve got their nose
out of joint because they’re no longer in control and a
president who wants to show he’s still president,” said
Archer, who became the first Republican to head the tax-writing
 Ways and Means Committee  in 40 years the last time Republicans
took control of the chamber from Democrats in 1995.  Still, even divided government may benefit businesses such
as Armonk, New York-based  IBM  and Redmond, Washington-based
 Microsoft  by making it impossible for Obama to push ahead with
proposals to boost taxes on U.S. companies’ overseas income.
 Mike Fay , a spokesman for IBM, and  Mark Murray , a Microsoft
spokesman, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Oil Companies  Gridlock may also stave off changes in tax policy sought
by Obama that would cost oil companies such as  Occidental  tens
of billions more a year by raising taxes on their non-U.S.
operations.  Obama has advocated eliminating the so-called dual-
capacity tax credit, which allows companies to deduct a portion
of foreign taxes paid when calculating U.S. taxes. The credit
lowers a company’s U.S. tax burden by not double-taxing foreign
sources of revenue. In 2009, 39 percent of  Occidental ’s revenue
came from foreign sources, yet 64 percent of the company’s
taxes due were to foreign governments. If the credit is
eliminated, companies will owe more taxes in the U.S.  “The punitive-type tax changes against the energy
industry will be much more difficult to pass with Republicans
in charge of the House,” said Gerald McPhee, senior vice
president of federal relations at Los Angeles-based  Occidental ,
the fourth-largest U.S. oil company by market value.  Carried Interest  The Republican victory may also give private-equity firms
such as New York-based  Blackstone  some clout in their four-year
fight to thwart efforts by congressional Democrats to raise
taxes on the incentive pay paid to executives known as carried
interest. That pay can currently qualify as capital gains, and
be taxed at a 15 percent rate, and Democrats say it should be
taxed at higher rates for wages, or as high as 39.6 percent.
Most Republicans oppose the change.  Asked on Bloomberg Television on Oct. 30 whether a
Republican win would delay the tax, Blackstone’s Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Schwarzman  said he didn’t know.  “There’s a real need for revenue in the  budget  cycle,”
Schwarzman said. “What gets through Congress, I can’t
predict.”  Tax Holiday  Besides blocking prospective increases, businesses may
find the Republican sweep provides a ripe political environment
for getting through Congress some long-sought tax benefits.
Companies such as San Jose, California-based  Cisco Systems Inc. 
may find new support for a temporary tax holiday on their
foreign earnings that was rejected by the Senate in 2009.  Terry Anderson , a Cisco spokeswoman, didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  Moreover, Obama and Republicans may cooperate on business
tax incentives designed to stimulate the economy, said  Grover Norquist , president of Americans for Tax Reform, a Washington-
based group that advocates lower taxes.  That would benefit manufacturers including  General
Electric Co. ,  Corning Inc. , and  Caterpillar Inc .  Anne Eisele , a
spokeswoman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, declined to
comment.  Daniel Collins , a spokesman for Corning, New York-based
Corning, said, “we really haven’t formed an opinion about what
may or may not happen.”  Research Credit  Obama has proposed renewing, expanding and making
permanent a tax credit for research and experimentation along
with a two-year period to allow companies a full deduction for
equipment purchases that ordinarily would have to be
depreciated over as many as 20 years. Republicans and business
groups generally favor both policies, though they have objected
to Obama’s plan to offset the cost of those measures with tax
increases on U.S. companies’ global profits.  “It would have a very big stimulative effect for new
investment,” and the president needs a growing economy before
the 2012 election, Norquist said. “Obama can hold his head up
and say that was my idea.”  Republicans and Obama also may find common ground on
reducing the 35 percent top marginal corporate tax rate, the
second-highest in developed countries, Norquist and Dubay said.
Democrats such as New York Representative  Charles Rangel , the
former head of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, and
Senator  Ron Wyden  of Oregon have offered proposals to trim it.  Gridlock Losers  Gridlock may have a downside for companies, by blocking
efforts to renew dozens of business-oriented tax breaks that
expired last January. The provisions, which are being pushed by
companies including  Corning  and  GE , include a different version
of the research credit and deferral of U.S. tax on profits from
foreign lending that benefits global lenders including GE.  There’s also a separate tax issue that requires lawmakers’
immediate attention: making a deal before year-end to prevent
30 million households from being subject to a $66 billion tax
increase under the alternative minimum tax. That parallel
system, introduced in the 1960s to ensure the richest Americans
don’t avoid taxation through the use of deductions, was never
indexed for inflation and Congress has been forced to limit its
effect by enacting a series of costly fixes. The latest such
fix expired at the beginning of 2010.  Even if lawmakers reach a compromise before Dec. 31 that
extends lower income taxes for a year or two, such a deal could
be easily undermined by a separate fight over how to tax
multimillion-dollar estates, said  Clinton Stretch , a principal
at the consulting firm Deloitte Tax LLP in Washington.  Estate Tax  Democrats generally want to reinstate the levy as it
existed in 2009, with a 45 percent top rate that begins to
apply when estates exceed $3.5 million. Republicans for the
most part are holding out for a full repeal. Some in both
parties back a bipartisan proposal by Arizona Republican
Senator  Jon Kyl  and Senator  Blanche Lincoln , an Arkansas
Democrat, to increase the exemption to $5 million and reduce
the rate to 35 percent. That compromise may be imperiled as
Lincoln lost her bid for re-election yesterday.  “It’s much easier to see a compromise between the still-
Democratic House and the Senate on the Bush tax cuts,” Stretch
said. “It’s harder to see compromise on estate taxes.”  Dubay said he was less optimistic about the chances of all
the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts being extended while Democrats still
control Congress. “I can’t imagine that the last act of
Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  is to extend the Bush tax cuts,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net 
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  