-- Republicans Claim U.S. House Majority and Make Gains in Senate
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-11-03T18:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republicans-win-u-s-house-majority-gain-in-senate-in-setback-for-obama.html
Republicans seized control of the
U.S. House and narrowed the Senate’s Democratic majority in
elections shaped by voter anxiety over jobs and the economy.  Republicans had a net gain of at least 60 House seats
yesterday across the country, the party’s biggest increase in
power in the chamber since 1938. Republicans capitalized on
concerns about government spending, delivering a rebuke to the
domestic agenda of President  Barack Obama .  Republicans scored a net gain of at least six seats in the
Senate, winning Democratic-held slots in Illinois, Indiana,
Arkansas, Pennsylvania, North Dakota and Wisconsin. They won’t
get the 10-seat gain needed to win a majority, as only two races
are yet to be decided, in Alaska and Washington.  “We’re witnessing a repudiation of Washington, a
repudiation of big government and a repudiation of politicians
who refuse to listen to the people,” Republican  John Boehner  of
Ohio, in line to replace Democrat  Nancy Pelosi  as House speaker,
told supporters in Washington late last night.  Republicans needed a net gain of 39 seats to control the
House next year. With 11 races still to be decided, the
Republican pickups exceeded their 54-seat gain in 1994, when the
party  won control  of the House for the first time since 1954.  “Our new majority will be prepared to do things
differently,” said Boehner, his voice choked with emotion.  Obama Call  Obama called Boehner at about midnight to offer
congratulations. On the campaign trail, Obama and Boehner
accused each other of failing to live up to promises of
bipartisanship made after the 2008 elections.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada held onto his
seat, defeating Republican  Sharron Angle , a favorite of Tea
Party activists. Republicans made a major effort to unseat Reid,
a one-time amateur boxer seeking his fifth term.  “I’ve been in some pretty tough fights in my day --they’ve
been in the street, they’ve been in a boxing ring, they’ve been
in the United States Senate,” Reid told supporters. “I have to
admit, this has been one of the toughest.”  Leaders from both parties pledged to work together.  “I am very eager to sit down with members of both parties
and figure out how we can move forward together,” Obama told
reporters at the White House today.  Close Senate Races  Democratic Senator  Michael Bennet  claimed victory in
Colorado after the  Denver Post  called the race for him. With 97
percent of precincts counted, Bennet led county prosecutor  Ken Buck  by about 15,000 votes out of more than 1.6 million ballots.  Fellow Democratic Senator  Patty Murray  of Washington was
locked in a contest that was too close to call. She led
businessman  Dino Rossi  by about 14,000 votes out of more than
1.4 million ballots cast, with 62 percent of precincts
reporting.  In at least one Senate race, final results may not be known
for days. A three-way race sparked by the write-in campaign of
Republican Senator  Lisa Murkowski  in Alaska could delay results
in that state for weeks. Counting the write-in ballots, if
necessary, won’t begin until Nov. 18, according to  Gail Fenumiai , Alaska Division of Elections director.  Write-In Leads  Murkowski mounted her write-in campaign after losing the
Republican primary to  Joe Miller , who was backed by former
Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin . The Democratic candidate is  Scott McAdams . The category of write-in led, with 41 percent of the
vote, compared with 34 percent for Miller and 24 percent for
McAdams, with 99 percent of precincts reporting.  Democratic House losses claimed fiscally conservative
lawmakers from rural districts, freshmen elected in 2008 on a
wave of support for Obama, and longtime lawmakers. The latter
included Representative  John Spratt  of South Carolina, chairman
of the Budget Committee, Representative  Ike Skelton  of Missouri,
head of the Armed Services Committee, and  James Oberstar  of
Minnesota, who leads the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee.  Lawmakers return to Washington later this month for a lame-
duck session before the new Congress begins in January. Tops on
the agenda for the rest of this year will be passing spending
bills to fund the government and debating the extension of tax
cuts passed under Republican President  George W. Bush  in 2001
and 2003.  Voter Anger  Voter frustration with a national  unemployment rate  at or
above 9.5 percent for the last 14 months and disagreement with
the White House’s domestic policies, including the new health-
care law, helped spark an anti-Washington Tea Party movement
that helped shape the year’s campaign.  The Democrats had captured House and Senate control in the
2006 midterm elections, when Bush was still in the White House.  This year’s election is the costliest non-presidential
contest in U.S. history, with spending expected to reach $4
billion, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Outside groups, such as  Karl Rove ’s Crossroads GPS and the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, spent $167 million on behalf of
Republican candidates from Sept. 1 to Oct. 29. Democratic groups
spent $68 million. Many of the groups didn’t have to disclose
their donors.  Edwards, Kanjorski Lose  In addition to Spratt, Skelton and Oberstar, veteran
Democratic House members wiped out in the Republican wave
included  Chet Edwards  of Texas, chairman of an appropriations
subcommittee, Pennsylvania’s  Paul Kanjorski , a 13-term lawmaker
who is the third-ranking member of the Financial Services
Committee, and Mississippi’s  Gene Taylor , who first won his seat
in a 1989 special election.  Democrats lost three House races in Virginia, a state that
Obama won in 2008 in the first Democratic presidential victory
there since 1964.  Republican  Morgan Griffith  ousted 14-term Democratic
incumbent  Rick Boucher . Republican challenger  Scott Rigell 
defeated Democratic freshman  Glenn Nye  in the state, and
Republican  Robert Hurt  beat Democratic incumbent  Tom Perriello ,
the Associated Press projected. Obama campaigned for Perriello
on Oct. 29.  Nye and Perriello were part of the class of Democratic
House members in competitive districts elected with Obama two
years ago. That group also included freshman Democrat  Suzanne Kosmas  in Florida, who lost her re-election bid to state
Representative  Sandy Adams .  Blue Dogs Hurt  The self-described fiscally conservative Blue Dog House
Democrats took a big hit, with defeats of Indiana’s  Baron Hill ,
Florida’s  Allen Boyd  and North Dakota’s  Earl Pomeroy , among
other lawmakers.  Democrats lost five House seats in Ohio, a crucial swing
state that has voted for the winner in the last 12 U.S.
presidential elections. Obama made his 12th trip to the state on
Oct. 31 to stump for Democrats.  Freshman Representatives  Mary Jo Kilroy ,  John Boccieri  and
 Steve Driehaus  all lost to Republican challengers. Two-term
incumbents  Charlie Wilson  and  Zack Space  were also defeated.  In Ohio’s Senate race, Republican  Rob Portman  was the
winner over Democratic Lieutenant Governor  Lee Fisher  for the
seat vacated by Republican  George Voinovich , who is retiring.
Portman was the top international trade official under Bush and
also served as head of his budget office.  New York Races  Republicans also picked up five House seats in New York,
with the outcome in one Democratic-held district yet to be
determined. The Democratic losers included freshman  Michael McMahon  in a Staten Island-based district and  John Hall , a one-
time singer-songwriter for the group Orleans who had been
elected to a Hudson Valley-based district in 2006. McMahon lost
to Mike Grimm. Hall was defeated by  Nan Hayworth .  Democratic Senate winners included  Joe Manchin  in West
Virginia, the state’s governor, who takes the seat that Democrat
 Robert Byrd  held until his death in June. Manchin’s victory in
an early reporting state dealt a blow to Republican hopes of
gaining a Senate majority.  In Delaware, Democrat  Chris Coons  beat  Tea Party-backed Republican Christine O’Donnell , enabling Democrats to keep the
seat once held by Vice President  Joe Biden .  In California, Senator  Barbara Boxer  fended off a challenge
from  Carly Fiorina , former chief executive officer of Palo Alto,
California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co.   ‘Tough Haul’  “The Senate was going to be a tough haul for us,”  Michael Steele , the Republican National Committee chairman, said on
MSNBC last night.  In Indiana, former Senator  Dan Coats , a Republican, beat
Democrat  Brad Ellsworth . Coats will replace Democrat  Evan Bayh ,
who is retiring.  In Arkansas, Democratic incumbent  Blanche Lincoln  was
ousted by Republican Representative  John Boozman . Lincoln was
one of the leading voices in Congress for tougher regulation of
Wall Street in the wake of the financial crisis.  Republicans also claimed Obama’s old seat in Illinois,
where U.S. Representative  Mark Kirk  won.  Republican challenger  Ron Johnson  won election to the U.S.
Senate from Wisconsin, defeating Democratic Senator  Russ Feingold . And in Pennsylvania, Republican  Pat Toomey  defeated
Democratic Representative  Joe Sestak .  Tea Party favorites  Rand Paul  in Kentucky and  Marco Rubio 
in Florida gave Republicans Senate victories as polls started
closing in the U.S. Both open seats were held by Republicans who
didn’t seek re-election.  ‘Tidal Wave’  “We’ve come to take our government back,” Paul, an
ophthalmologist who hasn’t held public office, said in his
victory speech. “Tonight there’s a Tea Party tidal wave, and
we’re sending a message.”  The influence of the Tea Party, which favors cutting
government spending and lowering taxes, has pushed the
Republican Party to adopt more fiscally conservative positions.  Rubio said his victory provides “a second chance for
Republicans to be what they said they were going to be.”  The divided Congress will lead to two years of gridlock on
the major issues in Washington, said  David King , a public policy
lecturer at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government.  “There’s no strong incentive for cooperation,” he said.
“The Republicans are going to concern themselves with what the
ticket will look like in 2012.”  Republican control of the House opens the door to
investigations of the Obama administration by new committee
chairmen armed with subpoena power and the ability to influence
policy on everything from the implementation of the new health-
care law and the overhaul of the financial-regulatory system.  Goldman Sachs  The Republican showing helps companies from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  to health insurer  WellPoint Inc.  gain support in
efforts to undermine what they consider Obama’s anti-business
policies on taxes, health care and financial regulation.  Exporters such as  Caterpillar Inc.  and  United Parcel
Service Inc.  say a Republican-controlled House would be more
likely to work with Obama to approve pending free-trade
agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama.  Pelosi will be forced to consider stepping aside as the
party’s House leader rather then head the Democratic minority
caucus in the new congressional session, according to two House
Democratic leadership aides who spoke on condition of anonymity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  