-- Republicans Pick Up Governors' Offices in Attempt to Win National Majority
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-11-03T02:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republicans-pick-up-governors-offices-in-attempt-to-win-national-majority.html
Republicans won governors’ seats from
Democrats in Kansas, Michigan, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and
Tennessee, early victories in the party’s bid to win sway over a
majority of U.S. states.  With results from 37 contests nationwide still being
counted, the Associated Press declared Republican businessman
 Rick Snyder  the winner in Michigan. U.S. Senator  Sam Brownback 
carried Kansas.  With voters also casting ballots in congressional races,
local races were expected to turn partly on perceptions about
President Barack Obama, a Democrat.  “It’s a trickle-down effect,”  Brad Coker , managing
director of Mason-Dixon Polling & Research Inc., which conducted
surveys on state races, said ahead of the gubernatorial votes.
“Voters are frustrated with Washington.”  The Republicans are seeking to expand their power before
the 2012 presidential election. With more governors, they may
have more influence in the once-a-decade redrawing of
congressional districts and in the policies of states reeling
from the recession’s lingering  financial strains .  Advantage, Democrats  Democrats held a 26-to-23 majority among governors heading
into the election. In Florida, former Republican Governor
Charlie Crist became an independent to stage an unsuccessful run
for Senate.  Republican gains today included wins by U.S. Representative
 Mary Fallin  in Oklahoma, Knoxville Mayor  Bill Haslam  in
Tennessee and Tom Corbett, a career prosecutor, in Pennsylvania.  In Michigan, Snyder, former president of computer maker
Gateway Inc., defeated Lansing Mayor Virg Bernero, picking up
the state for Republicans. Campaigning on a pledge to turn
around the economy of the state with the second-highest
 unemployment rate,  Snyder said he would stoke job growth by
streamlining regulations and reducing business taxes.  Closely fought elections are being waged in California,
Florida, Illinois and Ohio.  Tea Party Fizzle  In  New York ,  Andrew Cuomo , New York’s Democratic attorney
general, won the race for governor by defeating Republican  Carl Paladino , a Tea Party-backed neophyte whose campaign faltered
after well-publicized gaffes. Maryland’s  Martin O’Malley , a
Democrat, fended off a challenge from former Governor Robert
Ehrlich in a rematch of the 2006 election there.  The Republicans were looking to pick up governorships in
the Midwest, a battleground in presidential contests. Snyder,
buttressed by his background as an executive, touted a plan to
turn around Michigan’s  economy , a refrain heard in races across
the country.  While the recession has ended, the economy isn’t growing
quickly enough to replace jobs lost during the longest economic
rout since the Great Depression. September unemployment was 9.6
percent, according to the Labor Department.  Cuts and Firings  The slow-growing economy has also left many states
confronting deficits that are forcing them to fire workers, cut
spending on schools, welfare programs and public works, and
raise taxes. The 39 states that made projections foresee a
collective $112 billion of deficits for the 2012 fiscal year, a
figure that is likely to swell once more estimates are made,
according to the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a
research group in Washington.  A shift in power among governors may do little to improve
the outlook, said  John Miller , the chief investment officer of
Nuveen Asset Management in Chicago, which manages more than $77
billion of municipal bonds. Republicans, who tend to favor
spending cuts over tax increases, have been vague on specifics,
he said. Even politicians who try to find more revenue will also
need to reduce budgets, he said.  “All of these states need employment growth, economic
growth to enhance revenues, more than just changing rates,” he
said. “And in the near-term, they also need more money from the
federal government unless the budget cuts are going to become
more substantial than anything we have seen in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 