-- Republicans Far From United in Victory as DeMint Demonstrates
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-11-03T05:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republicans-far-from-united-in-victory-as-demint-warns-of-establishment-.html
It is a far from unified Republican
Party that won the U.S. House and gained seats in the Senate.  John Boehner , poised to become House speaker, and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  will be contending with a new
breed of Republicans, many inexperienced in politics and swept
into office on a tide of anger against business as usual in
Washington, including business as formerly conducted by their
party.  Tensions broke into the open almost immediately, when
Senator  Jim DeMint  of South Carolina, who helped fund insurgent
Republicans against candidates of his party’s establishment,
warned them against the temptation to go along with the ways of
Capitol Hill.  “Many of the people who will be welcoming the new class
of Senate conservatives to Washington never wanted you here in
the first place,” DeMint wrote in an op-ed article published
last evening on the Web site of The Wall Street Journal. “The
establishment is much more likely to buy off your votes than to
buy into your limited-government philosophy.”  Newcomers should resist falling into line and trading
votes for budget earmarks, plum committee assignments and
leadership posts, DeMint wrote. “Tea Party Republicans were
elected to go to Washington and save the country -- not be co-
opted by the club. So put on your boxing gloves. The fight
begins today.”  Challenge to McConnell  Such words present a challenge to Republican Senate leader
McConnell of Kentucky, who will have such Tea Party-supported
lawmakers in his caucus as  Rand Paul , who defeated a McConnell-
backed candidate to win the Republican nomination, and  Marco Rubio  of Florida.  These lawmakers will likely form a “posse” with other
senators that could push the Republican agenda even further to
the right, said  Michael Franc , liaison with Congress for the
Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank based in
Washington.  “You would almost have a party within a party” that
“changes the internal chemistry of the Senate in ways we
haven’t seen in decades,” he said.  In the House, new Republicans backed by the Tea Party
movement will complicate Boehner’s ability to support an
increase in the government’s  debt ceiling next  year while
meeting campaign pledges to cut $100 billion in spending.  Spending cuts are “going to be very tough, particularly
when they realize they can’t just do it by waste, fraud and
abuse,” said  Jack Pitney , a political scientist at Claremont
McKenna College in Claremont, California. “The older members
have an inkling of that, but the fiscal facts of life are going
to come as a shock to the newcomers.”  ‘Great Chaos’  The new House Republicans have the ability to “turn the
place into great chaos” when called on to raise the debt
ceiling or pass a budget blueprint that doesn’t meet their
goals for spending cuts, said  Stanley Collender , a former
Democratic House Budget Committee aide.  There may “have to be at least one government shutdown
for the Tea Party people to be satisfied,” Collender said.
“They are going to need a scalp to take home” to the voters
who elected them.  Raising the total amount the government is authorized to
borrow “may be one of the most difficult” for Boehner and may
force him to combine it with a tax cut to placate the Tea Party
faction of his caucus, Collender said. Such a package may still
be difficult with new members likely to view compromise as
“equivalent with collaboration with the enemy.”  ‘Roil the Market’  Failure to raise the borrowing authority from its current
level of $14.3 trillion would “roil the market” in Treasury
bonds because Wall Street ‘doesn’t like uncertainty as auctions
of T bills are postponed,” he said.  For Democrats, the loss of the House could mean a change
in party leadership. Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  will be forced to
consider stepping down as party leader. If Pelosi, 70, is out,
House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland would be the
likely party leader, said Democratic leadership aides who spoke
on condition of anonymity.  Pelosi will discuss with fellow Democrats whether she
should be leader of the minority caucus, said one leadership
aide. Her personal popularity among members may enable her to
stay on, said another.  “On balance, the Democratic caucus in the House is likely
to get more liberal” and “that might help Speaker Pelosi if
she wants to stay,” said  David Wasserman , House editor of the
Cook Political Report.  Opposition to Hoyer  If Republicans gain more than 60 seats when all the votes
are counted, Hoyer may face opposition from other Democrats,
said the aides.  The candidates may include  George Miller , 65, of
California, an adviser to Pelosi and chairman of the Education
and Labor Committee,  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  of Florida,
 Joseph Crowley  of New York and  Xavier Becerra , another
Californian.  Wasserman Schultz, 44, is chairwoman of the appropriations
subcommittee that doles out spending for Congress, and Crowley,
48, is chairman of the New Democrat Coalition, a group of
moderate House Democrats. Becerra has been a member of Pelosi’s
leadership team and is on the Ways and Means Committee.  If Republicans score big, the “more conservative members
who might have Hoyer’s back will be fewer in number,”
Wasserman said.  Republican control of the House and a stronger minority in
the Senate will give President  Barack Obama  a chance to force
both Boehner and McConnell to decide whether to accept or
reject compromises on spending and taxation.  ‘Preemptive Strikes’  Obama will wage “preemptive strikes” with proposals that
“will aim at the middle” of the political spectrum to put
Republicans in both houses of Congress on the spot, said  Ron Peters , a political scientist at the University of Oklahoma in
Norman.  In the Senate, such proposals will make McConnell decide
whether to obstruct or “cut some deal with Obama” and
“sacrifice the DeMint” faction, Peters said. “It’s going to
be painful.”  House Republican leaders will include  Eric Cantor  of
Virginia, now the Republican whip, the party’s chief vote-
counter. He will become majority leader in the next Congress.  Boehner has told  Kevin McCarthy , chief deputy whip to
Cantor, that he supports him to succeed Cantor as whip, the
Republican strategist said.  ‘Young Guns’  McCarthy and  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin formed the “Young
Guns” organization to recruit many of the newly elected House
members to run for Congress.  Likely new House committee chairmen include  Dave Camp  of
Michigan, in line to be chairman of the Ways and Means
Committee, which writes tax and trade legislation. Ryan,
another Midwestern Republican, is in line to head the Budget
Committee. Ryan has written a plan to reduce spending for
Social Security and Medicare.  No decision has been made yet on who will lead the
Appropriations Committee, said Boehner spokesman  Mike Steel .  Representative  Spencer Bachus  of Alabama, the ranking
Republican on the Financial Services Committee, has Boehner’s
support to become the panel’s chairman, said a Republican
strategist, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 