-- Republicans to Take On U.S. Health Law's Taxes, Rules
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-11-03T20:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republicans-to-take-on-u-s-health-care-overhaul-from-taxes-to-insurance.html
Congressional Republicans pledged to
repeal the health-care overhaul President  Barack Obama  signed
into law in March. Once they consolidate power, the strategy
will more likely resemble death by a thousand cuts.  House and Senate Republicans already have written at least
 30 bills  to roll back provisions in the law. The success of some
efforts would mean  WellPoint Inc . and competing health insurers
may escape regulations to set their patient-care spending, while
 Boston Scientific Corp . and other medical-device makers dodge
$20 billion in tax increases in the next decade.  With networks projecting that Republicans have won the
seats needed for control of the House, the party also plans to
target budgets of agencies implementing the health-care law.  “You can literally open the bill and point your finger to
a page and say, ‘Here’s something we should go after,’” said
Representative  Michael C. Burgess  of Texas, a Republican on the
House Energy and Commerce health subcommittee. “It’s all bad.”  The party’s drive will force Democrats to vote on whether
to defend unpopular parts of the law, said  Tom Scully , the
former chief of the Medicare program under President  George W. Bush . Democratic control of the Senate and Obama’s veto pen
assures there won’t be an outright repeal of the law or big
changes, he said.  Democrat Losses  Bloomberg’s  Managed Health Services stock index  slid less
than 1 percent at 4 p.m. New York time as  WellPoint  gained 30
cents, or less than 1 percent, to $56.05 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Pharmaceutical Index  gained 54 cents, or less than 1 percent.
 The S&P Biotechnology Index  lost $4.77, or less than 1 percent.  “This outcome seems to be positive for the group in
general,”  Les Funtleyder , a health-care portfolio manager for
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a note to clients.
Health insurers have the most to gain, while biotechnology and
pharmaceutical companies are less likely to see positive effects
from the political contests, he said.  Republicans gained at least 60 House seats yesterday across
the U.S. They picked up six in the Senate, winning in Illinois,
Indiana, Arkansas, Pennsylvania, North Dakota and Wisconsin.
They won’t get the 10-seat gain needed to control the Senate as
races in Alaska and Washington are yet to be decided, and the
Denver Post projected Democrats will hold the seat in Colorado.  ‘Political Battle’  “Very little will happen in the next two years, but it
will be a big political battle,” said Scully, senior counsel at
the law office of Alston and Bird LLP of Washington.  Aetna Inc . Chief Executive Officer  Ron Williams  said today
that the Hartford, Connecticut-based company “would welcome a
renewed willingness to discuss market-based solutions” to
improving the health-care system and controlling medical costs,
without specifically commenting on the election.  Most of the action may be in the courts, where 21 states
are challenging the law’s requirement that all Americans buy
health insurance. Successful challenges could accomplish what
Republican lawmakers can’t, by eliminating an important
component of the overhaul.  If congressional Republicans strike some requirements of
the law, health-care groups may pressure Congress to make other
changes and set off a domino effect, said  John Fortier , a
congressional scholar at the American Enterprise Institute.
“It’s not that the entire thing unravels if one piece fails,
but the rationale for some of the things and the reason for some
of the deals fails and potentially, some of the support.”  Changes From House  Efforts to change the law will originate in the House,
where Republicans will decide which bills go to the floor and
can hold oversight hearings on how the law is evolving.
Democrats still control the Senate’s agenda. It will take a two-
thirds majority of both chambers to override any Obama veto.  Congressional Republicans can “embarrass” Democrats with
votes on the health overhaul, including during debate over a
fiscal 2012 budget plan early in the next session, said Senator
 Orrin Hatch  of Utah. Hatch in January will become top Republican
on the Finance Committee.  House Republican leaders will begin with a January vote to
repeal and replace it with a scaled-back measure patterned after
legislation by Republican Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, said John
Murray, a spokesman for House Republican Whip  Eric Cantor  of
Virginia.  Boehner’s Alternative  The approach by Boehner -- who is expected to become
speaker -- would expand coverage to 3 million Americans by 2019
without requiring Americans to have insurance. It would let
businesses pool resources to buy coverage and allow insurance
purchases across state lines. Boehner’s proposal would leave
about 52 million people without insurance, meaning the
proportion of Americans with coverage would remain unchanged in
2019 at 83 percent, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office .  The health law would expand coverage to a projected 32
million Americans who currently lack insurance, largely through
an expansion of the federal-state Medicaid program and new
online health-purchasing exchanges. The overhaul is projected to
cost $938 billion over 10 years while resulting in a reduction
in the annual budget deficit by slowing the growth in spending
on health care, according to CBO.  Its more contentious elements include a first-ever mandate
that most Americans obtain health coverage -- the provision
being challenged in court, largely by Republican state attorneys
general -- and new taxes on the wealthy and on high-end
insurance plans.  Coverage Mandate  Health insurers say the mandate requiring all Americans to
have coverage is a necessity because otherwise people will only
buy insurance when they get sick. The industry says removing the
mandate would jeopardize consumer protections in the law, such
as a requirement that insurers accept people with preexisting
conditions.  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for America’s Health
Insurance Plans, the industry’s Washington trade group, declined
to discuss how a Republican victory would affect the mandate.  Republicans don’t necessarily oppose regulations on
excluding people with pre-existing conditions, or other
protections that have won support in polls. Their push to undo
the individual mandate may make it harder to realize these
rules, by burdening insurers with the new requirements without
bringing in healthy new customers.  ‘Delay and Dismantle’  In the event Boehner’s proposal gets stopped in the Senate,
Republicans will embark on an approach they call “delay and
dismantle” that targets individual provisions in the law, said
Murray. Some of the proposals may result in lower payments to
health-care providers and states.  Republicans said they want to go after a requirement in the
law mandating that businesses of all sizes report to the IRS any
expenditures exceeding $600. The Senate on Sept. 14 narrowly
failed to repeal the provision after seven Democratic senators
joined all of the chamber’s Republicans.  Burgess, a doctor first elected to Congress in 2002, has
legislation requiring congressional and executive branch aides
to get their health coverage from the insurance exchanges.  Representative  Brian Bilbray  of California wants to repeal
$20 billion in taxes in a decade on medical device makers
including Minneapolis, Minnesota-based  Medtronic Inc . and Boston
Scientific.  Medical Devices  Representative  Charles Boustany , a Louisiana Republican,
has a bill that would force Congress to reconsider the “CLASS
Act,” a long-term disability insurance program, and end it
should it require more funding than it generates from premiums.  Other legislation would deny agencies funds they need to
implement the law. Bills introduced by  Fred Upton , the Michigan
representative who may head the Energy and Commerce Committee
next year, and Virginia’s  J. Randy Forbes  would bar the Internal
Revenue Service from hiring workers to review incomes that would
help determine which Americans qualify for subsidies.  Congress should revoke a rule requiring insurers to spend
at least 80 percent of the premiums they take in on patient
care, Boustany and Burgess say. The measure will force some
insurers to pull out of markets where they don’t meet the
threshold, insurers and Republican lawmakers say.  “That will potentially be very disruptive to insurance
coverage,” Boustany said.  Bipartisan Support  Some Senate Democrats will apply pressure on their leaders
for changes, Hatch predicted. He’s seeking bipartisan support
for legislation that would scrap the individual mandate and a
requirement that most employers provide coverage to workers.  “We’ve got to have two, three, four, five Democrats who
will work with us on this bill, because they’ve been getting
killed at home,” Hatch said in an interview.  The Republican strategy may negatively affect segments of
the health-care industry. The expansion of coverage to 32
million newly insured people may deliver more than $500 billion
in added revenue for insurers, hospitals and other providers
from 2014 to 2019, according to CBO projections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net 
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  