-- Republican Victory Won't Stop Dodd-Frank Rules, CFTC Chairman Gensler Says
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-11-03T17:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republican-victory-won-t-stop-dodd-frank-rules-cftc-chairman-gensler-says.html
The Republican victory in yesterday’s
congressional election won’t interrupt Commodity Futures Trading
Commission efforts to write rules to implement the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul of the derivatives industry, Commission
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said today.  “Any regulatory agency is obliged to follow the statute
and what Congress wrote, and that’s what we’ll do,” Gensler
said at the Futures Industry Association conference in Chicago.
Addressing the impact of the financial crisis is crucial to the
public, regardless of the election’s outcome, he said.  The  Dodd-Frank financial overhaul , which became law in
July, gave the CFTC a year to establish rules governing the $615
trillion over-the-counter derivatives market, including which
companies will face higher capital requirements and increased
scrutiny.  Congress took aim at the industry after soured trades on
mortgage and credit derivatives tipped the U.S. economy into the
deepest recession since the 1930s.  Republicans, who picked up at least 60 House seats across
the U.S. yesterday, say they will use the House Financial
Services Committee to ensure that regulators such as the CFTC
and the new consumer protection bureau don’t write rules that
lawmakers consider too restrictive on the banking industry.  CFTC Budget  Gensler has asked Congress to increase the agency’s budget
by 69 percent next year to $286 million and predicts the
agency’s budgeted staff of about 650 will need to grow to more
than 1,000 to meet its new demands.  “Our needs are the same regardless of the election,”
Gensler said. “Our needs are to implement the statute.”  Republicans in the House could tie up funding to enforce
derivatives reform after gaining a majority in yesterday’s
election, said CFTC Commissioner  Bart Chilton .  “We have enough staff to end up with the final
regulations, we can put them in place, but we don’t have the
ability to do the actual work to have appropriate oversight,”
Chilton said in an interview in Chicago.  The law, named for its primary authors, Senate Banking
Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat, and
House Financial Services Chairman  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts
Democrat, aims to stem systemic risk by requiring most interest-
rate, credit-default and other swaps to be processed by
clearinghouses after being traded on exchanges or swap-execution
facilities.  July Deadline  The CFTC has in most cases until July to write rules that
cover 30 areas of new regulations.  “This Congress is still in office through the end of
December, so the new members elected last night won’t take
office until January,” Commissioner  Jill Sommers  said in an
interview at the Chicago conference. Congress may approve the
CFTC’s request this year, “but I do think it’s going to become
exponentially more difficult to get our budget for 2012,” she
said.  The leader of the market most affected by the new rules
expressed reservations about the potential impact of the new
regulations.  “The biggest concern is there’s a massive delegation of
responsibility to the agencies and a lot of room for the
agencies to define the direction the markets will go in,” said
 Craig Donohue , chief executive officer of CME Group Inc., the
world’s largest futures market.  Disagreements  “We respect where the CFTC is coming from, but we have a
lot of areas of disagreement,” he said. CME Group opposes the
CFTC’s proposed limits on how many commodity contracts an
investor can hold in the combined OTC and futures markets, for
example. The goal must be to avoid doing “extreme violence to
the market,” Donohue said.  Jeff Sprecher , chief executive officer of Intercontinental
Exchange Inc., owner of the world’s largest credit-default swap
clearinghouse, said his contacts in the House and Senate aren’t
indicating any change in how Dodd-Frank will be implemented.  “It’s hard to know whether or not people will want to not
fund these agencies they’re giving all this responsibility to,”
he said. “Gensler’s right that he’s been given a law that he’s
forced to implement.”  In the end, Chilton said Congress will fund the commission
to avoid risking another financial crisis.  “I don’t think anybody wants to have blood on their hands
for the next economic calamity,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  