-- Republican Victory in U.S. Elections May Keep Bull Market Alive
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-11-03T19:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republican-victory-in-u-s-midterm-elections-may-keep-bull-market-alive.html
The midterm elections that ended
Democrats’ control of the U.S. House of Representatives are
likely to sustain the bull market that began in March 2009 at
the depths of the financial crisis.  U.S.  stocks  will continue their ascent because victorious
Republicans probably will block Democrats’ plans to raise taxes
and impose stricter regulations on businesses, according to
money managers interviewed before the vote.  “The near-term issue of importance to investors is the
Bush-era tax cuts,” said  Robert Doll , chief equity strategist
at New York-based  BlackRock Inc ., the world’s largest fund
manager with $3.45 trillion in client assets.  The new Republican majority in the House may force
President  Barack Obama  to back off efforts to let tax cuts
enacted under President  George W. Bush  expire and to raise rates
on dividends and capital gains. That would boost optimism among
investors and company executives, driving improvements in
financial markets and the economy, according to Barclays Capital
in New York.  “From a macroeconomic perspective, we can’t recall a time
when we viewed the election results to be as critical to
business confidence and economic activity,” Barclays analysts
led by  Barry Knapp  wrote in an Oct. 22 report.  Investors also will be encouraged that the financial,
energy and health-care industries won’t be saddled with tighter
regulations that could hurt profits, according to Doll and
 Timothy Flannery  of Copia Capital LLC.  Up 13%  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , which closed yesterday at
its highest level since May 3, rose 0.3 percent at 3:19 p.m. in
New York after the Federal Reserve said it planned to expand
asset purchases by $600 billion by the end of June. The 30-year
Treasury yield climbed 0.14 percentage point to 4.07 percent
after dropping as much as 0.07 point earlier.  The S&P 500 surged 13 percent in September and October, the
biggest rally for the two months since 1998, as the Fed signaled
it would buy debt securities to lower long-term interest rates
and accelerate the recovery. The gains came even with sales of
new homes near record lows and the unemployment rate at 9.5
percent or higher for the longest stretch since records began in
1948.  The S&P 500 index has gained 76 percent since bottoming out
on March 9, 2009.  The Republican victory in the House is priced into the
market, and further gains are likely to be curbed by headwinds
such as high unemployment and a large overhang of debt, said
 Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., the Newport Beach, California-based fund manager
with $1.24 trillion in client assets.  Compromise Seen  While the outgoing Congress plans to debate whether to
extend Bush-era tax cuts, set to expire Dec. 31, the Republican
victory will influence the outcome. Senator  Amy Klobuchar ,
Democrat of Minnesota, told CBS’s “Face the Nation” on Oct. 31
that Democrats may compromise by extending the tax cuts for a
year or two, or limiting the expiration to households earning
more than $1 million.  The administration proposed to end the tax cuts, enacted in
2001 and 2003, for couples earning more than $250,000.
Republicans said that any tax increase will stifle
entrepreneurship and job creation. The Democrats are also
pushing to increase the 15 percent tax rate on dividends and
most capital gains.  “If they end up extending the tax cuts, we move the
uncertainty from Jan. 1 of 2011 to Jan. 1 of 2012, and that will
at least have some short-term benefit,” said BlackRock’s Doll.  Dividend Outlook  Leaving the capital-gains rate unchanged may spur companies
with cash to raise their dividends rather than initiate stock
buybacks, making dividend-paying stocks a good bet for
investors, Doll said.  Duncan W. Richardson , chief equity investment officer at
Boston-based  Eaton Vance Corp ., said a continuation of the Bush
tax cuts would only be a short-term positive.  “As an investor you have to recognize that’s only going to
be a one-year fix,” Richardson said. You have to be prepared
for higher taxes regardless of how elections turn out.”  The U.S.’s rising debt and looming deficits in federal
programs like Social Security and Medicare make higher taxes
inevitable, he said. “In a generational sense, taxes may be as
low as they are going to get,” said Richardson, whose company
oversees $180.7 billion.  Carried Interest  It’s unlikely Republicans will pursue a Democratic plan to
raise taxes on investment profits, known as carried interest, at
private-equity and hedge funds. Managers of the funds can treat
carried income from long-term investments at the lower capital-
gains rate of 15 percent rather than as ordinary income. A
change in those tax laws could more than double the tax rate on
carried interest.  Stephen Schwarzman , the chairman of New York-based private-
equity firm Blackstone Group LP, said in an Oct. 28 conference
call with investors and analysts that buyout managers are in “a
position of uncertainty” because of the elections and the
future of tax policies.  “There’s an endless list of things of that type that are
making investors more cautious,” he said.  A Republican House may also benefit investors in certain
energy, health-care and financial companies, fund managers and
executives said.  Energy Stocks  “Certainly you’d be less inclined to be invested long in
most energy technology stocks, and I’d be incrementally more
positive on natural gas,” Flannery, co-founder of Copia
Capital, a Chicago-based hedge-fund firm focused on energy and
utility industries that spun off from Morgan Stanley’s
FrontPoint Partners LLC.  Republicans will reduce the prospects for alternative-
energy subsidies and increase the likelihood of industry-
friendly regulation of hydraulic fracturing, a technique for
extracting gas from shale that some environmentalists say can
poison groundwater, Flannery said.  A national cap-and-trade program favored by the White
House, in which companies buy and sell a declining number of
carbon-dioxide pollution rights, will also probably be shelved
for at least two years with a Republican takeover of the House,
according to an Oct. 26 Bloomberg New Energy Finance report.  Republicans may fight to remove provisions in Obama’s
health-care overhaul that reduce profits for hospital chains,
and prevent additional regulation of financial institutions.  Dodd-Frank Act  Obama signed the Dodd-Frank act, the most sweeping set of
financial rules since the Great Depression, in July. Named after
its principal authors, Connecticut Senator  Christopher Dodd  and
Massachusetts Representative  Barney Frank , the law gives the
government authority to unwind failing financial firms that may
threaten the entire system, imposes new rules on derivatives
markets and creates a consumer-protection agency at the Federal
Reserve to monitor everything from home loans to credit cards.  Money managers had varying takes on the impact of a divided
government.  “While a gridlock in Washington won’t allow progress to be
made economically in the shorter term, it will be good in that
it won’t allow the current situation to get any worse,” said
 Basil Williams , chief executive officer of Concordia Advisors
LLC, a $1 billion hedge-fund firm with offices in New York and
London.  Government Gridlock  Gridlock wouldn’t be good for the economy at this time,
Pimco’s El-Erian said. “In a world with debt overhangs, housing
problems and structural rigidities, you need the government to
be active in removing obstacles to growth and jobs,” he said.  The shift in power also introduces a different risk,
Copia’s Flannery said, with the election of candidates backed by
the conservative Tea Party movement.  “We really could see a lot of the angst toward government
transform itself into angst toward big business” if the new
Congress doesn’t produce tangible results, such as lowering
unemployment, Flannery said. “An exaggerated tone on
immigration, free trade and corporate taxation -- all are
unambiguously bearish for equity markets and are possible
narratives for these new people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 bhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 