-- Republican Leaders Challenge Obama to Work With New Congress After Vote
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-11-03T18:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republican-leaders-challenge-obama-to-work-with-new-congress-after-vote.html
Republican leaders in Congress
challenged President  Barack Obama  and Democrats to “pivot in a
different direction” to reduce government spending and create
jobs after Republicans captured the House and gained at least
six Senate seats.  House Republican leader  John Boehner , who will become
speaker in January, and Senate Minority leader  Mitch McConnell 
said at a news conference today they hope Obama and Democrats in
Congress will heed the voters’ desire that they change course
and find bipartisan solutions to growing government debt and
persistent high unemployment.  Boehner, of Ohio, said that during a telephone call last
night he and Obama “discussed working together on the people’s
priorities: cutting spending, creating jobs, and we hope that he
will continue to be willing to work with us on those
priorities.”  Republicans gained at least 60 House seats, their largest
net gain since 1938 when Democrats lost 72 seats. The party will
gain control of the House in January for the first time since
2006. Republicans fell short of winning a majority in the
Senate, with two races undecided.  McConnell said members of his party are “determined to
stop the agenda Americans have rejected and turn the ship
around.” Republicans will “work with the administration when
they agree with the people and confront them when they don’t,”
he said.  ‘Meet in the Middle’  “The question is,” McConnell said, “how do we meet in
the middle?” McConnell, of Kentucky, said Democrats “may have
missed the message” because their view is that Republicans
“haven’t cooperated enough.”  Obama said at a news conference today that the elections
were more evidence that the American people are “deeply
frustrated” by the pace of the economic recovery.  “I’ve been willing to compromise in the past and I am
willing to compromise going forward on a whole range of
issues,” Obama said. “There are some areas where it’s going to
be very difficult for us to agree.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
his party won’t shy away from its emphasis on “putting the
concerns of the middle class first.”  “Republicans must take their responsibility to solve the
problems of ordinary Americans,” Reid told reporters on a
conference call. “Simply saying ‘no’” as Republicans did in
the last two years “won’t bring jobs back” or “help families
trying to make ends meet,” he said.  ‘Shared Solutions’  Reid said he and other Democrats will work with Republicans
to “find shared solutions to our shared problems.”  McConnell said he hoped Democrats “will pivot in a
different direction and work with us on things like spending and
debt and trade agreements” and “other things the president
said that he’s for” such as nuclear power and clean-coal
technology.  He said he expects “enough Democrats to come in our
direction on spending and debt where we can actually make
progress for the American people.”  With at least 47 seats in the Senate, Republicans will have
more power to shape legislation by denying Democratic leaders
the ability to get a 60-vote supermajority to cut off debate.  Boehner reiterated his determination to repeal the health-
care overhaul law the Democratic-controlled Congress enacted
earlier this year, saying it “will kill jobs” and “ruin the
best health-care system in the world.”  Republicans won’t have the votes to overcome a presidential
veto if Congress enacted legislation to repeal the health-care
measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  