-- Republican Mark Kirk Wins Illinois Senate Seat Once Held by Barack Obama
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-11-03T04:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republican-mark-kirk-wins-illinois-senate-seat-once-held-by-barack-obama.html
Republican  Mark Kirk  beat Alexi Giannoulias for the U.S. Senate in Illinois, dealing a defeat
to President  Barack Obama , who had placed the political weight
of his administration behind the Democrat seeking his former
seat.  Kirk had 48 percent of the vote to 46 percent for
Giannoulias with 97 percent of precincts reporting, the
Associated Press reported in projecting the Republican pickup
of the seat. Kirk’s win followed one of the nation’s most
bitter Senate contests this year.  Giannoulias faced the fallout from the failure in April of
a bank his family ran, while Kirk was forced to apologize for
exaggerating his military and personal biography.  Obama appeared with Giannoulias in  Chicago  the weekend
before yesterday’s election, his third trip in 2010 to try to
boost his campaign.  Since June, Giannoulias had also received fundraising
visits from first lady  Michelle Obama , Vice President Joe Biden, U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan, Obama senior
adviser David Axelrod, White House Deputy Chief of Staff Jim Messina and 2008 presidential campaign manager  David Plouffe .  Giannoulias, 34, is the Illinois state treasurer and an
occasional Obama basketball buddy; Kirk, 51, is a five-term
congressman.  Broadway Bank  Problems associated with Broadway Bank, the now-defunct
institution Giannoulias’s family operated, were among the
reasons the White House tried to persuade Illinois Attorney
General Lisa Madigan to run for the Senate seat.  “Broadway Bank provided an extraordinary amount of loan
capital, millions of dollars, to mob figures and convicted
felons, after they had been convicted,” Kirk said during an
Oct. 10 debate. “I don’t have experience in loaning money to
mob figures. I don’t have experience in reckless loans to
commercial real estate and brokered hot-money deposits leading
to a collapse of the bank.”  Giannoulias said he didn’t know the full backgrounds of
some of those who received bank loans. He also said he left the
troubled bank in late 2005, although his tax documents showed
he claimed to have worked at least 500 hours there in 2006, a
time when loans were made to Antoin “Tony” Rezko, who was
later convicted of influence peddling, and to a family later
accused of having connections to organized crime.  The  Illinois  race was to replace Senator Roland Burris, a
Democrat appointed by former Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich 
to complete Obama’s term after the 2008 presidential election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Washington  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  