-- Republicans' Gains in Legislatures Boost Redistricting Powers
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-11-03T20:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/republican-gains-in-legislatures-boost-party-s-influence-in-redistricting.html
Republicans won a majority of U.S.
governorships and made gains in state Legislatures, giving the
party greater influence in redrawing congressional districts
next year.  The party will control 25 Legislatures, including  Ohio, 
 North Carolina  and  Minnesota , boosting their power in
statehouses by the most since 1928, according to the  National
Conference of State Legislatures . Republicans won the House and
Senate in  Alabama  for the first time since the end of the Civil
War. They took governors’ seats from Democrats in  Michigan ,
 Pennsylvania  and at least nine other states.  Fifteen to 25 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives
are more likely to remain Republican or switch from Democratic
after redistricting as a result of the party’s victory in the
states, said  Ed Gillespie , chairman of the  Republican State
Leadership Committee .  “We’re going to end up protecting a lot as opposed to
carving new ones,” Gillespie said in a conference call with
reporters.  Congressional seats will be reapportioned following the
2010 U.S. census. States with shrinking populations will lose
seats, and those with growing ones will gain them. The party
that draws the election map in each state will shape the
political landscape for the next 10 years.  Redistricting Process  In 38 states, governors and state legislators play a
determining role in redistricting, according to the Republican
leadership committee, which spent $18 million on state races
since Labor Day.  Democrats retained control of 16 legislatures. Five are
split and three undecided, including  New York  and  Oregon . Before
yesterday’s election, Democrats controlled 27 legislatures,
Republicans held 14 and eight were split, according to the NCSL.  The U.S. Census Bureau will report state population numbers
in December. Eighteen states are projected to gain or lose
seats, according to  Election Data Services , a Manassas,
Virginia, political-consulting firm specializing in
redistricting.  Republicans have majorities in 10 of those states, said
Gillespie. Of those, two are drawn in a nonpartisan process.  Switching Parties  The Republican party will control at least 54 of the
nation’s 99 state legislative chambers,  according  to the NCSL.
Eighteen chambers, including the Indiana House and the Maine
House and Senate, changed to Republican from Democrat.  “The GOP, in dramatic fashion, finds itself now in the
best position for both congressional and state legislative line
drawing than it has enjoyed in the modern era of
redistricting,” said the  Tim Storey , an elections specialist
with NCSL, in a news release.  The new crop of governors and legislators will confront
deficits that are forcing states to raise taxes, fire workers
and cut spending on schools, welfare and public works. Thirty-
nine states project a collective $112 billion of deficits for
the 2012 fiscal year, a figure likely to swell as the federal
stimulus package winds down, according to the  Center on Budget
and Policy Priorities , a research group in Washington.  ‘Dramatic Shift’  Republican victories “obviously reflected at the state
level what we saw at the federal level,” said Gillespie.
“Voters were very frustrated with Democratic policies of
increasing spending and higher taxes. I think we’ll see a
dramatic shift in the fiscal policies of the states.”  Thirteen newly elected Republican governors including
Ohio’s  John Kasich , Florida’s  Rick Scott  and Pennsylvania’s  Tom Corbett , pledged in writing or verbally when they campaigned not
to raise taxes, according to the Pew Center on the States. Ohio
is projecting an $8 billion deficit in its next-two year budget.
Florida projects a $2.5 billion gap, while Pennsylvania
confronts a $5 billion shortfall, the center said.  States have limited control of major spending such as
public pensions and health care, said  Susan Urahn , managing
director of the Pew Center on the States, in a telephone
interview.  “If you’ve taken a no-tax pledge, you have limited
options” to close budget deficits, Urahn said. “It’s hard to
imagine that they can do that without affecting services. That
will be a very interesting challenge for the new crop of
governors.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 