-- Reserve Bank's Subbarao Sees India Inflation `Firmly' in Control by 2012
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-11-03T13:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/reserve-bank-s-subbarao-sees-india-inflation-firmly-in-control-by-2012.html
India’s central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said he expects to bring inflation “firmly” under
control in the next one or two years, giving scope to shift the
focus of monetary policy to spur economic growth.  “I would hope that in the next one or two years inflation
is firmly under control, both from the supply and demand sides,
and we are able to run the monetary policy biased more towards
growth,”  Subbarao  said in an interview with Bloomberg-UTV in
Mumbai today, a day after raising interest rates for the sixth
time in 2010, the most in Asia this year.  For the next three months, the central bank may not raise
borrowing costs, Subbarao said yesterday, as nations from Japan
to the U.S. consider additional stimulus to support growth. The
governor is concerned global liquidity and interest-rate
differentials with advanced nations may lead to an
“intensification” of capital flows into India, boosting
liquidity and exacerbating inflation.  “Inflation will remain an issue in India because of
structural problems in agriculture and industry,” said  Saugata Bhattacharya , an economist at Axis Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “The
RBI is juggling multiple objectives, and at this point in time,
it is probably concerned more about capital inflows.”  India’s benchmark  wholesale-price inflation  slowed to 8.6
percent in September from a 20-month high of 11 percent in April.
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said Oct. 26 the pace of price
gains is still double the “ideal” level, hurting purchasing
power. The World Bank estimates about 75 percent of Indians live
on less than $2 a day.  Inflation Forecast  Subbarao on Nov. 2 forecast inflation to slow to 5.5
percent by March 31 as he boosted the  repurchase rate  by a
quarter-point to 6.25 percent and the reverse repurchase rate by
a similar margin to 5.25 percent. He said the Reserve Bank of
India’s medium term inflation target is between 4 percent and
4.5 percent.  “Demand pressures are persistent and there are structural
factors in food inflation and they will take time to resolve,”
Subbarao said in the interview. “So, on the inflation front,
even though, it’s moderating, there are persistent concerns.”  Food inflation  has remained above 10 percent since June
2009 as the government increased prices it pays farmers for
grains, according to the Planning Commission, which sets growth
and investment targets in India.  Farm Prices  The government’s minimum support price, or the remuneration
it guarantees farmers for their crop, has almost doubled in the
past six years for rice, maize and wheat, according to farm
ministry data.  Constraints in ports and power also increase the cost of
doing business in India, increasing price pressures. The average
turnaround time for ships to unload and load cargo at major
ports in India is almost four days compared with 10 hours in
Hong Kong, India’s  finance ministry  estimates.  Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. expect the Reserve Bank to resume monetary policy
tightening in the first quarter of 2011. The  central bank ’s next
rate decisions are scheduled for Dec. 16 and Jan. 25.  India’s 12-year bonds gained today for a sixth day after
Subbarao said that immediate action on rates is unlikely unless
there are unforeseen events. The yield fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 8 percent as of the 5 p.m. close in
Mumbai.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  gained 0.6
percent to 20,465.74 led by lenders including State Bank of
India and HDFC Ltd. The rupee strengthened 0.1 percent to 44.35
per dollar as of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai and reached 44.2350,
the strongest level since Oct. 20.  Policy Stance  India is pausing  rate increases  amid the greatest
concentration of monetary-policy action by leading central banks
since the first week of October 2008, when they met in emergency
sessions to fight the global financial crisis.  The U.S. Federal Reserve started a two-day meeting
yesterday to consider pumping additional stimulus into the
world’s largest economy. The Fed may today announce a plan to
buy at least $500 billion of long-term securities, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Bank of Japan cut rates on Oct. 5 and brought forward
the date of its next policy meeting to Nov. 4 and 5 to discuss
purchases of exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment
trusts.  “We are watching it very closely,” Subbarao said. “If the
quantitative easing is beyond what’s expected, beats expectation
on either side, then there could be more flows or some outflows,
depending on how it’s designed.”  Since Subbarao’s first rate increase on March 19, the
 spread  between India’s debt due in a decade and 10-year
Treasuries widened 121 basis points, or 1.21 percentage points,
to 541 today. The gap, which has averaged 317 in the past decade,
reached a 10-year high of 567 basis points on Oct. 20.  Higher yields spurred an unprecedented $10 billion inflow
into rupee debt this year. Overseas funds also poured a record
$25 billion into Indian stocks on prospects of faster growth in
the South Asian nation, strengthening the currency and driving
the  Sensitive Index , or Sensex, to near a record.  Since Jan. 1, the rupee has risen 4.9 percent against the
dollar while the Sensex has jumped 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 