-- Romanian Court Ruling Risks Prime Minister Boc's Parliament Majority
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-11-03T15:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/romanian-court-ruling-risks-prime-minister-boc-s-parliament-majority.html
Romania’s Constitutional Court ruled
against a government plan to speed up the approval of an
education law, risking Prime Minister  Emil Boc ’s ability to hold
together a majority six weeks before a budget vote.  The court in Bucharest ruled that the government’s attempt
to designate the bill’s approval a confidence vote was illegal
because it withdrew the legislation from parliamentary debate,
Justice Acsinte Gaspar said in a phone interview.  The education bill would allow ethnic Hungarians to study
history and geography in their own language, a key issue for a
party representing them that helps provide Boc with enough votes
for a parliamentary majority. The junior coalition party helped
the premier defeat a no-confidence vote last week.  The government’s inability to pass the education bill is a
“problem” for the Democratic Union of Hungarians and progress in
the issue is a condition for the group’s involvement in the
governing coalition, party Chairman and Deputy Prime Minister
 Bela Marko  said, according to the Mediafax news service.  ‘Unprecedented’ Intervention  The government is waiting for a formal explanation of the
court ruling before consulting with parliament about, Ioana
Muntean, a government spokeswomen, said in an e-mailed
statement. It is “unprecedented” for the Court to intervene in
the procedure of seeking confidence vote, she said.  The opposition has been trying to oust the government since
it cut public-sector wages by 25 percent and increased the
value-added tax to 24 percent to cut the budget deficit to
qualify for loans from a 20 billion euros ($28 billion)
International Monetary Fund, the European Union and other
lenders as Romania recovers from its deepest-ever recession.  Romania’s economy shrank 0.5 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier as demand for the country’s cars, chemicals,
steel and textiles increased in western Europe. Gross domestic
product contracted 7.1 percent in 2009. The Cabinet plans to
narrow the deficit to 4.4 percent of GDP next year after it
ballooned to 7.2 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  