-- Rousseff Says Brazil Seeks to Cut Debt to 38% of GDP by End of Her Term
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2010-11-03T19:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/rousseff-says-brazil-seeks-to-cut-debt-to-38-of-gdp-by-end-of-her-term.html
Brazilian President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  said her goal is to cut  net public debt  to 38 percent
from 41 percent of  gross domestic product  by the end of her
four-year term.  Rousseff said the goal was achievable given the parameters
of the government’s growth acceleration program she helped draft
as President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s chief of staff. The
program forecasts annual growth of 4.5 percent,  inflation  of
4.5 percent and budget surpluses before interest payments of
3.3 percent of GDP in the 2011-2014 period, Rousseff said. She
takes office on Jan. 1.  “This is a forecast for 2011 to 2014, no one makes
projections for the year,” Rousseff, 62, told reporters today
in Brasilia, when asked if the 38 percent target was for 2011 or
2014. “It is not for 2011, because if it were for 2011 we would
have to halt all investments, all social programs.”  During her campaign, Rousseff pledged to bring net debt to
about 30 percent of GDP by 2014. In an interview with  Veja
magazine  in June, Rousseff said she would aim to cut net debt to
28 percent of GDP in a bid to give the central bank room to
lower the benchmark interest rate.  The real gained 0.2 percent to 1.6993 per dollar at 2:40
p.m. New York time.  Rousseff said today that a drop in the net-debt-to-GDP
ratio would allow Brazil’s benchmark interest rate, the highest
amid the Group of 20 nations when adjusted for inflation, to
converge to levels prevailing in developed countries. Interest
rates should fall in a “sustainable” way, she said yesterday.
Brazil’s real interest rate is about 6 percent.  A ‘Consistent’ Rate  “Everyone talks about 2 percent because this is more or
less the consistent interest rate” internationally, Rousseff
said.  Rousseff, who takes office Jan. 1, yesterday named former
Finance Minister  Antonio Palocci  to lead her transition team
along with Vice President-elect  Michel Temer , Workers’ Party
chief  Jose Eduardo Dutra  and Congressman  Jose Cardozo . Palocci’s
reduction of Brazil’s debt and budget deficit during Lula’s
first term won the support of international investors including
Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund.  Now a congressman from Sao Paulo state, Palocci served as
Rousseff’s main economic adviser during her campaign. Under his
watch, from 2003 to 2006, Brazil’s  inflation  rate slowed to
5.3 percent from 17.2 percent and the  Bovespa  stock index more
than doubled.  Trader Bets  Before she named her transition team, traders were betting
Rousseff wouldn’t be able to cut the fiscal deficit enough to
allow the central bank to lower the benchmark rate, which was
left unchanged last month at 10.75 percent.  The interest-rate futures contract due in January 2015, the
month Rousseff’s first term would end, yielded 11.57 percent, a
level that suggests traders expect policy makers will raise the
benchmark rate about 0.75 percentage point during the next four
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rousseff, a former Marxist guerrilla who had never run for
public office before, became the first woman ever elected to
Brazil’s presidency with 56 percent of the vote on Oct. 31
compared with 44 percent for  Jose Serra , the former governor of
Sao Paulo state.  The 62-year-old said she hasn’t decided who she will invite
to join her Cabinet that takes over from President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s government.  Cash Payments  In her first press conference following the Oct. 31
election, Rousseff said she will raise the government’s cash
payments to poor families, without giving details. She also said
the country’s monthly minimum wage could go up to more than
600 reais ($324) by the end of 2011 and more than 700 reais by
the end of her government in 2014.  The minimum wage is currently at 510 reais and the 2011
budget proposal raises it to 538.15 reais.  Rousseff said she doesn’t plan to send to Congress a bill
re-imposing a tax on financial transactions, known as CPMF, to
finance health care. According to her, state governors are
discussing how to increase resources available for health
measures and she will “dialogue” with them.  Lula, speaking to reporters today in Brasilia, said the
U.S. and China are engaged in a currency war and that Brazil
will take the necessary steps to avoid the real from being
overvalued.  Rousseff said that all countries beside China and the U.S.
realize that a currency war is going on and that there is no
single solution for it. She said it’s better for countries to
coordinate policies instead of engaging in “competitive
devaluation.”  Brazil’s president-elect will take a break to rest from the
campaign before resuming work Nov. 8, when she travels to South
Korea for the G-20 summit with Lula.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  