-- Rousseff's Professor Must Wean Brazil Off Cheap Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-03T13:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/rousseff-s-ex-professor-must-wean-brazil-off-cheap-credit-to-meet-debt-vow.html
Luciano Coutinho  oversaw a surge in
lending as president of Brazil’s development bank that increased
the country’s debt during the global financial crisis. Now he
may need to help  Dilma Rousseff  restrain government spending
when she becomes president.  Coutinho, 64, Rousseff’s economics professor at Campinas
University a decade ago, is in line to become one of her top
policy advisers, possibly finance minister, when she takes
office Jan. 1, according to  Tony Volpon , a Latin America
strategist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York,
and the Eurasia Group, a New York-based research organization.  Rousseff’s finance chief must contain expenditures to meet
her campaign pledge of cutting net debt to 30 percent of gross
domestic product by 2014 from 41 percent. As head of the Rio de
Janeiro-based bank known as BNDES since 2007, Coutinho doubled
loans to 137.4 billion reais ($81 billion) by 2009, surpassing
the $72.2 billion the World Bank lent globally in the fiscal
year ended June 30.  “The role Coutinho plays today at BNDES goes in the
opposite direction of what he’d have to do as finance
minister,” said  Felipe Salto , an economist specializing in
public finance at research group Tendencias Consultoria
Integrada in Sao Paulo. It’s “unknown” what action Coutinho
might take because Rousseff herself has sent mixed messages
about her intentions, he said. “Until she gives a clearer sign,
people are going to be a little bit in doubt.”  Brazil’s federal domestic debt has jumped 21 percent since
the end of 2008, and the Treasury’s injection of 205 billion
reais into  BNDES  is equal to about 75 percent of the increase.  Funding Freeze  While the government’s cash helped the bank offset a freeze
in private funding during Brazil’s  deepest recession  in more
than a decade, the rise in subsidized credit makes it harder for
the central bank to bring down interest rates,  Ricardo Hausmann ,
a professor at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
said in a telephone interview. At about 6 percent, the
inflation-adjusted rate is currently the highest in the Group of
20 nations.  Brazil’s benchmark overnight rate is 10.75 percent, and
BNDES lends long-term at 6 percent. Every percentage-point gap
between the two rates costs the government about 4 billion
reais,  Alexandre Schwartsman , chief economist at Banco Santander
in Sao Paulo, said in an interview last month.  “Brazil has, de facto, two monetary policies: one run by
the  central bank  and the other one run by BNDES,” said
Hausmann, a former chief economist at the Inter-American
Development Bank in Washington.  High Tariffs  Raised in the northeastern city of Recife, Coutinho adhered
to the “developmentalist” school of economic thought that
pushed for high tariffs and state-led investment in the 1970s to
boost Brazil’s industrial capacity.  He “brilliantly defended” a doctoral thesis in 1974 at
Cornell University entitled “The Internationalization of
Oligarchy Capitalism,” said Tom Davis, who supervised
Coutinho’s study at the Ithaca, New York, school. Coutinho sees
“a major role for the state” and probably shares the broad
outlook of Keynesian economist and Nobel Prize-winner  Paul Krugman , Davis said.  Coutinho returned to Brazil after Cornell and was a member
of the Brazil Democratic Movement, one of only two political
parties allowed by the country’s 1964-1985 military
dictatorship. He served as executive secretary of the science
and technology ministry in the 1980s and became an expert on
industrial policy, publishing a 510-page study in 1994 on
economic competitiveness. He founded LCA Consultores, a Sao
Paulo-based consulting company, in 1995.  Influential Adviser  He was teaching economics at  Campinas University  when
Rousseff was a graduate student at the Sao Paulo state school.
While he’s an influential adviser to his former pupil, he isn’t
the only candidate for finance chief, said  Christopher Garman ,
Eurasia’s Latin American director. Current Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega , his deputy  Nelson Barbosa  and former Finance
Minister  Antonio Palocci , who served as Rousseff’s main economic
aide during the campaign, all are competing with Coutinho for
top Cabinet positions, Garman said.  Rousseff may decide to leave Coutinho in his current job or
make him an infrastructure “czar,” Nomura’s Volpon said. There
is also a small possibility she might name him president of the
central bank, he added. In a television interview yesterday,
Rousseff said she hasn’t made any decisions yet about her
Cabinet.  Controversial Credit  The expansion in subsidized credit Coutinho pushed at BNDES
is controversial in Brazil, as are some of the bank’s loans.
Lending totaled 72.6 billion reais through July, even as Latin
America’s biggest economy was  growing  at an annual rate of more
than 8.8 percent in the first half of the year, the fastest pace
since 1995.  Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said in July that
BNDES funding makes monetary policy less efficient and has
forced the benchmark rate higher. The yield on the interest-rate
futures contract maturing in January 2012 was up three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, at 11.35 percent at 9:26 a.m.
New York time.  The level of subsidies from the development bank also
reduces the incentive for companies to seek alternative
financing and hurts development of Brazil’s capital markets,
said Banco Santander’s Schwartsman.  ‘Best Bank’  Billionaire  Eike Batista , the country’s richest man, is
more enthusiastic, praising BNDES in July as “the best bank in
the world,” according to  O Globo  newspaper. Companies Batista
controls, including port operator  LLX Logistica SA  in Rio de
Janeiro, have received long-term funding, which is scarce, for
infrastructure investments.  Coutinho, who declined a request to be interviewed, has
said BNDES isn’t undermining monetary policy. In a July
 interview  with Estado de S. Paulo newspaper, he said long-term
lending by the bank helps fight inflation by increasing the
economy’s productive capacity.  Jose Serra , 68, who lost to Rousseff on Oct. 31,
criticized the bank during the campaign for helping finance
mergers and acquisitions. Last year, Sao Paulo-based  JBS SA , the
world’s largest beef producer, said it received $2 billion from
BNDES to help fund purchases including an $800 million deal for
Pittsburg, Texas-based  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp.   “All of Brazil’s taxpayers financing one company to buy
another?” Serra, who studied with Coutinho at Cornell, said on
the “Roda Viva” television program in June. “It just doesn’t
make sense.”  Currency Appreciation  One of the top priorities for the next finance minister
will be slowing the appreciation of the real, Hausmann said.
Higher interest rates are making it more difficult to contain a
36 percent rally against the U.S. dollar since 2009, the third-
biggest jump among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg after
the South African rand and Australian dollar.  Coutinho said last month that Brazilian businesses hurt by
the strong real should use the World Trade Organization’s anti-
dumping rules to maintain market share against foreign
competitors.  “In the context where there are signs of a currency war,
Brazil can’t be naïve,” he told reporters on Oct. 22 in Sao
Paulo. “Brazil has to, at a minimum, protect its
competitiveness and  employment conditions .”  Protecting Debt  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against nonpayment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point to 97 on Nov. 2, according to data
compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  While Coutinho remains committed to using the state to
promote Brazilian industry, he understands that the success of
the country’s companies depends on their export competitiveness,
said  Albert Fishlow , a former professor at Columbia University
in New York who is working on a book about Brazil.  “Clearly BNDES was an important component of Brazil’s
rapid recovery, and clearly there were excesses in that
process,” said Fishlow, who has known Coutinho since the 1970s
when Fishlow was a deputy U.S. assistant secretary of state.
“Among potential ministers of finance, Coutinho shows a greater
experience and less doctrinaire point of view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  