-- Rubber Surges to Records in Singapore, Thailand as Floods Spread in Asia
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-03T10:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/rubber-in-singapore-surges-to-record-as-floods-ravage-thailand-malaysia.html
Rubber futures in Thailand, the
world’s largest producer, and Singapore surged to records as
floods spread across major producing nations in Southeast Asia,
hurting production of the commodity used to make tires.  The April-delivery contract on the Singapore Commodity
Exchange rose as much as 1.6 percent to $4.14 per kilogram,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The June-delivery
contract on the Agricultural Futures Exchange of Thailand rose 2
percent to 125.50 baht per kilogram, according to the exchange.
The Tokyo Commodity Exchange, which trades yen-denominated
rubber futures, was closed today for a national holiday.  Cyclones and monsoon rains have swamped parts of Southeast
Asia in the past month, hurting farm output and killing hundreds
of people in Thailand, Vietnam and Malaysia. Floods and
blackouts forced the cash-rubber center in Thailand’s Songkhla
province to close yesterday and today, according to the  Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand .  “Floods increase concerns that production from top
producers in Southeast Asia will fall, while demand remains
strong,” Navarat Kaewpratarn, senior marketing official at
Future Agri Trade Co., said by phone from Bangkok. Production
from Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, the top three growers,
accounts for 70 percent of global rubber supply.  Tightening Supply  Rubber has soared about 20 percent on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange this year as the wetter-than-normal weather lowered
output, tightening supply at a time when stockpiles in China,
the largest buyer, have dropped 71 percent from the year’s high.  Futures in Shanghai surged as much as 3.5 percent to
33,190 yuan ($4,975) a metric ton today, nearing the record of
33,320 yuan reached on Oct. 26.  The flooding across Thailand has killed 107 people and
damaged more than 3 percent of farmland, the Department of
Disaster Prevention and Mitigation said today. Aside from
Songkhla, two other cash-rubber markets in Thailand’s south
remained open today, the research institute said.  A “shortage of supply could worsen as floods in Thailand
and Malaysia disrupted tapping activities, affecting output,”
said  Ker Chung Yang , a commodity analyst at Phillip Futures.
“Firm fundamentals could push prices” higher, he said.  Thai Forecast  Rubber output in Thailand may decline 4.1 percent in the
fourth quarter to 930,000 tons,  Luckchai Kittipol , President of
the  Thai Rubber Association , said on Nov. 1.  Floods and heavy rains have also affected Malaysia and
Vietnam, the third- and fourth-largest exporters.  Malaysia evacuated more than 19,000 people in the northern
states of Kedah and Perlis because of floods, the Star newspaper
reported today, citing Padang Terap District Police Chief Ku
Yaacob Ku Hamad and Perlis Chief Minister Md Isa Sabu.  Floods in the central provinces of Vietnam have left eight
people dead and six missing in the past six days, damaging 6,722
houses and 17,891 hectares (44,210 acres) of rice and other crop
land, according to a statement on the government’s website.  Output from India, the fourth-biggest producer, declined
7.6 percent to 82,000 tons in October due to excess rain, the
state-run  Rubber Board  said on Nov. 2. Lower output boosted
imports 81 percent to 18,148 tons, it said.  Global production this year is unlikely to increase more
than 5.3 percent to 9.4 million tons, compared with a previous
forecast for a 6.3 percent rise, the  Association of Natural
Rubber Producing Countries  has said. A further cut in the output
forecast is expected, the group has said.  Natural-rubber imports by China may surge 42 percent in the
fourth quarter, bringing total purchases this year to 1.68
million tons compared with 1.59 million last year, the group
said. China accounts for more than 33 percent of global demand.  “With such underlying fundamentals, I would suggest Tocom
rubber will break a significant psychological resistance of 340
yen soon,” said Phillip’s Ker. The contract ended on Nov. 22 at
331.90 yen per kilogram.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  