-- Russia Bars Irish, Spanish Debt From Sovereign-Wealth Fund Investment List
-- B y   A n n a   U l a e v a   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-11-03T16:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/russia-bars-irish-spanish-debt-from-sovereign-wealth-fund-investment-list.html
Russia’s Finance Ministry excluded
Ireland and Spain from a list of countries approved for bond
investment by the east European nation’s two sovereign wealth
funds, according to the ministry’s website.  The western European countries weren’t mentioned in a
document specifying the national debt acceptable for purchase by
the Reserve Fund and Wellbeing Fund, which together represent
more than $130 billion, or more than half of Ireland’s $227
billion gross domestic product in 2009, according to the
website.  “It’s a question for the central bank whether they
invested or didn’t invest,” Russian Deputy Finance Minister
 Dmitry Pankin  said by phone. “What matters for us is that Irish
and Spanish notes weren’t part of the formula used to calculate
the yield the central bank pays us.” A spokesman for the
Russian central bank did not return a call seeking comment.  The Irish government said on Sept. 30 that costs to bail
out the country’s banks may reach about 50 billion euros ($70
billion. On the same day, Spain had its top credit rating cut
one level by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the nation’s
“weak” economic outlook.  Tiger, Bear  The Russian funds are managed by the Central Bank under
guidelines set down by the Finance Ministry.  The decision was not surprising given the two Russian funds
have a very low risk profile and how the yield differential
between and Spanish and Irish debt had widened against the
German bund, said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Moscow
brokerage UralSib Financial Corp.  “Ten years ago, the Irish Celtic Tiger was roaring while
the Russian bear was licking its wounds,” he said by telephone
from London. “Today, the tiger is an endangered species while
the bear is much more robust.”  Russia’s funds may still invest in the debt obligations of
the governments of Austria, Belgium, Britain, Germany, Canada,
Denmark, Luxembourg, Netherlands, USA, Finland, France and
Sweden, according to the ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Ulaeva  in Moscow at 
 aulaeva@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Henry at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net  