-- Russia Asks Companies to Consider Joint Bid for Canada's Potash
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-11-03T12:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/russia-asks-fertilizer-companies-to-consider-joint-bid-for-canada-s-potash.html
Russia asked local fertilizer makers
to consider a joint bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
countering a $40 billion offer from  BHP Billiton Ltd. , according
to OAO Acron, the nation’s third-largest producer of nitrogen
soil nutrients.  Acron told the government it wouldn’t join the plan after
receiving a letter from the Industry and Trade Ministry on Nov.
1 proposing a combined bid, Chairman  Alexander Popov  said today
by telephone in Moscow. Artur Gimatdinov, a ministry spokesman,
wasn’t immediately able to comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  “It’s absolutely senseless for Russia to spend $40 billion
on acquiring Potash Corp.,” Popov said in the interview. “If
the country has a spare $40 billion, it would be much more
effective to put it into the Russian economy.”  Russia’s biggest fertilizer companies have been studying
combining operations to expand output as shrinking arable land
and rising world food demand spur consumption of their products.
OAO Silvinit, Russia’s largest potash producer, and rival OAO
Uralkali are both controlled by billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov  and
his partners, who plan to merge the two companies.  OAO PhosAgro, the largest maker of phosphate fertilizers in
Russia, asked the state to help fund a purchase of Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp.,  Vedomosti  said today, citing an
Oct. 20 letter from PhosAgro Chairman  Vladimir Litvinenko  to
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin . PhosAgro said by e-mail
that it wouldn’t comment on the report until Canada rules later
today on BHP Billiton’s unsolicited offer for Potash Corp.  Implausible Plan  Canada plans to unveil today after markets close in New
York whether it will allow the takeover, an official familiar
with the announcement said. The regional Saskatchewan government
opposes the bid by Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s largest
mining company, for Potash Corp., the biggest producer of the
fertilizer.  A PhosAgro offer isn’t viable because the Russian company
is much smaller than Potash, Troika Dialog said.  “We struggle to find the proposed transaction as
plausible, simply given the startling difference in size between
PhosAgro and Potash Corp.,” Moscow-based Troika Dialog wrote in
a research note today. PhosAgro, a closely held company, is
worth about $7 billion to $9 billion, Troika said, in comparison
with Potash Corp.’s market capitalization of $43.1 billion.  Only if PhosAgro merged with Russian potash producers
Uralkali and Silvinit to form a single company worth $25 billion
to $30 billion “would the remote potential to make a bid for
Potash Corp. appear,” analysts at Troika wrote.  Chinese, Indian Interest?  In his letter to Putin, Litvinenko said Canadian banks had
agreed to provide half the funding for a takeover and Russian
banks should provide the remainder, according to Vedomosti.  While there has been reported interest from Chinese and
Indian companies in making a counterbid for Potash Corp.,
nothing has materialized so far, Troika added.  Uralkali declined to comment, while Silvinit spokesman
 Anton Subbotin  didn’t pick up calls to his mobile phone.  Putin passed PhosAgro’s request to Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Sechin , who contacted ministries and state banks, Vedomosti
said, without citing anyone.  A state official said he couldn’t speak about private
correspondence. Putin’s spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  didn’t answer
calls to his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net 
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  