-- Russia Options Show Most Bullish Stock Wagers in Six Months as Oil Rallies
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-11-03T10:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/russia-options-show-most-bullish-stock-wagers-in-six-months-as-oil-rallies.html
Options traders are placing the most
bullish bets on Russian stocks in almost six months, wagering
that gains in energy prices will boost shares in the cheapest
equity market among major developing nations.  The ratio of outstanding calls to buy  Market Vectors
Russia , an exchange-traded fund listed in the U.S., versus puts
to sell has risen to 0.72 and reached 0.74 on Oct. 22, a level
last seen in May. The ETF has surged 28 percent since sinking to
a seven-month low on May 25, almost triple the return for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Russian bulls are betting that surging demand for natural
resources gives the nation’s stock market an advantage over
Brazil, India and China. Energy companies and metal producers
account for 64 percent of Russian equities’ value, compared with
Brazil in second place at 38 percent, Bloomberg data show.
Commodities prices just posted the biggest two-month gain since
May 2009 amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will reignite
inflation by purchasing at least $500 billion in assets.  “Calls are being bought and chased to the upside like the
last chance to buy,” said  Gregory Klumov , chief investment
officer at Moscow-based Everest Asset Management, which manages
about $300 million.  Highest Since 2008  Stocks in Russia, the world’s largest energy supplier, are
rallying as a 24 percent climb in oil prices from this year’s
low on May 20 lifted earnings prospects for the country’s two
biggest producers such as  OAO Rosneft  and  OAO Lukoil . The Micex
Index closed at the highest level since July 2008 yesterday.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF rose 0.8 percent to $34.77 in
U.S. trading yesterday. It has climbed 11 percent since Dec. 31
and 29 percent since falling to a 2010 low in May.  The number of existing calls that give the right to buy the
Market Vectors Russia ETF for a set price through a specified
date has risen 162 percent since Oct. 18 to 86,142, compared
with 118,589 puts. The last time there were this many bullish
contracts in relation to bearish ones was before Russian stocks
began their rally in May.  Stocks and commodities rose worldwide in October,
Treasuries fell for the first time since March and the dollar
weakened to a 15-year low against the yen as speculation that
the Fed will announce stimulus measures today drove investors to
purchase riskier assets.  ‘Risk Trade’  “When you talk about Russia, you talk about the risk
trade,” said  Uri Landesman , who helps oversee about $500
million as president of New York-based hedge-fund operator
Platinum Management LLC. “You have three-quarters of a thumbs
up on the risk orientation now. Oil prices are strong, which is
good for the Russia equity market.”  Even after this year’s rally, Russia’s Micex Index trades
at 7 times  estimated earnings  for the next 12 months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
is valued at 15 times projected profit, China’s Shanghai
Composite Index is 15 and Brazil’s Bovespa Index is 11.  Oil today hit a six-month high, rising as much as 0.9
percent to $84.69 on signs U.S. crude inventories are dropping
and speculation the dollar will decline on stimulus measures by
the Federal Reserve. Russia, the world’s largest oil exporter,
boosted crude oil output in October to 10.26 million barrels a
day, setting a post-soviet record.  Copper reached a 27-month high Oct. 26, the highest level
since July 2008 amid concern demand for commodities will outpace
supply. Tin reached a record $27,338.50 on Oct. 14 after
production was disrupted in Indonesia and The Democratic
Republic of Congo.  Russian-focused equity funds last week saw inflows for the
fifth consecutive week, taking in $98 million, according to Alfa
Bank, citing data from EPFR Global Research. For the week-ending
Oct. 27, Chinese funds saw inflows of $96 million, Brazilian
funds added $67 million and Indian funds received $51 million.  “Interest in holding Russian equities has increased
substantially as the overall global risk appetite returns,”
said  Scott Licamele , a partner at broker LoginFX in Moscow.
“It’s a clear beneficiary because it’s one of the cheapest
markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 