-- Saft Predicts 2011 Rise in Industrial Battery Sales, Less Military Growth
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-11-03T11:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/saft-predicts-2011-rise-in-industrial-battery-sales-less-military-growth.html
Saft Groupe SA , the French maker of
batteries used in submarines, rockets and satellites, said
revenue from industrial companies such as automakers and
utilities will probably rise next year.  “Our non-government-funded activities should be on a growth
path in 2011,” Chief Executive Officer  John Searle  said in a
telephone interview today.  Saft  will probably see rising sales next year for back-up
power in infrastructure projects, led by emerging markets, and
for metering batteries used by utilities. Saft, which also makes
batteries used in airplanes, phone networks, back-up power and
night-vision goggles, competes with companies including Ener1
Inc. and A123 Systems Inc. in making lithium-ion batteries for
electric cars.  The  military  market, which accounted for about a fifth of
Saft’s revenue last year, won’t lead sales growth in the next
one to two years, Searle said.  “I’m not overly concerned because in the military market, a
majority of our sales are replacement batteries” for devices
such as radios, he said. Some governments may delay
“inevitable” orders for “a few months, maybe a couple of
quarters.”  Maintains Outlook  Saft, based in Bagnolet near Paris, said today that 2010
sales growth, excluding currency swings, will be “close to the
middle” of a range of zero to 5 percent that it forecast in
July. The company reiterated that  earnings  before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization will be at least 18.5
percent of revenue. Third-quarter  sales  rose 4.4 percent at
constant exchange rates to 135.4 million euros ($190 million).  “We’re not seeing enormous pressure in the market to cut
prices,” Searle said. “We see a limited amount but that’s
normal in business.”  Saft will raise prices “if there is an enormous adjustment
in costs, particularly of metals,” the CEO said. The company
isn’t seeing cost increases, “with the exception of some
volatile metals” such as nickel for which it has hedges, he
said.  Saft has “no difficulties in sourcing” rare-earth
elements that are used in products that represent 4 percent of
its global sales, Searle said. The elements are used in a
“transitional technology,” which will be replaced by lithium-
ion technology that doesn’t use rare earths, he said.  The company expects a plant it’s building in Jacksonville,
Florida, to generate sales starting in the second half of next
year. It will make lithium-ion batteries for military hybrid
vehicles, aviation and renewable energy storage.  “It’s going to take a few years to fill the factory,”
which will have the capacity to produce $300 million a year of
batteries, Searle said.  Saft’s venture with  Johnson Controls Inc. , which makes
batteries for electric and hybrid cars, is seeking a partner to
expand in China, Searle reiterated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  