-- Samsung, South Korea's Biggest Bond Fund, Shifts From Long-Term Treasuries
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-03T02:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/samsung-south-korea-s-biggest-bond-fund-shifts-from-long-term-treasuries.html
Samsung Investment Trust Management
Co., South Korea’s largest private fixed-income investor,
switched out of long-term Treasuries in a bet Federal Reserve
efforts to spur the U.S. economy will quicken inflation.  Samsung is favoring notes due in five years and less,
making the change in October, said  Sungjin Park , who oversees
the equivalent of $55.9 billion of debt as head of fixed income
for the company in Seoul. Shorter maturities tend to track the
central bank’s benchmark  interest rate , which policy makers have
pledged to keep near zero percent for an “extended period.”  “They will wait and wait again” to raise interest rates,
Park said. “Short-term maturities are correlated with the
policy rate. Maturities of more than 10 years would be
vulnerable to inflation.”  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg said the U.S. central bank
will announce plans to buy at least $500 billion of long-term
securities following a meeting today. Treasury yields indicate
investors are adding to bets the strategy, known as quantitative
easing, will increase costs for goods and services.  The  spread  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities, widened to
2.17 percentage points from this year’s low of 1.47 points in
August. The five-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  Five-year yields were little changed today at 1.16 percent
as of 10:50 a.m. in Hong Kong, according to BGCantor Market Data.
They fell to a record low of 1.07 percent on Oct. 8. The extra
 yield  that 30-year bonds offer over five-year notes widened to a
record 2.84 points on Nov. 1.  Fed Stimulus  U.S. policy makers will restart a program of securities
purchases to spur growth, curb unemployment and increase
inflation, said 53 of 56 economists surveyed last week.  Twenty-nine estimated the Fed will pledge to buy $500
billion or more, while seven predicted $50 billion to $100
billion in monthly purchases without a specified total. The
remainder said the Fed would buy as much as $500 billion or
didn’t quantify their forecast.  Policy makers said after their last meeting on Sept. 21
they were prepared to act to support the recovery and increase
the inflation rate.  The Fed cut its target for overnight loans between banks,
known as the federal funds rate, to a range of zero to 0.25
percent in December 2008.  Economic conditions “are likely to warrant exceptionally
low levels for the federal funds rate for an extended period,”
the Fed said in its Sept. 21 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 