-- Santander Names Ana Botin Head of U.K., Replacing Horta-Osorio
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-03T17:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/santander-said-to-be-poised-to-name-ana-botin-head-of-u-k-unit.html
Ana Patricia Botin, daughter of  Banco
Santander SA’s (SAN)  chairman, will take over the bank’s U.K. unit,
strengthening her position to succeed her father just as the
U.K. division is planning an initial public offering.  Botin, 50, will take the job after Horta-Osorio was today
named chief executive officer of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the
Spanish lender said today in a statement. She is chairman of
 Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) , Santander’s Spanish consumer-
banking unit.  The eldest daughter of Santander Chairman Emilio Botin, Ana
Patricia Botin has been mentioned by analysts as a possible
successor to her 76 year-old father. She was already the
highest-ranking woman in Spanish finance as head of the group’s
Spanish retail unit Banesto. She takes over as Santander U.K.
prepares for an initial public offering in  London  next year.  “The market will see this as another step to a final
destination as the head of Santander,” said Juan Jose Figares,
chief analyst at Link Securities in Madrid.  Botin, ranked 38th in  Forbes’  list of the world’s most
powerful women this year, has lead Banesto since 2002. She
steered the retail lender through a real estate collapse in
Spain that prompted a six-fold increase in the industry’s  bad-
loan  ratio. Botin, after studying in the U.S. and working at
J.P. Morgan & Co., has been at Santander since 1988. Santander
U.K. accounts for a quarter of  group profit .  ‘Last Step’ in Succession  “Her path has been very carefully prepared, and it would
be a logical move,” said Robert Tornabell, a professor of
finance at the  ESADE  business school in  Barcelona , who has met
Santander officials including Emilio Botin. “This would be the
last step” in the road to succession, he said.  The bank’s U.K. business expanded during the credit crisis
as it bought Alliance & Leicester Plc as well as parts of
Bradford & Bingley Plc and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc .
Those acquisitions were made during the tenure of Horta-Osorio,
who will now be Botin’s direct rival at Lloyds, Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender.  Santander fell 3.5 percent to 8.69 euros in Madrid, while
Lloyds rose 2.7 percent to 69.20 pence in London. Banesto shares
slipped 0.2 percent to 7 euros.  “It’s not good news for Santander,” said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at Iberian Equities.
“Horta-Osorio was clearly a heavyweight.”  Santander said board member Antonio Basagoiti will be named
non-executive chairman of Banesto.  Initial Public Offering  Santander U.K. had a 19 percent share of mortgage lending
in the third quarter and a 14 percent share of total mortgage
stock. The group said on Oct. 28 it planned to sell a stake in
the U.K. unit in an IPO and while it hadn’t decided on the date,
it would probably take place in the first part of 2011.  “Ana Patricia is well known by investors and that could
help move forward with the plan for an initial public
offering,” Figares said.  Santander officials regularly decline to comment on the
Botin succession plan and there’s no sign he will be stepping
aside anytime soon. Emilio Botin I, Ana Patricia’s great-
grandfather, was named chairman in 1909. His son, also named
Emilio, became head of the bank in 1950. The current chairman,
Ana Patricia’s father, took over in 1986, when his father
retired at the age of 83.  After earning an economics degree at  Pennsylvania ’s Bryn
Mawr College in 1981, she worked for J.P. Morgan & Co. in  Madrid 
and New York, rising to vice president in the Latin American
division. Botin moved to Santander in 1988 as head of
international capital markets. She joined the board a year later
at age 28. In 1991, she became director of investment banking,
eventually spending more than $5 billion on acquisitions in
Latin America.  European Crisis  Her time at Banesto also coincided with the sovereign debt
crisis in  Europe , which limited access to capital markets for
Spanish banks. That stiffened competition for deposits as an
alternative source of funding for lenders.  “She has distinguished herself in marketing campaigns to
get deposits,” Tornabell said. “They pay more than others but
they have lower bad-loan ratios so they can compete.”  Banesto’s bad loans rose to 3.8 percent of total lending in
September, and third-quarter net profit fell 52 percent as the
lender set aside more money. That compares with an industry-wide
ratio of 5.62 percent in August, up from 0.84 percent three
years earlier, according to  Bank of Spain  data.  Santander said on Oct. 28 that it will miss its 2010
earnings goal due to a change in banking provisioning rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  