-- Airbus, Areva, Total Gain in $22.7 Billion China Contract Haul
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-11-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/sarkozy-may-lobby-china-s-hu-on-g-20-agenda-as-airbus-clinches-export-deal.html
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  sealed 16 billion euros ($22.7
billion) of contracts benefiting Airbus SAS, Areva SA, Total SA
and Alcatel-Lucent SA.  The agreements were signed yesterday as Hu began a three-
day  state visit . Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  and
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  will meet today at the
headquarters of the  Medef  business union to sign more contracts.  At a state dinner last night at the Elysee Palace in Paris,
the leaders emphasized their desire to expand commercial ties.
“Each year, you need to create more than 7 million jobs for
your young graduates, and we in France also have to offer jobs
for our youth,” Sarkozy said in his toast. Hu said he wanted to
double trade between China and France to $80 billion by 2015.  Sarkozy has worked to fix relations damaged by a 2008 clash
over Tibet and is trying to increase trade after signing $30
billion of contracts on a visit to China in November 2007. He
has skirted criticism of the yuan’s strength against the euro as
he sought China’s backing for his agenda for France’s Group of
20 presidency starting Nov. 12.  The value of the  Airbus order  was about $14 billion. That’s
the largest Airbus deal since Sarkozy brought home a $17 billion
contract for 160 jets in 2007.  China Eastern Airline Co.,  China Southern Airlines Co. , Air
China and China Aviation Supplies Holding Co. bought a total of
50 A320 single-aisle planes, 42 A330s and 10 A350s. Half of the
A320s will be assembled in China.  Areva’s Agreement  Areva  signed a 10-year contract worth about $3.5 billion to
provide 20,000 tons of uranium to China. Chief Executive Officer
 Anne Lauvergeon  said discussions over a plan to sell two EPR
reactors to China are ”very advanced.” In 2007, Areva won an 8
billion-euro contract to provide two EPR nuclear islands for
China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co. in Taishan, and to
supply nuclear fuel for the two reactors until 2026.  The French nuclear company also signed an agreement with
CNNC to build a nuclear-waste processing plant in China.  “For the Chinese, France is an interesting source of
technology, particularly with Airbus and Areva,” Jean-Vincent
Brisset, a former military attache to China and Taiwan, and now
a researcher at Paris-based research institute  IRIS , said in an
interview.  Total , Europe’s third-biggest oil company, signed a letter
of intent with China Power Investment Corp. to develop a
petrochemical production plant. The facility is in Inner
Mongolia and will convert coal to synthetic fuel.  Alcatel-Lucent  said it won 1.2 billion euros of deals with
Chinese phone companies.  Champs-Elysees  There will be no press conference during his visit. The
leaders, and their spouses  Carla Bruni-Sarkozy  and Liu Yongqing,
accompanied by  mounted Presidential guards,  drove down Paris’s
Champs-Elysees, which was decorated with Chinese and French
flags, after Hu’s landing at Orly airport yesterday. His last
visit to France was in 2004.  Today, President Hu will meet Prime Minister  Francois Fillon , and then will hold further talks with Sarkozy in the
coastal city of  Nice  where they will discuss the G-20 agenda,
Iran and North Korea.  Sarkozy’s priorities for the G-20 include a debate to
overhaul the global monetary order, tougher regulation of
commodities markets to prevent volatility, and giving developing
nations more clout within international organizations. He is
seeking to address the dollar’s predominant role in global
currency markets and wants China’s support to avoid a presidency
marred by infighting over currencies.  Joint Statement  In a joint statement issued before last night’s state
dinner, the leaders said all countries should “adopt macro-
economic policies that are coordinated, stable and coherent.”
It said that they wanted to “progress in the reform of the
international monetary and financial system, and to fight
against excessive volatility of raw material prices.”  The statement also reiterated France’s support for lifting
a European Union arms embargo on China.  Chinese and French officials signed other agreements on
environmental projects, and the Louvre museum and the Forbidden
City agreed to hold joint expositions and share know-how.  At the dinner, the Chateaux Lafite Rothschild wines served
were from 1942 to celebrate the year of Hu’s birth; 1949 for the
establishment of the People’s Republic of China; 1964 to
commemorate Charles de Gaulle’s decision to recognize the
Chinese communist regime; 1978 for the start of China’s economic
reforms; 2002 for Hu’s ascension to power, and 2008 for the
Beijing Olympic games.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  