-- Saudi Arms Sale Prompts Questions From U.S. House Panel Leaders
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-11-04T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/saudi-arms-sale-draws-concern-of-u-s-house-committee-leaders.html
The Obama administration’s decision
to sell as much as $60 billion in weapons to Saudi Arabia has
prompted concerns from the top Democrat and Republican on the
House Foreign Affairs Committee, according to a letter being
circulated for lawmakers’ signatures.  California Democrat  Howard Berman  and Florida Republican
 Ileana Ros-Lehtinen  are seeking support from other members of
the U.S. House of Representatives for a letter outlining
concerns and questions to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates .  The letter stops short of opposing the sale, which would be
the largest in U.S. history if all purchases are made. The
package includes  Boeing Co.  F-15 fighter jets, attack
helicopters and satellite-guided bombs. It also contains
helicopters made by  United Technologies Corp.  and advanced  radar 
from  Raytheon Co.   The lawmakers raise “the potential repercussions for our
friends and for our own forces in the region in the event of
political change in Saudi Arabia,” according to the draft
letter obtained by Bloomberg News yesterday. Ros-Lehtinen is
expected to replace Berman as committee chairman in January,
when Republicans take control of the House.  “We have serious concerns about the nature of Saudi
involvement in the peace process between Israel and the
Palestinians, particularly since the Saudis have failed to take
steps toward normalization of relations with Israel or to
augment their financial support to the Palestinian Authority,”
according to the letter.  Leverage on Iran  On Iran, Ros-Lehtinen and Berman ask what Saudi Arabia has
done beyond expressing anxiety at Tehran’s nuclear ambitions.
The lawmakers cite potential Saudi “leverage in the
international oil market to diminish Iran’s oil revenue” and
actions to stem financing for terrorism or reduce the spread of
nuclear-weapons technology.  The administration notified Congress on Oct. 20 that it
wants to sell the weapons to help the Saudi government confront
threats from Iran and violent extremists.  Congress has until Nov. 20 to stop the sale before the
Defense Department and companies proceed to more detailed talks
on contracts, which probably would extend over a decade.
Congress will review the proposal during its lame-duck session,
which starts Nov. 15.  The Oct. 29 note from Berman and Ros-Lehtinen asks
interested lawmakers to sign their letter by tomorrow.  Israel’s Edge  The letter questions how thoroughly the State Department
and the Pentagon have considered the effect of the sale on U.S.
policies in the region, including the goal of ensuring that
Israel maintains a “qualitative military edge” over its
neighbors.  The two lawmakers cite a report by the  Government
Accountability Office , which concluded that the Departments of
State and Defense “did not consistently document how arms
transfers to gulf countries advanced U.S. foreign policy and
national security goals.”  Defense Department officials discussed the proposed sale
with Israeli officials as the package was being developed,
according to both sides. Jonathan Peled, a spokesman for the
Israeli Embassy in Washington, has said that while his country
isn’t “thrilled” by the proposal, it hasn’t requested such
actions as congressional hearings or assurances.  The Saudi F-15 package doesn’t include arms that might pose
the greatest concern, such as weapons that can be fired from
long distances and could, under certain scenarios, threaten
Israel, according to  Colin Kahl , deputy assistant secretary of
defense for the Middle East. In September, the Israeli
government agreed to buy  Lockheed Martin Corp .’s F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter when it becomes available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  