-- HSBC Amanah's Deputy CEO Says to Offer Islamic Finance in India, China
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-11-03T12:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/hsbc-amanah-s-deputy-ceo-says-to-offer-islamic-finance-in-india-china.html
HSBC Holdings Plc , the largest bank
in Europe, plans to offer Shariah-compliant services in India
and China to tap economic growth after the countries issue
regulations to develop their Islamic financial markets.  HSBC Amanah also plans to expand in Egypt and Oman, said
 Razi Fakih,  the deputy chief executive officer of the bank’s
Islamic unit. The lender, which has  operations  in 10 nations
including Malaysia and Saudi Arabia, is seeking to increase bank
branches globally to about 125 over the next two years from 100
at the end of 2010, he said.  “Our ability to expand in these markets depends on how the
regulatory environment changes in those countries,” Fakih said
in a telephone interview from London today. “Licensing to
foreign banks is restrictive in certain markets. We would
certainly like to see ourselves in the entire Middle East.”  HSBC is trying to strengthen its brand in a market that has
attracted competitors such as Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and
 Standard Chartered Plc  to tap wealth from the world’s 1.6
billion Muslims. Global assets held by Shariah-compliant
financial institutions may climb to $1.6 trillion in 2012 from
about $1 trillion, the Kuala Lumpur-based  Islamic Financial
Services Board  said in April.  HSBC ranked second among 31 Islamic bond underwriters this
year, arranging $2.3 billion of the notes, or 17 percent of the
total $13.5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The bank had a market share of 13 percent last year.  Selling Bonds  India has no Islamic finance policies, and that is
restricting sales of Shariah-compliant bonds in a nation with
157 million Muslims, according to Paris-based BNP Paribas SA and
Standard Chartered. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said last week
during an official visit to Kuala Lumpur that he would ask the
central bank to learn more about Islamic finance from Malaysia,
the world’s biggest market for sukuk.  Countries with smaller Muslim populations are taking steps
to develop Islamic finance. Australia plans to amend laws to
ensure products are taxed fairly, the national taxation board
said on Oct. 13. South Africa, whose 737,000 Muslims account for
1.5 percent of its population, will forgo charging tax on three
Islamic structures to allow home loans that meet Shariah
principles, the country’s Treasury department said in August.  HSBC Amanah bank has a “strong pipeline” of Islamic bonds
over the next six to eight weeks, Fakih said. The bank is in
discussions with new issuers in Asia and Europe seeking to sell
sukuk next year, he said.  ‘Many Issuers’  “We continue to work with many issuers, both sovereigns
and financial institutions, and we have a healthy pipeline in
place globally,” he said, declining to provide details.  Sales of sukuk fell 29 percent to $13.5 billion so far this
year, from $19.1 billion in the same period of 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Islamic law, or Shariah, bars
investment in industries such as gambling and alcohol, while
sukuk are typically backed by assets such as real estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  