-- LSE Delays Move to MillenniumIT Trading System After Glitch
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-11-03T16:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/lse-delays-switch-to-new-system-after-suspicious-glitch-halts-turquoise.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s
yearlong attempt to switch securities to a faster new trading
system hit its third delay with the bourse blaming a
“suspicious” glitch that briefly shut down its Turquoise
platform yesterday.  Europe’s oldest independent bourse pushed back moving
stocks listed on its main market to 2011. Turquoise, an equity
venue owned by LSE and its biggest customers that had already
upgraded to the new technology, stopped operating for two hours
due to a network issue yesterday. LSE said the disruption was
caused by human error that “may have occurred in suspicious
circumstances,” without elaborating.  The incident and “necessary network upgrades” mean the
exchange must postpone shifting the more than 1,600 companies
listed on its main market to the faster platform until 2011, LSE
said in a statement. Spokesman  Alastair Fairbrother  declined to
say what may have been suspicious about the malfunction.  LSE Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  bought Colombo,
Sri Lanka-based MillenniumIT last year to overhaul its
technology and compete with alternative trading systems
including Bats Europe and Chi-X Europe Ltd. The Millennium
technology is replacing LSE’s current TradElect and is designed
to stem a loss of market share to rivals with faster systems.  ‘Very Frustrating’  “It’s a setback to the LSE and very frustrating to all
market participants who want the whole thing over and done
with,” said Steve Grob, director of group strategy at  Fidessa
Group Plc , a developer of financial software. “What it means is
that the LSE is turning up later and later to the high-
frequency-trading party, which is what its new platform is all
about. Let’s just hope it’s still going when they do arrive.”  Last month, LSE delayed switching stocks on its main market
to the Millennium system, saying it will give customers more
time for testing. The exchange had been scheduled to make the
move Nov. 1.  “Investigations into this morning’s trading disruption on
LSE Exchange’s pan-European MTF, Turquoise, have revealed that
human error was to blame for the disruption,” the exchange said
in the statement. “The LSE Group take this matter very
seriously and a full internal investigation has now begun. The
relevant authorities have been informed.”  Turquoise Glitches  Turquoise had glitches on its first day of trading on the
new system and the next day was forced to delay the market open
by a network card error.  “We wouldn’t necessarily have avoided any of the teething
problems if we’d delayed the system further,”  David Lester ,
chief executive officer of Turquoise, said in an interview after
the first day of trading. “When we bought into Turquoise, LSE
agreed to fund the losses for the business till February 2012 so
that’s made getting onto a competitive platform a priority.”  LSE said December is an “agreed change freeze period”
when big projects come to a halt, so the platform switch must be
pushed into next year.  “This is certainly an unfortunate incident for LSE and for
the market as a whole,”  Stephane Loiseau , deputy global head of
execution services at Societe Generale SA, said today. “But no
exchange is immune to these kinds of issues. Big changes to
infrastructure don’t come without risk. Probably all exchanges
are reviewing their systems and procedures now.”  LSE shares closed unchanged at 743.5 pence in London today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 