-- SEC Proposes Increased Financial Rewards for Whistleblowers
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-11-03T15:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/sec-proposes-increased-financial-rewards-for-whistleblowers-in-some-cases.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission took a step toward expanding its ability to reward
whistleblowers after the Dodd-Frank financial rules overhaul
provided greater incentives for tipsters to come forward.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 today to propose a rule that
authorizes the agency to pay whistleblowers in enforcement cases
where sanctions exceed $1 million. Under the proposal, the
agency could give claimants as much as 30 percent of all the
money it collects when imposing fines or recouping ill-gotten
gains. Awards are currently capped at 10 percent of collected
money and limited to insider-trading cases.  “Whistleblowers can be a source of high-quality leads,”
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said at a meeting in Washington.
“They can provide us with first-hand information about ongoing
frauds that may otherwise not come to light. This type of
information can be crucial to protecting investors or helping us
return their funds.”  In approving Dodd-Frank in July, Congress gave the SEC
authority to increase awards for whistleblowers after lawmakers
faulted the agency for fumbling tips about  Bernard Madoff ’s
Ponzi scheme. The agency has been working for more than a year
to improve its system for responding to tips by hiring
consultants and studying more successful programs at the
Internal Revenue Service and Justice Department.  SEC Commissioner  Kathleen Casey , a Republican, said bigger
awards may trigger a rush of tips that overwhelm the agency’s
enforcement division with “erroneous or frivolous” complaints.  Lawyers representing corporations have raised concerns that
the expanded authority granted to the SEC will prompt employees
to take grievances to regulators instead of going through
programs companies set up to investigate complaints internally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  