-- SEC Bans Brokers From Permitting Unsupervised Trades by Clients
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-11-03T20:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/sec-bans-brokers-from-allowing-unsupervised-trades-by-clients.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission banned brokers from letting clients make unsupervised
trades on stock exchanges amid concern that a rogue transaction
could roil markets.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 today to approve a rule that
targets so-called naked-sponsored access, in which a customer
uses a broker’s identification code to trade directly on
exchanges while bypassing security measures. The rule, which
subjects all transactions to pre-trade risk controls, was
proposed in January after SEC officials expressed concern that a
computer malfunction or human error might trigger an order that
would erode a broker’s capital.  The SEC is cracking down on computerized trading that
relies on speed to make money after lawmakers such as outgoing
U.S. Senator  Ted Kaufman , a Delaware Democrat, questioned the
agency’s oversight of electronic markets. The May 6 crash, which
erased $862 billion of value from equities in 20 minutes, also
led the SEC to increase scrutiny of high-frequency trading.  “The potential impact of inappropriate trading has become
more severe as our securities markets have become more
automated, and high-speed trading more prevalent,” SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  said at today’s meeting. “Additionally, as the
events of May 6 demonstrated, the financial markets today are
highly inter-connected, and an event in one market can rapidly
spread throughout the financial system.”  Naked access is used by traders whose strategy of buying
and selling thousands of shares in milliseconds would be slowed
if they executed through a broker. It accounts for about 38
percent of U.S. equities trading, according to a December study
by Aite Group LLC. So-called sponsored access, in which traders
use brokers’ identification codes but are still subject to risk
measures, represents about half of U.S. volume, the report said.  Whistleblowers  In a separate vote today, SEC commissioners unanimously
approved a proposal to expand the agency’s ability to reward
whistleblowers who provide tips on fraud. The rule, which stems
from the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law, empowers the SEC
to pay tipsters in cases where sanctions exceed $1 million.  Under the proposal, the agency can give claimants as much
as 30 percent of the money it collects from fines or recouping
ill-gotten gains. Awards are currently capped at 10 percent of
collected funds and limited to insider-trading cases.  Republican commissioners  Kathleen Casey  and  Troy Paredes 
expressed concern that bigger awards might lead to an avalanche
of frivolous tips that would divert the agency’s enforcement
division from investigating legitimate cases.  The SEC must also ensure that its efforts to gather tips
don’t undermine programs set up by companies to investigate
whistleblower complaints internally, Paredes said.  ‘Reasonably Designed’  The SEC’s market-access rule requires brokers to implement
controls that are ‘reasonably designed” to prevent orders from
exceeding credit or capital limits, the agency said in a
statement. The measures must also prevent trades that “appear
to be erroneous,” the statement said.  “It’s helpful for broker-dealers to have this rule,
because it helps to create a level playing field,” said  Susan Grafton , a former SEC attorney who’s now at Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP in Washington. Firms will no longer be “forced by
competition to take on new risk,” she said.  The rule may help prevent errant orders that have triggered
trading halts in stocks,  David Shillman , an associate director
in the SEC’s trading and markets division, said at the meeting.  The halts, which the SEC and stock exchanges implemented
after the May 6 crash, pause trading when a company listed on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index or Russell 1000 Index moves 10
percent in five minutes or less. The circuit breakers have
triggered trading halts for 13 companies.  The new risk controls will cost the securities industry
about $100 million to implement, SEC officials estimated.
Ongoing costs will be about $100 million a year, they said.  ‘Original Information’  Under the whistleblower proposal, informants must give the
SEC “original information” or analysis that’s not derived from
public sources. The information must lead to a successful case
being opened or be essential in allowing the SEC to pursue a
case that it’s already commenced.  Among those barred from receiving awards would be attorneys
who get information from clients, accountants who obtain
information through corporate audits and employees who learn of
tips because they oversee a company’s internal compliance
program. The SEC has been receiving about 100 tips a day since
Congress approved Dodd-Frank in July, agency officials said.  The proposal permits SEC officials to consider bigger
rewards for whistleblowers who first report complaints to their
employers. The provision aims to encourage tipsters to use
firms’ internal compliance programs before going to regulators.  The SEC will seek public comment on its whistleblower
proposal before agency staff makes any changes. It requires a
second vote by commissioners to become a binding rule.  Derivatives  The SEC voted on a separate proposal triggered by Dodd-
Frank that requires the agency to prohibit fraud, manipulation
or deception in derivatives transactions. Congress took aim at
the $615 trillion over-the-counter swaps market after soured
trades on mortgage and credit derivatives tipped the U.S.
economy into the worst recession since the 1930s.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial instruments
used to hedge risks or for speculation. They’re derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events like changes in the weather or interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  