-- Secret to Rebuilding the World's Economy: Gayle Tzemach Lemmon
-- B y   G a y l e   T z e m a c h   L e m m o n
-- 2010-11-03T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/secret-to-rebuilding-the-world-s-economy-gayle-tzemach-lemmon.html
A consensus is forming among global
business leaders that investing in one of the world’s leading
untapped resources is critical to future growth.  That resource? Women.  Reports released recently by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and
Ernst & Young LLP, among others, conclude that exploiting -- in
the most positive sense -- the talents of half the world’s
population is a business imperative.  “Now is the time to realize and harness the positive
effect that women’s economic empowerment and leadership can have
on the global economy,” said an Ernst & Young  report  titled
“Groundbreakers: Using the Strength of Women to Rebuild the
World Economy.” World Economic Forum researchers echo this
point, noting that the issue of women’s economic empowerment is
receiving more global attention than ever.  Business schools are focusing on this trend, too. A Harvard
Business School  Working Knowledge  paper published in August said
that many multinational corporations are starting to understand
that adding women to the workforce is part of the solution to
heightened competition and aging workforces.  Professors from Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and researchers from the Korea Labor Institute
recently interviewed executives to explore whether a foreign
corporation could boost profits by hiring women from the local
labor markets where it operates, particularly in regions where
women have traditionally been excluded.  Profitable Hiring Practices  They found that firms which hire and promote women to
positions of authority enjoy greater profitability, a gain seen
in both multinational and local companies. This competitive
advantage was especially true at companies that hired women at
senior levels.  Even though there are compelling reasons to harness women’s
economic contributions, progress remains slow. While gender
disparities in health and education have narrowed dramatically,
an economic gap persists, according to the World Economic
Forum’s  Global Gender Gap Report  released last month.  This sluggish pace of change in part stems from government
officials assuming that their increased spending on women’s
health and schooling would automatically mean that women would
see their economic condition improve.  “Once you have made that investment into educating women,
you have to ensure those barriers to women’s economic
participation are removed so you can achieve the return on your
investment,” says  Saadia Zahidi , an economist at the  WEF  and
one of the authors of the report.  “There is not always a clear
understanding that this is better for the economy in the long
term.”  Price of Exclusion  This lack of progress is costly. The  United Nations  has said
that constricting women’s opportunities in Asian and Pacific
nations is costing those regions more than $40 billion annually.
In 2004 a World Bank report concluded that women’s low levels of
labor participation resulted in real losses of per capita gross
domestic product growth.  On a brighter note, a number of nations that have focused
on helping women achieve greater economic advancement are
reaping the rewards. Of the emerging economies in the WEF
report, some of the greatest progress is being made among those
nations that previously lagged farthest, including the United
Arab Emirates and Bangladesh.  Zahidi praises policy makers in the UAE who, she says,
understand that they need the young women now getting educated
in the nation’s universities to contribute to their economy once
they have finished their studies. “It is very much a
competitiveness argument,” she says.  ‘Investing in Women’  A mix of business, political, academic and women’s group
leaders met recently at  New York University ’s La Pietra campus
in Italy to discuss how to capitalize on the recent attention to
women’s empowerment issues. Their immediate goal: to figure out
how to keep improving women’s economic opportunities in the
aftermath of the global financial crisis.  “Investing in women is proven to be smart economics,” said
 Beth Brooke , Ernst & Young’s global vice chair of public policy,
sustainability and stakeholder engagement. This isn’t a matter
of benefitting one gender over another, she said. The point is
that assembling and deploying different perspectives helps the
bottom line -- for everyone’s sake.  “Women as consumers represent one of the largest ‘emerging
markets’ in the world next to China and India,” Brooke said,
pointing out that women control more than 80 percent of
household spending decisions. The focus now is on women as
entrepreneurs, employees and consumers, all of which offer
unique business opportunities for companies agile enough to take
advantage of them.  For all these reasons, some of the world’s leading companies
are beginning to view women as the next big growth opportunity.
The next few years will show whether all of this attention
translates into substantial gains -- for women, for companies
and for the global economy -- or fizzles into a faded moment of
broken promise and unrealized potential.  For the sake of global prosperity, let’s hope it is the
former.  ( Gayle Tzemach Lemmon  is deputy director of the women and
foreign policy program at the Council on Foreign Relations and
author of the forthcoming book, “The Dressmaker of Khair
Khana.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 gayle@gaylelemmon.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  