-- Seersucker’s Grits, Peels’ Beef Bring ‘Lardcore’ to NYC: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-11-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/seersucker-s-grits-peels-50-steak-bring-lardcore-to-nyc-ryan-sutton.html
Brooklyn’s Seersucker, a 40-seat
Carroll Gardens spot, cooks up some of the city’s most
satisfying Southern fare, which, due to the resurgent demand for
fried chicken and bacon, is suddenly the city’s new “it”
cuisine. Again.  Chef Robert Newton, an Arkansas man, is an alum of Le
Cirque, a pedigree that helps explain why he’s so adept at
turning the stubborn layer of fat in a duck’s breast into edible
silk.  Blackened skin flanks one side, rare meat is tucked below.
If the addition of pinto beans and cured pork isn’t sufficiently
antebellum, douse the dish as I did with the provided spicy,
smoky, hot sauce in a squeeze bottle.  The fiery mix of chilies and vinegar is homemade, of
course. This is the New Southern cuisine, which spikes soul food
with the local, seasonal, do-it-yourself ethos pervading the
culinary world. Trendy menus advertise their farm sources.
Pickled eggs come from hormone-free hens. Medium-rare pork chops
burst with more flavor than dry-aged beef.  Processed pantry staples, long forgotten, get makeovers --
sometimes. I inquired, with some degree of scorn, how Seersucker
sources its fried baloney sandwiches. From the deli, an owner
tells me. Right on: The taste of the charred lunch meat, as
cognoscenti demand, evokes a really good hot dog.  Social Media  Juxtapose that with country ham (i.e. American prosciutto)
and pimento dip. Want fried green tomatoes? Sorry; they’re being
dropped as the weather grows colder, which fact I learned on
Seersucker’s  Facebook page .  New Southern restaurants love social media. They also love
fat; Time magazine’s Josh Ozersky refers to these venues as part
of the “ lardcore ” movement.  So grits are finished with cream, studded with ham, sauced
with shellfish fumet. Pure corn flavor soaks up the taste of the
sea. Top it off with Carolina shrimp; they give scant more
resistance than the porridge, an Ozark paella of sorts.  Such heavy fare needs bourbon to keep the food moving
through your pipes. And that leads me to my chief gripe about
 Seersucker : Beer and wine only. Maybe spirits will come later.  Newton can be a fickle dictator. Fried chicken is prepared
only on Tuesdays and sometimes not after 8:30 p.m., which is
when it usually sells out. The satisfyingly messy, spice-rubbed
bird could be the city’s best. But there’s also fantastic
chicken with dumplings -- a creamy stew that’s a pot pie minus
the pie; crispy skin subs for the crust. Mop up the sauce with
yeasty biscuits, $7 for two.  Peels  That’s Northern hospitality. And I’m kind of okay with it,
because you pay for the biscuits at Peels on the Bowery, too.
The Southern-themed spot, William Tigertt’s sequel to his
hunting-lodge chic Freemans, isn’t entirely Southern, and quite
chic.  Hence the security guard, the t-shirt-clad LBO executive,
the Piedmontese grass-fed steak, the blogger photographing my
dinner with her  iPhone  (really), the game-changing cocktails and
promised 90-minute wait on a Friday.  No matter. At least the molasses-hued fried chicken is
available every day.  Take a seat overlooking  Joey Ramone  Place and order that
ribeye. At $50 and feeding two, it’s a life-changing slab of
cow, so big it doesn’t even fit on the plate. The flavor is
unexpected: sweet, nutty, musky.  For a stronger dose of Dixie, devour andouille corn dogs
(spicy and fatty), hush puppies (with a chipotle-mayo dip) and
mushy-skinned bass (saved by ham hock red-wine gravy).  Seared Montauk squid are delicate enough until pardon
peppers sting the tongue. Quell the pain with an expert blend of
applejack, lime and concord grape.  Great Gruel  Oh, there’s grits too. The great gruel is pocked with dark
nubs of bacon so woody I’m tempted to call them Tennessee
truffles. Laughing bird shrimp are smaller, sweeter than the
ones at Seersuckers.  It’s all a victory for the lardcore movement in New York.
Think of it this way: Know of any restaurants down South that
boil  Cream of Wheat  or tout “Northern cuisine?” I rest my
case.  Rating: ** (for both)  The Bloomberg Questions  Prices: Most dishes under $25 at both.  Sound Level: Around 70-75 at Seersucker; Peels can get
louder when full.  Date Place: If your date wants to gain weight.  Inside tip: Great rum-spiked milkshakes at Peels.  Special Feature: Build-your-own biscuit breakfast at Peels.  Will I be back: Frequently to both.  Seersucker is at 329 Smith Street, Brooklyn. Information:
+1-718-422-0444. Peels is at 325 Bowery. Information: +1-646-
602-7015 or  http://www.peelsnyc.com/ .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 