-- Senate Democratic Leader Reid Defeats Angle to Win Re-Election in Nevada
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-11-03T04:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/senate-democratic-leader-reid-defeats-angle-to-win-re-election-in-nevada.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  won
re-election, the Associated Press reported, overcoming
unpopularity with Nevada voters and a slugfest with Tea Party-
backed Republican  Sharron Angle , who labeled him out of touch
with the state’s economic woes.  Reid , 70, avoided becoming the third Senate party leader
since 1952 to lose re-election. He led Angle 51 percent to 45
percent of the vote with 41 percent of precincts reporting,
according to the AP.  Angle , 61, a former state legislator, had won her party’s
nomination by defeating the state Republican establishment’s
choice in a primary. Angle said  Reid  and his fellow Democrats in
Congress had reneged on their 2008 election promise of change,
delivering only high  unemployment  and mounting government debt.  Nevada’s unemployment rate of 14.4 percent, the nation’s
highest, plus the highest mortgage foreclosure rate in the U.S.
were fodder for Angle’s attacks on Reid and President  Barack Obama . Reid was also dogged by voter disapproval ratings that
hovered around 50 percent.  The campaign was marked by sharp partisan and personal
attacks in ads and on the stump over the economy, immigration
and what Reid called Angle’s “extreme” opposition to
government.  Ad Campaign  She campaigned against big government, arguing that Obama’s
economic stimulus that Reid helped push through Congress didn’t
spare Nevada from severe economic pain and created a “cloud of
uncertainty” for business.  In one Angle ad that opened with a picture of Reid, Obama
and House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a voice said “they promised
change” in 2008 “but they delivered unprecedented spending”
and “heartbreaking job loss” and “astounding foreclosures.”  With Nevadans given a ballot choice to vote for “None of
the Above,” Reid’s strategy was to characterize Angle as a
dangerous extremist. He highlighted her proposals to abolish the
U.S. Education and Energy departments and advocacy, at one
point, of phasing out Social Security.  “She has changed a little bit” on Social Security, “but
the words are still code words for getting rid of it,” Reid
told MSNBC on Oct. 29.  ‘Wicked Program’  He also said Angle had called Social Security a “wicked
program” and equated beneficiaries with “welfare recipients.”  “This is a woman that just does not believe in government,
period,” Reid said.  One Reid  ad  reminded voters of Angle’s comment that “if
this Congress keeps going the way it is, people are looking
toward those Second Amendment remedies,” a reference to the
part of the U.S. Constitution that protects the right to keep
and bear arms.  Bill Ames, president of the Peace Officers Research
Association of Nevada, said he, too, asserted his constitutional
right to bear arms but “what she is actually talking about is
armed resistance.”  Ames said “that kind of talk is dangerous and way too
extreme.”  Another Reid ad labeled Angle  “pathological.”   Reid, the son of a miner, frequently mentioned his hard-
scrabble upbringing in Searchlight, Nevada, where his mother
took in washing from the local brothels. He still lives in the
town where he grew up when he is in the state.  Angle, stressing her middle-class roots, tried to portray
Reid as someone who had used political office to enrich himself.  Ritz-Carlton  During their only debate of the campaign, Angle noted that
when Reid is in Washington, he lives at the Ritz-Carlton and
asked him “how did you become so wealthy on a government
payroll?”  Reid called the question a “low blow” and replied that he
had been “a very successful lawyer” and “did a very good job
investing.” The Senate Democratic leader, who put himself
through law school at Washington’s George Washington University
by working as a U.S. Capitol Police officer, listed assets worth
as much as $3.6 million on his 2009 financial disclosure report.  Reid served in the Nevada legislature for two years in the
late 1960s, served four years as lieutenant governor and chaired
the Nevada Gaming Commission. He was first elected to Congress
as a House member in 1982 and won election to the Senate in
1986.  Angle told Reid during their debate to “man up” and face
the impending insolvency of Social Security, an assertion the
Democratic leader dismissed as inaccurate. “Her facts are
absolutely wrong” because Congress “has time to fix it,” he
said.  Angle scored a Republican primary upset with Tea Party
backing to defeat former state party head  Sue Lowden  for the
nomination to run against Reid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
jarowleybloomberg.net.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 