-- U.K. October Services Growth Unexpectedly Accelerates
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-11-03T09:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/services-growth-unexpectedly-accelerated-during-october-on-banks-airlines.html
A U.K. index of growth in  services 
businesses from banks to airlines unexpectedly rose in October
to the highest level in four months.  The gauge rose to 53.2 from 52.8 in September, Markit
Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply
said in an e-mailed statement today in London. Economists
forecast a decline to 52.6, according to the median of 25
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . A reading above 50
indicates growth.  Manufacturing  also unexpectedly strengthened last month and
today’s data suggest the economic recovery is maintaining some
momentum as the government prepares the biggest fiscal squeeze
since World War II. The Bank of England will hold its bond-
purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($321 billion) tomorrow,
according to a survey of economists by Bloomberg News.  “Together with the surprise rise in the manufacturing PMI
last Monday, this suggests that the U.K. economy is still on a
path of sustained recovery,”  Joost Beaumont , an economist at
ABN Amro in Amsterdam, said in an e-mailed statement. That’s
“likely to keep most MPC members comfortable with their wait-
and-see stance.”  “On the face of it, with a four-month high, October’s
services PMI figure looks positive, but real and sustained
growth remains subdued,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble  said in the statement. “The consequences of government
spending cuts are not yet fully realized and business
expectations remain historically low.”  Sales growth was “below its trend level” in October and
business confidence remained “historically subdued,” Markit
said in its report.  ‘Uncertainty’  British Airways Plc  posted its first profit in two years in
the quarter ended Sept. 30 as sales of business tickets surged,
allowing it to raise fares. The company’s net income of 229
million pounds compared with a 111 million-pound loss a year
earlier.  “While positive, the economic environment continues to be
subject to uncertainty,” the London-based carrier said on Oct.
29. “We continue to focus on managing our costs.”  The U.K. economy expanded 0.8 percent in the third quarter,
twice the pace forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Former Bank of England policy maker  Deanne Julius  said
yesterday the chance that the economy will slip into another
recession is “10 percent or less.”  Nevertheless, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s budget cuts to
wipe out a record deficit may hamper the recovery. The fiscal
squeeze will peak at 81 billion pounds by 2015 and lead to the
loss of about 490,000 jobs.  The central bank will keep the benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent tomorrow, according to all 60
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Thirty-eight of 40
economists in a separate poll see no change to the bond plan.
The bank will announce the decision at noon in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  