-- U.S. Service Industries Probably Grew at Faster Pace
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-03T10:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/service-industries-may-show-u-s-economy-lacks-impetus-to-cut-unemployment.html
Service industries probably expanded
in October at a pace that shows limited improvement in the U.S.
economy, economists said before a report today.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  non-manufacturing 
index, which covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose to
53.5 last month from 53.2 in September, according to the  median
forecast  of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other
reports today may show companies added jobs last month and
factory orders increased on aircraft demand.  Growth at service providers is lagging behind
manufacturing, helping explain why the economy is expanding less
than the Federal Reserve may prefer. With unemployment holding
near 10 percent and inflation below the Fed’s long-term goal,
central bankers are forecast to ease monetary policy after their
meeting today.  “The U.S. economy is growing outside the factory sector
but it’s in that tepid area,” said  Michael Gregory , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “It is necessary
to provide that little extra dose of monetary stimulus.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based purchasing managers’ group is
scheduled to issue its report at 10 a.m. New York time.
Estimates ranged from 52 to 55.2.  The services index averaged 56.1 in the five years to
December 2007, when the last recession began. It’s averaged 51.4
since the current recovery started in June 2009, trailing the 55
reading on the group’s factory measure during the same period.  ADP Employment  ADP Employer Services will release its figures on
employment for October at 8:15 a.m. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg project a 20,000 gain in private payrolls, excluding
government agencies, after a decline of 39,000 in September,
according to survey.  A Commerce Department report at 10 a.m. may show  factory
orders  rose 1.6 percent in September, according to the  median 
forecast. An Oct. 27 report on durable goods showed bookings of
commercial aircraft jumped 105 percent. Orders for non-military
capital goods excluding airplanes fell.  Economic growth in the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is
consistent with keeping the jobless rate stable, according to
Fed’s policy makers’ latest forecasts. The economy grew at a 2
percent pace in the third quarter after 1.7 percent in the prior
three months.  The Fed’s decision is due at around 2:15 p.m. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected the central bank will announce a
plan to purchase at least $500 billion in long-term securities
after buying $1.7 trillion in debt from December 2008 to March.  Rising Stocks  Speculation the Fed will pump more cash into the economy
has boosted stock prices. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index has
gained 12 percent since Aug. 27 when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank “will do all it can” to sustain
the recovery.  The economy was a central issue in yesterday’s mid-term
congressional elections in which Republicans seized control of
the U.S. House and narrowed the Democratic majority in the
Senate. Voters had grown increasingly disillusioned with a lack
of job creation, the surge in government spending, Wall Street
bailouts and President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  Unemployment  in the U.S. probably held at 9.6 percent for a
third month in October and payrolls rose by 60,000, the first
gain since May, according to median projections of economists in
Bloomberg surveys. The Labor Department is scheduled to release
its monthly jobs report on Nov. 5.  Today’s ISM services survey covers industries that range
from utilities and retailing to health care, housing, finance
and transportation. The group’s factory gauge, released Nov. 1,
rose to 56.9, the highest level since May.  Home Construction  Construction is among the industries that have weighed on
the ISM non-manufacturing survey as home sales are hovering near
record lows.  “It is difficult to predict when buyer confidence will
return and the market will strengthen, but we are optimistic
that we’ll see some improvement in 2011,” Meritage Homes Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Steven Hilton  said Oct. 27 in a
statement.  Exports  and business investment in new technology and
equipment are helping to sustain manufacturing and support the
U.S. economy even as homebuilding lags behind and joblessness
restrains consumer spending.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  