-- Societe Generale Third-Quarter Net Doubles on Fewer Provisions
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2010-11-03T16:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/societe-generale-third-quarter-profit-doubles-as-bad-loan-provisions-drop.html
Societe Generale SA , France’s second-
largest bank, said third-quarter profit more than doubled after
setting aside less money for bad loans.  The shares climbed after the lender reported  net income 
rose to 896 million euros ($1.26 billion) from 426 million euros
a year earlier. That beat the 688 million-euro average estimate
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea , who took over two
years ago after a record trading loss, said in a statement today
that he’s “confident” the company will meet its full-year
profit  target  of about 6 billion euros in 2012. The bank will
exceed Basel III capital requirements without having to sell new
shares, he said.  “That’s going to take the air out of any speculation of a
capital increase,” said Pierre Flabbee, an analyst with Kepler
Capital Markets in Paris who has a “buy” rating on the stock.
“It’s reassuring.”  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in September
agreed to triple the highest-quality capital that banks need to
hold and narrowed the definition of what counts as such capital.
The agreement among the 27 member countries gave lenders about a
decade to comply with most of the new rules.  Societe Generale will reach a core Tier 1 ratio of about
7.5 percent under Basel III as of Jan. 1, 2013, and 8.5 percent
at the end of 2013, the bank said. Those capital levels will be
achieved while keeping the  dividend  payout at 35 percent.  Fewer Provisions  Societe Generale  rose 81 cents, or 1.9 percent, to 42.91
euros in Paris trading. The stock has fallen 12 percent this
year, compared with a 6.2 percent decline at larger French rival
BNP Paribas SA, which reports earnings tomorrow. The 53-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index has dropped
5 percent in the period.  Societe Generale’s profit was buoyed after it cut
provisions for doubtful loans to 918 million euros in the third
quarter, a 39 percent decline from a year earlier. That beat
analysts’ estimates of 1.06 billion euros.  Profit in the first nine months of the year reached 3.04
billion euros, the bank said, already meeting its 2010 full-year
profit forecast. Societe Generale is trimming losses from 34.8
billion of euros of risky assets, including asset-backed
securities and  debt  backed by U.S. bond insurers. Losses from
the risky assets this year will probably be “at the bottom” of
a range of between 700 million euros and 1 billion euros, the
company said in August.  ‘Uncertain’ Environment  The risky assets cost Societe Generale 198 million euros in
writedowns and provisions in the third quarter, up from 26
million euros in the second quarter, according to the bank’s
data. The lender had 461 million euros in writedowns and
provisions from the assets in the first nine months, bringing
total losses from the financial crisis to more than 11 billion
euros.  Net income  at the corporate- and investment-banking unit
fell 9.7 percent to 468 million euros, topping analysts’
 estimates  for a 337 million-euro profit. The division’s revenue
fell 18 percent to 1.93 billion euros as an “uneven and still
uncertain market environment” weighed on the capital markets
businesses, the bank said. Societe Generale has said that it
expects the unit to have about 2 billion euros of quarterly
revenue this year.  Equity Revenue  The bank’s equities  business  had 639 million euros of
revenue in the third quarter, while fixed-income, currencies and
commodities sales were at 656 million euros in the period.
Overall, capital-markets sales in the period fell 35 percent
from a year earlier.  “Equity revenues started to return to normal” as sales
increased 79 percent from the second quarter, the bank said.
Fixed-income, currencies and commodities sales were “stable”
compared with the prior three-month period, “in an environment
marked by shrinking volumes and margin erosion,” Societe
Generale said.  Profit at the French retail networks rose 15 percent to 340
million euros. Societe Generale’s earnings from insurance and
financial services including vehicle leasing and fleet
management jumped to 87 million euros from 10 million euros a
year earlier.  Earnings at the company’s international retail networks
gained 33 percent to 149 million euros, helped by higher lending
in Russia and the Czech Republic.  Geniki Loss  Societe Generale owns 54 percent of Greece’s  Geniki Bank
SA . The French lender said June 15 that it plans a capital
increase of 340 million euros at Athens-based Geniki by the end
of this year, as the division’s performance worsened because of
the country’s economic crisis. The unit has been unprofitable
each year since 2003 and yesterday said it had a net loss of
about 90 million euros in the third quarter.  A Paris criminal court last month sentenced former Societe
Generale trader  Jerome Kerviel , 33, to three years in prison and
it ordered him to repay Societe Generale’s 4.9 billion-euro
loss. Judge Dominique Pauthe said Oct. 5 Kerviel’s crimes
threatened the bank’s existence, holding the former trader
solely responsible for the loss announced by the bank in 2008.
Kerviel will remain free pending appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 