-- Solar Energy Investors Claim Czech Government Exaggerates Impact on Prices
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2010-11-03T07:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/solar-energy-investors-claim-czech-government-exaggerates-impact-on-prices.html
The Czech government is exaggerating
how much solar energy subsidies will inflate power prices,
according to a study for industry developers that criticizes a
new law limiting support.  The law, approved by parliament on Oct. 29, aims to cap
electricity price increases and quell criticism that five-year-
old legislation awarded too-generous incentives to investors in
solar energy. The state energy regulator estimated 2011 power
prices may jump 12 percent if no measures are taken. A pro-
industry study by Prague-based law firm Glatzova & Co. said
prices probably wouldn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  “The proposed legislation will send a clear signal to
investors that the Czech Republic does not have a stable
investment environment,” Glatzova attorney Jakub Hajek said in
the study. “A drastic suppression of solar energy projects will
jeopardize our obligations toward the European Union.”  The incentives spurred a jump from 4.7 megawatts in 2007 to
as much as 1,340 megawatts by September this year, according to
data from the  Czech energy regulator , making the Czech Republic
one of the most attractive in Europe for investors along with
Germany, Spain and Italy. Germany has gone from 1,107 megawatts
to 10,000 megawatts during the period, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance estimates.  The new law, once approved by the Czech Senate, will scrap
state support for so-called off-grid solar plants as of Jan. 1
and all others built on private land as of March 1.  The energy regulator’s estimate of 1,650 megawatts of
installed solar capacity by year-end is “unrealistic” and
based on questionable calculations, according to the study by
Glatzova & Co., which represents 20 renewable industry companies
with a combined capacity of 80 megawatts.  Retroactive Tax  In addition to the law, the Cabinet is planning to slap a
32 percent tax on carbon credits awarded to energy companies in
exchange for adopting more environment-friendly technologies in
2011 and 1012. The measures need to be debated in parliament.  The government is also pushing for a 26 percent retroactive
tax on solar energy producers and further fees for power plants
built on agricultural land.  A retroactive tax will provoke a backlash from investors
who have poured money into solar power plants in the past few
years, said  Georg Hotar , co-owner and chief financial officer of
Photon Energy AS, which develops and operates solar plants.  “Any retroactive measures are bad in principle and will
create bad faith among investors,” Hotar said in a telephone
interview. “If this happens the state will be swamped in
arbitration suits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at  jagomez@bloomberg. 