-- South African Bonds Yields at Record Low Before Federal Reserve's Meeting
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-03T15:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/south-african-bonds-gain-on-bets-fed-will-announce-more-monetary-stimulus.html
South African bond yields fell to a
record low as analysts awaited the outcome of a Federal Reserve
meeting at which policy makers are expected to announce further
monetary-easing measures to boost the world’s biggest economy.  The benchmark 13.5 percent government security due
September 2015 yielded 6.98 percent as of 5:41 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the lowest since Bloomberg began tracking the bond
in November 2004. The price of the securities climbed 2 cents to
126.42 rand.  U.S. monetary policy makers are likely to keep interest
rates near zero and announce more purchases of at least $500
billion of government securities, a process known as
quantitative easing, intended to stimulate the economy,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The Federal Open
Market Committee concludes its two-day meeting later today.  “All eyes are on the Fed announcement -- all the signals
point to a second round of quantitative easing, the only
question that remains is the size of the program,”  Gina Schoeman , an economist at Barclays Plc-owned Absa Capital in
Johannesburg, said in a telephone interview. “That will keep
money flowing to emerging markets and we’ll probably see the
rand move slightly stronger.”  The rand has rallied 36 percent against the dollar since
the start of 2009 as foreign purchases of South African bonds
reached a net 72.6 billion rand ($10.5 billion) as nation’s  6
percent  benchmark rate lured investors seeking higher yields.
Deposit returns as low as 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25 percent
in the U.S. have made South African assets popular purchases for
so-called carry trades, which involve borrowing money in
countries with low interest rates to invest in markets offering
higher returns.  ‘Financial Event of the Year’  The outcome of the Fed meeting today “is the main
financial event of the year” and “will ultimately be key in
determining where the rand goes,”  John Cairns , head of foreign-
exchange research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote
in a client note today. “Caution is likely in front of the
event.”  The rand weakened 0.5 percent to 6.9176 per dollar, from a
close of 6.8853 yesterday, the first decline in three days.
Against the euro, the rand lost 0.3 percent to 9.6954.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  