-- Standard Life’s Sales Rise on Pensions, Mutual Funds
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-11-03T16:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/standard-life-s-sales-rise-on-pensions-mutual-funds-update1-.html
Standard Life Plc , Scotland’s biggest
insurer, said nine-month sales rose 34 percent on higher demand
for mutual funds and corporate pensions in the U.K.  Revenue from long-term savings products climbed to 14
billion pounds ($22 billion) in the nine months to Sept. 30,
from 10.5 billion pounds in the year-earlier period, the insurer
said in a statement today. That beat the 13.6 billion-pound
estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by the company.  Standard Life’s “third-quarter new business figures have
outperformed overall,” said  Trevor Moss , a London-based analyst
at Berenberg Bank with a “hold” recommendation on the stock.
“People’s expectations from early this year have been pushed up
quite strongly in terms of what they’re delivering on net flows.
They continue to match expectations, so that’s a good thing.”  Standard Life has risen by a third in London trading since
July 1, as a rebound in investment markets helped boost
reserves, allowing the insurer to invest more in winning new
customers. Like U.K. rival  Aviva Plc , Standard Life is cutting
costs and reducing personnel as it seeks to manage more personal
pension assets rather than selling traditional products such as
investment bonds and life insurance.  The stock  dropped  1.8 pence, or 0.8 percent, to 227.2 pence
at today’s close in London, valuing the firm at about 5.1
billion pounds.  ‘Markets Are Stronger’  Long-term savings sales in the U.K. climbed 38 percent to
10 billion pounds in the three-month period. Pension sales to
companies increased 60 percent to 5.3 billion pounds. Mutual
fund sales rose 58 percent to 1.3 billion pounds. Assets under
management gained 13 percent to 192.4 billion pounds in the
third quarter, Standard Life said.  “We don’t believe there’s a great likelihood of a double
dip recession,” Chief Financial Officer  Jackie Hunt  said on a
call with reporters. “We think that markets are stronger than
they were certainly over the last 18 months, but we do think
it’s going to be a slow recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 