-- Statoil Falls Most Since May After Cutting Oil, Gas Output Target for 2010
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-11-03T16:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/statoil-third-quarter-net-income-rises-to-2-36-billion-beating-estimates.html
Statoil ASA , Norway’s largest oil and
natural gas company, fell the most since May in Oslo trading
after cutting its full-year production target because of halts
at fields and missing analysts’ estimates for adjusted profit.  The output guidance for this year was cut to 1.9 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day, from 1.925 million to 1.975
million a day, the Stavanger-based company said today. Adjusted
 net income  fell 8 percent to 8.5 billion kroner ($1.4 billion),
missing the 9.2 billion-krone estimate in a survey of analysts.  “The big disappointment was E&P Norway, due to weak
volumes, mainly gas, which were heavily impacted by maintenance
programs on fields and also transportation systems,” said  Jason Kenney , head of oil and gas research at ING Commercial Banking.  The shares  fell  7 kroner, or 5.4 percent, to 122.4 kroner
as of 5:30 p.m. in Oslo, the biggest drop since May 20.  Statoil’s output dropped to 1.522 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day from 1.874 million barrels a year earlier
because of maintenance at fields. Analysts estimated an average
of 1.651 million a day, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “Extensive planned maintenance activities throughout the
third quarter have affected both our oil and gas production
significantly,” Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund  said in the
statement. “Our financial performance and cash generation
remains solid, reaffirming our financial flexibility to support
a continued development of our portfolio.”  Net Rises  Statoil’s net income rose to 13.8 billion kroner from 7.4
billion kroner a year earlier, helped by rising fuel price and
lower taxes, the Stavanger-based company said. That beat
analysts’  estimates  of 9.3 billion kroner. The company’s liquids
price was up 14 percent and its gas price rose 8 percent.  Demand for fuel rose in the quarter as global economic
growth recovered, pushing benchmark oil futures up on average 12
percent from a year earlier and natural-gas prices 23 percent.
Statoil competitors such as Total SA reported a 32 percent gain
in profit in the period, while Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s
largest company, posted the biggest profit gain in six years.  “The results are weaker than expected, it seems all the
major items are weaker -- adjusted EBIT’s weaker, production’s
weaker so the guiding was reduced slightly,” said Irmantas
Vaskela, an analyst at Terra Markets ASA with a “buy” rating.
“Also realized gas prices were slightly weaker than expected.”  Ormen Lange  Norway, the world’s second-biggest gas exporter, said
production of that fuel plunged 19 percent in August from a year
earlier because of maintenance, while oil output fell 14
percent, according to the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate.  Statoil, which has operating rights on about 80 percent of
Norway’s production, had halts at fields including Gullfaks C,
Tordis, Vale and Heidrun in the second half of the year.  “Recently, we have decided to temporarily reduce the
current production on two North Sea fields -- Gullfaks South and
Kvitebjoerrn, securing sufficient reservoir pressure in order to
drill additional wells in a safe manner, and thereby creating
both more volumes and values from these fields,” Statoil said
in today’s statement. There was lower output at the Ormen Lange
field in the quarter because of “permit restrictions,”  the
company also said.  The company in February also cut its output target for 2012
to between 2.1 million to 2.2 million barrels of oil equivalent
a day, from 2.2 million a day because of weak gas market.  Statoil’s average oil prices rose 13 percent in the period
to $73.9 a barrel, boosting its sales 2.8 percent higher to 126
billion kroner. The company realized gas prices climbed to 1.74
kroner a standard cubic meter from 1.61 kroner a year earlier.  The company is seeking to maintain domestic output and is
expanding in countries such as Canada, Brazil and the U.S. as
Norwegian reserves dwindle. Norway’s output is forecast to
decline for a 10th year in 2010, according to the Norwegian
Petroleum Directorate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  