-- Statoil CEO Says May Target Acquisitions Offshore Ghana to Increase Output
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-11-03T11:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/statoil-ceo-says-may-target-acquisitions-offshore-ghana-to-increase-output.html
Statoil ASA , Norway’s largest oil and
natural gas company, may target offshore Ghana as it seeks to
expand its production abroad to counter dwindling crude output
from the North Sea, its chief executive officer said.  Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore oil producer, and
Ghana National Petroleum Corp. made a $5 billion bid for Kosmos
Energy LLC’s assets in the West African country, including a
stake in the Jubilee field, three people with knowledge of the
matter said. Statoil was said to have held preliminary talks on
joining the bid, which  Helge Lund , the Norwegian company’s
chief, today declined to comment on.  “I can say that that type of area is interesting,” Lund
said in an interview in Oslo. “We’ve defined deepwater and
offshore as one of our main focus areas so we’re constantly
looking for good opportunities in that area.”  Ghana, set to become Africa’s newest oil exporter at the
end of the year, may pump as much as 240,000 barrels from its
offshore Jubilee field by 2014-15, according to Ghana National.
Statoil is expanding abroad as crude output in the Scandinavian
nation falls for a 10th year. Angola was the biggest contributor
to Statoil’s production outside Norway in 2009 and the company
has said it seeks to become an operator of fields there.  Kosmos Energy doesn’t want to exit Ghana, Gabriel Osatey,
chief geophysicist at state-owned Ghana National told reporters
in New Delhi on Nov. 1.  ‘Attractive Partner’  The company wants to expand its portfolio in shale gas and
is seeking opportunities in China. The world’s fastest growing
major economy holds about 30 trillion cubic meters of shale gas
resources, China National Petroleum Corp. said in its online
newsletter Aug. 23.  “The way we can get access there and in other areas is by
acquiring understanding, technology and expertise that makes us
an attractive partner,” Lund said. “Then it’s up to the
Chinese companies to assess whether there is room for a player
such as Statoil.”  Relations between Norway and China have deteriorated since
the independent Norwegian Nobel Committee awarded the peace
prize to activist Liu Xiaobo on Oct. 8. Statoil is looking to
enter partnerships with Chinese companies to explore for oil and
gas in China and in May agreed to sell 40 percent of its
Brazilian Peregrino field for $3.07 billion to Sinochem Group.  Lund declined to comment on whether the prize was affecting
its relationships in China, saying the company works
“industrially with Chinese companies.”  Statoil has also raised $2 billion by selling bonds in
August and sold 138 million shares in Statoil Fuel & retail ASA
at 39 kroner a share, giving it “financial flexibility,” Lund
said today.  More Shale  Statoil has added to U.S. shale gas assets this year
initially bought from Chesapeake Energy Corp. in 2008. Last
month it also agreed with Talisman Energy Inc. to pay $1.33
billion for oil and shale properties in the Eagle Ford formation
in South Texas. Lund said Statoil was still seeking to add to
its U.S. shale holdings.  “Our main focus right now is on the two positions we have,
but of course with the know-how we’re gradually getting we also
look at resources that are at an earlier stage of development so
that we can get as early as possible into the areas we think are
exciting,” he said.  To extract gas from shale, companies inject water, sand and
chemicals underground to break up rock and release the fuel.  Statoil may also buy more assets offshore Brazil, where it
is scheduled to start production from Peregrino in the first
quarter and raise output to about 100,000 barrels a day in 2012.  “We’re of course interested in developing that business
further,” said Lund. He declined to comment on whether it would
bid for assets from OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA.  OGX, the company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista ,
said last month it is in talks with several bidders in a sale of
blocks in Brazil. OGX made discoveries in the offshore Campos
Basin, where the company is seeking a partner to buy as much as
a 30 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  