-- German Stocks Decline; BMW, Deutsche Boerse Fall as HeidelbergCement Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-03T17:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/stocks-gain-0-1-in-germany-at-opening-allianz-basf-bayer-shares-rise.html
German stocks  dropped for the first
day in five as investors awaited the outcome of the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s two-day meeting which concludes today.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG slid 1.4 percent, even as the
carmaker raised its earnings forecast. Volkswagen AG gained 0.9
percent as Societe Generale SA increased its price estimate for
Europe’s largest carmaker. HeidelbergCement AG climbed 2.9
percent.  The  DAX Index  lost 0.6 percent to 6,617.8 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt, having risen 12 percent since the beginning
of September. The gauge yesterday jumped to its highest level
since June 2008 as investors speculated that the Fed will
announce another round of asset purchases, a tactic known as
quantitative easing. The broader  HDAX Index  slipped 0.5 percent
today.  “Despite an overall positive feel to the markets, traders
are reluctant to commit funds until the Fed’s decision is out of
the way,” said London-based  Manoj Ladwa , a senior trader at ETX
Capital.  U.S. policy makers will restart a program of securities
purchases to spur growth, reduce unemployment and increase
inflation, according to 53 of 56 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News last week. Twenty-nine estimated that the Fed
will pledge to buy $500 billion or more.  BMW Retreats  BMW  slid 1.4 percent to 51.64 euros even after the world’s
largest luxury-car maker raised its full-year automotive
operating profit to more than 7 percent of sales this year from
a forecast in August of a 5 percent margin.  “The guidance is low,” said  Adam Hull , a London-based
analyst with WestLB AG, who has a “reduce” rating on the
shares. “They should be able to do better.”  The automaker maintained its target for 2010 deliveries at
more than 1.4 million vehicles, an increase of 10 percent
compared with last year’s 1.29 million cars. German rival
Daimler AG raised its 2010 profit target 17 percent on Oct. 28
as demand increased for its top-of-the-line Mercedes-Benz E- and
S-Class cars.  Volkswagen  increased 0.9 percent to 106.75 euros after
Societe Generale raised its price estimate for the shares to 136
euros from 100 euros. On Oct. 22, the carmaker reported that its
nine-month profit jumped more than sixfold to 4 billion euros
($5.6 billion).  “The nine-month results demand nothing less than a
complete recalibration of expectations about the group’s
earnings power and consequently fair value price targets,”
wrote analyst  Stephen Reitman  in a report to clients today.  Porsche Climbs  Porsche SE  jumped 1.7 percent to 37.66 euros after a judge
said in a preliminary assessment that the maker of the 911
sports car is likely to win an appeals case about a meeting of
its shareholders in January 2009.  Minority investors in Porsche had asked the Stuttgart
Higher Regional Court to strike down votes over directors’
approval of an “unconscionably” high salary for Chief
Executive Officer  Wendelin Wiedeking  and other officials.  HeidelbergCement  advanced 2.9 percent to 37.60 euros,
following a rally by U.S. rival Cemex SAB de CV, the largest
cement maker in the Americas, which yesterday jumped 5.8 percent
in New York.  Pfeiffer Vacuum Technology AG soared 10 percent to 76
euros. The company said it plans to acquire Alcatel-Lucent SA’s
vacuum technology unit, based in France. The two companies have
“largely finalized” negotiations on the purchase, patents and
licenses, Pfeiffer said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 