-- Subprime ‘Devils’ Made O’Neal, Greenberg Wreck Economy: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-11-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/subprime-devils-made-o-neal-greenberg-rubin-wreck-u-s-economy-books.html
As Wall Street bonuses bulged and
housing prices were peaking in 2005,  Daniel Mudd  found himself
dreading his top job at Fannie Mae.  Going to work felt like “a choice between poking my eye
out and cutting off a finger,”  Fannie ’s former chief executive
officer recalls in a new account of the subprime meltdown, “All
the Devils Are Here.”  The nation’s largest provider of mortgage financing was
under assault, as authors  Bethany McLean  and  Joe Nocera  show:
Subprime mortgage originators had eroded Fannie’s lock on the
secondary mortgage market, investors were on edge, and the Bush
administration was pushing it to guarantee yet more loans for
low- and middle-income Americans.  So Fannie waded into the subprime market, helped inflate
the  housing bubble  and ultimately landed what has been called
“the mother of all bailouts.” The truly sad thing is that none
of this really helped low-income Americans to buy homes, McLean
and Nocera say.  “What was the point of it all?” they ask, citing evidence
that only some 9 percent of all subprime lending between 1998
and 2006 went to first-time home buyers. “The rest were
refinancings or second home purchases,” and foreclosures soon
wiped out ownership gains made during the bubble.  So much for  George W. Bush ’s “Ownership Society.”  With the U.S. unemployment rate stuck at  above 9.5 percent ,
many angry Americans used yesterday’s midterm elections to send
 Barack Obama  a resounding message: “No, you can’t.” Yet anyone
determined to blame Obama for the economic morass will find
relatively little ammunition in these pages.  Volatile Admixture  What emerges instead is a detailed and scrupulously
balanced account of how the Great Recession bubbled up from
decades of government housing goals, financial engineering,
craven lawmakers, ignorant homebuyers, sleazy subprime lenders
and arrogant Wall Street executives.  The result was a volatile, and bipartisan, admixture of
federal meddling and laissez-faire that built up during the
Clinton administration and boiled over on Bush’s watch. After
reading this book, I worry that the backlash against Obama,
however understandable, may mean that those most hurt in the
meltdown have voted to get whipped some more.  McLean, who writes for  Vanity Fair , and Nocera, a New York
Times columnist, have arrived late for the subprime party.
Though they give us some fresh glimpses of  Stan O’Neal’s  belated
discovery of Merrill Lynch & Co.’s potential losses -- the CEO
“looked like he was going to throw up” -- much of the material
here is familiar from previous works, including  Gillian Tett ’s
“Fool’s Gold” and  Andrew Ross Sorkin ’s “Too Big to Fail.”  Blinded Narcissists  Yet the authors succeed in pulling the jumbled pieces of
the financial crisis together and showing how it flowed from
human foibles ranging from  Hank Greenberg ’s autocratic rule at
 American International Group Inc . to O’Neal’s suspicions of
everyone around him.  Take  Alan Greenspan ,  Robert Rubin  and  Lawrence Summers .
When presented the chance to regulate derivatives in the Clinton
years, the men whom Time magazine dubbed “The Committee to Save
the World” balked. Why?  “Greenspan was blinded, as ever, by ideology,” they
write. “Summers was blinded by his deep-seated need to be
viewed as a brilliant man.”  “As for Rubin, he was blinded by pride,” even though
derivatives made him nervous. That’s partly because the woman
who fought hardest to regulate the instruments,  Brooksley Born 
of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, wasn’t deferential
enough to the Treasury secretary, they write.  Human ‘Devils’  The “devils” in the title notwithstanding, one of this
book’s strengths is to put a human face on institutions that
have been demonized -- even as it raises questions about their
dealings. The authors are particularly good at dissecting how
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc . marketed the infamous Abacus 2007-AC1
collateralized debt obligations.  Goldman agreed to pay $550 million to settle U.S.
regulatory claims that it misled investors in the transaction.
Yet none of the parties come out well in this book -- not the
German lender that loaded up on CDOs; not the analyst who
oversaw the rating; not the “independent” agent that was
supposed to choose the portfolio of mortgage-related investments
underlying the deal; and not Paulson & Co., the hedge fund that
helped make that selection and bet against the vehicles.  U.S. presidents have been promoting homeownership as a way
to strengthen families and communities ever since  Herbert Hoover 
campaigned for “Better Homes in America.” Though subprime
lending was supposed to support that American Dream, McLean and
Nocera argue that it did nothing for low-income homeowners.  “By the second quarter of 2010, the  homeownership rate  had
fallen to 66.9 percent, right where it had been before the
housing bubble,” they write. Then came the cascading
 foreclosures .  “Subprime lending was a net drain on homeownership. A lot
of needless pain was created in the process.”  “All the Devils Are Here: The Hidden History of the
Financial Crisis” is from  Portfolio/Penguin  (380 pages,
$32.95). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 James Pressley  in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 