-- India May Ship Less Sugar Than Predicted, Group Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-11-03T10:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/sugar-sales-from-india-may-miss-forecast-as-bulk-consumers-build-stockpile.html
  India , the largest sugar user, may
export less than forecast and shipments should be spread out to
prevent global prices from slumping, a millers’ group said.  The surplus available for sales overseas may be 2 million
metric tons in the year started Oct. 1, compared with the 2.5
million tons forecast in September, as industrial users rebuild
stockpiles after two years of imports, according to the  National
Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd.   “We’re not that much glutted with production,” Jayantilal
Patel, president of the group, said in a phone interview today.
“Exports should be allowed in stages, may be half-a-million
tons at a time, to ensure global prices don’t collapse and we
get the full benefit of high prices.”  Raw sugar reached a 29-year high yesterday as dry weather
crimps output in  Brazil , the top producer, and on speculation
that India may cap exports to boost domestic supplies. Futures
yesterday reached the highest level for a most-active contract
since Jan. 15, 1981.  Sugar has more than doubled since touching a 13-month low
on May 7 on concern that adverse weather will reduce output in
Brazil,  Russia ,  China  and  Pakistan . Supplies are “extremely
tight” and bad weather in producing countries makes a global
surplus unlikely, Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd. said Oct. 6.  Futures for March delivery rose as much as 1.4 percent to
30.53 cents a pound in after-hours trading on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York . White sugar climbed to $756.60 a ton in  London , the
highest price for a most-active contract since Jan. 26.  ‘Crop Deficit’  “Global prices will remain firm until February 2011 as no
major supplies will be available in the market,” Sanjay Manyal
and Parineeta Poddar, analysts at ICICI Securities Ltd. said in
a note today. “The crop deficit in  Europe  and Pakistan is also
increasing import demand from these countries.”  India was the largest buyer last year as adverse weather
damaged crops. Its reserves are at about 4 million tons, less
than the nation’s preferred level of 10 million tons, according
to Rabobank International.  The country may consider allowing exports in the second
week of this month, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said last week.
Shipments may start next month and the government is likely to
hasten applications from mills for about 500,000 tons, Economic
Times reported today, citing an official it didn’t identify.  Production will reach 25.5 million tons and demand may be
around 23 million tons in the year ending Sept. 30, National
Federation’s Patel said. Processing of cane in Maharashtra, the
biggest producer, and Gujarat has been delayed by rain, he said,
adding excess rain is lowering the sugar-recovery rate.  India may not export more than 1 million tons this crop
year as production may be lower than 25 million tons as floods
damaged crops in  Uttar Pradesh , the country’s biggest cane-
growing state, ICICI Securities said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  