-- Swiss Stocks Drop on Concern European Economies Will Struggle
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-11-03T17:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/swiss-stocks-gain-ahead-of-fed-announcement-clariant-actelion-advance.html
Swiss stocks dropped as concern re-
emerged that some European governments will struggle to rein in
their nations’ debt. UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG,
Switzerland’s largest banks, paced the retreat.  Clariant  AG, the world’s biggest maker of printing-ink
chemicals, gained 3.5 percent after reporting higher sales.  The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies dropped 0.4 percent to 6,512.99 at the 5:31
p.m. close in Zurich. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  lost
0.4 percent to 5,791.91.  While the U.S. Federal Reserve today may introduce a second
round of monetary easing to stimulate growth, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the euro’s stability depends on
making investors pay for future debt crises. The cost of
insuring Irish sovereign debt surged to a record and Greek and
Portuguese bonds tumbled.  “There are concerns again,” said  Luis Benguerel , a trader
at Interbrokers Espanola de Valores in Barcelona. “The bond
market is telling you some problems in Europe’s economies are
far from over. While the Fed will go out full mode to help the
economy, Europe is not reacting.”  The SMI dropped as much as 9 percent between April and July
on concern countries including Greece and Ireland will find it
hard to cut their budget deficits while austerity measures will
hurt economic growth in Europe.  Federal Reserve  The Fed will probably introduce a second round of
unconventional monetary easing today by announcing a plan to buy
at least $500 billion of long-term securities, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Speculation the central
bank will pledge more money to protect an economic rebound has
helped stocks worldwide and lifted the  SMI  by 9.6 percent since
July 5.  “First, they would like to ratify and extend the rally in
financial conditions,”  Michael Hanson , New York-based economist
at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, wrote in a report today.
“Second, Fed officials want to stabilize inflation closer to
their implicit 2 percent inflation objective. Both of these
policy goals suggest that the Fed will need to purchase enough
assets to get a positive market reaction, and to provide some
forward guidance about policy to continue the rally.”  Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG, Switzerland’s two
largest banks, dropped 1.2 percent to 40.75 francs and 0.9
percent to 16.69 francs, respectively.  Clariant Sales       Clariant  rose 3.5 percent to 17.25 francs. The Swiss
supplier of detergent ingredients, color concentrates and
pigments said third-quarter sales jumped 8 percent in local
currencies and increased 14 percent over the year’s first nine
months. Clariant said it expects “high single digit” sales
growth in local currencies for the full year.  Third-quarter earnings increased 70 percent to 182 million
francs ($185 million), beating a 177 million-franc estimate from
Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst  Andrew Stott .
      Cie. Financiere Richemont SA , Switzerland’s largest jewelry
maker, gained 2.6 percent to 51.45 francs, a fifth gain. The
shares were raised to “outperform” from “underperform” at CA
Cheuvreux.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 