-- U.A.E. PMI Index Rises to 15-Month High as Economy Recovers From Slump
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-11-03T08:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-a-e-pmi-index-rises-to-15-month-high-as-economy-recovers-from-slump.html
The United Arab Emirates’ Purchasing
Managers’ Index rose to the highest level in its 15-month
history, as the economy recovers from last year’s slowdown.  The index, compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and  Markit
Economics , rose to 53.8 in October from 52.6 in September,
according to an e-mailed report. A reading above 50 signals that
companies expect output to increase.  Production growth at U.A.E. non-government companies picked
up for a ninth straight month in October. The rise reflects a
pickup in demand as well as a more pronounced depletion of
backlogs, according to the report.  “The UAE has shifted into recovery mode,” said  Simon Williams , chief economist for the Middle East and North Africa
at HSBC. The increase in new orders offers “strong grounds to
expect the steady gains in output and labor demand to persist.”  Dubai’s ruler,  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid  Al Maktoum, said
on Sept. 27 that the emirate is recovering after state-
controlled holding company Dubai World reached a debt-
restructuring settlement with creditors.  Dubai World, one of three main holding companies controlled
by Sheikh Mohammed, said Sept. 10 that 99 percent of creditors
had agreed to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt after the
deepest global financial crisis since the 1930s led to a 50
percent drop in property prices in the emirate.  HSBC and Markit publish purchasing indexes for the U.A.E.
and Saudi Arabia. The indexes, which are seasonally adjusted,
are based on data compiled from monthly replies to
questionnaires sent to executives in 400 companies in each
country.  In Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s biggest economy, the
purchasing managers’ index rose to 59.9 in October, from 58.4 in
September, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  