-- U.K. October Shop Prices Increase Most Since January, BRC Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-k-october-shop-prices-rise-most-since-january-on-commodities-brc-says.html
U.K. shop prices increased the most
since January last month as the higher cost of commodities such
as wheat and meat products forced retailers to raise prices, the
British Retail Consortium said.  Prices of goods in stores rose 2.2 percent last month from
a year earlier, compared with a 1.9 percent gain in September,
the BRC said in an e-mailed statement. On the month, prices
climbed 0.3 percent. Food prices rose an annual 4.4 percent, the
most since June 2009.  “Shop prices are rising but retailers are shielding
customers from the full impact of the increasing commodity costs
that are causing that inflation,”  Stephen Robertson , director
general of the BRC, said in the statement. “Wheat is up 47
percent compared with a year ago, affecting the price of staples
such as bread -- and some meat products, as feed costs work
their way up the supply.”  The  Bank of England  is this week forecast to keep interest
rates and the emergency bond-purchase program unchanged as
policy makers mull whether to focus on inflation or growth.
While the deepest government spending cuts since World War II
are threatening the U.K. recovery, the economy still grew twice
as much as forecast in the third quarter. Inflation has exceeded
the government’s upper 3 percent limit for seven months.  Non-food prices rose an annual 1.1 percent, compared with
0.7 percent in September, the retailers group said.  “Weak  consumer confidence  and a sluggish housing market
mean retailers are competing even more fiercely for the limited
discretionary spending available,” Robertson said. “That
situation is unlikely to change in the run up to Christmas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  