-- U.K.'s Planned Migration Cap Won't Affect 80% of Applicants, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-11-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-k-s-planned-migration-cap-won-t-affect-80-of-applicants-lawmakers-say.html
The U.K.’s planned immigration cap,
designed to cut the number of incomers by tens of thousands,
won’t affect more than 80 percent of applicants, a panel of
lawmakers said.  Even if visas were refused to all non-European nationals
taking up job offers or seeking work, the total number of
immigrants entering Britain would be reduced by less than 20
percent, the cross-party  Home Affairs Committee  said today.  The report comes as ministers decide at what level to set
an annual cap on immigration from outside the European Union
next year. The issue has been one of the most publicly debated
within the Conservative-led coalition government. Business
Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat, has repeatedly said
the limit will make it harder for companies to attract talent.  “The committee is concerned that the proposed cap not only
will make little difference to immigration overall, it may also
damage the U.K.’s knowledge economy,” said Chairman  Keith Vaz , an opposition Labour Party lawmaker.  Prime Minister David Cameron has said he wants migration to
be in the “tens of thousands, rather than the hundreds of
thousands,” as was the case when the Conservatives last held
power in the 1990s. That was before eastern European nations
joined the EU, giving their citizens the freedom to live and
work in the U.K.  Net immigration reached 233,000 in 2007, compared with
48,000 a decade earlier, Office for National Statistics data
show. It fell to 163,000 in 2008, the latest year for which
figures are available, as the recession destroyed jobs.  ‘Open for Business’  A temporary cap, which targets a 5 percent reduction in
immigration from the previous year by restricting the number of
non-EU citizens coming to Britain, is currently in force.  “Britain will remain open for business and we will
continue to attract and retain the brightest and the best people
who can make a real difference to our economic growth,”
Immigration Minister  Damian Green  said in a statement. “Too
many people coming here as highly skilled workers are taking
low-skilled jobs, and we will need to deal with this.”  The Home Affairs Committee said it is also worried the cap
“has been rushed through with insufficient attention as to how
it will work.” It cited the fact that the independent Migration
Advisory Committee has been asked to propose a numerical limit
before the government has determined which groups will be
included and how limits will be applied to different sectors of
the economy.  The committee examined the intra-company transfer route, by
which some workers enter the U.K.  “There is significant pressure from some businesses not to
cap the route,” the committee said. “However, to make any
significant reduction” in immigration “a cap would have to
include intra-company transfers, which in 2009 accounted for 60
percent of all  Tier 2 visas .” A tier 2 visa applies to a
skilled worker.  The committee recommended “that intra-company transfers
under two years’ duration should be excluded from the cap.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 