-- U.S. Treasury to Sell $72 Billion in Long-Term Debt
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-11-05T11:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-s-treasury-to-sell-72-billion-in-long-term-debt-update1-.html
(Corrects spelling of company name Jefferies in fourth
paragraph of story published Nov. 3.)  The U.S. Treasury Department plans to
sell $72 billion in its quarterly sales of long-term debt next
week, as lower projected budget deficits have allowed the
government to reduce borrowing.  The Treasury said it will auction $32 billion in three-year
notes on Nov. 8, $24 billion in 10-year notes Nov. 9 and $16
bilion in 30-year bonds Nov. 10. The total amount was in line
with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of bond
dealers and signals a pause in the Treasury’s auction cutbacks
until the fiscal and economic outlook becomes clearer.  The Treasury also said it will add more frequent auctions
of Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, also known as TIPS,
to improve liquidity in the market. The extra auctions are for
five-year and 30-year TIPS and will be second reopenings of
those securities.  “Given the uncertainty about tax policy in 2011 and fiscal
policy after the elections, Treasury is well positioned to deal
with any surprises that may come its way,” said  Ward McCarthy ,
chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc.  The Treasury has been scaling back auction sizes, after
expanding debt sales to finance annual budget deficits exceeding
$1 trillion for the past two years. Bond dealers predict
deficits of $1.214 trillion in fiscal 2011, $1.023 trillion in
2012 and $906 billion in 2013, according to a survey provided to
the Treasury before this week’s announcements.  “Based on current fiscal forecasts, coupon auction sizes
are likely to remain steady over the coming quarter,” said  Mary Miller , the Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial
markets. Looking ahead, Treasury officials are considering
further reductions in 2011, according to the minutes of the
department’s meeting with its borrowing advisory committee.  Debt Managers  Federal Reserve purchases of Treasury securities, which may
be announced later today, could pose a dilemma for debt
managers, advisory panel members told the committee, according
to the minutes. The members said the Fed’s behavior was
“probably transitory” and that Treasury shouldn’t change its
issuance patterns to accommodate the Fed as a single large
investor.  “The question arose whether the Fed and the Treasury were
working at cross-purposes,” the minutes said. One member said
that “from an economic perspective, the Fed’s purchase of
longer-dated coupons via increasing reserves was economically
equivalent to Treasury reducing longer-dated coupons and issuing
more bills.”  In a presentation to the Treasury, one of the committee
members said that Fed easing “would force Treasury yields lower
and would likely lead the curve to flatten in the five- to 10-
year sector” over the next one to two years. The presenter said
30-year interest rates would likely command a higher risk
premium because of concerns about inflation and the value of the
U.S. dollar.  Fed Easing  A Fed easing campaign could affect liquidity in the
Treasury market, pushing investors out of medium-term securities
and into bills, 30-year Treasuries or riskier assets. A
presenting member of the advisory panel “suggested that
Treasury could address potential illiquidity issues through
additional issuance” in affected sectors of the market.  At a press conference today, Miller said the Treasury isn’t
currently considering such additional issuance. She reiterated
the Treasury’s independence from the Federal Reserve and also
said any changes to the borrowing strategy in response to market
conditions would be “quite gradual.”  The Fed also could hurt markets when it is ready to sell
Treasury securities in its portfolio, the advisory committee
presenter said. This risk could be mitigated if the Fed sold its
holdings “gradually and predictably.”  Banks and other financial firms will probably increase
their holdings of Treasury securities as the so-called Basel III
bank capital rules take effect, the minutes said. The panel
cited one forecast that estimated by 2015, the new rules would
lead to $400 billion in new Treasury security purchases by
commercial banks.  Bill Market  Treasury officials told the panel they are watching the
bill market for signs of strain, since bills now make up a
smaller than usual percentage of the Treasury market. To help
manage short-term borrowing needs, the Treasury said it may
issue cash-management bills in the current quarter.  Miller said the Treasury is considering the effects of very
low interest rates on its auctions. She said it is “probably
best to have a minimum coupon on a security,” even if yields
drop below zero as they did in last week’s five-year TIPS
auction.  The economy is growing slower than its potential, which has
limited growth in tax receipts, Treasury officials said in the
advisory committee minutes. The committee’s report to the
department said “growth in economic activity appears to have
stabilized, and risks of a sharper slowing look to have
diminished.”  Next week’s auctions of bonds and notes will raise $58.2
billion in new cash, with the rest of the proceeds going to pay
off maturing debt, the Treasury said.  Notes, Bonds  The current quarter’s total long-term debt sales declined
from the $74 billion in notes and bonds sold at the previous
refunding in August.  Earlier this week, the Treasury lowered its estimate for
government borrowing from October through December as it
continues to adjust its financing needs amid economic recovery.  Borrowing  will total a net $362 billion in the current
quarter, compared with an estimate three months ago of $380
billion, the department said. The Treasury also projected
borrowing of $431 billion in the three months to March 31.  Auctions of long-term debt were projected to be smaller
than the total of $74 billion sold in August, when the Treasury
sold $34 billion in three-year notes, $24 billion in 10-year
notes and $16 billion in 30-year bonds. The median forecast of
15 analysts surveyed predicted a $3 billion cut in three-year
note sales, with the other two auction sizes unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 