-- U.S. Voters Grab Beers, Pop Emergency Chute: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-11-03T07:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-s-voters-grab-beer-pop-emergency-chute-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
The message is loud and clear, if not
cogent or consistent. The Category 4 hurricane hit as predicted
on Election Day and never let up. It’s hard to remember when so
many politicians have been blown away at once.  Few of the losers could have been surprised. No members of
Congress seeking re-election had publicly put their houses on
the market, although a few real-estate agents told me they
fielded calls.  The storm proved the anti-incumbent, anti-establishment
fervor was real, deep and lasting. It ended up benefiting
Republicans not because they offered any great promise or
confidence-inspiring record, but simply because they are the
party out of power. The closest thing to a primal scream this
year was casting votes against Democrats.  American voters became Steven Slater, the JetBlue flight
attendant.  Slater, you’ll recall, became insta-famous when he cursed
out a passenger over the intercom system at the end of a flight,
popped the emergency chute, grabbed some beers from the galley
and slid to freedom. In kissing his job goodbye, he stuck it to
The Man -- or so it must have seemed to the thousands of
Facebook users who swiftly  signed up  as “fans.”  For a few weeks there, Slater probably could have started a
career in elective politics, appealing to all those voters fed
up with the system.  Closer Look  As time went on, it became clear that Slater was at least
as much to blame as the passenger he said had set him off. By
the time he pleaded guilty to attempted criminal mischief, the
bloom was off the rose.  In that, too, Slater seemed to embody U.S. politics in
2010. The Tea Party movement succeeded in turning several
little-known local politicians into national stars, at least
until voters got a closer look.  Just as Slater faltered under examination, so did Christine O’Donnell, the not-a-witch, anti-masturbation Delaware
Republican whose primary victory hijacked her party’s great
chance at picking up Vice President  Joe Biden ’s old Senate seat.
Even  Karl Rove  had a hard time accepting her. She lost last
night, big.  Rand Paul was luckier. The newly elected senator from
 Kentucky , who last night celebrated the “Tea Party tidal
wave,” withstood the revelations about his unconventional
views, notably his odd sense that hard-won civil-rights laws in
the 1960s somehow overreached by intruding on private business’s
right to discriminate. Perhaps he can grab a seat on the Senate
Judiciary Committee, which would give him a chance to elaborate.  Strange Bedfellows  The anomaly of election 2010 is how the Tea Party, full of
voters who lost jobs in the economic collapse and are trying to
rework mortgages the bank can’t find the paperwork for, aligned
itself with the party that will add $3 trillion to the federal
debt over 10 years to keep tax cuts for the wealthy, without
specific offsetting spending cuts to speak of.  Yet the big winners in this Year of the Tea Party include
Senator-elect  Pat Toomey , Republican of  Pennsylvania , a fiscal
elitist of the first order who believes if the folks at the top
get theirs, others will get theirs eventually -- leaving out the
part that eventually we’ll all be dead.  And the biggest winner is, of all people,  John Boehner , the
Ohio Republican who will be the next speaker of the House.  Bank Bailout  Remember how Utah Senator  Robert Bennett  got cut down by
the Tea Party movement at his party’s convention last spring,
ostensibly for voting for the bank-bailout program known as
TARP? That was a milestone moment in the  Republican Party ’s
transformation into the anti-bailouts-for-banks party, even
though the bailout was approved under a Republican president,
 George W. Bush .  Yes, Bennett voted for TARP in 2008. But so did Boehner.
More than that, Boehner pleaded with his Republican colleagues
on the House floor to join him, warning the U.S. was on the
“brink of an economic disaster” and declaring it time to
“look into our souls.”  Thank goodness for the John Boehner of 2008, for outgoing
Senator Bennett, and for others who cast that difficult vote.
It’s little consolation to Democrats today, but their unpopular
actions -- including TARP and the deficit-widening economic
stimulus -- saved the  U.S. economy . Perhaps only Clarence from
“It’s a Wonderful Life” could have helped President  Barack Obama , showing voters how much worse things could have been
without him.  Capital’s Lure  In the end, Obama and Democrats weren’t able to carry out
their promised change in  Washington  quickly enough. Perhaps this
new group may actually be the ones to change the capital; if
history is a guide, the capital will change them.  Aides will whisper in their ears; their cars will purr at
the curb. To kick-start their re-election fund-raising machine
immediately, they’ll have to turn to the lobbyists of K Street,
which will serve their roast beef rare and their martinis dry.  They’ll find that cozying up to Senate Republican Leader
 Mitch McConnell  pays dividends -- good committee assignments, a
close-in parking space -- that you can’t get by hanging out with
the guy who brung them: backbench Senator  Jim DeMint .  Come to think of it, I don’t think I heard any of these
supposed outsiders promise  term limits .  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  