-- U.S. Service Economy Expanded More Than Forecast in October
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-03T20:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-s-service-economy-expands-more-than-forecast-as-ism-index-rises-to-54-3.html
Services in the U.S. expanded in
October at the fastest pace in three months, indicating the
recovery is gaining strength even as central bankers loosen
monetary policy.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of  non-
manufacturing  businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, rose to 54.3 from 53.2 in September. Readings greater
than 50 signal growth. A separate report showed factory orders
in September climbed more than forecast by economists.  A faster expansion in services combined gains in
 manufacturing  may encourage companies to increase hiring. At the
same time, growth isn’t fast enough to cut unemployment stuck
above 9 percent since the recession ended in June 2009,
explaining why Federal Reserve policy makers today announced
another round of asset purchases.  “The numbers signal continued moderate growth in the
economy,” said  Michael Moran , chief economist at Daiwa Capital
Markets America Inc. in New York, who had forecast an increase
in the services measure. “We should be doing better than this
at this stage of the recovery. Growth is not strong enough to
bring down the unemployment rate significantly.”  Treasuries and stocks rose after the Fed said it plans to
expand asset purchases by $600 billion by the end of June. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500  Index gained 0.4 percent to 1,197.96 at
the 4 p.m. close in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note, which moves inversely to price, fell to 2.58 percent from
2.59 percent late yesterday.  Fed Forecast  Policy makers, in a statement accompanying their decision,
said the central bank will buy an additional $600 billion in
Treasury securities through June. New purchases will be about
$75 billion a month and the Fed said it “will adjust the
program as needed to best foster maximum employment and price
stability.”  The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the ISM index would rise to 53.5. Estimates
ranged from 52 to 55.2.  Another report today showed U.S. companies added more jobs
than forecast in October. ADP Employer Services said employment
rose by 43,000 last month. The median projection in a Bloomberg
survey called for a gain of 20,000. September was revised to a
2,000 decrease from a previously reported 39,000 decline.  ‘Lethargic’ Job Growth  “Employment gains of this magnitude are not sufficient to
lower the unemployment rate,”  Joel Prakken , chairman of
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, which produces the figures with ADP,
said in a statement. “Given modest growth in the second and
third quarters, and the usual lag of employment behind GDP, it
would not be surprising to see several more months of lethargic
employment gains, even if the economic recovery gathers
momentum.”  Unemployment  in the U.S. was probably 9.6 percent in
October for a third month and payrolls rose by 60,000, the first
gain since May, according to median projections of economists in
Bloomberg surveys. The Labor Department is scheduled to release
its monthly jobs report on Nov. 5.  The Commerce Department said  factory orders  in September
rose 2.1 percent. The figures also signaled spending on
equipment and software, which helped the U.S. rebound from
recession, may cool less than previously estimated.  The services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care, housing, finance and
transportation. The group’s factory gauge, released Nov. 1, rose
to the highest level since May.  Index Average  The services index has averaged 51.6 since the current
recovery started in June 2009, trailing the 55.1 reading on the
group’s  factory measure  during the same period.  The ISM non-manufacturing employment gauge rose to 50.9 in
October, matching the July level that was the highest since the
recession started in December 2007. The measure of new orders
increased to a three-month high.  Speculation the Fed would pump more cash into the economy
has boosted stock prices. Through yesterday, the S&P 500 has
gained 12 percent since Aug. 27 when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank “will do all it can” to sustain
the recovery.  Economic growth in the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is
consistent with keeping the jobless rate stable, according to
Fed’s policy makers’ latest forecasts. The economy grew at a 2
percent pace in the third quarter after 1.7 percent in the prior
three months.  Republicans’ Victory  Republicans yesterday gained at least 60 seats in the House
of Representatives, capitalizing on concern about government
spending and delivering a rebuke to President Barack Obama’s
domestic agenda. Democrats retained control of the Senate.  The results will bolster Republican efforts to extend Bush-
era tax cuts for those earning more than $250,000 and to defeat
Obama’s proposals to increase taxes on companies’ overseas
profits.  Construction is among the industries that have weighed on
the ISM non-manufacturing survey as home sales are hovering near
record lows.  “Housing fundamentals remain weak as we enter the final
quarter of the year, when construction activity is normally
low,”  Daniel Fulton , chief executive officer of Weyerhaeuser
Co., said on an Oct. 29 teleconference on the wood-products
company’s third-quarter earnings. “This is a result of the lack
of job recovery, low consumer confidence, stagnant home
prices,” elevated inventory and foreclosures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  