-- U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Climb Before Fed’s QE2 Announcement
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-11-03T17:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-s-credit-default-swaps-climb-before-fed-s-bond-purchase-announcement.html
The cost of protecting bonds from
default in the U.S. climbed as investors awaited the Federal
Reserve’s plan to stimulate the American economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 0.6 basis point to a mid-
price of 93.1 as of 1:40 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated in August that he may
inject more cash into the world’s largest economy to sustain the
recovery. The Fed may pledge today to purchase $500 billion or
more in securities under a policy called quantitative easing, 29
of 56 economists in a Bloomberg survey said.  “We see general disappointment with QE, with no ‘just
right’ level - either QE too small, which the market will
interpret as the Fed not doing enough to help the economy, or QE
too big, which will indicate the economy could be in worse shape
than it may appear,”  Michael Reiner , a New York-based credit
strategist with Societe Generale, wrote in a note this morning.  The credit-default swap index, which typically falls as
investor confidence improves, declined earlier today as much as
0.6 basis point before increasing by the same amount.  A larger and more aggressive move by the Fed would be more
welcome, said  David Nowakowski , credit strategist at Roubini
Global Economics LLC in London. “It’s an anemic recovery. The
Fed needs to recognize that.”  While investors are unprepared for the Fed to back out of
its pledge, an announcement of smaller purchases than expected
or an unclear timeline would hurt markets, Nowakowski said.  ‘Most Negative’  “At this point doing nothing, while theoretically an
option, isn’t realistic,” he said. “The open-ended small
monthly purchases to be evaluated at each meeting is the most
negative.”  Republicans gained at least 60 House seats yesterday,
capitalizing on concern about government spending and delivering
a rebuke to President  Barack Obama ’s domestic agenda. Stocks
climbed earlier amid speculation that yesterday’s election would
produce a divided U.S. Congress that won’t pass further business
reforms.  Conventional wisdom that a divided Congress is good for
financial markets may not apply in this case, said William
Cunningham, co-head of global active portfolio management and
head of global fixed-income research at Boston-based State
Street Corp.’s investment unit, which oversees almost $2
trillion.  “It’s best to pull us back to the center, but gridlock,
while in previous times probably was good, I’m not convinced
it’s the best right now,” he said in a telephone interview from
London. “Things need to be done by the government in terms of
controlling spending, getting deficits in line but not hurting
this fledgling economic recovery.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  