-- Orders to U.S. Factories Rise More Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-03T14:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-s-factory-orders-increase-2-1-as-manufacturing-leads-economic-recovery.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
climbed more than forecast in September, adding to evidence
manufacturing continues to lead the recovery.  The 2.1 percent increase in  bookings  was the biggest since
January and followed little change the prior month, the Commerce
Department said today in Washington. The data also showed a drop
in orders for capital equipment was smaller than estimated in
last week’s report on durable goods, pointing to less of a
slowdown in business investment.  Spending on equipment and software, which helped the U.S. to
rebound from the recession, may keep expanding as overseas demand
drives  exports  and companies replenish inventories. Federal
Reserve policy makers, following a second day of meetings today,
are forecast to pump more money into the economy to revive growth
and reduce  unemployment .  “There are some positive signals in today’s report,” said
Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Capital Markets America
Inc. in New York. “The outlook for business investment is to
keep expanding, though not at the pace we saw before. It’s still
not vigorous growth.”  Service companies expanded in October at the fastest pace in
three months, indicating the recovery may be starting to build
momentum, another report today showed. The Institute for Supply
Management’s index of  non-manufacturing  businesses, which covers
about 90 percent of the economy, rose to 54.3, higher than
forecast, from 53.2 in September. The gauge, in which readings
greater than 50 signal growth, averaged 56.1 in the five years to
December 2007, when the last recession began.  Exceeds Median Forecast  Factory orders were projected to rise 1.6 percent following
a previously reported 0.5 percent drop in August, according to
the Bloomberg survey of 68 economists.  Estimates  ranged from
gains of 0.3 percent to 2.4 percent.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 11 percent of the
economy, expanded in October at the fastest pace in five months,
helped by gains in new orders, production and exports, the
Institute for Supply Management reported this week.  Demand for durable goods, which make up just over half of
total factory demand, rose 3.5 percent. The government reported
on Oct. 27 that bookings for these goods increased 3.3 percent in
September, led by a doubling in aircraft demand, which is often
volatile. Durable-goods shipments fell 0.3 percent.  Smaller Drop  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, fell 0.2
percent after rising 5.1 percent in August. Last week’s report on
durable goods showed a 0.6 percent drop in September orders for
such goods. Shipments of these goods, used in calculating gross
domestic product, rose 1 percent, more than twice the 0.4 percent
gain calculated last week.  The figures signal readings on business investment for last
quarter may be revised up. Spending on equipment and software
climbed at a 12 percent annual pace from July through September
following a 25 percent gain in the previous three months that was
the biggest since 1983, figures from the Commerce Department
showed last week. The world’s largest economy grew at a 2 percent
rate, exceeding the second quarter’s 1.7 percent, as consumer
spending picked up.  Bookings of non-durable goods, including food, petroleum and
chemicals, rose 0.9 percent.  Rebuilding Stocks  Factory inventories climbed 0.7 percent in September, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.27 months at the
current sales pace, the same as the prior month.  Companies benefiting from rising demand include  Raytheon
Co. , the world’s largest missile maker, which last month raised
its full-year profit forecast after third-quarter net income rose
49 percent.  Others that are expanding are Santa Clara, California-based
 Intel Corp.  The world’s biggest chipmaker said on Oct. 19 that it
plans to spend as much as $8 billion on U.S. factory upgrades,
helping create 800 to 1,000 manufacturing jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  