-- U.S. Carbon Contracts Fall as Obama Cools to Cap-And-Trade
-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 2010-11-03T21:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-s-carbon-contracts-fall-as-obama-cools-to-national-cap-and-trade-plan.html
Futures contracts in the U.S.
Northeast’s carbon market fell to their lowest level in six
weeks after President  Barack Obama  backed away from the national
cap-and-trade program he once sought.  “Cap-and-trade was just one way of skinning the cat,”
Obama said at a White House news conference today, one day after
the Democratic Party lost control of the House of
Representatives to Republicans.  The Democratic president said a cap-and-trade program, in
which companies buy and sell carbon dioxide allowances, is “not
the only way” to cut greenhouse gases.  “I’m going to be looking for other means to address this
problem,” Obama said.  Permits from the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative for
December delivery fell 2 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $1.88 each at
on the  Chicago Climate Futures Exchange , matching a record low
closing price set on Sept. 22. Each permit, also called an
allowance, gives a power plant the right to emit one ton of
carbon dioxide. The state-run carbon trading program covers
plants from Maryland to Maine.  U.S. Northeast carbon prices have fallen 18 percent this
year as cap-and-trade legislation, which Obama asked Congress to
pass in his February 2009 budget proposal, stalled in the Senate
after narrowly passing the Democrat-controlled House.  Record Low  Prices today touched $1.85, a record intraday low that was
below the minimum allowable bid of $1.86 in carbon dioxide
allowance auctions held by the Northeastern states every
quarter.  The price of Northeast permits has been “propped up by
some confidence that they could be converted into federal
allowances” if legislation establishing a national cap-and-
trade system passed Congress, said  Peter Shattuck , a carbon
markets policy analyst at Rockport, Maine-based advocacy group
Environment Northeast.  A federal carbon market is now “more remote” than before
the election because “the vast majority of Republicans have
opposed cap-and-trade proposals to date,” Shattuck said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 