-- U.S. Treasury to Sell $72 Billion in Long-Term Debt Next Week
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-11-03T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-s-treasury-to-offer-72-billion-in-long-term-bonds-as-deficit-narrows.html
The U.S. Treasury Department plans to
sell $72 billion in its quarterly sales of long-term debt next
week, as lower projected budget deficits have allowed the
government to reduce borrowing.  The Treasury said it will auction $32 billion in three-year
notes on Nov. 8, $24 billion in 10-year notes Nov. 9 and $16
billion in 30-year bonds Nov. 10. The total amount was in line
with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of bond
dealers.  The Treasury also said it will add more frequent auctions
of Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, also known as TIPS,
to improve liquidity in the market. The extra auctions are for
five-year and 30-year TIPS and will be second reopenings of
those securities.  The Treasury has been scaling back auction sizes, after
expanding debt sales to finance annual budget deficits exceeding
$1 trillion for the past two years. Bond dealers predict
deficits of $1.214 trillion in fiscal 2011, $1.023 trillion in
2012 and $906 billion in 2013, according to a survey provided to
the Treasury before this week’s announcements.  “Based on current fiscal forecasts, coupon auction sizes
are likely to remain steady over the coming quarter,” said Mary
Miller, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial
markets.  To help manage short-term borrowing needs, the Treasury
said it may issue cash-management bills in the current quarter.  Next week’s auctions of bonds and notes will raise $58.2
billion in new cash, with the rest of the proceeds going to pay
off maturing debt, the Treasury said.  Notes, Bonds  The current quarter’s total long-term debt sales declined
from the $74 billion in notes and bonds sold at the previous
refunding in August.  In the runup to today’s announcements, The Treasury asked
bond dealers about the outlook for bond-market liquidity,
coinciding with a separate Federal Reserve survey on potential
asset purchases from the central bank. The Fed is due to release
its next monetary policy statement later today.  Earlier this week, the Treasury lowered its estimate for
government borrowing from October through December as it
continues to adjust its financing needs amid economic recovery.  Borrowing  will total a net $362 billion in the current
quarter, compared with an estimate three months ago of $380
billion, the department said. The Treasury also projected
borrowing of $431 billion in the three months to March 31.  Auctions of long-term debt were projected to be smaller
than the total of $74 billion sold in August, when the Treasury
sold $34 billion in three-year notes, $24 billion in 10-year
notes and $16 billion in 30-year bonds. The median forecast of
15 analysts surveyed predicted a $3 billion cut in three-year
note sales, with the other two auction sizes unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 