-- Labor Faces `Huge Sinkhole' for U.S. Agenda as Republicans Take Over House
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2010-11-03T03:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-s-labor-unions-face-huge-sinkhole-for-new-agenda-as-republicans-win.html
Organized labor’s window of opportunity
in Congress slammed shut last night.  With Republicans taking control of the House and
gaining seats in the Senate, unions face little chance of
achieving their legislative goals, such as relaxed organizing
rules, mandatory paid sick leave, bigger fines for workplace
safety violations and tougher mine-safety rules.  “The election profoundly reshapes labor’s agenda,” said
 Harley Shaiken , a professor of labor relations at University of
California at Berkeley, in an interview. “The Republican pickup
of seats in the House is going to be a huge sinkhole for
labor.”  Among the company winners are  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .,
 Starbucks Corp .,  Home Depot Inc . and  Burger King Holdings Inc .,
all of which opposed labor’s top priority, the so-called card-
check bill that would make it easier for workers to join a
union. The bill was already stalled in the Senate because
Democrats lacked the votes to overcome Republican opposition.  Unions spent more than $200 million to try to maintain
Democratic control of both houses of Congress, following the
$400 million they spent to elect Democrats to the White House
and Congress in 2008.  ‘Fertile Ground’  Labor leaders are now likely to scale back their
legislative ambitions and increase efforts to influence
regulatory agencies.  “As soon as it took office, the Obama administration began
using its regulatory authority to strengthen worker protections,
which had been neglected for the past eight years,” said  Bill Samuel , the top lobbyist for the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor
federation. “We expect them to continue.”  Glenn Spencer, who handles labor matters at the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the biggest U.S. business lobbying group,
agrees. A Republican-controlled House won’t suddenly be able to
advance a variety of anti-union, pro-business legislation, he
said.  “On labor issues, it’s going to be very difficult to move
the ball in either direction,” Spencer said in an interview.
“As Congress becomes more inhospitable, we will see the
battlefield shift to the regulatory arena, where unions will
find far more fertile ground for their agenda.”  At Stake  In the past two years, President  Barack Obama  and the
Democratic-controlled Congress delivered some labor-backed
legislation, such as the health-care overhaul and a law that
makes it easier for women to sue employers for wage
discrimination. On other issues, labor has been frustrated that
Democratic leaders failed to push harder against Republican and
business opposition.  Unions have backed economic-stimulus efforts, including the
bill that Obama signed Aug. 10 that gave states $26 billion to
save the jobs of as many as 160,000 teachers, police officers
and other government employees facing layoffs due to state and
local budget cuts. Republicans campaigned this year against
further stimulus spending, favoring tax cuts instead.  That put much at stake in the midterm elections for labor
unions, whose $200 million in spending includes political action
committee contributions, television advertising, campaign
mailings, phone banks and get-out-the-vote efforts,
overwhelmingly in support of Democratic candidates.  Court Decision  The 1.6 million-member  American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees , which says Republicans may try to
curtail activities by public-sector unions, led labor unions in
outlays, saying it spent about $90 million. The union has taken
advantage of the Supreme Court decision that loosened
restrictions on campaign spending, which also enabled
corporations and ideological groups to increase political
spending.  The Service Employees International Union said it budgeted
$44 million, and the National Education Association, the largest
teachers union, said it spent $40 million.  Most of the activity on labor’s issues during the past two
years has taken place in the  House Committee on Education and
Labor , headed by 18-term California Democrat  George Miller , who
received more than $385,000 from labor PACs in the current two-
year election cycle, according to  OpenSecrets.org . The committee
has held hearings on union priorities, such as requiring
companies to provide paid sick time and banning them from firing
workers because of their gender identity.  Massey’s Mine  The committee approved a bill in July that would make it
easier to shut mines with repeated safety violations, such as
the  Massey Energy Co .’s Upper Big Branch coal mine in West
Virginia where 29 mine workers died in an April explosion, the
worst mine disaster in 40 years. The bill also would increase
penalties for some types of workplace violations and add
protections for whistleblowers who report safety lapses. House
Democratic leaders haven’t brought the bill to a floor vote.  The committee’s senior Republican and prospective chairman,
six-term Representative  John Kline  of Minnesota, says he opposes
that bill, as well as labor-backed efforts to increase penalties
for violations of Occupational Health and Safety Administration
regulations.  The  AFL-CIO  says Kline has voted with labor less than 10
percent of the time since coming to Congress in January 2003,
while Miller has sided with unions more than 93 percent of the
time since 1975.  Red Tape  If Kline takes over the committee, he would be likely to
shift its focus to pushing back against Obama’s efforts to
increase regulations. “We need to examine how government red
tape and regulations are affecting job creation,” he said in an
e-mailed statement. “I oppose legislation that would create
more litigation in the workplace.”  Peg Seminario , director of occupational health and safety
issues at the AFL-CIO, said workplace regulations have been
toughened in the past under Republican leadership, and she
hasn’t ruled out that happening in the future.  “Clearly, the Republicans have a different agenda from
us,” she said. “But what ultimately forces changes in mine
safety and workplace laws are actual events. Workplace disasters
can’t be ignored.”  Kline says he supports some changes in workplace safety laws
and agrees with Democrats that investigators should be given
subpoena powers when investigating the causes of mine
explosions. He also supports tighter mine-safety rules governing
the use of rock dust to prevent explosions.  Airline Maintenance  Labor unions are also likely to see their ambitions
frustrated in seeking new federal restrictions on U.S. airlines
moving maintenance work overseas.  U.S. airlines spent about $14.9 billion on maintenance in
2009. Passenger carriers such as  United Continental Holdings
Inc.  and  US Airways Group Inc.  used contractors at home and
abroad for about 43 percent of the work, according to the U.S.
Bureau of Transportation Statistics.  Kline is the chief House sponsor of a bill to ban employers
from agreeing to unionization through the card-check process,
which excludes a secret-ballot vote by workers. The bill has 115
House sponsors.  AFL-CIO’s Samuel said Kline’s bill, which matches a Senate
measure sponsored by Republicans  Jim DeMint  of South Carolina
and  Mike Enzi  of Wyoming, stands little chance of becoming law.  “As hard as the Republicans might try, it’s doubtful
legislation attacking workers rights would make it to the White
House,” he said.“And if it did, I can’t foresee a situation
where President Obama would sign it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holly Rosenkrantz  in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
 Frank Bass  in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 