-- Jobless Rate Trampled Democrats' Hopes, Obama's Change Agenda
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t
-- 2010-11-03T03:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-s-jobless-rate-of-9-6-trampled-democrats-hopes-obama-s-change-agenda.html
The election that delivered control
of the U.S. House of Representatives to Republicans was awash in
numbers -- incumbents ousted, hundreds of millions in secret
money, President  Barack Obama ’s 45 percent approval rating.  Yet the story of the victory could be told with one number:
the  9.6 percent  U.S. unemployment rate.  The anxiety Americans feel about their jobs led voters to
turn the “Yes We Can” anthem of Obama’s 2008 presidential
campaign into “No you won’t” two years later.  They rejected the president’s stewardship of the economy
even in the face of improving conditions and the passage of a
health-care overhaul he had promised to deliver. They also gave
him little credit for blunting the financial crisis and pushing
historic regulation of Wall Street.  “Nine-point-six percent unemployment is the worst in a
midterm since 1982,” said  Gary Jacobson , a political science
professor at the University of California at San Diego. “The
most important single factor shaping electoral politics in this
cycle is the economy, but the unemployment rate is the most
obvious emblematic feature of that.”  If previous midterm contests -- even ones that shifted the
balance of power -- are a guide, though, the impact may not be
the major transformation that the Election Day results suggest.  ‘Schizophrenic’  “Let’s face it, it is schizophrenic,” said  Richard Norton Smith , a historian and professor at George Mason University in
Fairfax, Virginia. “Voters demand change, and they don’t know
what change is. They insist they want people to work across the
aisle but reward people when that doesn’t happen,” he said.  “They claim to want to address fundamental issues,
including the  budget deficit  but don’t want to take the costly
steps to get us there. The irony here is that it is a lot easier
looking down the road for the next generation to envision a
political culture that is in many ways a game of ping pong.”  While the results were a rejection of Obama and Democrats,
they weren’t an affirmation for Republicans. For the 2012
elections, the state of the economy in two years will mean more
than today’s election results.  A Bloomberg National Poll in October found that voters were
either divided about or opposed to the policies and approach
that Republicans have said they would offer once in control,
particularly on cutting spending. Voters also want the parties
to work together.  Uneasy Coalition  First, the Republicans have to show they can work among
themselves. The party’s resurgence was built on an uneasy
coalition of Tea Party activists, corporate interests and party
leaders, who battled the insurgents before embracing them.  The revival started in the front seat of a black pickup
truck driven by  Scott Brown , a candidate who in January did what
no other politician had been able to do in the last five
decades: wrest control of a U.S. Senate seat in Massachusetts
held by Democrat  Edward M. Kennedy .  The initial sign of the Tea Party as a force came several
months later, when Utah Republicans rejected three-term
incumbent Senator  Robert Bennett . It proceeded through states
like Kentucky, where Republican  Rand Paul  last night said a Tea
Party “tidal wave” powered his election to the Senate.  “America can rise and surmount these problems if we just
get government out of our way,” Paul said at a victory rally.  Hold to Pledge  Now, Republican leaders will have to deal with Tea Party-
backed lawmakers and their activist supporters, who vow to hold
them to pledges to cut taxes, streamline regulations and rein in
the power of government bodies such as the Federal Reserve.  Unlike the election of 1994, when Representative  Newt Gingrich  was seen as the architect of the Republican victory and
candidates campaigned on the “ Contract With America ,” this
time the Republicans prevailed without either a galvanizing
leader or set of ideas.  The October Bloomberg poll found that 46 percent of likely
voters had an unfavorable opinion of Republicans. Representative
 John Boehner  of Ohio, who is poised to depose Representative
 Nancy Pelosi  of California as speaker of the House, was viewed
favorably by 37 percent and unfavorably by 37 percent. The rest
had no opinion.  ‘Not Newt Gingrich’  “John Boehner, for his many virtues, is not Newt
Gingrich,” said  Ross Baker , a political science professor at
Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey. “Nobody would
use ‘visionary’ to describe him. He’s a tactical guy. And the
Tea Party has no leader, and I’m not even sure there is a
consistent ideology that all Tea Party supporters would
subscribe to other than lower taxes and a smaller federal
government. That’s not a political schematic. What this is is a
series of hopeful statements.”  The losses Democrats suffered compared with 1994, when they
gave up 54 seats and Republicans took control of the House for
the first time since 1954, and the midterms of 1938, when
Democrats lost 72 seats. Republicans lost 31 seats when they
relinquished control to Democrats in 2006,  House records show.   While the change is momentous when power shifts, it is
rarely lasting.  “This is sort of a swing back to the partisan division
that we’ve had in place since 1994 where neither party has a
very comfortable grip on Congress,” said Jacobson, an expert on
so-called wave elections. “Control of the institution will be
up for grabs in every election.”  Doomed to Defeat  Still, so broad was the dissatisfaction with the economy,
that the party in power this time was doomed to defeat.  Republicans “could have printed the Betty Crocker cookbook
and still done well,” said  Linda Fowler , a professor of
government at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire. “The
forecasting models that political scientists use are pretty
precise.” With the president’s approval rating at 45 percent,
the economy would have to be growing more than 5 percent to
minimize losses, she said. It is growing about 2 percent.  “He is the voice, the image, and the delivery man for the
party,” said  Wendy Schiller , a political science professor at
Brown University. “And he’s failed to deliver.”  Obama finds himself in the same position as  Ronald Reagan 
in 1982 and  Bill Clinton  in 1994, hoping for the same fortunes
that delivered both predecessors a second term. Only three times
since 1934 has a president’s party not lost seats in a midterm
election.  Vanishing Voice  The power of the president’s rhetoric, which was essential
to his White House victory, vanished. Smith, the founding
director of the  Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum 
in Springfield, Illinois, said the Republican victory was “a
cause without a rationale,” and he faulted the Obama team for
failing to provide an effective counterargument.  “Some of the reasons lie with the White House and their
failure to do even the most basic job to explain to the American
people what they are doing, who the beneficiaries are and why in
the long term it would benefit people.  ‘‘It is as if they have confused the 24/7 news cycle with
the fundamental job of the modern president,’’ he said. ‘‘As
 Harry Truman  said, the power of the presidency is the power to
persuade.’’  Baker said Obama can come back from the rebuke.  ‘‘It is always perilous to predict from a midterm to the
next presidential election,’’ Baker said.  Franklin Roosevelt ,
Reagan and Clinton all proved that by winning re-election.
Reagan and Clinton, though, governed in economic conditions
better than Obama can expect in terms of the pace of overall
growth.  Constant Pendulum Shift?  He’ll begin that process today with a news conference in
Washington as he confronts the reality of a political shift that
undid Democratic gains of the last two election cycles.  That political change was driven by grass-roots animus and
a swing by independents from Democrat to Republican, creating an
unsettled climate.  ‘‘The question will be is this a constant pendulum shift,
where an on-demand culture wants people and their
representatives to meet their promise for change in 10 minutes
or they change the channel?,’’ said John Lapp, a Democratic
consultant who served as executive director of the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee in 2006.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  