-- U.S. Sues to Stop Chicago Attorney From Promoting `Abusive' Tax Shelters
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-03T18:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/u-s-sues-to-stop-chicago-attorney-from-promoting-abusive-tax-shelters.html
John E. Rogers , a Chicago attorney
formerly affiliated with the law firm Seyfarth Shaw LLP, was
sued by the U.S. Justice Department for allegedly promoting
phony tax shelters.  Rogers, 69, designed distressed asset debt and distressed
asset trust tax shelters for his clients, allowing them to
claim, though not sustain, losses on Brazilian debt resulting in
more than $370 million in improper deductions, the Justice
Department said today in a  statement .  Rogers was forced to resign from the firm in 2008,
according to the statement. The government’s complaint, filed
yesterday in federal court in Chicago, seeks a court order
barring the promotion of tax schemes it called “abusive.”  “It is particularly disturbing when a lawyer, who is
supposed to help clients comply with the law, instead helps them
break it,” Acting Assistant Attorney General  John A. DiCicco 
said in the statement.  Rogers, now the principal of the Chicago firm of  Rogers &
Associates , didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  The Internal Revenue Service began investigating Rogers in
2004. After Rogers met with his fellow Seyfarth partners in
2005, the firm decided that the distressed-asset transactions
“should be disclosed as potentially abusive tax shelters,”
according to the complaint.  Seyfarth later told Rogers to stop promoting the alleged
schemes and, when it learned in 2008 that he hadn’t stopped,
forced him to resign, the U.S. said.  Kevin Livingston, a spokesman for Chicago-based Seyfarth,
said he couldn’t immediately comment on the allegations.  The case is U.S. v. John E. Rogers, 10-cv-07068, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 