-- Hungary Escapes Junk Debt Rating as S&P Affirms Grade on Budget Plan
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-03T14:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/hungary-escapes-junk-debt-rating-as-s-p-affirms-grade-on-budget-plan.html
Hungary escaped a sovereign credit
downgrade to junk at Standard & Poor’s after the government
announced plans to levy temporary taxes on some industries and
use private pension funds to patch  budget holes .  S&P maintained Hungary’s rating at BBB-, the lowest
investment grade, the ratings company said today. The outlook
remained negative because the government’s policy doesn’t
address the “structural deficit,” which may lead to the
shortfall rising to 6 percent by 2014 from a targeted 2.94
percent next year.  S&P put Hungary’s rating on review for a downgrade in July
after talks on economic policy failed between the government and
the International Monetary Fund. Hungary, the first European
Union member to resort to a bailout as the credit crisis hit in
2008, is trying to convince investors it can finance its budget
without  IMF  assistance.  “We understand the” Hungarian “government, which took
office in April 2010 with an unprecedented 68 percent
parliamentary majority, remains committed to reducing the
headline government deficit,”  Kai Stukenbrock , an S&P analyst in
Frankfurt, said in a statement.  The forint traded at 272.16 per euro at 3:05 p.m. in
Budapest from 270.85 yesterday.  Orban’s Pledge  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  was elected on a pledge to end
five years of austerity after the  worst recession  in 18 years.
He rejected an extension of the 20 billion-euro ($28 billion)
IMF-led loan, saying he needed more freedom in economic policy.  The move prompted S&P and Moody’s Investors Service to put
the country’s credit rating under review for a downgrade.
Moody’s rates Hungary three levels above junk. Orban has since
announced a three-year tax on the financial, energy, retail and
telecommunication industries to plug budget holes.  S&P’s decision came after the government unveiled the 2011
budget, estimates 3 percent growth and 3.5 percent inflation and
targets a shortfall of 2.94 percent of gross domestic product
after a planned 3.8 percent for this year.  The government will freeze the state’s wage bill next year
and cut as many as 30,000 of the 690,000 public jobs by
attrition, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on Oct. 30.  Pension Portfolios  Hungary is counting on as many as 90 percent of mandatory
private pension fund owners returning their portfolios to the
state by the end of 2011, after a government drive to convince
them that their savings are safer there. The assets of the
private funds total 2.7 trillion forint ($13.9 billion), half of
it in domestic government bonds.  Cutting personal income taxes to a flat 16 percent starting
next year, coupled with the end of industry taxes after 2012,
will create a shortfall of about 700 billion forint in 2013,
Morgan Stanley and UniCredit SpA said on Nov. 2.  Hungary is probably overestimating the effect of income-tax
cuts on growth as their impact is “highly uncertain,”  Christoph Rosenberg , head of a visiting IMF delegation, said in Budapest
on Oct. 25. The Washington-based lender estimates the economy
will grow 2.5 percent next year, compared with the government’s
3 percent projection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  