-- United, Delta Gain Republican Allies on Outsourcing, Antitrust
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-11-03T15:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/united-delta-s-push-for-maintenance-abroad-global-ties-aided-by-election.html
United Continental Holdings Inc.  and
 Delta Air Lines Inc.  are among U.S. carriers that will gain as
Republicans use their new majority in the House to scrap
proposals to limit the outsourcing of maintenance work and to
subject global alliances to antitrust enforcement.  “Those types of issues will go away,” said  David Schaffer , a consultant in Vienna, Virginia, and a former House
aviation subcommittee Republican counsel, in an interview. Under
Democratic control, lawmakers had approved provisions
restricting the airlines’ overseas activities.  Republicans gained at least 60 seats in the House of
Representatives, their biggest increase since 1938 and their
first majority since 2006.  The resulting shift in lawmakers setting House
transportation policy also may benefit  FedEx Corp . in its effort
to fight off unions,  Macquarie Group Ltd.  through its
investments in toll roads and  Toyota Motor Corp. , whose
executives faced grilling over auto recalls from a Democratic-
run committee. The airlines seek a “do no harm” approach from
the new Congress, according to the  Air Transport Association ,
the industry’s biggest trade group.  “The current Congress has been anti-airline,” said
 William Swelbar , a research engineer specializing in air
transport at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
Cambridge. “There will be a new set of ears to listen to the
industry.”  Republicans also gained at least six seats in the Senate,
though Democrats retained control of that body.  House-approved legislation to finance the Federal Aviation
Administration, still pending, would require drug testing and
additional inspections at overseas maintenance centers used by
U.S. carriers, potentially raising costs and making them less
attractive to the airlines, Swelbar said.  27% of Work  Carriers use the centers in part to reduce expenses,
Transportation Department Inspector General  Calvin Scovel  said
in congressional  testimony  last year, without saying how much
the companies save. Foreign centers performed 27 percent of
heavy maintenance work by contractors for nine airlines in 2007,
up from 21 percent in 2003, Scovel said.  U.S. airlines spent about $14.9 billion on maintenance in
2009, and passenger carriers used contractors at home and abroad
for about 43 percent of the work, according to the U.S. Bureau
of Transportation Statistics. Maintenance materials and outside
repairs averaged 5.1 percent of operating expenses for United
Airlines and 4.4 percent for Delta in 2008 and 2009, according
to Bloomberg data.  Airline Alliances  The FAA funding measure also would restrict global airline
alliances by ending their exemption from antitrust prosecution
after three years. Carriers such as  AMR Corp. ’s American
Airlines and  British Airways Plc , and Delta and  Air France-KLM ,
use alliances to act as single entities in setting prices and
schedules on international routes.  Proposed alliance limits “would die a quick death” under
Republicans, said  James Burnley , a partner in Washington at
Venable LLP who was transportation secretary under President
 Ronald Reagan .  American began an antitrust-protected venture on Oct. 1
with British Airways and Spanish carrier  Iberia Lineas Aereas de
Espana SA  on Atlantic routes that will bring the companies $7
billion in combined annual revenue, AMR said Oct. 20.  The airlines posted their biggest profits since 2007 last
quarter after reductions in seating capacity allowed them to
raise fares once travel demand rose following the recession.  “We need a new Congress who agrees with us on the simple
principle of do-no-harm,”  Air Transport Association  President
 James May  said in a speech Oct. 25. “Allow us to compete in the
global marketplace so we can regain financial stability.” May’s
Washington trade group includes Chicago-based United
Continental, Delta of Atlanta and  AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines
based in Fort Worth, Texas, the three largest U.S. airlines.  Chairmanship Changes  The legislation  fought  by airlines was written by
Democratic Representative  James Oberstar  of Minnesota, the
chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
chairman, who lost his re-election bid yesterday.  Republican Representative  John Mica  of Florida, who last
year faulted some Democratic aviation proposals as  “half-
baked,”  is in line to replace Oberstar as chairman.
Representative  Tom Latham  of Iowa, who has criticized the
government for failing to reduce aviation congestion, is in line
to become chairman of the House Appropriation Committee’s
transportation panel.  FedEx  of Memphis, Tennessee, the world’s biggest cargo
airline, is a corporate winner from the election because House
Republicans will abandon Oberstar’s legislative campaign to ease
union organizing at the company’s Express unit, Schaffer said.
“With the Republican majority in the House, it’s dead,” he
said.  Teamsters, UPS  The legislation, backed by the Teamsters Union and  United
Parcel Service Inc. , would let FedEx Express ground workers vote
locally to form unions rather than be forced to hold a
nationwide election. UPS is the biggest employer of  Teamsters ,
with about 240,000 members.  “It is hard to believe that a new Congress would want to
engage in that kind of special legislative favoritism,” said
 Maury Lane , a FedEx spokesman.  UPS spokeswoman  Kara Ross  said, “This Congress still has
important decisions to make before 2010 ends and it would be
premature to write this Congress off.”  House Republican opposition to tax increases may lead to
more private investment in federal roads, bridges and tunnels,
according to  Peter Peyser , principal at  Blank Rome Government
Relations LLC  in Washington and a former House member from New
York.  The shift may benefit Sydney-based  Macquarie , Australia’s
largest investment bank, which “continues to seek investment
opportunities,” the company said in a statement. Macquarie said
it is contributing half of the equity in a state  freeway and
tunnels  project in Norfolk and Portsmouth, Virginia.  Morgan Stanley, Carlyle  Morgan Stanley  of New York created a $4 billion
infrastructure fund in 2008 and “continues to actively
invest,” said  Erica Platt , a company spokeswoman. Carlyle
Group, the Washington-based private-equity company, has a $1.2
billion fund and seeks more investments, said  John Flaherty , a
principal for the firm. Carlyle last year entered into a 35-year
partnership with Connecticut to redevelop, maintain and operate
highway service areas.  Automakers will face a friendlier Congress, said former
Transportation Secretary  Norm Mineta , a Democrat who served
under Republican President  George W. Bush .  “Republicans are much more sensitive to what would be the
cost implications of new requirements from a safety
perspective,” said Mineta, vice chairman of Hill & Knowlton in
Washington.  Replacing Waxman  Automakers such as  Toyota  of Toyota City, Japan, which
recalled 8 million vehicles in the past year, may face less
scrutiny now that the House Energy and Commerce Committee is
likely to be led by  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, said
 Michael Stanton , president of the Association of International
Automobile Manufacturers.  Upton replaces Democratic Representative  Henry Waxman  of
California, who led hearings into Toyota’s handling of the
recalls. Members of Stanton’s trade group, based in Arlington,
Virginia, include Toyota,  Honda Motor Co . and  Nissan Motor Co .  Amtrak, the U.S. passenger railroad that relied upon a
$1.49 billion federal subsidy in fiscal 2009, may have its
federal aid gradually reduced by House Republicans, said  Mary Peters , transportation secretary under President George W. Bush.  “Amtrak does need to be self-sufficient,” said Peters, a
Peoria, Arizona-based consultant. The carrier in fiscal 2009
reported a $1.26 billion net loss on revenue of $2.35 billion
and expenses of $3.5 billion, according to its annual report.  User growth and service gains make Amtrak cuts unlikely,
said  Ross Capon , president of the National Association of
Railroad Passengers. “I don’t see us rolling back progress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 liebert@bloomberg.net . 