-- Universities to Be Allowed to Charge Up to $14,000 a Year Amid Fund Cuts
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-11-03T14:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/universities-to-be-allowed-to-charge-up-to-14-000-a-year-amid-fund-cuts.html
British universities will be allowed
to charge up to 9,000 pounds ($14,000) a year, almost triple the
current fee, as the government tries to cut subsidies to
institutions without hurting teaching and research.  The move, detailed by Universities Minister  David Willetts 
in a statement to Parliament today, means a rejection of a
recommendation by former BP Plc Chief Executive  John Browne  that
all caps on fees should be removed. Other proposals from Browne,
who published a report on funding options for the government
last month, have been accepted.  Students will pay the fees from government-backed loans to
be repaid at a rate of 9 percent of any income above 21,000
pounds and penalties will be charged on early payments, Willetts
said. Universities charging more than 6,000 pounds a year will
have to show they’re reaching out to students from poorer
backgrounds.  “Under our proposals a quarter of graduates will pay less
overall than they do at present,” Willetts said. “This is a
good deal for universities and students.”  Under the current system, fees are capped at 3,290 pounds a
year, financed from interest-free loans repaid when graduates
earn more than 15,000 pounds.  Browne’s proposals were welcomed by universities, which
will see the amount of money they get from the government fall
as the coalition seeks to eliminate the record  budget deficit .
Money will follow students, making universities more receptive
to their needs, Willetts said.  ‘Thriving Future’  “The bulk of universities’ money will not come from the
block grant, but follow the choices of students,” Willetts
said. “These proposals offer a thriving future for universities
with extra freedoms and less interference.”  The proposals, which will be published in full before the
end of December, present a problem for Liberal Democrat Deputy
Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , who fought the May 6 election
pledging no increase in tuition fees and who may struggle to
stop his lawmakers from voting against the plan.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman  Steve Field 
signalled that Liberal Democrat ministers may be allowed to
abstain on the issue, breaking the convention of collective
responsibility that members of the government vote for
government legislation.  Ed Miliband , leader of the opposition Labour Party, used
the weekly Prime Minister’s Questions session in Parliament to
accuse the Liberal Democrats of breaking faith with voters.  “The prime minister used to think that trust matters,”
Miliband said. “Doesn’t he understand the anger there will be
about promises made and promises about this broken?”  Cameron praised the Liberal Democrat members of his
coalition. “They’ve all taken, frankly, some courageous and
difficult decisions,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net 
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 