-- Usmanov, Metalloinvest Partners Said to Study $4 Billion IPO
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-11-03T06:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/usmanov-metalloinvest-partners-said-to-study-4-billion-ipo.html
Billionaire  Alisher Usmanov  and his
partners in OAO Metalloinvest, Russia’s largest iron ore
producer, are considering seeking as much as $4 billion in an
initial public offering in London as early as the first half of
next year, two people familiar with the matter said.  The partners haven’t made a final decision on the potential
$3 billion to $4 billion offering, the people said, declining to
be identified because discussions are private.  Yulia Mazanova , a
spokeswoman for the producer in Moscow, declined to comment.  Metalloinvest expects iron-ore prices to jump as much as 33
percent by the end of next year, the Moscow-based company said
last week. Metalloinvest plans to boost iron-ore output about 20
percent to 36 million metric tons this year as demand surges in
China, the biggest consumer of the steelmaking ingredient.  Usmanov, Russia’s seventh-richest man with a fortune of
$12.4 billion according to Finans magazine, owns half of
Metalloinvest and has stakes in Facebook Inc. investor  Mail.Ru
Group Ltd ., the Arsenal football club and Russian wireless
operator  OAO MegaFon . Andrei Skotch, a lawmaker in Russia’s
lower house of parliament, and entrepreneur  Vasily Anisimov  own
30 percent and 20 percent of Metalloinvest, respectively.  Anisimov may sell his entire stake to spend more time with
his family, the billionaire told the Vedomosti business daily in
an interview published last month.  Metalloinvest gets about three-quarters of its revenue from
supplying raw materials to steelmakers, including the European
mills of  ArcelorMittal ,  U.S. Steel Corp.  and  Corus Group Ltd. 
Metalloinvest also operates steel mills in Russia and U.A.E.  The company’s steel output will be little changed at about
6.4 million tons this year, Metalloinvest said in June.
ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steel producer, said Oct. 26
that attempts to raise prices had failed as demand for the metal
remained subdued.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 