-- Luxottica Sells First Benchmark Bond as Italy Suffers From Budget Crisis
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   H y d e   a n d   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-11-03T14:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/luxottica-group-plans-to-sell-300-to-500-million-euros-of-five-year-bonds.html
Luxottica Group SpA , the Italian
owner of the Ray-Ban sunglasses brand, raised 500 million euros
($702 million) from its first benchmark bond issue as the
country struggles with the fallout from Europe’s budget crisis.  Luxottica priced the five-year notes to yield 200 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average 127 basis
points for investment-grade European company notes with a
similar maturity, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  The Milan-based company sold debt as the extra yield
investors demand to buy Italian 10-year government bonds instead
of German debt doubled this year on concern that budget cuts in
the euro region’s most-indebted nations will hurt growth. Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi passed a 25 billion-euro austerity
package earlier this year to reduce a deficit of 5.3 percent of
gross domestic product, more than the region’s 3 percent limit.  “I think the deal will go okay despite the country risk,”
said  Juan Esteban Valencia , a credit analyst at Societe Generale
SA in London. “Rare issuers and inaugurals have a good
opportunity to raise funds to help satiate the hunger for
credit.”  Luxottica, which isn’t rated by firms including Moody’s
Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s, last issued bonds in
January when it sold $125 million of notes in two parts,
Bloomberg data show. Its new euro issue is benchmark in size,
which typically means at least 500 million euros.  Luxottica spokeswoman Barbara Di Martino in Milan couldn’t
comment on the sale before a public announcement.  Banca IMI SpA, BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank AG and
Mediobanca SpA managed the sale, Bloomberg data show.  Yields Drop  Investors are buying up riskier corporate assets as
government bond yields remain near record lows. Ten-year German
bunds, Europe’s benchmark government security, yield 2.45
percent compared with 3.43 percent at the start of the year. The
yield declined to a record 2.087 percent on Aug. 31.  The cost of insuring against a default on Italy’s
government bonds has soared this year amid Europe’s deficit
crisis. Credit-default swaps on the nation were at 179.5 basis
points today, from as low as 125 basis points on May 12,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts climbed to as high
as 230 basis points on Aug. 31.  The yield premium on 10-year Italian government bonds over
German bunds is 149 basis points from 69 basis points in
January. The spread widened to a record 186 in June.  Italian government bond spreads are still the lowest among
Europe’s so-called peripheral countries, including Greece,
Portugal and Spain.  Unlike Spain and Ireland, Italy’s economy will grow
1 percent this year and next, the International Monetary Fund
estimated on Oct. 6. Meantime,  consumer confidence  unexpectedly
rose in October to the highest since April, the Isae Institute
said last week.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  