-- Venezuela, Colombia Sign Energy Agreements, Vowing to Revive Lost Trade
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2010-11-03T05:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/venezuela-colombia-sign-energy-agreements-vowing-to-revive-lost-trade.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  and
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  signed agreements in
Caracas on energy projects and vowed to revive bilateral trade
hurt in part by a border dispute.  “The world should know that Chavez and Santos are
committed to not allowing anyone derail us, independent of
political differences,” Chavez said last night on state
television. Santos said the two leaders will meet every three
months to improve ties and discuss joint projects.  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  will restart gasoline shipments
to Colombian border areas and work with Colombia’s  Ecopetrol SA 
to pump oil from mature wells, according to the accords. The
companies may also create a venture to produce heavy crude oil
from the Orinoco Belt. The two leaders agreed to study a plan to
extend a gas pipeline into Central America and another to build
an oil pipeline from Venezuela to Colombia’s Pacific coast.  The moves came after Chavez visited Santos in August to
restore diplomatic ties following a dispute over Colombian
accusations that Venezuela was harboring Marxist rebels. Chavez
in July put troops on high alert along the 1,375-mile (2,200-
kilometer) border between the two countries.  Venezuela’s Foreign Exchange Board has paid $336 million
owed to Colombian export companies as part of a debt aggravated
by the freeze in trade ties, said  Manuel Barroso , the board’s
head. Venezuela will pay the remainder of about $600 million in
debt by the end of the year, he said.  Exports to Venezuela plunged 72 percent to $760 million in
the first six months of 2010 from $2.69 billion in the same
period two years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jose Orozco  in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  