-- Vestas Sees Financing of Asia-Pacific Wind Farms Ease
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-03T12:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/vestas-executive-says-financing-for-wind-projects-easing-in-asia-pacific.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S , the world’s
largest maker of wind turbines, said financing is easing for
wind projects in the Asia-Pacific region as supportive policies
in Australia and India draw lenders back to the sector.  There has been a “noticeable pickup” during the last
quarter in the Australian and Indian markets that may double the
annual rate at which they add new wind-power capacity by 2015,
 Sean Sutton , president of Vestas’ Asia-Pacific business, said in
an interview in Singapore.  “We’re seeing some loosening up of financing post the
global financial crisis,” said Sutton, who oversees the region
excluding China. Banks are willing to lend again to high-quality
deals, he said.  Investment in the wind sector collapsed starting at the end
of 2008 as the credit crisis prompted banks to restrict loans to
wind-energy developers and a sovereign debt crisis limited
prospects for economic growth in Europe, the world’s  biggest
wind market by region .  Sutton said Asia will be key to growth for Vestas, which
has lost more than half its market value in a year and twice
lowered its sales forecast for 2010 on declining orders in
Europe.  “It’s definitely Asia’s time to contribute and all
indicators are good,” he said. Vestas expects to announce
“sizeable” orders from India for its new V100 turbine before
the end of the year, he said.  Indian Installations  Vestas competes in India against  Suzlon Energy Ltd. , the
South Asian nation’s largest wind turbine maker.  Vestas in India accounted for 7.8 percent of installations
in the financial year ending March 2010, making it the third-
largest,  Ashish Sethia , lead analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in New Delhi, said by telephone today. Suzlon’s market
share in the country has fallen from 59 percent to 49 percent
since fiscal 2008 as competitors including Vestas, Enercon India
Ltd. and RRB Energy Ltd. have moved in, he said.  “Vestas has typically been very good in the independent
power producer sector of the market,” Sethia said. “But
Suzlon’s market share might increase this fiscal year because
they’re having a bumper year.”  Adding Turbines  Randers, Denmark-based Vestas expects Australia to add more
than 1,000 megawatts of new capacity per year by 2013 and India
to install as much as 3,000 megawatts per year by 2015, Sutton
said. That is more than twice what the countries added last
year, according to data from the  Global Wind Energy Council.   Australia added 406 megawatts of new capacity in 2009,
while India installed 1,271 megawatts, the council’s Global Wind
Report said.  “Project financing in Australia dried up in 2009,” Sutton
said, citing a 206-megawatt order for the Collgar wind farm in
Western Australia that took eight months to close financing.
“Legislation has produced more certainty,” he said. “There is
without doubt increasing activity.”  Australia approved revisions to laws in June to target
sourcing one-fifth of the nation’s electricity from alternative
sources by 2020. India plans to start trading of renewable-
energy certificates this year to aid the generation and
distribution of power from clean sources.  Wind-turbine installations will bounce back in 2011 after
stalling this year as turbines with an electricity-generation
capacity of 45 gigawatts are likely to be erected next year, up
from about 37.7 gigawatts this year, according to a report from
Bloomberg New Energy Finance on Oct. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  