-- Volvo Cars Eyes China Design Team to Gain Ground on Audi, BMW
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-11-04T08:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/volvo-cars-plans-to-hire-chinese-design-team-to-lift-brand-s-local-appeal.html
Volvo Cars, the automaker owned by
 Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. , plans to hire a team of
designers in China to cater to local tastes as the Swedish
manufacturer prepares for its next model.  The designers would work at a research center being set up
in Shanghai’s Jiading district, said design chief  Peter Horbury .
Volvo’s next model, co-designed by Horbury and predecessor
 Stephen Mattin  and planned for 2012, will be in the premium
compact segment, said Per-Ake Froberg, a Volvo spokesman. Rival
vehicles would include Audi’s A3 and BMW’s 1-Series.  “If the Chinese or the Americans want more chrome on the
grille, why would we say no to that just because we don’t have
that in Sweden?” Horbury, 60, said in a Nov. 1 interview at
Volvo’s headquarters in Gothenburg. “In a global market there’s
still a cultural difference in tastes and requirements.”  China  is key to Chief Executive Officer  Stefan Jacoby ’s
goal of doubling sales to 800,000 cars in a decade. Design that
appeals more to buyers in China and the U.S., the world’s two
biggest auto markets, would help Volvo reposition itself as an
upscale brand to take on  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and
Volkswagen AG’s Audi, the luxury-car leader in China.  “If they want to get deeper into that market it’s critical
they understand what’s going on in China,” said  Ashvin Chotai ,
managing director at Intelligence Automotive Asia Ltd. in
London. “It’s certainly natural that they study it very
thoroughly.”  Three Plants  Volvo has no plan to release China-specific models and will
focus on features for Chinese customers, Horbury said. While no
final decision has been made on a design team, Volvo may hire
the designers “not too far into next year.”  The Swedish automaker may build as many as three
manufacturing plants in China, CEO Jacoby said in an interview
last week in Stockholm. Jacoby led VW’s North American
operations, including Audi, before joining Volvo in August.  Audi was the first German luxury-car maker to build a model
specifically for China. The Ingolstadt-based VW unit introduced
an A6 sedan in 2000 that’s 13 centimeters (5.1 inches) longer to
cater to customers who want to be chauffeured, spokesman  Eric Felber  said. Audi began selling an extended A4 sedan in China
last year.  BMW and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz introduced their first
cars designed for the Chinese market this year. The top two
luxury-car makers each added 14 centimeters to the BMW 5-Series
and Mercedes E-Class sedans. Mercedes is also considering an
extended version of the entry-level C-Class sedan, Daimler CEO
 Dieter Zetsche  said in April.  Beijing Design Studio  Mercedes-Benz has “a small but growing studio in Beijing
and will increase the number of designers there to about 30 over
the course of a year or so,” spokesman  Christoph Horn  said by
email. “We started the studio in Beijing less than 2 years ago
and already we get a lot of ideas and input from there.”  Rolls-Royce Motor Cars, BMW’s ultra-luxury unit, has
outfitted vehicles with unique options such as gold-plated
Spirit of Ecstasy hood ornaments and starlight roofliners that
depict astrological signs, said Marco Jahn, a Rolls-Royce
spokesman. Chinese beliefs also influence customers’ choice of
colors, with red linked to luck, and buyers are keen to get
vehicle identification numbers that contain numbers associated
with fortune, such as “8.”  “Chinese designers would be able to send us ideas for what
they would see as potentially being successful in China, and
then we would blend that into our Scandinavian-flavored
design,” Horbury said.  Curved Design  Horbury returned to Volvo in May of last year from  Ford
Motor Co. , where he most recently headed the North American
design team. He had been Volvo’s design chief between 1991 and
2002, during which time he gave a curved-shape to the previously
boxy models.  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford completed a sale of Volvo to
Geely in August for about $1.5 billion.  The next new Volvo with Horbury as sole design chief may
come around 2013, as he said it typically takes four years from
design start to production.  Volvo in recent months introduced the new S60 sedan and the
V60 station wagon, cars that maintain Scandinavian clean lines
while adding sportier features like the wagon’s sloping rear
windscreen. Volvo aims to sell 380,000 cars this year. In China,
it sold 24,489 cars through October, an increase of 45 percent
from the same period a year earlier.  Attention to Detail  Volvo needs to pay more attention to details such as how it
feels to turn the door handle or the smoothness of the air
vents, Horbury said. Audi “has been doing that for years now.
They’ve led the way in what I call perceived quality,” he said.  By late next year, Volvo plans to roll out test fleets of
its electric vehicle in China, California and European markets
including Belgium and the Netherlands, said Lennart Stegland,
head of Volvo’s special vehicles unit, in a separate interview.
Volvo started taking orders for its electric car last month in
Sweden, and will start deliveries in April, he said.  Volvo aims for its electric car and its plug-in hybrid,
which will be released in 2012, to start making a profit in two
to three years and together account for as much as 6 percent of
deliveries by 2020, Stegland said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  