-- Rev. Sun Myung Moon Buys Washington Times, Newspaper He Founded, for $1
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2010-11-03T01:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/washington-times-founder-moon-buys-newspaper-for-1-to-assume-liabilities.html
The  Washington Times  was rescued from
a possible shutdown by its founder, the  Reverend Sun Myung Moon ,
who agreed to assume debts accumulated by the newspaper under
his son’s control.  A group operating on behalf of Moon, leader of the
Unification Church, paid $1 for the newspaper and agreed to
assume its liabilities, the Washington Times said today on its
website.  The sale ends the threat that the newspaper, which
successfully fought an effort to force it into bankruptcy, will
be closed. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  S. Martin Teel Jr.  dismissed an
involuntary petition against  Washington Times LLC  on Oct. 29,
after its lawyers told the court that a pending sale would
provide $3.1 million in cash to pay creditors.  The Washington Times struggled to pay its bills amid
declining circulation, management changes and the withdrawal of
prior financial support from Moon. That support will resume, the
newspaper said, citing Douglas D.M. Joo, who spoke for the five-
member board that will oversee the publication.  Moon’s oldest living son, Preston Moon, took control of the
newspaper four years ago, the Washington Post reported today.
Three executives he had fired will return, the Post said. They
are, according to that newspaper, Joo, who was chairman;  Thomas McDevitt , the former president and publisher; and  Keith Cooperrider , who was finance chief.  Involuntary Petition  The involuntary bankruptcy petition was filed against the
newspaper by Richard A. Steinbronn, a fired officer of an
affiliate who claimed the company owed two other affiliates
$2 million and therefore should be under court protection. The
proposed sale was disclosed on Oct. 25 in court papers seeking
dismissal of Steinbronn’s petition.  Steinbronn, a former director of Times Aerospace
International LLC, said in the filing he was “wrongfully
terminated from various positions in early 2009.”  The Washington Times’ daily circulation is 38,587 and it
employs 128 people, according to court filings. Readership has
fallen from last year, when circulation fell 17 percent to
67,148 in the six months ending 2009, according to the most
recent data available from the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
That compares with declines of 6.4 percent at the Washington
Post in the period, and 11 percent industrywide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Palazzo  in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story: Anthony
Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 