-- Wealthy Candidates Reap Poor Returns in U.S. Vote
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-11-03T15:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/wealthy-candidates-reap-poor-returns-in-u-s-voting-booths.html
Wealthy candidates spent more than
$500 million of their own money running for office this year.
They don’t have much to show for it.  Former  Hewlett-Packard Co . chairman  Carly Fiorina , former
 EBay Inc.  chief executive  Meg Whitman , and  World Wrestling
Entertainment Inc.  co-founder  Linda McMahon  were among the
losers in U.S. elections yesterday. Whitman failed in the
California governor’s race after contributing $141.6 million to
her  campaign , the largest personal expenditure for a race in
U.S. history.  “You can have all the money in the world, but you still
have to convince voters you’re the best candidate,” David
Levinthal, spokesman for Washington’s nonpartisan Center for
Responsive Politics, said in a telephone interview. “If you’ve
struggled to connect with them, your candidacy will struggle.”  Of the 58 self-funded candidates for federal offices this
year, defined as those giving at least $500,000 to their
campaigns, 30 lost in primaries or dropped out before Election
Day, according to  data  the center compiled. Those self-funded
Senate and House candidates spent at least $158.9 million
combined.  Candidates in state races gave themselves at least  $344.3
million  this year, according to Peter Quist, lead researcher at
the National Institute on Money in State Politics, a nonpartisan
 research  organization in Helena, Montana.  In Connecticut, McMahon gave her campaign $46.6 million in
donations and loans through Oct. 13, according to federal
records. Fiorina gave or loaned her campaign more than $5.5
million in the same period.  On the Street  Knocking on doors in South Trenton, New Jersey, Republican
 Scott Sipprelle , a former hedge-fund manager who gave $1 million
to his campaign for Congress, found that some voters weren’t
convinced he’d be their best advocate.  “If you work on Wall Street and come into the public
sector, and then go right back to Wall Street, who were you
really working for?” Gabino Gonzalez, a disabled Vietnam War
veteran, asked a few minutes after Sipprelle came to his door.
Sipprelle lost to six-term Democrat  Rush Holt .  Bipartisan Futility  Wealthy Democrats had as much trouble as Republicans.
Billionaire real-estate investor  Jeff Greene  lost the primary
for a U.S. Senate seat in Florida to Congressman  Kendrick Meek 
in August after spending $23.7 million of his own, according to
Center for Responsive Politics’ data.  Suzan DelBene , a former
 Microsoft Corp.  executive, lost her bid for a congressional seat
in Washington State after giving herself $2.28 million.  This year’s losers join  Ross Perot ,  Steve Forbes , and
 William Randolph Hearst  in the ranks of the rich who fumbled
bids for president, governor or Congress. Only five of the  20 
largest self-funded candidates in federal races over the past
two decades won, according to research from the Center for
Responsive Politics.  “If you raise $100,000 in $100 increments, you have 1,000
votes,” said Jennifer Steen, an Arizona State University
political scientist and the author of a book on self-financed
candidates. “If you write yourself a $100,000 check, you only
have one vote.”  An exception to the business-to-politics curse is  Michael Bloomberg , who won three campaigns for mayor of New York
spending a total of more than $265 million, according to the New
York City Campaign Finance  Board . The mayor is founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent company of Bloomberg
news.  Winners’ Circle  There were self-funded winners this year, too. In Florida,
former hospital industry executive  Rick Scott , Scott who
contributed $73.2 million to his campaign, defeated the state’s
chief financial officer,  Alex Sink , by less  than 2 percentage
points  to become the next governor.  Rick Snyder , a Republican former executive at Gateway
Computer Inc., became Michigan’s governor on a  platform  that
called for eliminating the state’s business tax in favor of a
flat 6 percent levy on corporate income.  In some cases, a candidate’s business experience became an
adversary’s weapon.  Barbara Boxer , a Democratic senator from
California, ran an ad featuring former Hewlett-Packard employees
who lost their jobs during Fiorina’s tenure.  McMahon, a Republican, tried to become a U.S. senator for
Connecticut in her first political campaign.  Starting at the Top  “The overwhelming majority of self-financed candidates
seek high office as their first foray,” said Steen. “They
don’t have a record, and they haven’t developed the political
skills, the network or the base of supporters other candidates
have.”  Had Whitman more experience, she might have been able to
sidestep a critical hurdle, said  Todd Gitlin , a professor of
journalism and sociology at Columbia University in New York.  Whitman was even with Brown until her former housekeeper,
Nicky Diaz Santillan, said in a Sept. 29 press conference that
the candidate knew she was in the country illegally and fired
her after deciding to run. Whitman denied the allegation to
little effect: Her support among Latinos, women and independent
voters fell, according to a Field Poll released Oct. 28.  “She fired her summarily,” Gitlin said in a telephone
interview. “That doesn’t play well with people hanging on to
jobs by their fingernails.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  