-- WellPoint Third-Quarter Earnings Increase as U.S. Considers Spending Rules
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-11-03T20:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/wellpoint-third-quarter-earnings-increase-as-u-s-considers-spending-rules.html
WellPoint Inc. , the biggest U.S.
health insurer by enrollment, raised its earnings forecast as
lower  medical costs  boosted third-quarter profit 1.2 percent.  Net income  rose to $739.1 million, or $1.84 a share, from
$730.2 million, or $1.53, a year earlier, Indianapolis-based
WellPoint said in a statement today. Excluding investment gains,
earnings of $1.74 a share beat the $1.59 average  estimate  of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  WellPoint rivals  UnitedHealth Group Inc. , Humana Inc.,
 Aetna Inc.  and  Cigna Corp.  beat earnings estimates in the past
month, as a jobless rate above 9 percent kept Americans from
spending on medical care. Profits may be unsustainable next
year, as the Obama administration introduces rules to make plans
spend at least 80 percent of premiums they collect on medical
care, said  Carl McDonald , a Citigroup Inc. analyst in New York.  Gains by the Republican Party in yesterday’s elections may
not slow Obama’s efforts because “for the next couple of years
Republicans can call a lot of hearings, and play around with the
budget, but there’s not much they can do that will have a real
impact on managed-care earnings in 2011 or 2012,” McDonald said
in a note to clients today.  Sales, Forecast  WellPoint said sales fell to $14.3 billion from $15.2
billion a year earlier. The company said full-year net income
will be at least $6.60 a share, higher than its prior forecast
of at least $6.30. That followed increased forecasts in the past
month by UnitedHealth, based in Minnetonka, Minnesota; Cigna,
based in Philadelphia; and Humana, of Louisville, Kentucky.  Aetna, based in Hartford, Connecticut, said today that
third-quarter net income jumped 52 percent to $497.6 million, or
$1.19 a share, from $326.2 million, or 73 cents, a year earlier.
Profit excluding some items was $1 a share, topping analyst
estimates of 67 cents. Aetna, the third-biggest U.S. insurer,
forecast net income of $3.60 a share for 2010, more than a
previous outlook of as much as $3.15.  WellPoint gained 30 cents to $56.05 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, adding to a 1.9 percent
increase yesterday. Aetna rose 87 cents, or 2.9 percent, to
$30.84, after rising less than a percent yesterday.  Both companies have fallen 13 percent since March 30, when
President  Barack Obama  signed Democrats’ health-care overhaul
into law.  Investment Gains  WellPoint and  Aetna  both said they benefitted from
investment gains and claims that came in lower than expected
earlier in the year, offsetting drops in medical enrollment.  Membership  in WellPoint’s health plans fell 1.1 percent to
33.5 million, the insurer said in its statement. The company
spent 83.8 percent of customer premiums on patient care, up from
81.1 percent, after scaling back a proposed rate increase in
California, WellPoint said.  Enrollment will increase “slightly” next year, WellPoint
Chief Executive Officer  Angela Braly  said on a conference call
today. She said the company expected the trimmed California
rates will lead to a $150 million loss this year in the
individual market in the state.  The Republican gains yesterday probably won’t derail the
medical-spending rules or other regulations growing out of
Democrats’ health-care overhaul, since they’ll be written by
Obama’s Department of Health and Human Services, said McDonald,
the Citigroup analyst.  Republican Possibilities  The Republicans may move to lower taxes on insurers
included in the law, after winning control of the U.S. House of
Representatives, said  Virginie Maisonneuve , head of global
equities at Schroder Investment Management, in an interview with
 Francine Lacqua  on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move.”  Political gridlock in Washington “will be beneficial” for
WellPoint, said Masionneuve, whose firm managed more than
430,000 shares in the insurer as of June 30. “They’ll continue
to be seen in a better light by investors.”  Aetna expects its health-plan membership to slip by as much
as 600,000 in the first quarter of next year, hurt by job and
benefit cuts among customers as well as “competitive pricing”
by rival insurers, Chief Financial Officer  Joseph Zubretsky  said
on a  conference call  with analysts.  Aetna raised rates this year after finding 2009’s prices
didn’t keep up with rising medical costs. The company is in the
midst of a two-year effort to adjust pricing, he said.  The company also expects federal regulators to maintain a
freeze on Aetna enrolling new customers in government-backed
Medicare plans for the elderly until after the program’s
enrollment period ends Nov. 15, said  Mark Bertolini , the
company’s president and incoming CEO. The suspension, imposed
after Aetna violated rules for Medicare prescription-drug plans,
may reduce  earnings  by 10 cents a share next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  