-- Wellspring Capital Raises $1.2 Billion for Fifth and Largest Buyout Fund
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-11-03T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/wellspring-capital-raises-1-2-billion-for-fifth-and-largest-buyout-fund.html
Wellspring Capital Management LLC,
the New York private-equity firm whose holdings include the
Checkers hamburger-restaurant chain, raised $1.2 billion for its
fifth and largest fund.  Wellspring Capital Partners V will stick with the New York-
based firm’s strategy of investing in transactions valued at $50
million to $2 billion, a segment known as the middle market, the
firm said today in a statement. Wellspring’s fourth fund,
completed in 2006, gathered $1 billion.  Private-equity firms are beginning to get money from
institutional investors as deal-making picks up after a three-
year drought triggered by the global credit crisis. Managers
announced buyouts valued at $46.5 billion in the third quarter,
the most since the fourth quarter of 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The opportunities exist, you just have to be patient, and
you have to be disciplined,” Wellspring managing partner  Greg Feldman  said in an interview. “You have to have an edge.”  Wellspring, founded in 1995, focuses mostly on companies in
industries such as restaurants, manufacturing and distribution
where it can earn returns by improving operations and hiring new
management, he said. Private-equity firms pool investor money to
take over companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt,
with the intention of selling them later for a profit.  Fund-raising has proved challenging as private-equity
managers wrestle with an estimated $461 billion in unspent
capital for buyouts, according to London-based researcher  Preqin
Ltd.  Firms raised $59 billion in 83 new funds during the third
quarter, the same amount of raised in the year-earlier period,
Preqin said.  Selective Investors  “It’s gradually improved, but it’s still very difficult,”
Feldman said. “Investors are being incredibly selective and
leaning toward not doing anything.”  Clients in the Wellspring’s fund include institutions in
the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan and Australia.  Wellspring earlier this year sold restaurant and
entertainment company Dave & Buster’s Inc. to Oak Hill Capital
Partners for $570 million. Wellspring, which bought the chain in
2006 for $375 million including assumed debt, added 10 locations
during its ownership.  Wellspring Capital Partners III, a 2002 fund, has delivered
average annual returns of 38 percent and returned 2.5 times
capital invested, as of the end of September, according to a
person with knowledge of the fund who asked not to be named
because the results are private.  Credit Suisse AG was the placement agent for the latest
Wellspring fund, and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison
LLP provided legal advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  