-- Wheat Futures Fall as Dollar Rebounds Before Fed Announcement on Stimulus
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-03T19:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/wheat-futures-fall-as-dollar-rebounds-before-fed-announcement-on-stimulus.html
Wheat futures fell for a fourth
straight session as the dollar gained before a Federal Reserve
decision today on economic stimulus.  The Fed plans a second round of monetary easing by buying
$600 billion in long-term securities, the central bank said
today after grains trading closed in Chicago. The  dollar 
rebounded from a two-week low against a basket of six competing
currencies, and fluctuated after the Fed statement. A stronger
dollar makes U.S. commodities less appealing for importers.  Wheat futures fell as “the dollar battled its way back,”
said  Shawn McCambridge , the senior grain analyst for Prudential
Bache Commodities LLC. The Fed statement “seems like it’s
fallen into place with meeting expectations,” spurring
“volatility” in the U.S. currency, he said.  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 4 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $6.9025 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The price has fallen 3.9 percent since
Oct. 28. The grain still has climbed 44 percent since the end of
June as drought harmed crops in Russia.  Twenty-nine economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
the Fed report expected that the central bank would buy at least
$500 billion in bonds. The dollar rose as much as 0.3 percent
and fell as much as 0.7 percent.  Rain Forecast  Newly planted hard-red winter-wheat areas in the Great
Plains may receive as much as 0.4 inch (1 centimeter) of rain
starting on Nov. 9, and parts of the Midwest may get up to 0.8
inch, according to a report today from World Weather Inc.  Much of Kansas, the largest winter-wheat state, Oklahoma
and western Colorado have had less than half of normal  rainfall 
in the past 30 days, according to the National Weather Service.
Wheat yields may not be damaged if enough rain comes after
plants emerge from dormancy in April and May, said  Alan Brugler ,
the president of Brugler Marketing & Management LLC.  “We know that fall crop-condition ratings don’t have a
real good correlation to final yields in winter wheat,” Brugler
said from Omaha, Nebraska. “You prefer to have big stands in
the fall so you don’t have to rely on spring weather as much.
You can fret about it, but really you can’t bet on it.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 