-- Wind Telecom Said to Offer 3.4 Billion-Euro Loan to Investors
-- B y   K a t e   H a y w o o d   a n d   I s a b e l l   W i t t
-- 2010-11-03T12:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/wind-telecom-said-to-offer-3-4-billion-euro-loan-to-investors.html
Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA , the
Italian mobile-phone operator owned by Egyptian billionaire
 Naguib Sawiris , plans to raise about 3.4 billion euros ($4.8
billion) of loans to refinance senior debt, according to three
people familiar with the deal.  Wind is holding a meeting for prospective lenders Nov. 5 in
London to market the transaction, said the people, who declined
to be identified because terms are private. The Milan-based
company has 4.8 billion euros of loans due by May 2014,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The new facility includes two term loans maturing in 2016
and 2017, the people said. There’s also a revolving credit line
for 400 million euros. Money in a revolving credit can be
borrowed again once it’s been repaid; in a term loan it can’t.  The loans will pay initial interest at 4 to 4.5 percentage
points over benchmark rates, the people said.  Piero di Primio, a Wind spokesman in Rome, declined to
comment.  Wind also plans to sell new high-yield bonds as part of the
refinancing, the people said. Sawiris raised 9.3 billion euros
of high-yield loans and bonds in May 2005 to fund his takeover
of Wind in what was then Europe’s biggest debt-financed buyout.  Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
are among lenders hired to underwrite the loans and bonds, said
the people.  The refinancing comes as Sawiris plans to merge Wind’s
parent company, Weather Investments SpA, with VimpelCom Ltd. The
Russian mobile-phone operator will acquire all of Wind under the
agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London on 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London on 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 Fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  