-- Woman Who Stabbed U.K. Lawmaker After 2010 Election Is Sentenced to Life
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-11-03T13:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/woman-who-stabbed-u-k-lawmaker-over-iraq-war-sentenced-to-life-in-prison.html
A woman who stabbed U.K. lawmaker
 Stephen Timms  earlier this year in revenge for his support of
the war in Iraq was sentenced to life in prison.  Roshonara Choudhry, 21, was sentenced at a hearing at the
 Old Bailey  criminal court in London today after being convicted
yesterday of one count of attempted murder and two counts of
possessing an offensive weapon. She must serve at least 15 years
of her sentence, including the time she has already been jailed.  “You said it was Islamic teaching that to fight and die
for your religion was the highest honor,” Justice  Jeremy Cooke 
told Choudhry. There is “a real risk that, if released, you
might take similar action again.”  Choudhry stabbed Timms in the stomach with a three-inch-
long kitchen knife at a  community center  in east London where he
was meeting constituents, prosecutor William Boyce said during
the trial this week. The attack took place on May 14. She
managed to stab Timms twice before a security guard restrained
her, Boyce said. The attack was recorded by security cameras.  Members of parliament meeting constituents is “one of the
cornerstones of our democracy,” Simon Clements, the head of the
Crown Prosecution Service Special Crime Division, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Roshonara Choudhry decided against any
peaceful discussion of issues that concerned her and instead
seized an opportunity to attack a man she had never met and who
had never wished her any harm.”  A Second Knife  Choudhry told police she intended to keep stabbing Timms, a
Labour member of parliament and a former Treasury minister,
until someone stopped her. She brought a second knife in case
the first one broke, Boyce said.  The stab wounds lacerated Timms’ liver and punctured his
stomach-lining, according to  Nigel Tai , the surgeon that treated
Timms. While the injuries weren’t “immediately life
threatening,” Timms could have died from infection without
surgery, he told the court.  “I’m glad it’s all over. It was a very unpleasant
experience,” Timms said in a statement. “I feel for her family.
They’ve gone through an appalling ordeal. All their hopes for
her are completely dashed.”  Choudhry didn’t attend her trial because she refused to
recognize the authority of the court. She also declined to offer
any defense, according to her lawyer  Jeremy Dein .  Downloaded Teachings  Dein asked for a sentence of 20 years at the hearing today,
saying Choudhry didn’t cause Timms serious harm and had only
recently come to agree with teachings she downloaded from the
Internet inciting jihad against non-Muslims.  “The court is dealing with a young lady who in a matter of
weeks, if not days, earlier was in a different state of mind,”
Dein said. “The circumstances of the offense do not render Ms.
Choudhry’s offense as one of the most serious of its kind.”  Choudhry had been attending  Kings College  in London until
“only weeks before” the crime, the judge said. In a letter to
her mother found on her computer, Choudhry said she hated living
in Britain and couldn’t live in a non-Muslim country, Cooke
said.  “You felt as though you had done what you had planned to
do,” Cooke said. “You told police it was worth it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 