-- China Needs to Raise Interest Rates More to Cool Prices, World Bank Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-03T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/world-bank-says-china-needs-to-raise-rates-further-boosts-gdp-forecasts.html
The World Bank said China should
raise interest rates and allow a stronger yuan to damp inflation,
along with guarding against a surfeit of capital inflows.  “Further normalization of the macroeconomic stance is
needed to guard against macro risks,” the  World Bank  said in a
periodic report on the Chinese economy released today, citing
asset-price gains, bad loans and “strained” local-government
finances. “Interest rates will need to rise further.”  Funds pouring into Asia because of liquidity injections by
central banks in developed countries shouldn’t deter China from
raising rates, the lender said. China’s controls over capital
movements have proven effective so far and officials can tighten
regulations and use exchange-rate flexibility to limit inflows,
the report said.  The Washington-based lender also said China’s economic
prospects remain “sound,” boosting its estimate for the
nation’s growth this year to 10 percent from a June forecast of
9.5 percent. Gross domestic product will expand 8.7 percent in
2011, compared with 8.5 percent in a previous estimate, it said
in the report released in Beijing.  A stronger currency reduces inflation pressures and helps
to rebalance China’s economy toward services and consumption and
away from industry and investment, the lender said.  The yuan appreciated 2.3 percent against the dollar between
mid June and early November, the World Bank said. However, since
the dollar weakened substantially against many currencies, the
yuan depreciated “in nominal effective terms,” it said.  Regional Standout  China has lagged behind some Asian counterparts in raising
interest rates from crisis levels. Last month’s  increase  in the
benchmark one-year lending rate to 5.56 percent was the first
since December 2007. In contrast, India yesterday raised rates
for the sixth time this year.  Property-market speculation and inflation expectations were
the targets of the rate increase, the People’s Bank of China
said late yesterday. Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent in
September, the most in almost two years.  Property prices are “unlikely to be contained for long”
because of rapid urbanization, income growth and low interest
rates, the development bank said today.  The World Bank also said that China’s trade and current-
account surpluses are rising, a shift from their slide during
the financial crisis.  Reserves Climb  “A lack of success in rebalancing China’s growth pattern
would be among the more serious medium-term risks for China and
the world economy,” the bank said. The bank forecasts Chinese
foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest, to top $3
trillion next year, from $2.65 trillion in September.  Wider Chinese surpluses could add to global trade and
currency tensions. Group of 20 Finance ministers and central
bankers ended talks in South Korea last month foreswearing
“competitive devaluation” to calm fears of a trade war
stemming from using cheaper currencies to spur growth.  “The global imbalances and the tensions they create cast a
shadow over the global outlook,” the World Bank said.  Inflation pressures remain muted for now, the report
indicated.  “Pushed up by higher food prices, inflation may stay about
the 3 percent target for a while,” the World Bank said. “It is
unlikely to escalate as core inflation remains in check.”  -Chinmei Sung in Taipei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Chris Anstey  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  