-- Hyatt Profit Rises as Demand for High-End Hotels Increases
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-11-03T21:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/hyatt-third-quarter-profit-rises-as-demand-for-high-end-hotels-increases.html
Hyatt Hotels Corp. , the Pritzker
family chain that raised $1.09 billion in an initial public
offering last year, said third-quarter earnings rose as demand
from business travelers recovered.  Net income increased to $30 million, or 17 cents a share,
from $5 million, or 3 cents, a year earlier, the Chicago-based
company said in a statement today. Revenue climbed to $879
million from $806 million.  “Higher levels of corporate and group business resulted in
improved performance at convention and business hotels in
particular,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hoplamazian  said in
the statement. “International hotels continued to perform well
as occupancies and rates increased in several regions.”  The U.S. lodging industry is recovering after last year’s
recession, led by upscale hotels such as Hyatt’s brands.
Occupancy at U.S. chain hotels with the costliest rooms rose to
67 percent this year through August from 62 percent a year
earlier, according to  Smith Travel Research Inc . That compares
with occupancies of 65 percent across all hotel categories in
the top 25 U.S. markets in the first eight months of 2010.  “Domestically, Hyatt is benefiting from a recovery in the
high-end sector,”  Patrick Scholes , a New York-based analyst
with FBR Capital Markets, said in an interview before the
report. “Internationally, Hyatt is particularly benefiting from
their exposure to Asia and especially China.”  Revpar Rises  Hyatt’s revenue per available room, or revpar, for hotels
owned or leased for at least a year increased 6.9 percent.
Revpar climbed 7.5 percent at full-service hotels in North
America and 17 percent internationally.  The company, which plans to boost its New York City
presence from one hotel now to six next year, is likely to sell
three to five properties over the next few months to raise money
for other projects, Hoplamazian said today during a call with
analysts and investors.  Hyatt rose 54 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $41.50 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, bringing the
stock’s gain for this year to 39 percent.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. , owner of luxury
brands including the St. Regis and W chains, last week reported
a third-quarter loss after a $55 million charge related mainly
to the sale of a hotel. Income from continuing operations,
excluding one-time items, climbed to $47 million, or 25 cents a
share, from $25 million, or 14 cents. That beat projections of
22 cents, the average estimate of 23 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Marriott International Inc. , the largest U.S. hotel chain,
on Oct. 7 posted a third-quarter profit as a pickup in business
and leisure travel allowed the hotelier to increase room rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 