-- Yellowstone Club Resort's Bankruptcy Reorganization Overturned on Appeal
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2010-11-04T00:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/yellowstone-club-resort-s-bankruptcy-reorganization-overturned-on-appeal.html
Part of Yellowstone Club’s bankruptcy
reorganization was overturned by a judge because the ski resort
for millionaires settled a lawsuit against  Credit Suisse Group
AG  without giving creditors a chance to object.  In an order issued yesterday, U.S. District Judge  Sam E. Haddon  in Butte, Montana, invalidated the settlement and sent it
back to a bankruptcy judge for reconsideration. That settlement
ended court battles among Credit Suisse, lower-ranking creditors
and CrossHarbor Capital Partners LLC, the Boston-based private-
equity firm that bought the resort out of bankruptcy.  Attorneys on both sides of the appeal disagreed about what
the ruling will mean for Credit Suisse and the other creditors
and investors involved in the bankruptcy case.  “They are between a rock and a hard place,” Michael J.
Flynn, a lawyer for the club’s former owner, said today in a
phone interview, referring to Credit Suisse. Flynn said the
ruling means the bank can be sued by his client, Yellowstone co-
founder  Tim Blixseth , and noteholders who lost money on their
investment in the club.  Yellowstone Club is a private ski resort in Montana whose
members included Chairman  Bill Gates  and hotelier  Barry Sternlicht , along with financiers and hedge-fund managers,
according to court records.  $375 Million Loan  Blixseth, 60, and his former wife,  Edra Blixseth , founded
the resort in 2000, with members paying $205 million for 72
properties in 2005 alone. The couple took cash for their
personal use from a $375 million loan arranged by Credit Suisse
in 2005, according to a court ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Ralph Kirscher . Finances at the club deteriorated thereafter,
Kirscher wrote.  The club sought protection from creditors in November 2008
as real estate sales slowed.  Under the terms of the settlement with Credit Suisse, the
bank was given legal immunity for any actions it took related to
the bankruptcy.  Duncan King , a Credit Suisse spokesman, declined
to comment.  The bank wasn’t a party to the appeal, which was filed by
Blixseth.  Andy Patten, a lawyer for the club, said the legal errors
related to the approval of the reorganization plan are limited
and shouldn’t affect the ownership of the resort or its
creditors.  The ruling “overturns the settlement with  Credit Suisse 
purely on procedural grounds, which can be easily rectified,”
Patten said in a phone interview.  Trust Target  Tim Blixseth became a target of a trust set up for
Yellowstone’s creditors under the reorganization plan.  He was ordered to pay $40 million to the club’s creditors
under a September ruling by Kirscher. That judgment should be
vacated, Flynn said.  “We’re taking the position that anything to do with the
liquidating trust is now moot and null and void,” Blixseth said
in an interview.  The ruling salvages his reputation, he said.  “For the last two years of my life, I have endured attacks
on me in business and personally for a bankruptcy that now has
been overturned,” Blixseth said.  “Now they have to put the toothpaste back in the tube.”  The case is In re Yellowstone Mountain Club LLC, 08-61570,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Montana (Butte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Effinger  in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 