-- Yemen Plans Tighter Security, Investigates Pipeline Blast, Minister Says
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-11-03T12:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/yemen-plans-tighter-security-investigates-pipeline-blast-minister-says.html
Yemen plans to tighten security for
energy companies operating within its borders as it investigates
the cause of an explosion at a crude pipeline yesterday, the
country’s oil minister said.  “We are working as a government on a plan to protect all
oil companies, and I believe the companies are satisfied with
what we’ve done already,” Amir al-Aidarous said in Abu Dhabi
today. “This is not Afghanistan. This is Yemen.”  Yemen is cooperating on security procedures with the U.S.,
Saudi Arabia and European states, al-Aidarous said. Yemeni
officials haven’t determined what caused the pipeline explosion,
he said. Agence France-Presse cited unnamed security officials
as blaming it on al-Qaeda militants.  The blast occurred in the same week that authorities in
London and Dubai intercepted two U.S.-bound packages sent from
Yemen as air cargo and found them to contain explosives.  Yemen, the poorest Arab country, is battling al-Qaeda
militants and northern separatists as it tries to maintain
output of crude oil and export liquefied natural gas. Oil
accounts for 27 percent of the country’s gross domestic product
and 90 percent of its exports, according to the World Bank.  Yesterday’s explosion in Shabwa province caused a
“minimal” leak from the pipeline, Kelvin Han, a spokesman for
 Korea National Oil Corp. , said today. Korea National operates
the country’s  Block 4  oil exploration region.  Previous Explosion  Yemen LNG Co., a $4.5 billion gas liquefaction company that
started operating last year, said in September that its natural-
gas pipeline suffered “minor” damage after being sabotaged in
a separate incident. Total SA of France is Yemen LNG’s biggest
shareholder.  Yemen’s oil production fell below 300,000 barrels a day
last year from as much as 440,000 barrels a day in 2001,
according to U .S. Energy Department statistics . The government
offered companies rights to develop 10 onshore and offshore oil
and gas blocks on Oct. 18, after having awarded concessions to
Total, DNO International ASA of Norway and Austria’s OMV AG
earlier in the month.  Oil revenue this year “won’t be much different from last
year,” Aidarous said today. “We are focusing on exploration
now, and we believe through putting new blocks in front of
interested companies, in coming years there will be major
exploration in Yemen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at   rtuttle@bloomberg.net  