-- Yield Gap Grows on Fernandez, Chavez Outlook: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-03T21:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/yield-gap-grows-on-chances-fernandez-exits-chavez-stays-argentina-credit.html
The prospect of a new government in
Argentina is driving its  bond yields  relative to Venezuela to
the lowest level in more than a decade.  Argentine  dollar bonds yielded 606 basis points, or 6.06
percentage points, less than Venezuelan  debt  on Oct. 29, the
biggest gap since March 1999, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index. Argentina has the seventh-highest bond
yields among the 41 countries tracked by the index.  Investors are betting an opposition candidate will unseat
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  next year and
improve the credibility of inflation data. They are less
confident about the chances of a change in government in
Venezuela, where President  Hugo Chavez  has taken over oil,
cement and metals companies. Argentine bonds rallied last week
on speculation the death of  Nestor Kirchner , Fernandez’s late
husband and predecessor, will strengthen the opposition.  “These are two countries that have been mismanaged, one is
coming back from the brink with prospects for reversal and the
other is heading towards deeper crisis,” said  Siobhan Morden ,
head of Latin America strategy at RBS Securities Inc. in
Stamford, Connecticut. “In the case of Venezuela, policy
mismanagement could eventually lead to economic distress. The
economic distress will be more fallout from political crisis and
the critical event risk to focus on is presidential elections in
2012.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentina bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries shrank 51 basis points after
Kirchner’s death on Oct. 27, leaving it down 77 for the week to
543, according to JPMorgan. Venezuela’s yield spread held at
1,148 last week. The gap between Argentina and Venezuela has
surged from 98 on Jan. 12.  Inflation Data  Kirchner, who said in July that either he or Fernandez
would run for president next year, sparked speculation the
Argentine government was underreporting inflation in 2007, when
he changed personnel at the agency that measures inflation. The
government said  consumer prices  rose 11.1 percent in September
from a year earlier.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc estimate
inflation is closer to 25 percent.  Fernandez says the government data is accurate.  Chavez, an ally of Kirchner and Fernandez, will be able to
run for president in December 2012 after he changed the
constitution last year to make himself eligible for another six-
year term. Venezuela bought $8.4 billion of Argentine debt from
2005 to 2008 to help the country rebound from its record default
in 2001.  Takeovers  Chavez, who is facing international arbitration cases
against Exxon Mobil Corp., ConocoPhillips and Cemex SAB over
investment disputes, nationalized the local units of French
retailer Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA, Mexican food maker Gruma
SAB and U.S. glass maker Owens-Illinois Inc. this year.  “There’s a big differential between the possible politics
ahead in Argentina, the openings for Cristina Fernandez to
modify something or a next presidential stand-in to completely
change the direction of economic policy,” said  Enrique Alvarez ,
head of Latin America fixed-income research at IDEAglobal in New
York. “That contrasts markedly with Venezuela.”  The peso gained 0.1 percent to 3.9542 per U.S. dollar at
5:10 p.m. New York time. It’s down 3.9 percent this year.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy gained 0.15 cent to 13.30 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The economy may grow as much as 9 percent
this year, the fastest pace in five years, the central bank said
last week. Rising commodity prices are helping propel the
expansion.  Oil Production  By contrast, the Venezuelan government forecast in October
the economy may shrink 2.5 percent this year after contracting
3.3 percent in 2009. A drop in oil production and a decline in
imports as a result of tighter foreign-exchange restrictions
have stifled manufacturing. Chavez shuttered the unregulated
currency market in May.  The divergent growth prospects for Argentina and Venezuela
have also pushed the yield spread between the countries wider,
said  Jeremy Brewin , who helps manage $2.4 billion of emerging-
market assets, including Argentine and Venezuelan dollar-
denominated debt, with Aviva Investors in London. The yield gap
is also widening as Venezuela steps up debt issuance while
Argentina refrains from tapping debt markets, he said.  The Venezuelan government and Petroleos de Venezuela SA,
the country’s state oil company, have sold $7.6 billion of bonds
this year. They may sell up to $5 billion of bonds every three
months, Brewin said. Argentina hasn’t sold debt in overseas
markets since 2001.  ‘Outcomes’  Investors betting on a change in government may be
disappointed as a new president may not necessarily reverse
policies put in place by Kirchner and Fernandez, according to
Brewin.  “We don’t know yet what the outcomes of this potential
change are,” he said. “We don’t know because whoever is going
to be the competition for Cristina Kirchner may not have the
same agenda as we do in the market of hoping for better things
to come. Because of the uncertainty the question is should the
market have priced so positively the outcome of a new regime.”  Support for Fernandez rose 20 percentage points to 68.5
percent in a survey taken the day after the death of her
husband, according to pollster Ibarometro. The phone poll of
1,000 people in greater Buenos Aires had a margin of error of
3.1 percentage points.  The rise in Fernandez’s approval rating is likely due to
increased sympathy from Argentines following Kirchner’s death
and will probably slide over the next couple of months, said
Jose Raul Perales, a senior associate at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars in Washington.  “It is to be expected that some of those numbers will fall
down,” he said.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps lost 5 basis points
today to 632, according to data provider CMA. Similar contracts
for Venezuela traded at 1063.  “It’s been clearly a divergence trend in credit risk,”
RBS’ Morden said. “You could simplify it by saying deepening
policy mismanagement in Venezuela versus a more centrist policy
shift in Argentina.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  