-- Hyundai, Honda Lead Asian Automakers' U.S. October Sales Gains
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-11-03T23:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/hyundai-honda-lead-asian-automakers-u-s-sales-gains-as-buyers-return.html
Hyundai Motor Co. ,  Honda Motor Co. 
and  Nissan Motor Co.  led U.S. sales gains for Asian carmakers as
higher retail demand made October the best month for deliveries
in more than a year.  Toyota Motor Corp.  reported a decline.  Honda and Nissan both had 16 percent increases for the
month, while Seoul-based Hyundai reported a 38 percent gain.
Toyota’s sales fell 4.4 percent as demand shifted to light
trucks from cars, such as its Camry and Corolla models, said  Bob Carter , the company’s U.S. group vice president.  “Consumers who have a job are feeling a little bit better
and not fearing every Friday anymore,” said  Rebecca Lindland ,
an analyst at researcher IHS Automotive in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “They feel like the worst is over and they’re
starting to trickle back into showrooms.”  Industrywide light-vehicle sales rose to a 12.3 million
annual rate in October, researcher Autodata Corp. said
yesterday. That’s the fastest since the U.S. government’s “cash
for clunkers” incentive program lifted the pace to 14.2 million
in August 2009. The average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg was for the rate to reach 11.9 million last month.  Japanese and South Korean brands raised sales a combined 12
percent, less than the industry’s 13 percent increase, according
to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata. Sales to
individual retail buyers, rather than business and commercial
fleets, were notably stronger last month, Toyota’s Carter said.  “Most of the industry growth has been on the fleet side of
the business,” Carter said on a conference call yesterday.
“This is the first month that we’ve seen retail perform better
than fleet.”  Fleet Sales  Sales to fleets were at least 21 percent of U.S. volume
through September, according to industry forecaster J.D. Power &
Associates. J.D. Power hasn’t yet calculated the fleet sales
rate through October, said  John Tews , a company spokesman.  U.S. automakers General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co. and
Chrysler Group LLC have been the main beneficiaries of fleet
demand this year. GM’s sales last month rose 3.5 percent, Ford’s
grew 15 percent and Chrysler had a 37 percent increase.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, sold 145,474 Toyota,
Lexus and Scion brand vehicles last month, down from 152,165 a
year earlier. Gains were strongest for models including
Highlander, 4Runner and FJ Cruiser sport-utility vehicles, while
Yaris, Camry and Corolla cars and Prius hybrids all posted
declines.  Luxury Autos  Lexus expanded its lead in U.S. luxury auto sales over
Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW
brand. Lexus sales grew 8.1 percent to 21,091 vehicles, aided by
increased incentives.  Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota’s market share dropped 2.9
percentage points from a year ago to 15.3 percent, according to
Autodata.  Honda, based in Tokyo, boosted deliveries of Honda and
Acura brand autos to 98,811 units from 85,502. Gains came from
the new Odyssey minivan, sales of which rose 47 percent from a
year ago. The company is also being helped by increased use of
low-cost leases, said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry
trends for Santa Monica, California-based TrueCar.com.  “Honda’s got a good lineup for current market conditions
and has some very attractive lease deals,” Toprak said. “They
have also been more aggressive on overall incentives.”  Improved retail demand may have benefited Honda more than
competitors because it’s among the least reliant on fleet sales
in the U.S. This year, only about 3 percent of Honda’s volume
went to fleets, spokesman Jon Fitzsimmons said.  Resale Values  “On a retail basis, our sales are on par with or exceed
the best of the competition,” said  Kurt Antonius , a spokesman
for Honda’s U.S. unit. “Fleet sales are simply not part of our
sales strategy because it can undermine resale values.”  Honda’s market share was 10.4 percent last month, up 0.2
percentage point from a year ago, according to Autodata.  Nissan said it sold 69,773 Nissan and Infiniti vehicles, up
from 60,115 a year ago. The Yokohama, Japan-based company
boosted sales of Altima sedans 28 percent and benefited from the
addition of the compact Juke crossover vehicle.  Industry sales will likely end up at about 12 million units
this year, lower than Nissan’s initial expectation of about 12.2
million,  Al Castignetti , vice president of North American sales
for Nissan, said in an interview.  “We’re probably going to stay at the same pace, unless
Congress does something to ease the minds of the consumer” in
the year’s final months, Castignetti said.  Hyundai, South Korea’s largest automaker, reported on Nov.
2 a 38 percent sales increase, and its affiliate  Kia Motors
Corp.  had a 39 percent gain.  Japan’s  Mazda Motor Corp.  reported a 20 percent increase
and sales for Subaru, the auto brand of Toyota affiliate  Fuji
Heavy Industries Ltd. , grew 25 percent. Mitsubishi Motors
Corp.’s sales rose 32 percent and Suzuki Motor Corp.’s grew 17
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  