-- Zain Shareholder, Etisalat Sign Initial Accord on $12 Billion Stake Deal
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-03T08:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/zain-shareholder-etisalat-sign-deal-to-start-due-diligence-on-stake-sale.html
Shareholders in  Zain , Kuwait’s
biggest phone operator, signed a preliminary agreement today to
sell 46 percent of the company to Etisalat in a deal valued at
about $12 billion.  The accord was between Al-Khair, a company owned by
Kuwait’s Kharafi Group, which is leading the stake sale, and
 Emirates Telecommunications Corp. , or Etisalat as the United
Arab Emirates’ largest phone company is known, the Kharafi-
controled National Investments Co. said in a statement to the
Kuwait bourse.  “Due diligence will begin in accordance with rules and
regulations applicable by the company, and sale procedures will
be executed in accordance with rules and regulations of the
Kuwait Stock Exchange,” according to the statement.  Abu Dhabi-based Etisalat said on Sept. 30 it offered 1.7
Kuwaiti dinars ($6.1) a share for the stake in Mobile
Telecommunications Co., or Zain as the Kuwaiti company is known.
On the basis of 4.3 billion Zain shares outstanding, the stake
is valued at current exchange rates at about $12 billion.  The deal would give Etisalat majority control of Zain and
extend its reach in the Middle East, where Zain operates in
countries from Kuwait and Iraq to Bahrain. Etisalat offers
telecommunications services in 18 countries in the Middle East,
Africa and Asia, counting more than 100 million customers,
according to its website. The seven emirates of the U.A.E make
up about 86 percent of Etisalat’s sales.  Kharafi Group is Zain’s second- largest shareholder  after
the Kuwait Investment Authority, the country’s sovereign wealth
fund. Zain’s board of directors are likely to meet and advise
its management of the actions necessary to go forward, a company
spokesman said, declining to be named in line with internal
policy.  Etisalat had 11.3 billion dirhams ($3.08 billion) of cash
at the end of last year, earnings statements show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  