-- Zambia's Central Bank to Intervene on `Steep' Kwacha Moves, Inflation Low
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-11-03T11:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/zambian-kwacha-stable-food-inflation-has-been-good-central-bank-says.html
Zambia’s central bank will only
intervene in the foreign-exchange market if the kwacha moves
excessively,  Bank of Zambia  Deputy Governor Tukiya Kankasa-
Mabula said.  The currency has been “very stable” this year, Kankasa-
Mabula said in an interview in Sudan’s capital, Khartoum, today.
The central bank’s policy is to let the market set the kwacha’s
level, she said.  “We haven’t really seen very sharp changes in the rate,”
Kankasa-Mabula said. “So, we are in the market on either side
depending on what we need to do. But we have not seen very steep
appreciation or very steep decline.”  An appreciation of the kwacha since June, partly due to a
higher copper price, has helped contain inflation in Zambia,
Africa’s biggest producer of the metal. The price of copper has
increased 39 percent since June. Annual inflation slowed to 7.3
percent in October, according to the Central Statistical Office.  The currency has strengthened 11 percent against the dollar
since June 8, erasing losses over the first six months of the
year. It was at 4,670 per dollar at 12.30 p.m. in Lusaka.  Food inflation is under control and the central bank is
expecting another bumper crop harvest next year, Kankasa-Mabula
said. The economy will probably expand by more than 6 percent
this year, while the central bank aims to maintain “low
levels” of inflation at no more than 7 percent or 8 percent,
she said.  Zambia’s economy will expand 6.6 percent this year and 6.4
percent in 2011 on higher production of copper and a good
harvest, Finance Minister  Situmbeko Musokotwane  said on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  