-- `Mild Thing' John Daly Among Leaders in First Round of Golf's British Open
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-15T13:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/-mild-thing-john-daly-among-leaders-in-british-open-golf-s-first-round.html

          
          
             John Daly  found himself in a
unfamiliar place after a 6-under-par 66 put him among the
leaders in the first round of the British Open at St. Andrews.  
 “I think this is the first time I’ve seen the media center
at the British Open since 1995,” Daly said at a news
conference. “It’s a good feeling.”  
 Daly recorded his best round at the golf tournament since
winning at St. Andrews 15 years ago. He began with two birdies
and reached 7-under before a bogey on the par-4 17th hole.  
 He’s tied for second place, three shots behind Northern
Ireland’s  Rory McIlroy , who matched the tournament record with a
63 today.  
 Daly said St. Andrews is a special place for him and his
favorite course. Always a crowd-pleaser, his supporters grew as
the round went on, yelling encouragement with each long drive
and putt made.  
 A huge American flag hung out the window of a house
alongside the 18th hole and two men held signs saying “John
Daly Living Legend” and “John Daly for President.”  
 “He’s a role model,” one of them shouted as the 44-year-
old made his way to the final green.  
 Daly hasn’t always been the perfect role model during his
career. Known as a “Wild Thing,” he’s battled injuries,
alcohol and weight problems, walked off courses during
tournaments and been suspended numerous times by the PGA Tour.  
 In recent years he’s become more recognized for the
outlandish pants he wears on the course than for results. He
said he’s changing his lifestyle by giving up drinking and
having gastric band surgery in February 2009.  
 Daly said he hasn’t had a drink since he had the band put
in and has weighed between 190 and 195 pounds since October. In
his eyes that makes him more of a “Mild Thing” these days.  
 “I’m 44 years old,” he said. “I’ve never run from my
mistakes. You know, it’s how you come back. For me, I’m on a
comeback.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  at St. Andrews through the London sports desk at
   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        