-- Afghanistan Wants Taliban Names Removed From UN List in Reconciliation Bid
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-07-15T22:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/afghanistan-wants-taliban-names-removed-from-un-list-in-reconciliation-bid.html

          
          
             Afghanistan’s government,
encouraging reconciliation with the Taliban, is seeking the
removal of 10 militants from a  United Nations  blacklist and
welcoming the naming of a Canadian judge to review cases.  
 Zahir Tanin , Afghanistan’s ambassador to the UN, said the
10 names were given last week to the Security Council committee
that implements sanctions imposed in 1999 on the Taliban and al-
Qaeda. He said Judge Kimberly Prost’s appointment to the new
position of committee “ombudsperson” should facilitate the
unanimity needed to remove names.  
 “Any help for all members of the Security Council to have
less dispute and more unity is welcome,” Tanin said in an
interview. “A psychological and political obstacle to
reconciliation is removed any time you delist people who are
ready to join the peace process.”  
 U.S., Afghan and allied forces are trying to degrade the
Taliban militia in its southern Afghanistan stronghold while
building up the central government’s ability to secure the
country. Tanin said a “political solution” was essential to
ending the conflict, which began in 2001 when the U.S. toppled
the Taliban regime.  
 A consensus was reached last month among delegates to a
gathering in Kabul of more than 1,600 tribal elders and local
leaders that the names of Taliban officials should be removed
from the UN and U.S. blacklists. A total of 137 Taliban
loyalists are barred by the UN from traveling or accessing
financial assets abroad.  
 UN Review  
 The UN  Security Council  is reviewing all of the 488 names
on the sanctions list, which includes suspected al-Qaeda
figures, because some are dead, already part of the Afghan
government, or qualified for removal by renouncing violence and
pledging allegiance to the country’s constitution. The process,
including consideration of the 10 Taliban members submitted last
week, is scheduled to be finished by July 31.  
 Prost, who has served as a judge of the International
Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia since 2006, said she
will analyze appeals submitted by persons on the list. Her
assessment will “clearly weigh a great deal” with the
committee, Ambassador Thomas Mayr-Harting of Austria, chairman
of the panel, told reporters.  
 Tanin and Mayr-Harting declined to identify the 10
individuals that Afghanistan seeks to delete from the terror
list.  
 “Our review coincides with important political
developments within Afghanistan,” Mayr-Harting said.  
 Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN, issued a
statement saying Prost’s appointment was an “important step to
improve the transparency” of the committee and “make it an
even stronger and more effective counter-terrorism tool.”  
 Richard Holbrooke , the U.S. envoy to Afghanistan and
Pakistan, told reporters in Washington on July 14 that the Obama
administration has agreed to delist Taliban and al-Qaeda on
“case-by-case basis.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        