-- Magnitogorsk Seeking More Self-Sufficiency in Raw Materials, Fedonin Says
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-07-15T09:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/magnitogorsk-may-use-fortescue-stake-to-improve-iron-ore-self-sufficiency.html

          
          
             OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel , owner
of Russia’s largest standalone mill, plans to increase its self-
sufficiency in raw materials and said it may use its stake in
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. to help secure funding.  
 The steelmaker expects to source 50 percent of its iron ore
needs from deposits in Russia’s Chelyabinsk region, raising its
self-sufficiency from 30 percent now, Chief Financial Officer
 Oleg Fedonin  said in an interview today in Magnitogorsk. In
coking coal, the company’s self-sufficiency will rise to 80
percent by 2013 from 50 percent now with the development of the
Nikitinskoye field in the Kuzbass region, he said.  
 Magnitogorsk, based in the Ural Mountains city of the same
name, is seeking to protect its profit margins from volatility
in ore and coal prices. The  spot price of iron ore  delivered to
China, the world’s biggest buyer, tumbled 37 percent since April
after more than doubling in the previous year.  
 The Russian company may sell, swap or use its stake in
Australian miner  Fortescue  to help finance the development of
the Prioskolsk iron ore project, which it considers to be among
Russia’s biggest, Fedonin said. The company will complete a
feasibility study on the deposit, which may supply Magnitogorsk
for 60 years, at the start of 2011, he said.  
 “We’ve had various offers to increase and to sell our
stake” in Fortescue, Magnitogorsk Chairman and majority owner
 Victor Rashnikov  told reporters in Yekaterinburg. “The stake
doesn’t hurt us right now. With time, we’ll look at various
options.”  
 Turkish Steel Plant  
 Magnitogorsk owns  5.36 percent of Fortescue , which is worth
about A$700 million ($617 million) based on the company’s
 closing price  in Australia today.  
 The Russian steelmaker may also supply its Turkish steel
plant with iron ore from Russia instead of using scrap, Fedonin
said. The company plans to commission the plant in the first
quarter of 2011, according to Rashnikov.  
 Magnitogorsk produced 5 million metric tons of steel
products in the first six months, 32 percent more than a year
earlier, Fedonin said. The company aims to produce 10 million
tons this year and 12 million tons in 2011, Rashnikov said.  
 Revenue may climb 25 percent next year to 250 billion
rubles ($8.2 billion) from an expected 200 billion rubles in
2010, Rashnikov said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Magnitogorsk via the Moscow newsroom at +7-
   ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Yekaterinburg via the Moscow newsroom at +7-
   lpronina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        