-- AgriBank Headed for Smaller Shanghai Debut Gain Than Rivals
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T07:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/agricultural-bank-rises-on-shanghai-trading-debut-after-19-2-billion-ipo.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  rose
0.8 percent on its debut in Shanghai, the smallest first-day
gain among the nine lenders that have sold shares in the city in
the past four years.  
 China’s largest bank by customers  rose  to 2.70 yuan (40
cents) from the IPO price of 2.68 yuan, giving it a market
capitalization of $127 billion. First-day volume of 4.04 billion
shares was the second-highest in China in the past decade, 
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 President  Zhang Yun , who forged ahead with the IPO even as
Chinese stocks suffered their biggest  quarterly drop  in more
than two years, said he was “relatively satisfied” with the
first-day gain. Agricultural Bank’s four biggest competitors
rose at least 5.1 percent on their Shanghai debuts.  
 “Considering the size of the offering and the weakness of
the market, this is pretty good,” said  Liu Yinghua , an analyst
at PingAn Securities Co. “We, as well as many fund managers,
didn’t expect AgriBank to shine today.”  
 Analysts and fund managers surveyed by Bloomberg had
predicted a first-day gain of 6 percent, according to the
average of eight estimates. The  Shanghai Composite Index  dropped
1.87 percent.  
 The $19.2 billion IPO makes China the home to four of the 
world’s 10 biggest banks by market value, half a decade after 
the country’s first major state-owned lender went public. 
Agricultural Bank has given underwriters authority to expand the 
sale by as much as 15 percent to $22.1 billion, which would make 
it the largest IPO ever.  
 First-Day Volumes  
 Agricultural Bank shares were more twice as active as any
other stock in Shanghai today.  China State Construction
Engineering Corp.  holds the record for first-day volume in
China in the past decade, with 4.17 billion shares traded on its
debut in July last year.  
 Agricultural Bank is also raising $10.5 billion in Hong
Kong. Those shares, priced at HK$3.20, start trading tomorrow.  
 Shanghai’s main stock market index has lost 26 percent this
year, making it the world’s fifth-worst performing benchmark,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The stock market rout hasn’t damped appetite for IPOs. The
187 firms that went public in China this year before
Agricultural Bank’s debut jumped an average 36 percent on their
first day, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Only 23 of the IPO
stocks fell on debut.  
 Trading Debuts  
 ICBC, which completed a  record $21.9 billion IPO  in October
2006, climbed 5.1 percent on its first day of trading in
Shanghai. Bank of Communications Co., Bank of China Ltd. and
Construction Bank jumped 23 percent or more on their debuts on
the city’s bourse.  
 The  MSCI World Index  has added 5.6 percent since
Agricultural Bank priced its shares on July 6 as investors
bought stocks trading near the cheapest levels in 16 months. The
 Shanghai Composite Index  is up 0.6 percent in the same period.  
 Agricultural Bank’s Shanghai price represents 1.55 times
end-2010 book value as estimated by the IPO underwriters. That
compares with 1.79 times for ICBC, 1.74 times for  China
Construction Bank , and 1.48 times for  Bank of China .  
 “The price is a fair reflection of AgriBank’s status in
China’s financial industry if you take into account its growth
prospects, problems and the broader macro condition we are in
right now,” said  Li Ming , a portfolio manager at Dacheng Fund
Management Co., which oversees about $15 billion in Shenzhen.
“The bank may trade near that valuation level for some time.”  
 China’s Growth  
 China’s economic growth slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from 11.9 percent in the previous three months,
according to a report released today, after the government
succeeded in tempering credit expansion, investment spending and
property speculation.  
 Chinese domestic investors  ordered  more than 10 times the
stock available to them, betting the bank will be able to boost
profit by lowering a cost-to-income ratio that’s 20 percent
higher than the average among China’s publicly traded banks.  
 Agricultural Bank set aside a bigger portion of the IPO to
so-called cornerstone investors than any other major Chinese
bank to help support the offering.  
 The Beijing-based lender lured 27 such buyers including
 China Life Insurance Co.  and China Railway Investment Corp. in
Shanghai and brought in investors from Qatar’s sovereign wealth
fund to  Standard Chartered Plc  to the Hong Kong part of the IPO.
The companies are required to hold their stock for at least 12
months.  
 “Apart from the cornerstone investors, the rest probably
won’t stick to the shares for long as banks may become even
cheaper with the market’s fixation on a decelerating economy and
worsening asset quality,” said  Xu Jiulong , who helps manage
$1.3 billion at Great Wall Fund Management Co. in Shenzhen.  
 Agricultural Bank is the last major Chinese bank to go
public, wrapping up a decade-long overhaul of the nation’s
banking industry that cost an estimated $650 billion.  Bank of
Communications , Construction Bank, Bank of China and ICBC sold
shares between June 2005 and October 2006.  
 -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Frances Liu  in Hong Kong.
Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Philip Lagerkranser   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
 Luo Jun  in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Pedestrian walks past a branch of the Agricultural Bank of China in Shanghai. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Paul Gordon reports on Agricultural Bank of China's initial public offering in Shanghai and investment from Western banks.
     Andrea Catherwood also speaks on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
