-- Thai Sugar Exports May Tumble in 2011 on Delayed Rain
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-07-15T04:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/thai-sugar-exports-may-tumble-in-2011-on-delayed-rain-policy-bureau-says.html

          
          
             Sugar exports from  Thailand , the
world’s second-biggest shipper, may plunge 20 percent next year
as delayed rain lowers yields and increasing domestic
consumption slashes export availability, an official body said.  
 “Exports next year will probably be around 3.7 million to
3.9 million metric tons as drought has damaged crops and hurt
yields,” Rangsit Hiangrat, director of the Cane and Sugar
Industry Policy Bureau, said today on the sidelines of a
conference in Bali,  Indonesia . The nation is forecast to ship
4.6 million tons this year, he said.  
 “Shipments may fall below the forecast as domestic
consumption is likely to be greater than 2.3 million tons this
year,” he said.  
 Declining Thai output will likely be outweighed by a record
harvest in  Brazil , the largest producer, and an expanded crop in  India , the second-largest grower, which may export next year for
the first time since 2008.  
 With increasing demand from Thailand’s food and beverage
industry, local demand next year may increase by up to 2 million
tons, Prasert Tapaneeyangkul, secretary-general of Thailand’s
Cane and Sugar Board, said July 13.  
 Raw-sugar prices yesterday fell for the first time in three
days on speculation that increased planting in Brazil and India
will bolster supplies. The October-delivery contract fell 1.2
percent yesterday to 16.97 cents a pound in  New York .  
 Thai sugar production in the year starting November may be
6 million to 6.2 million tons, compared with 6.9 million tons in
the current season, Rangsit said.  
 “Drought has had a severe impact on the industry and the
crushing season may be postponed to around the end of this year
to allow cane to mature, giving better yields,” said Rangsit.
Crushing in Thailand usually begins in late November.  
 Dryness remains a concern across eastern parts of the
country, stressing new cane,  MDA Information Systems Inc , a
Maryland, U.S.-based geospatial service provider, said in a
report yesterday. Scattered showers occurred across Thailand
yesterday and are expected to be widespread throughout the
weekend, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bali at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        