-- AIG's `Turnaround Kid' Miller Gets Challenge at Rescued Insurer
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-07-15T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/aig-s-turnaround-kid-miller-gets-latest-challenge-at-bailed-out-insurer.html

          
          
             Steve Miller , who calls himself
“The Turnaround Kid” after a career spent helping hobbled
companies survive, has another rescue mission as chairman of
bailed-out insurer  American International Group Inc.   
 Miller was named AIG’s chairman yesterday. A restructuring
specialist, he has overseen the bankruptcy of Delphi Corp., once
the largest U.S. auto-parts supplier, and helped Chrysler Corp.
return to profitability after taking government loans in 1980.
He’s been chief executive officer at Waste Management Inc.,
Federal-Mogul Corp. and Bethlehem Steel Corp.  
 “He’s not just an auto guy,” said  Maryann Keller ,
president of Maryann Keller & Associates in Stamford,
Connecticut. “He’s a finance guy who has had his share of
troubled situations. He’s a pragmatic businessman who knows how
to operate in these situations.”  
 Miller, 68, will work alongside CEO  Robert Benmosche  as New
York-based AIG seeks to sell assets and repay a government
bailout that has swelled to $182.3 billion. He rose to chairman
when  Harvey Golub  stepped down after feuding with Benmosche over
the stalled divestiture of an Asia division.  
 “Steve is not a big-ego guy,” said former General Motors
Co. CEO  Fritz Henderson , who faced off with Miller during the
Delphi restructuring. The two companies had intertwining labor
contracts and wrangled over billions in employee and retiree
obligations. “He is the type of person who can work with Robert
Benmosche.”  
 Serving Taxpayers  
 Miller and Golub were named to the AIG board in May 2009 in
the first nominations since the U.S. government assumed control
of the insurer. AIG turned over a stake of almost 80 percent as
part of the bailout and the Treasury Department holds additional
preferred shares from subsequent investments.  
 Miller will “serve both AIG and the taxpayers very well,”
U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary  Neal Wolin  said in a statement.
AIG spokeswoman  Christina Pretto  said Miller was unavailable to
comment.  
 Miller wrote an autobiography called “The Turnaround Kid”
in April 2008. In the book, he looked back over a career that
started at Ford Motor Co. in 1968.  
 “If there’s been a company in trouble over the last 20 to
30 years, he may have had some assistance or role in it,” said
 Mike Wall , a Northville, Michigan-based analyst with research
firm IHS Automotive. “The man is very skilled and adept at
turning companies around.”  
 Making Cuts  
 Sometimes that’s meant slashing salaries and cutting
expenses, an approach that may not work for AIG, said  Clark Troy , a senior analyst based in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, for
Aite Group, a research firm.  
 Robert S. Miller, known as Steve, placed Delphi into
bankruptcy in 2005 after failing to win wage cuts from employees
and labor unions. He’d tried to trim wages to as little as
$12.50 an hour from $27, leading union workers, most of them
represented by the United Auto Workers, to threaten a 2006
strike. Miller stepped down after lenders and General Motors
agreed to buy most of the company.  
 “He is a cost-reduction guy and AIG is not going to be
able to cut its way out of this,” Troy said. “He’ll have to
find a way to leverage the value that remains in AIG.”  
 That will mean finding common ground with Benmosche on a
sale or initial public offering of AIA Group Ltd. An IPO was
planned until  Prudential Plc  agreed in March to buy the unit.
After Prudential balked at the $35.5 billion price, AIG’s board
rejected a reduced bid Benmosche had supported, according to two
people with knowledge of the dispute. Benmosche threatened to
resign last month unless Golub left, the people said.  
 ‘Key Player’  
 “Benmosche is the key player here,” Troy said. “Miller
becomes a key guy with managing the relationship with
Washington.”  
 Miller had to work with government officials during the
turnaround of Chrysler, which took $1.5 billion of taxpayer
loans in 1980 to avoid bankruptcy. He was one of the architects
of the bailout at the automaker, which was able to repay the
loans seven years early.  
 Miller has also led rescue efforts at Bethlehem Steel,
Waste Management and auto-parts supplier Federal-Mogul, and was
an adviser to Aetna Inc. He’s chairman of MidOcean Partners, a
private-equity firm based in New York and focused on the U.S.
and Europe.  
 A graduate of Harvard Law School, Miller has a master’s of
business administration from Stanford University’s Graduate
School of Business.  
 “He’s just been through so many tough spots and
survived,” said  David Cole , chairman of the Center for
Automotive Research, who has known Miller for more than 30
years. “You could almost say he’s a glutton for punishment, but
deep down inside he must love this.”  
 -- With assistance from  David Welch  in Rochester, Michigan;  Mark Clothier  in Plymouth, Michigan, and  Keith Naughton  in
Northville, Michigan. Editors:  Dan Reichl ,  Dan Kraut .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Steve Miller, seen here in 2007, was named AIG’s chairman yesterday. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- American International Group Inc. Chairman Harvey Golub stepped down from the bailed-out insurer after feuding with Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche over the stalled divestiture of an Asia division. Bloomberg's Sheila Dharmarajan reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg’s James Sterngold discusses American International Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche's threat to resign unless Harvey Golub, chairman of the bailed-out insurer, leaves the firm.
     During a June 25 meeting of New York-based AIG’s board, Benmosche demanded more control over the divestiture of the company’s main Asia unit, including making top-level management changes, said two people with knowledge of the matter. Sterngold talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg’s Television’s “insideTrack.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
