-- AIG Says It Counted as Much as $2.3 Billion of Repos as Sales
-- Joshua Gallu
-- 2010-07-15T17:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/aig-says-it-counted-as-much-as-2-3-billion-of-repo-agreements-as-sales.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. ,
the bailed-out insurer, said it classified as much as $2.3
billion of repurchase agreements and $3.8 billion of securities-
lending transactions as sales in calculating quarterly results.  
 In late 2008, “certain of AIG’s counterparties demanded
significantly higher levels of collateral to enter into
repurchase agreements, which resulted in sales rather than
collateralized-financing” treatment under accounting
guidelines, the New York-based insurer said in an April 13
letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission released today.
The accounting didn’t materially affect any ratios or metrics
the company publicly disclosed, AIG said in the letter.  
 AIG’s disclosure came in response to a March inquiry by the
SEC, which asked about two dozen firms whether they used
accounting strategies similar to those of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  to move assets temporarily off their balance
sheets. According to bankruptcy examiner  Anton Valukas ’s report,
Lehman used repurchase agreements to hide leverage.  
 “AIG did not use repurchase agreements for the purpose of
moving assets off of its balance sheets,” company spokesman
 Mark Herr  said today. “Its use of repurchase agreements was
proper and fully disclosed.”  
 Accounting rules require the company to report such
arrangements as sales, not borrowing, if it doesn’t have
sufficient  cash  to repurchase “substantially all” of the
assets used as collateral, AIG said in its letter. As a result,
AIG “was required to account for such transactions as sales,”
the insurer said.  
 Bailed Out  
 AIG was bailed out in September 2008 in part because of a
liquidity crunch on securities-lending contracts in which AIG
let Wall Street firms borrow highly rated fixed-income holdings
and then used the cash collateral to buy mortgage-related assets
that plunged in value. AIG’s $182.3 billion bailout includes as
much as  $22.5 billion , made available later in 2008, to
reimburse banks that wanted their collateral back.  
 In a repurchase transaction, one party temporarily
transfers a security to another as collateral for short-term
cash with an agreement to buy back the asset at a later time.  
 AIG’s repurchase agreements that were accounted for as
sales related to the Financial Products and Trading Group units,
according to the letter. AIG accounted for $2.3 billion of
repurchase agreements as sales in the fourth quarter of 2009 and
$1.6 billion in the prior three months. AIG treated $3.8 billion
of securities-lending contracts as sales in the last three
months of 2008, and at least $1.2 billion in each of the next
three quarters, according to the letter.  
 Berkshire Hathaway, MetLife  
 Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , Lincoln National
Corp. and MetLife Inc., which were also contacted as part of the
inquiry, said they did not enter into any repurchase agreements
or securities-lending transactions that were accounted for as
sales during the three years through 2009, according to letters
from the companies to the SEC also released today.  
 SEC spokesman  John Heine  declined to comment on the AIG
correspondence.  
 The SEC’s letters were sent by the agency’s Corporation
Finance unit, which reviews disclosures to ensure investors are
kept informed during stock offerings and in financial reports.
If that division suspects misconduct, it can refer matters to
the agency’s enforcement arm for further investigation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- American International Group Inc. Chairman Harvey Golub stepped down from the bailed-out insurer after feuding with Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche over the stalled divestiture of an Asia division. Bloomberg's Sheila Dharmarajan reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
