-- AIG Becomes `Benmosche Show' After Chairman's Departure
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-07-15T20:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/aig-is-benmosche-show-as-golub-leaves-insurer-after-showdown-with-chief.html

          
          
             Robert Benmosche , the  American
International Group Inc.  chief executive officer who clashed
with Chairman  Harvey Golub  over the insurer’s restructuring, may
find less resistance after forcing Golub’s departure.  
 Benmosche, 66, told the board of New York-based AIG that
his relationship with the chairman had become “ineffective and
unsustainable,” Golub wrote in a resignation letter dated
yesterday. Benmosche pushed for Golub’s ouster after directors
rebuffed a reduced takeover bid, endorsed by the CEO, for an
Asia division, two people familiar with the matter said last
month. Director  Steve Miller  replaced Golub, 71.  
 “It clears the deck” for Benmosche, said  Gary Wolfer ,
senior vice president and chief economist at Univest Wealth
Management & Trust Services, which owns bonds of AIG
 subsidiaries . “He has a very strong personality and I think he
feels he was in a tough spot. It’s going to be the ‘Benmosche
Show’ going forward.”  
 Benmosche, who joined AIG in 2009 weeks after Golub, must
divest the Asia unit, AIA Group Ltd., and increase profits at
remaining operations to repay the firm’s $182.3 billion bailout.
AIG had planned an initial public offering of AIA until
Benmosche struck a $35.5 billion deal with Prudential Plc. That
agreement collapsed as the London-based insurer’s investors
balked at the price.  
 ‘Responsibility to Lead’  
 “I’m resigning for the simple reason I believe it’s easier
to replace a chairman than a CEO,” Golub said in the letter to
director  George Miles . “Asking the board to choose between us
would be an abdication of my responsibility to lead.”  
 Golub’s resignation was announced yesterday during a board
meeting, according to a person with knowledge of the event. The
insurer is proceeding with a public offering of AIA, while
remaining open to bids for all or part of the company, said
another person with knowledge of the plans who declined to be
identified because the meeting was private.  
 Benmosche demanded more control over AIA, including the
ability to make top-level management changes, during the June 25
board meeting in which he threatened to quit unless Golub left,
two people said. Benmosche pushed for the dismissal of AIA’s
chief,  Mark Wilson , a proponent of the IPO, according to one of
the people. A spokeswoman for Hong Kong-based AIA didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  
 Benmosche threatened to depart before. He said last year he
may leave after  Kenneth Feinberg , the Obama administration
special master on compensation, slashed pay of top AIG
executives, impeding the CEO’s ability to keep managers.  
 Shares Rebound  
 AIG has climbed about 38 percent through yesterday on the
New York Stock Exchange since Aug. 7, the last trading day
before Benmosche replaced  Edward Liddy  as CEO. The insurer
slipped 15 cents to $37.38 at 4:15 p.m. in composite trading.  
 The gain during Benmosche’s tenure compares with the 34
percent decline under Liddy and the approximately 90 percent
plunge under  Robert Willumstad , who was ousted before he could
unveil a plan to restructure AIG. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has advanced about 8.4 percent from Aug. 7 through
yesterday. Benmosche is the longest-serving CEO since  Martin Sullivan , who was forced out in 2008.  
 “Benmosche’s done an excellent job of stewarding the
company,” said  Cliff Gallant , a KBW Inc. analyst with an
“underperform” rating on AIG shares. “He’s very popular with
the  employees .”  
 Miller, 68, is AIG’s sixth chairman since 2005. He was CEO
of auto-parts maker Delphi Corp. when it filed for bankruptcy
protection in 2005 and is the ex-chief financial officer of
Chrysler Corp. Miller joined AIG’s board last year.  
 ‘On the Cusp’  
 The board improved AIG “from a company being dissolved to
one on the cusp of having an implementable strategy to pay back
the government and stand on its own,” Golub, former CEO of
credit-card lender  American Express Co. , said in his letter.  
 AIG owes about $24 billion on a Federal Reserve  credit line 
and more than $49 billion to the Treasury Department. The
company turned over a stake of almost 80 percent to the U.S. as
part of its 2008 rescue.  
 The insurer, once the world’s largest, is committed to
“repaying taxpayers, meeting all of the  company’s obligations 
to its various stakeholders, and restructuring the company so
that it emerges as a smaller, more focused enterprise,” Miller
said yesterday in a statement.  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York is “confident” in
AIG’s management, the regulator said in a statement. Miller’s
experience will “serve both AIG and the taxpayers very well,”
Deputy Treasury Secretary  Neal Wolin  said in a separate
statement. Miller was unavailable for comment, AIG said.  
 Greenberg, Zarb, Willumstad  
 Maurice “Hank” Greenberg  was chairman and CEO before
stepping down in 2005 amid regulatory probes.  Frank Zarb  and
then  Robert Willumstad  became chairman. Willumstad later became
CEO too and was forced out of both jobs by the U.S. after AIG
agreed to the federal bailout in September 2008. Liddy held both
jobs until August 2009.  
 Benmosche had told employees at an August 2009 meeting that
he would focus on operations and asset sales while Golub would
work with lawmakers.  
 Golub and Benmosche shared the belief that federal limits
on executive pay were hindering the company’s recovery. Golub
wrote to shareholders in a Feb. 26  letter  that Obama
administration restrictions make “little business sense.”  
 The board was expanded to 13 members in April when the
Treasury picked  Donald H. Layton  and  Ronald A. Rittenmeyer .
Treasury was allowed to add directors after AIG skipped dividend
payments on the government’s holdings for four quarters.  
 “The workload required of the board is as high as I’ve
ever seen in any company, and is likely to continue for some
time,” Golub said in the letter to shareholders.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Benmosche, president and chief executive officer of American International Group in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- American International Group Inc. Chairman Harvey Golub stepped down from the bailed-out insurer after feuding with Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche over the stalled divestiture of an Asia division. Bloomberg's Sheila Dharmarajan reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg’s James Sterngold discusses American International Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Robert Benmosche's threat to resign unless Harvey Golub, chairman of the bailed-out insurer, leaves the firm.
     During a June 25 meeting of New York-based AIG’s board, Benmosche demanded more control over the divestiture of the company’s main Asia unit, including making top-level management changes, said two people with knowledge of the matter. Sterngold talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg’s Television’s “insideTrack.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
