-- Airbus, Boeing `Cozy' Duopoly Starts to Crack as Rivals Attack
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/airbus-boeing-cozy-duopoly-starts-to-crack-as-three-rivals-develop-jets.html

          
          
             For more than a decade,  Airbus SAS 
and  Boeing Co.  had only each other to watch.  
 Now  rivals  from Canada, China and Russia are developing
models to break into the narrow-body segment, dominated by about
10,000 Airbus A320s and Boeing 737s in operation and 4,000 on
order. The single-aisle jet market will likely reach $1.68
trillion over the next 20 years, Boeing  estimates .  
 “This cozy world of just the two of us is almost over,”
Boeing Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney  said in an
 interview . “We’re still going to compete like crazy. If you
think you had to meet promises with two guys, think about when
you’ve got five.”  
 The shifting dynamics will be visible at the  Farnborough
Air Show , the world’s largest aerospace exhibition, which starts
July 19.  Bombardier Inc. , China’s state-owned Comac and Russia’s
Irkut will brief on their jets’ development. At stake is the
incumbents’ hold on a narrow-body market that is the cash cow of
the civil aviation industry, accounting for more than two thirds
of output and about 40 percent of sales, with the two
manufacturers churning out a combined 70 planes each month.  
 By the time the show returns to Farnborough in two years
time, Bombardier’s CSeries jet will likely be in test-flight
phase, ahead of market entry in 2013. Comac and Irkut have said
they’ll field challengers to Airbus and Boeing by 2016.  
 Dreamliner Premiere  
 Chicago-based Boeing and Toulouse, France-based Airbus will
seek to use this year’s show to assert their dominance in the
$60 billion commercial plane market. Boeing will bring its 787
Dreamliner, the jet’s first appearance in Europe, while Airbus
will fly its A380, the biggest passenger jet with capacity for
more than 800 seats.  
 About 153,000 people visited in Farnborough in 2008, and
exhibitors from 38 countries are signed up to come this year.
The daily flying display will include drones, or unmanned aerial
vehicles, for the first time.  
 Manufacturers have flagged the show as a guide to the
strength of the recovery, after airlines shunned new orders last
year at the equivalent event in Paris. Before the global
recession, Airbus and Boeing combined won $64 billion in orders
at the Farnborough 2008 show, mainly from the Gulf region.  
 “We are negotiating several deals and believe that we could
have a good show,” said Airbus Chief Operating Officer  John Leahy . “The market is clearly firming as the economy
recovers.” In the first half of this year, Airbus has won 131
orders, and Boeing has won 177 in the period.  
 Wide-body Control  
 One field where the two companies remain without
competition is in the market for larger wide-body planes, which
comprise less than a third of all jets built, yet represent
about 45 percent of the value of planes delivered.  
 Airbus has begun building parts for the A350 jet that seats
as many as 350 passengers, responding to Boeing’s mid-sized,
long-range 787 Dreamliner and 15-year-old 777. That’s increased
pressure on Boeing to revamp or replace its 777 to battle with
the A350, scheduled to begin service in 2013.  
 While none of the new jets competing with Airbus and Boeing
will be on display as they remain in various stages of design,
Bombardier has orders for its CSeries.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG ,
Germany’s largest carrier, plans to buy 30 units, and Republic
Airways Holdings Inc. has ordered 40, bringing the backlog to
90. Qatar Airways, one of the world’s fastest-expanding
airlines, has also said it may order the CSeries.  
 End of an Era  
 The 130- to 149-seat plane has a “high potential” of
pulling in additional orders at Farnborough, JPMorgan Securities
Inc. aerospace analyst  Joseph Nadol  estimates.  
 “One has to watch the competition, one has to take
competitors seriously, like Bombardier, our Russian friends, and
the Chinese,” Airbus CEO  Tom Enders  said. “The duopoly is
slowly coming to an end. Maybe not as far as very large aircraft
is concerned, that may take a little more time, at least I hope
to enjoy that segment for a while before we see competition.”  
 Bombardier’s promise of lower emissions and fuel
consumption, coupled with less noise, makes the company hopeful
it can capture half the market for 100- to 149-seaters over 20
years, aerospace division head  Guy Hachey  said.  
 In Russia, state-run OAO Irkut Corp. is planning a 150- to
160-seat jet for 2016, promising 15 percent fuel efficiency over
existing models. Irkut will display a mock-up of the plane’s
cabin and cockpit in Farnborough and provide updates on its
development.  
 Chinese Jet  
 The Chinese jet has support from local carriers. China
Southern Airlines Co. and Air China Ltd., two of the nation’s
major three airlines, said they’re prepared to buy the aircraft.
Economic growth means the world’s most populous nation will
account for about a third of Asia-Pacific aircraft orders over
the next 20 years, Airbus says.  
 Comac has said it aims to sell more than 2,000 C919s over
20 years, with entry into service planned for 2016.  
 “I think they are definitely going to be a force in the
industry, it’s inevitable,” said British Airways Chief
Executive  Willie Walsh  in a July 8 interview. The timetable set
by Comac is “ambitious,” said Walsh, who will seek an update
on progress at the air show next week.  
 Airbus and Boeing have sought to blunt the upstarts’
momentum by telling airlines they may put new, more-efficient
engines on current models. Failure so far to upgrade or replace
them as oil prices tripled over the last 10 years has left the
door open for new challengers. So far, neither planemaker has
committed. The Airbus A320 entered service in 1988, while
Boeing’s 737 entered fleets in 1967 and has been upgraded since.  
 Leahy said it may take until 2027 before Airbus can offer
an all-new narrow-body. Boeing has said it won’t do so until at
least 2020, without being more specific.  
 “Duopolies don’t get broken by a new player being
aggressive,” says  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of Teal
Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based aerospace advisory firm. “They
get broken because the incumbents become complacent.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in London via 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jim McNerney, chief executive officer of Boeing Co.  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jim McNerney, chief executive officer of Boeing Co., listens during a television interview. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jim McNerney, chief executive officer of Boeing Co., listens during a television interview. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Heidi Couch reports on Qatar Airways' plans to add destinations in Europe and Asia as Chief Executive Officer Akbar al-Baker pursues a strategy to build the Middle Eastern carrier. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
