-- Malaga's Qatari Owner to Drop Bookmaker's Patronage on Religious Grounds
-- Jason Harris
-- 2010-07-15T10:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/malaga-s-qatari-owner-to-drop-bookmaker-s-patronage-on-religious-grounds.html

          
          
             Qatar’s Sheikh Abdullah Bin Nasser
 Al Thani  plans to replace bookmaker William Hill Plc as jersey
sponsor of his newly acquired Malaga soccer team because of his
religious beliefs.  
 Sheikh Abdullah became the only foreigner to own a club in
the Spanish first division when he bought  Malaga  for 10.5
million euros ($13.4 million) last month, taking on 36 million
euros of debt, Malaga spokesman Victor Varela said. He is open
to talks with other companies who want to sponsor the team, his
business associate Abdullah Ghubn said.  
 “We don’t want to turn everything upside down and cancel
contracts but let’s put it this way: I’m a smoker but I don’t
smoke in my home because these are the rules and I want to
protect my family,” Ghubn said in an interview at Malaga’s
training ground.  
 Gambling is illegal in Qatar and other Islamic countries.
Islam’s ban on gambling has pushed Islamic finance institutions
to shun investments in companies that have direct link with the
industry.  
 William Hill, the U.K.’s biggest bookmaker by number of
outlets, has a contract with Malaga that runs through 2012,
according to a  company statement  in August 2009. William Hill
uses the sponsorship to attract online bettors, Sharpe said.  
 “I’m not aware he’s told us that,” William Hill spokesman
 Graham Sharpe  said. “If they come to us with a query about the
deal then we’ll be happy to discuss it.”  
 Kanoute  
 In 2006, striker  Frederic Kanoute , who’s Muslim, told El
Pais newspaper he objected to wearing the logo of online casino
company 888 Holdings Plc on his Sevilla team jersey. He agreed
to wear it for games, although not personal appearances,
according to El Pais.  
 Sheikh Abdullah’s purchase of Malaga from owners including
former player  Fernando Sanz  is more of a “hobby” than an
investment, Ghubn said as he stood next to Sheikh Abdullah and
translated some of his comments from Arabic into English. Buying
the team will increase his international profile and may lead to
other business deals, Ghubn added.  
 Sports can put you “in touch with the whole world,” Ghubn
said.  
 Malaga, which avoided relegation by one place last season,
broke even for the fiscal year through June 2009 on 22 million
euros of sales, according to a study by Barcelona University
professor Jose Maria Gay.  
 In 2008, Abu Dhabi’s  Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan
bought Manchester City for 210 million pounds ($321 million) to
join several other foreign club owners in the English Premier
League, the world’s biggest by sales.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .
 Jason Harris  in Madrid  at
 jharris76@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        