-- AMD Sales Beat Analysts' Estimates on Rebound in PC Spending
-- Ian King
-- 2010-07-15T23:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/amd-s-quarterly-sales-beat-estimates-adding-to-evidence-pc-demand-gaining.html

          
          
             Advanced Micro Devices Inc. , Intel
Corp.’s main competitor in computer processors, posted sales
that beat analysts’ estimates as more personal-computer makers
build products based on AMD chips.  
 Revenue rose 40 percent to $1.65 billion, AMD said today in
a statement. That compares with the $1.55 billion average of
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Profit, minus certain items,
was 11 cents a share. Analysts projected 6 cents.  
 PC makers including Sony Corp. added laptop models that use
its chips, Sunnyvale-based AMD said. The company increased its
profitability, widening its gross margin by 8 percentage points
to 45 percent in the quarter. Corporations are beginning to
replace older PC networks and add servers to data centers,
boosting demand for semiconductors, Intel said this week.  
 “The numbers look good across the board,” said  Doug Freedman , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco, who
recommends buying the stock. “We’re seeing pretty strong margin
results.”  
 AMD rose 11 cents, or 1.5 percent, in late trading to
$7.47, after falling 3 cents to $7.41 today on the New York
Stock Exchange. The  stock  has dropped 23 percent this year.  
 The company said it expects revenue to be “up seasonally”
in the current quarter. Sales will increase 5 percent to 10
percent from the second quarter, Chief Financial Officer
 Thomas Seifert  said on a conference call.  
 The company is “feeling good” about PC consumption for the
rest of the year, said Chief Executive Officer  Dirk Meyer .  
 Profitability Widens  
 Gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting the cost of production, was 37 percent a year earlier.  
 Analysts and investors focus on whether AMD is able to keep
pace with the revenue gains made by Intel, an indication of the
competitiveness of  AMD products . Intel reported record  quarterly
sales  on July 13, topping analysts’ estimates with a gain of 34
percent from a year earlier.  
 Global PC shipments rose 21 percent in the second quarter,
according to Stamford, Connecticut-based  Gartner Inc. ,
surpassing the research firm’s 19.3 percent forecast.  
 AMD is trying to turn around its finances after its 2006
acquisition of ATI Technologies Inc. increased  debt . To lessen
its spending requirements in an industry where new factories can
cost more than $4 billion, AMD spun off its plants into a joint
venture with the government of Abu Dhabi.  
 The company’s second-quarter net loss narrowed to $43
million, or 6 cents a share, from $355 million, or 49 cents, a
year earlier.  
 Meyer said a planned combination of a graphics processor
and microprocessor, called Llano, will be delayed by about two
months because of hiccups in production-technology development.
A similar product called Ontario, which will work in low-cost
netbook and notebook computers, will be introduced faster than
originally planned and will ship for revenue in the fourth
quarter of this year, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        