-- Americans Blame Bush, Not Obama, for Deficit, Jobs, Afghan War
-- Catherine Dodge
-- 2010-07-15T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/americans-blame-bush-for-deficit-afghanistan-war-jobless-more-than-obama.html

          
          
             Democrats, facing a U.S. electorate
angry about the economy and other issues, still have one
political asset:  George W. Bush .  
 The former Republican president is blamed more than
President  Barack Obama  for the budget deficit, unemployment and
illegal immigration, according to a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted July 9-12.  
 Most surprising is that 60 percent say Bush is primarily
responsible for the current situation in Afghanistan. Just 10
percent point to Obama, who has ordered 51,000 additional troops
to that country since taking office, doubling the number
deployed by Bush.  
 When Obama entered office in January 2009, there had been
568 U.S. casualties associated with the Afghanistan conflict, a
number that has grown to 1,086, as of yesterday, according to
the Defense Department. The president has vowed to start
withdrawing forces in July 2011, with the pacing determined by
conditions on the ground.  
 “The public remembers the Bush years as a tumultuous time
of costly wars, and the years when a budget surplus became a
deficit,” said J.  Ann Selzer , president of Selzer & Co., a Des
Moines, Iowa-based firm that conducted the survey.  
 Katrina, Gulf Spill  
 Asked to compare Bush’s response to  Hurricane Katrina  with
Obama’s handling of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, 51
percent say Bush’s performance was worse, while 35 percent name
Obama. Republicans are more likely to pan Obama’s performance on
the oil spill, with 69 percent saying he did worse than Bush.  
 Facing a tough environment in the November congressional
elections, when their control of both chambers may be at stake,
Obama and his fellow Democrats often mention the problems they
inherited from the previous administration, which left the White
House 18 months ago.  
 “They spent a decade driving the economy into a ditch,”
Obama, 48, said at a Las Vegas fundraiser on July 8 for Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada. “And now they’re asking
for the keys back. And my answer is, ‘no, you can’t have the
keys. You can’t drive. You don’t know how to drive. You drive in
the wrong direction.’”  
 Still, Bush won’t be on the ballot and there has been no
indication that he will campaign for congressional candidates.
Democratic and Republican lawmakers share some of the blame for
the country’s problems, including the increasing cost of
 Medicare  and  Social Security , as well the failure to fix the
nation’s immigration system, according to the poll.  
 Blame the Predecessor  
 It’s been common in U.S. politics to blame previous
presidents for problems. For generations, Democrats ran against
 Herbert Hoover ’s Depression-era economic policies and some
Republicans still talk about President  Jimmy Carter ’s supposed
softness on foreign policy, three decades after the Democratic
president left office.  
 Bush, 64, has stayed mostly quiet in public since leaving
the White House. His book, “ Decision Points ,” is scheduled to
be released around the November election.  
 Because Democrats are most likely to blame Bush for the
problems the country is facing, the political benefits for their
party may be limited, says  Bruce Buchanan , a political scientist
at the University of Texas in Austin.  
 Still, Obama and the Democrats may be helped somewhat by
voters’ attitudes toward Bush, especially on the issue of
unemployment,  Buchanan  says.  
 “You could blame Bush for losing your job, even if you’re
a Republican,” he says.  
 Bush’s Deficit  
 More blame Bush than Obama for the  federal deficit , 32
percent to 24 percent. Among Republicans, 39 percent say Obama
is to blame, while about a quarter of independents hold that
view.  
 The Obama administration expects a record budget deficit
this year of more than $1.5 trillion, or 10.6 percent of GDP,
according to projections the White House released in February.
It was $1.4 trillion for the 2008-2009 fiscal year, which covers
the end of Bush’s presidency.  
 Obama gets more credit for increases in the  stock market 
over the past year, with 28 percent of Americans giving him
recognition, compared with 13 percent for Bush. Even among
Republicans, a quarter give Obama credit for the increases.  
 On unemployment, Bush is listed as most responsible by 32
percent, compared with 22 percent for Obama. Those with incomes
below $25,000 are more likely to blame Bush for the  unemployment
rate , which was 9.5 percent in June.  
 ‘Getting Worse’  
 “Bush was there for eight years and everything just kept
getting worse,” says poll participant Kelly Redding, 31, an
independent voter from Columbus, Ohio. “Obama can’t perform
miracles overnight.”  
 Jeremy Dawson, 31, who has served three tours in Iraq, is
among those who blame Bush more than Obama for some of the
nation’s biggest problems.  
 “He focused so much on Iraq and Afghanistan and not enough
on America,” says Dawson, who votes as an independent. “There
was little or nothing being done in this country.”  
 The poll’s findings on Afghanistan contrast with Republican
National Committee Chairman  Michael Steele ’s comments July 1
that the war is “not something that the United States has
actively prosecuted or wanted to engage in.” Steele later
amended his remarks after he was criticized by both parties and
some Republican leaders called for his resignation.  
 The poll also finds that almost 6 in 10 respondents say the
war in Afghanistan is a lost cause.  
 There isn’t a lot of buyer’s remorse when it comes to the
2008 presidential election, the poll shows. Asked if things
would be better or worse if the Republican candidate, Senator
 John McCain  of Arizona, had been elected, 37 percent say worse,
27 percent say better and 32 percent say things would be the
same.  
 The Bloomberg National Poll is based on interviews with
1,004 U.S. adults ages 18 or older. Percentages based on the
full sample may have a maximum margin of error of plus or minus
3.1 percentage points.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former U.S. President George W. Bush. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  The Blame Game
         
     
 



 
     
         Attachment:  Poll results and methodology 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
