-- Managing Money for Retirement Beyond the Skills of Most, Bernstein Says
-- Suzanne Woolley
-- 2010-07-15T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/managing-money-for-retirement-beyond-the-skills-of-most-bernstein-says.html

          
          
             Money manager and “The Investor’s
Manifesto” author  William Bernstein  answered questions by
telephone and e-mail from  Suzanne Woolley  in Bloomberg
Businessweek’s July 19 issue on the challenges of investing well
for a comfortable retirement.  
 Woolley: What are investors up against in managing their
retirement money?  
 Bernstein: I believe most folks are about as capable of managing
their retirement portfolio as they are of flying their own
airliners or taking out a relative’s appendix.  
 Woolley: A lot of people do manage their own money, by choice or
necessity. How can they invest their savings better?  
 Bernstein: Deal only with fund holder-owned companies (or
company: such as Vanguard) or one of the more reputable
exchange-traded fund providers, such as ( BlackRock ) iShares.
Second, use only low-cost passively managed funds: performance
comes and goes, but expenses are forever. Last year’s, or the
last ten years’, winner is no more likely than average to excel
next year or next decade. Third, don’t overestimate your risk
tolerance. How well you do in the long term depends not on how
you do in normal markets, but in how you act when the storm
breaks.  
 Err on the side of under-investing in stocks. Only when
you’ve demonstrated you can buy when there’s blood in the street
should you increase your equity allocation. A prudent mix of
stock funds, high-quality bond funds, and perhaps low-cost
single-premium annuities are all you really need.  
 Monte Carlo  
 Woolley: Many planners run computer programs called Monte Carlo
simulations to judge the probability of portfolio returns under
various scenarios. Is that useful?  
 Bernstein: Somewhat, but it can give a false sense of security.
Among other things, it assumes you get normally distributed
returns -- that you don’t have these big  market meltdowns  like
we’ve seen in recent times. And it assumes investors have the
discipline to stick with the plan during a 1929-32 or a 2008-09.  
 Rather than relying on Monte Carlo simulations, I’d suggest
a simple rule. If you’re a 60-year-old withdrawing 2 percent of
your retirement savings annually, you’ll be as safe as can be;
at 3 percent, you’re probably safe; at 4 percent, you’re taking
real risks; at 5 percent, you’ve a good chance of an Alpo diet.
(At 70, you can perhaps add 1 percent to 1.5 percent to these
numbers.)  
 ‘Safe’ Annuity  
 One other recommendation:  If you have a reasonable life
expectancy, delay taking Social Security until you are 70; it is
the cheapest, safest “annuity” you can “buy.” Yes, if you
die before age 82 or so, you “lose.” But losing by living too
long with inadequate income has far more serious consequences.  
 (“The Investor’s Manifesto, Preparing for Prosperity,
Armageddon, and Everything in Between” by William J. Bernstein,
is published by  John Wiley & Sons, Inc. , 201 pages, $24.95).  
 (Woolley edits and writes for Bloomberg Businessweek. This
interview was adapted from a fuller conversation.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suzanne Woolley  at 
 swoolley2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Author and investment advisor William Bernstein  
                       
                         
                           Robbie McClaran/Bloomberg Businessweek via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Money manager and “The Investor’s Manifesto” author William Bernstein. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Money manager and “The Investor’s Manifesto” author William Bernstein. Photographer: Robbie McClaran/Bloomberg Businessweek via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
