-- Anglo American Has Little Reason to Carve Up Businesses, Fund Managers Say
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-15T16:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/anglo-american-has-little-reason-to-carve-up-businesses-fund-managers-say.html

          
          
             Anglo American Plc , the owner of the
world’s biggest platinum producer, has little reason to separate
its South African and international operations, as mooted by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, four fund managers said.  
 “If you break it up, there may be a short-term re-rating,
but it won’t do anything for Anglo in the long term,”  Henk Groenewald , who co-manages Coronation Fund Managers Ltd.’s
resources fund, said today by telephone from Cape Town. “The
long-term value in Anglo is the cash flow in the future.”  
 BofA Merrill Lynch this week indicated Anglo may be wise to
carve up its business, removing the effect of negative South
African issues on the value of its international assets. Those
issues include black empowerment requirements and chronic power
shortages, Merrill said in a July 12 note. The recent award of
prospecting rights at Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.’s Sishen mine to a
company that “appears to be politically connected” also
signals the local environment is “getting worse,” it said.  
 Anglo’s international unit, potentially including its
Chilean copper assets, Colombian and Australian coal, and
Brazilian iron ore, may be valued at about $34 billion, BofA
said. The South African business could be worth $30 billion and
include  Anglo Platinum Ltd.  and  Kumba Iron Ore , it said.  
 Anglo  fell 2.1 percent to 2,366 pence in London
trading, valuing the company at 31.2 billion pounds ($47.9
billion). Anglo declined to comment today.  
 Makes No Sense  
 “We don’t want management to do things to try and
influence the ratings, but rather to do things that are good for
the business,”  Steve Minnaar , a fund manager at Cape Town-based
Abax Investments Ltd., said by telephone. A breakup “doesn’t
make sense,” said Michael Shroder, head of value equity
investments at Old Mutual Investment Group.  
 Anglo  owns about 80 percent of Anglo Platinum, which
controls more than a third of global output of the metal. The
company also owns 45 percent of diamond producer De Beers.  
 “The platinum asset is still one of the most important
assets, if not the most,”  Sasha Naryshkine , investment manager
at Johannesburg-based fund manager Vestact, said by phone from
the city today. “Why even suggest that this asset is not one of
the crown jewels?”  
 Anglo is Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s preferred mining stock,
along with Antofagasta Plc, offering a combination of “strong”
expected cash returns and volume growth over the next few years,
according to a July 8 note. Anglo was started in South Africa in
1917 to exploit the gold deposits east of Johannesburg.  
 Mining Charter  
 “South Africa is the basis on which the whole company was
built,” Coronation’s Groenewald said. “There are things that
have got worse, but issues like the Mining Charter and Black
Economic Empowerment are largely behind us.”  
 South Africa’s Mines Minister said June 30 the government
will complete a review of the Mining Charter in August. The 2004
document requires mining companies to transfer 26 percent of
their assets to black investors by 2014 to help make good for
apartheid, the segregation policy that disenfranchised them.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        