-- Angola's Economy to Expand 7.1% in 2010, Moody's Investor Services Says
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-15T13:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/angola-s-economy-to-expand-by-7-1-in-2010-moody-s-investor-services-says.html

          
          
             Angola’s economy is likely to expand
by 7.1 percent in 2010 and 8.3 percent in 2011, Moody’s
Investors Service estimated.  
 The south-west African nation’s economic strength is rated
“moderate” while its institutional strength is “very low,”
the ratings agency said in its first annual sovereign report on
the country released today. The Angolan economy contracted 0.4
percent last year, according to the report.  
 “Angola’s rapid growth has significantly expanded its
economy over the past decade, due to the development of its
sizeable oil reserves,” Moody’s analysts led by  Anthony Thomas 
wrote in the report. “We judge its economic strength as medium,
because at current prices, the strong underlying growth trends
suggest the size of the economy will be over $100 billion in a
few years’ time.”  
 Africa’s second-biggest crude oil producer after Nigeria
obtained its first credit rating in May, paving the way for a
planned sale of international bonds this year. Angola’s
creditworthiness was rated at B+ by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, four levels below investment grade, while Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 Angola may issue between $1 billion to $2 billion of
international bonds this year, scaling back earlier plans to
sell as much as $4 billion of the debt without a credit rating,
Finance Minister Carlos Lopes said on April 15. The country
relies on crude exports for about 80 percent of its government
revenue and 90 percent of export receipts, Moody’s said.  
 The country needs an oil price of between $60 and $65 a
barrel to break even on its government budget, Moody’s said.
Angola’s current-account deficit is likely to swell to 3.7
percent of gross domestic product, from 9.5 percent last year,
Moody’s estimated.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        