-- Manufacturing in N.Y. Area Expanded at Slower Pace in July
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-07-15T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-area-grows-at-slower-pace-as-orders-sales-cool.html

          
          
             Manufacturing in the New York region
expanded in July at the slowest pace this year, as measures of
orders and sales cooled.  
 The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York’s general economic
index dropped to 5.1, lower than the median forecast of 18 in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Readings greater than zero
signal expansion in the so-called Empire State Index that covers
New York, northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  
 Manufacturing may slow to a more sustainable pace of growth
after leading the economy out of the worst recession in seven
decades. While the global recovery is spurring exports, weaker
consumer spending and a slowdown in inventory rebuilding signal
factory orders may ease in coming months.  
 “We look for a slowdown in activity during the second half
as firms have far less need to increase inventories and
forecasts for consumer spending have been revised down,”  David Semmens , an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York,
said before the report.  
 Economists forecast the New York Fed’s index would decrease
from 19.6 in June, according to the median of 47 projections in
a Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from 10 to 21.
Manufacturers account for about 6 percent of New York’s economy.  
 The New York Fed’s gauge of new factory orders decreased to
10.1 this month from 17.5 in the prior month. A measure of
shipments fell to 6.3 from 19.7.  
 The employment measure decreased to 7.9 from 12.4 while the
length of the average workweek decreased.  
 Factories  nationally have added 136,000 workers to payrolls
since the start of the year, according to Labor Department data.
Manufacturers boosted payrolls by 9,000 in June, a sixth
consecutive gain, while the workweek for manufacturing workers
fell 0.5 hours to 41 hours.  
 Prices Paid  
 Today’s report showed an index of prices paid fell to 25.4
from 27.2 while prices received dropped to minus 1.6 from 4.9.  
 The factory executives’ future outlook held up. The gauge
measuring the outlook six months from now rose to 41.3 from 40.7
in June.  
 Some of the region’s companies are profiting from growth
globally. New York-based  Alcoa Inc ., the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, this week reported second-quarter sales and profit
that beat analysts’ estimates and forecast higher global demand
for the metal, which may signal broader economic growth.  
 Alcoa expects aluminum sales for automotive uses to
increase by 3 percent to 8 percent this year, while sales for
commercial trucks and trailers may gain 12 percent to 17
percent, Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said on a
conference call. The company sees indications of a recovery in
almost all markets this year, Kleinfeld said.  
 Right Direction  
 “We are really working very hard to fire on all
cylinders,” Kleinfeld said. “Undoubtedly, we are not seeing
the environment we’ve seen in the past but we see the
environment getting better and continuously moving in the right
direction.”  
 Manufacturers make up 12 percent of the economy and are
benefitting from expanding world trade, inventory restocking and
stronger corporate spending for new equipment.  
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg in the first week of July
forecast growth would slow to a 2.8 percent pace in the second
half of the year from an average 3.3 percent in the second
quarter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alcoa Inc chief executive officer Klaus Kleinfeld. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
