-- U.S. Manufacturing Contracts, Wholesale Prices Decline
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-07-15T20:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/manufacturing-in-u-s-contracts-by-most-in-year-wholesale-prices-decline.html

          
          
             Manufacturing in the U.S. contracted
in June by the most in a year and wholesale prices declined more
than anticipated, underscoring the Federal Reserve’s reduced
forecasts for economic growth and inflation.  
 Factory output fell 0.4 percent in June, a Fed report
showed today. Producer prices slid 0.5 percent after a 0.3
percent decline the month before, the Labor Department said.
Other reports showed factories pulled back in the New York and
Philadelphia regions in July.  
 Treasuries rose on concern slowing growth in China and
cooling U.S. consumer spending will offset the demand for
business equipment that has been spurring American industry.
 Unemployment  forecast by the Fed to stay above 9.2 percent this
year will limit purchasing power and prices, giving the central
bank reason to keep interest rates near zero into 2011.  
 “Production is now dependent on the rate of growth in
underlying demand, in the business equipment area it’s very good
but in the consumer area it’s very sluggish,” said  Nigel Gault ,
chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “Cost pressures are receding.”  
 The 10-year Treasury note gained, pushing the yield down to
2.99 percent at 4:46 p.m. in New York from 3.04 percent late
yesterday.  
 Stocks rallied late in the day, erasing earlier losses,
after BP Plc said it temporarily stopped the flow of oil from
its Gulf of Mexico well and investors speculated Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. will settle its fraud case. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.1 percent to close at 1,096.48.  
 Business Spending  
 A pickup in business spending to update equipment, which
has spurred sales and earnings at companies such as Intel Corp.,
will propel manufacturing in coming months as consumer demand
cools.  
 “Capacity still needs to be increased in order to meet
demand,”  Richard Hill , chief executive officer of Novellus
Systems Inc., said in an interview July 13. “There’s a major
overhaul of PCs throughout the corporate world.”  
 Novellus, which makes semiconductor equipment, said July 12
bookings rose 20 percent in the second quarter compared with a
year earlier and shipments increased 17 percent. “Challenges”
in North America “are not as bad as people might report” and
consumers are “reasonably confident that the economy is going
to rebound,” Hill said in the interview.  
 Production of business equipment increased 0.9 percent
after a 1.4 percent rise in May. Output of computers and
semiconductors led the gain last month.  
 Auto Production  
 Output of motor vehicles and parts dropped 1.9 percent in
June after a 5.6 percent jump a month earlier. Excluding autos
and parts, manufacturing was down 0.3 percent. Consumer goods
production fell 0.6 percent.  
 Intel, the world’s biggest chipmaker, said on July 13 that
sales will be $11.6 billion this quarter, plus or minus $400
million. Analysts estimated $10.9 billion on average, according
to a Bloomberg survey.  
 The manufacturing slowdown continued in the northeastern
U.S. this month, according to regional indexes compiled by the
Fed banks of New York and Philadelphia.  
 The Philadelphia Fed’s index, which covers eastern
Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware, fell to 5.1 this
month, the lowest level since August 2009, from 8 in June. The
New York Fed’s manufacturing gauge, which includes northern New
Jersey and southern Connecticut, dropped to 5.1 from 19.6. In
both cases, readings above zero indicate expansion.  
 Industrial Production  
 Industrial production, which adds mining and utilities to
manufacturing, unexpectedly rose 0.1 percent in June as higher
temperatures boosted demand for electricity, the Fed’s report
showed. Last month was the eighth-warmest June in 116 years,
according to the National Climatic Data Center.  
 Utility output increased 2.7 percent after a 5.6 percent
jump in May. Mining production, which includes oil drilling,
rose 0.4 percent.  
 Fed officials trimmed their forecasts for economic growth
and inflation, according to minutes of their June meeting
released yesterday, while adding that they saw no need to boost
stimulus to the economy.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number
of members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” the minutes said. “The changes to the outlook were
viewed as relatively modest and as not warranting policy
accommodation beyond that already in place.”  
 The credit crisis in Europe is adding to the risks to the
recovery, along with a slowdown in China, the world’s fastest-
growing major economy.  
 China Growth  
 China’s economy expanded 10.3 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, less than forecast by economists and down
from growth of 11.9 percent in the first three months of the
year, the country’s statistics bureau said today. Industrial
production rose 13.7 percent in June, also less than anticipated
by economists.  
 U.S. central bankers yesterday lowered their central
tendency forecast for growth this year to a range of 3 percent
to 3.5 percent versus 3.2 percent to 3.7 percent in April, the
minutes showed.  
 Policy makers at their June 22-23 meeting trimmed their
outlook for inflation this year to a range of 1.0 percent to 1.1
percent, down from 1.2 percent to 1.5 percent in April. A few
policy makers expressed concern about some risk of deflation,
the minutes said.  
 Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 2.8 percent
more for goods in June after rising 5.3 percent in the 12 month
ended in May, today’s Labor Department report showed. Excluding
food and energy, wholesale prices rose 1.1 percent in the 12
months ended in June after a 1.3 percent year-over-year increase
a month earlier.  
 Another report today showed initial claims for jobless
benefits declined last week, reflecting a smaller number of
factory closings for this time of year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Factory output fell 0.4 percent in June according to a Fed report. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Englund, chief economist at Action Economics LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Manufacturing in the U.S. contracted in June by the most in a year and wholesale prices declined more than anticipated, underscoring the Federal Reserve’s reduced forecasts for economic growth and inflation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
