-- APA Sells A$300 Million of 10-Year Bonds to Cut Costs, Refinance Its Debt
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-07-15T07:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/apa-sells-a-300-million-of-10-year-bonds-to-cut-costs-refinance-its-debt.html

          
          
             APA Group , whose pipelines carry
more than half Australia’s natural gas, raised A$300 million
($263 million) from 10-year bonds to refinance maturing debt and
reduce interest costs.  
 The company sold the notes through its APT Pipelines Ltd.
unit and priced them to yield 240 basis points more than the
mid-swap rate, according to a regulatory filing today. They are
the first BBB rated 10-year notes sold in Australia by a non-
financial company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The deal is “a good sign for the market here,” said  Scott Osborne , Sydney-based head of income strategies at BT Investment
Management Ltd., which manages about A$13.5 billion of cash and
fixed-income assets. It “shows the demand that might be out
there for reasonable quality issuers in that part of the
curve.”  
 Australia’s bond market is dominated by banks, whose sales
outstripped those of non-financial companies by more than seven
times this year, according to Deutsche Bank AG. The average
maturity of Australian corporate bonds is 2 1/2 years,
government officials wrote in a November  paper .  
 APA  rose  1.9 percent to A$3.77 in Sydney trading. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200  Index  fell 0.4 percent.  
 Debt Maturity  
 The securities will extend the average maturity of the
Sydney-based company’s  debt , reduce its borrowing costs and
diversify its sources of funding, APA Chief Financial Officer
 Peter Fredricson  said in the filing.  
 Westpac Banking Corp., Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and National
Australia Bank Ltd., the country’s four biggest lenders, are
rated AA by Standard & Poor’s, the risk assessor’s third-highest
ranking. APA’s BBB grade is S&P’s ninth-highest and the second-
lowest that qualifies as investment grade.  
 Other BBB rated Australian non-financial firms that sold
10-year notes paid bond insurers to provide an AAA rating at the
time of issue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Those
securities, sold by companies including Brisbane Airport Ltd.,
were downgraded after the insurers lost their top ratings during
the U.S. subprime collapse.  
 Australia’s banks sold A$81.7 billion of debt this year
while other companies raised A$10.7 billion, Deutsche Bank
analysts  Gus Medeiros  and  Colin Tan  said on July 12.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        