-- Apple Engineer Told Jobs IPhone Antenna Might Cut Calls
-- Connie Guglielmo
-- 2010-07-15T20:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/apple-engineer-said-to-have-told-jobs-last-year-about-iphone-antenna-flaw.html

          
          
             Apple Inc. ’s senior antenna expert
voiced concern to Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  in the
early design phase of the iPhone 4 that the antenna design could
lead to dropped calls, a person familiar with the matter said.  
 Last year, Ruben Caballero, a senior engineer and antenna
expert, informed Apple’s management the device’s design may hurt
reception, said the person, who is not authorized to speak on
Apple’s behalf and asked not to be identified. A carrier partner
also raised concerns about the antenna before the device’s June
24 release, according to another person familiar with the
situation.  
 The latest model of the iPhone carries a metal antenna that
surrounds the outside of the device -- a design chosen by Apple
executives because it yielded a lighter, thinner handset. It has
also resulted in dropped or degraded calls that led Consumer
Reports to refrain from endorsing the iPhone 4, weighed on the
company’s stock and stepped up pressure on Apple to issue a fix.  
 Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment
and said he wouldn’t make Caballero available for an interview.
Caballero didn’t respond to a call and an e-mail seeking
comment.  
 Apple plans to hold a press conference tomorrow about the
device. Dowling declined to elaborate on what will be discussed.
A separate person familiar with the matter said Apple doesn’t
plan to announce a recall of the phone.  
 Record Sales  
 Apple broke sales records with the iPhone 4, which debuted
June 24 in the U.S., the U.K., Japan, France and Germany. The
exclusive U.S. carrier is AT&T Inc. Apple’s European partners
include  Vodafone Group Plc , France Telecom SA and Deutsche
Telekom AG.  Softbank Corp.  carries the iPhone 4 in Japan.  
 In the first three days, the company sold 1.7 million
devices, the most for any iteration of its top-selling product.  
 Apple’s industrial design team, led by  Jonathan Ive ,
submitted several iPhone designs before Jobs and other
executives settled on the bezel antenna, said the person
familiar with the company’s design. Caballero, the antenna
expert, voiced concern in early planning meetings that it might
lead to dropped calls and presented a serious engineering
challenge, the person said.  
 The metal bezel surrounding the handset would need to be
separated in sections to create individual antennas capable of
handling particular ranges of the radio frequencies for
different wireless networks, the person said. If a user covered
one of the seams between the sections, their finger would act as
a conductive material, interfering with the signal, the person
said. Consumer Reports suggests iPhone 4 users cover the antenna
with duct tape to help mitigate reception woes.  
 ‘Insufficient’ Response  
 Tests carried out by one of the phone service providers
before the device was released also indicated the antenna might
hinder reception, said a person who asked not to be identified
because discussions with Apple aren’t public.  
 Apple, which has built its brand on delivering cool,
meticulously crafted designs, may alienate customers as critics
continue to point out reception flaws with its device.  
 U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New York,
issued a public letter to Jobs saying Apple’s efforts to address
the matter so far are “insufficient” and asking the company
“to address this flaw in a transparent manner.”  
 Consumer Reports said it isn’t recommending the  iPhone 4 
following tests confirming the handset has a  hardware
shortcoming  that causes signal quality to degrade. The
publication has recommended the three previous iPhone models.  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, fell $1.28 to
$251.45 at 4 p.m. New York time on the  Nasdaq Stock Market . The
shares have risen 19 percent this year.  
 Stock Impact  
 The company’s stock fell on July 13 on speculation that the
Consumer Reports decision may curtail demand among consumers who
are on the fence about whether to buy the iPhone 4. Some blogs
and a betting company that tracks odds of events said attention
to the shortcoming raises the possibility of a product recall --
a development analysts deemed unlikely.  
 “The stock is being impacted by general concerns about the
impact this is having to the brand, and the financial impact,
and the uncertainty about what Apple will do about this,” said
 Andy Hargreaves , an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in
Portland, Oregon. “A product recall is extremely unlikely.”  
 Soon after Apple released the iPhone 4 in June, some
customers complained about losing their signal. Apple last month
advised users to buy a case or avoid holding it in the lower-
left corner “in a way that covers both sides of the black strip
in the metal band.”  
 “Gripping any mobile phone will result in some attenuation
of its antenna performance, with certain places being worse than
others depending on the placement of the antennas,” Apple said.  
 Software Update  
 The company also said that a software error, dating to the
June 2007 release of the first iPhone, has resulted in
overstated signal strength, leading users to believe they had
better reception than they did. Apple said on July 2 that a
software fix will be released “within a few weeks.”  
 With the fix, Apple said it’s adopting a new formula to
more accurately calculate how many bars to display.  
 Apple has released an updated version of the iPhone each
year since the first model made its debut, including the iPhone
3G in 2008, and the speedier iPhone 3GS in 2009. The iPhone was
Apple’s biggest moneymaker last quarter, outselling the
Macintosh computer and accounting for 40 percent of sales.  
 Phone design, from concept to production, can take anywhere
from six to 10 months, said  Jeff Shamblin , chief technology
officer of  Ethertronics Inc. , a San Diego-based antenna
manufacturer whose clients include Samsung Electronics Co.  
 Challenging Test Process  
 “The phone keeps changing and it does affect antenna
performance,” Shamblin said. “The antenna engineer needs to go
back and redesign and retest several times.”  
 Tests are also conducted by carriers, which help identify
potential flaws, he said. The Federal Communications Commission
also examines the phone, though its review is typically limited
to checking whether the phone functions within the allocated
frequency bands. The FCC also checks to make sure the phone
doesn’t interfere with other devices.  
 As phones and smartphones have become more complex, the
testing process has become challenging, Shamblin said. In years
past, engineers conducted tests on phones held against a
person’s head, he said. “Now, you have to test against a cell
phone sitting on a desk, in a user’s lap, being used on
speakerphone while operated with two hands,” he said.  
 Apple increased that difficulty by innovating on the
antenna design. “There’s always risk when you develop a new
antenna technology,” he said.  
 Consumer Reports tested the iPhone and other phones offered
by Dallas-based  AT&T  in an isolation chamber with a device that
simulates a carrier’s cell towers.  
 “None of those phones had the signal-loss problems of the
iPhone 4,” the  organization said . “The tests also indicate
that AT&T’s network might not be the primary suspect in the
iPhone 4’s much-reported signal woes.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Burrows  in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
 Connie Guglielmo  in San Francisco at 
 cguglielmo1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Apple Worker Said to Tell Jobs IPhone Might Cut Calls  
                       
                         
                           Asa Mathat/All Things Digital via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Steve Jobs, chief executive officer of Apple Inc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Steve Jobs, chief executive officer of Apple Inc. Photographer: Asa Mathat/All Things Digital via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Peter Burrows talks about Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4 antenna-reception problems.
   Apple’s senior antenna expert voiced concern to Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs in the early design phase of the iPhone 4 that the antenna design could lead to dropped calls, a person familiar with the matter said. Burrows speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Heath Terry, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, discusses the outlook for Apple Inc. and prospects for Google Inc. in the smartphone market.
     Apple's senior antenna expert voiced concern to Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs in the early design phase of the iPhone 4 that the antenna design could lead to dropped calls, a person familiar with the matter said. Terry talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Dan McGinn, chief executive officer at TMG Strategies, talks about the antenna design in Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4.
     Apple’s senior antenna expert voiced concern to Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs in the early design phase of the iPhone 4 that the antenna design could lead to dropped calls, a person familiar with the matter said. McGinn speaks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Shaw Wu, an analyst at Kaufman Bros., talks about a potential flaw in the antenna design of Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4.
     Apple plans to hold a news conference tomorrow about the device. Wu talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Gikas, senior electronics editor at Consumer Reports, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton and Julie Hyman about Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4 reception problem.
     Consumer Reports said its engineers have just completed testing Apple’s iPhone 4 and have confirmed that a hardware flaw is creating a reception problem. As a result, Consumer Reports said it has decided not to recommend the phone. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
