-- Marchionne Battle With Unions Risks Panda's Success at Fiat's Worst Plant
-- Sara Gay Forden
-- 2010-07-16T10:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/marchionne-battle-with-unions-risks-panda-s-success-at-fiat-s-worst-plant.html

          
          
             Fiat SpA  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  is making a 700 million-euro ($905 million)
bet that he can revamp the company’s least efficient factory.
Escalating tension with unions may derail the strategy.  
 Fiat’s  largest union , which opposes the CEO’s unprecedented
proposals to curb strikes and increase shifts at the Pomigliano
plant in southern Italy, is organizing a four-hour walkout today
at five factories. They’re protesting this week’s firing of four
union representatives.  
 “Fiat is adopting a very hostile policy toward the unions,
especially ours,” said  Fernando Liuzzi  of Fiom-Cgil, which
represents 10,000 of Fiat’s 83,000 workers in Italy.  
 Italy’s biggest manufacturer is using the Pomigliano
investment as a test case to win labor concessions that may
become a watershed for the nation’s industry. Marchionne is
offering unions increased production in the south, where
 unemployment  is more than double the 5.9 percent average in the
wealthier north.  
 The CEO angered the union when he decided July 9 to press
ahead with his plan to transfer production of the  Panda  model,
Fiat’s second most popular vehicle, from Poland to its factory
at Pomigliano d’Arco, near Naples. While four smaller unions at
the site backed the project, more than a third of workers voted
against the proposal in a June referendum, saying it violated
their constitutional right to strike.  
 Brazil, Poland  
 Pomigliano is a key part of Marchionne’s plan to invest
more than  8 billion euros  to improve factories and vehicle
development in the next two years in Italy, where productivity
lags its plants in Brazil and Poland. He wants to lift
production in Fiat’s home country to as many as 1 million cars a
year by 2012 from 650,000, responding to the government’s
request to increase domestic output following a decision last
year to shut another plant in the south.  
 “What happened in Pomigliano shows that for the first time
in many years jobs do not leave Italy, but enter Italy,”
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said in Rome yesterday.  
 In Detroit, where Fiat runs Chrysler Group LLC after
acquiring a 20 percent stake last year, Marchionne has greater
success in winning labor support. The United Auto Workers Union
agreed not to strike before 2015 under an accord also extended
to General Motors Corp. designed to revive U.S. automakers after
they emerged from bankruptcy last year.  
 “In the U.S., the UAW was born in conflict but then
transformed itself,” said Giuseppe Berta, who wrote the book
“Fiat After Fiat.” “Pomigliano is a sad story in which nobody
is winning. Marchionne should have taken more time to build
consensus among the unions. He can’t resolve these types of
conflicts here the way he would in Detroit.”  
 Least Efficient  
 Pomigliano, which employs 5,000 people, is the least
efficient of Fiat’s five domestic factories. It’s running at  20
percent capacity,  compared with 105 percent in the southern town
of Melfi, Fiat’s most efficient Italian plant. The low
utilization rate is partly due to weak demand for the larger and
pricier Alfa Romeo models it makes, a Fiat spokesman said.  
 Originally called Alfasud SpA, the factory was built in
1972 with government funding to create jobs in the south.  
 For more than a year Pomigliano, which builds outdated Alfa
Romeo models such as the 159 and GT, has been operating only
five days a month. Idled workers are compensated in part by a
government-sponsored fund. Marchionne has proposed boosting
production to 280,000 cars from 35,000 a year if workers carry
out the concessions.  
 ‘Plug the Gap’  
 Fiat wants to “plug the gap in competitiveness with other
countries and bring Fiat to an  efficiency  level that guarantees
Italy a solid auto industry and all of our workers a more secure
future,” Marchionne wrote in a July 9 letter to employees.  
 Almost  one out of three  autoworkers in Italy is involved in
production stoppages every day. Workers often call in sick
during strikes to avoid their pay being docked.  
 Fiat says the Pomigliano plant must reduce absenteeism and
wants the right to discipline workers that strike on issues
already agreed to in the accord. Fiat fired three union
delegates at its Melfi plant this week, saying they obstructed
production during a strike. Another worker at its Mirafiori
plant in Turin was fired for using the company e-mail network to
circulate a message from Polish workers.  
 About 18 percent of workers at the Mirafiori facility went
on strike today near Turin to protest the dismissals, while
about 19 percent of employees at Melfi participated in the
protest, according to a Fiat spokesman, citing preliminary data.  
 “Fiat is one of the only car companies in Europe that is
really restructuring its industrial capacity in Europe,” said
 Jose Asumendi , an analyst at RBS in London with a “buy” rating
on the shares. “He is taking out capacity, negotiating new
agreements with the unions and discontinuing underperforming
models, all very positive steps.”  
 15 Hours  
 The production slump at Pomigliano contrasts with the
factory at Tychy in Poland. There, Fiat employees work three
shifts a day, six days a week and build a Panda in 15 hours. The
facility produces 600,000 cars a year, including the Ford Ka
small car. Moving the Panda to Pomigliano will reduce some of
the production strain at the factory, which is operating at
about 147 percent capacity, according to Fiat’s website.  
 Marchionne may need at least five years to match the output
of the Polish factory, said  Stephen Pope , a Cantor Fitzgerald
analyst in London who has a “sell” rating on the stock. “It
is a risky situation,” he said.  
 Profit Margin  
 Fiat  rose  as much as 14 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 9.43
euros and traded at 9.37 euros as of 11:54 a.m. in Milan. The
stock has lost 8.6 percent this year, valuing the carmaker at 11
billion euros.  
 Failing to reach production targets could damage Fiat’s
operating margin, at about 2.1 percent, and tarnish Marchionne’s
image as a turnaround specialist, Pope said.  
 Stefano Aversa , co-president of consulting firm
AlixPartners LLP in London, said Marchionne is adopting the
right strategy in pushing ahead with his plan and trying to
isolate Fiom-CGIL, the more radical union.  
 “There is no other major automaker that is going to come
into Italy and make those kinds of investments,” said Aversa.
“Blue-collar workers in Italy are like a species risking
extinction. The unions should take that into account.”  
 For Related News and Information:
Top stories:TOP &lt;GO&gt;
Top Italy: ITAT &lt;GO&gt;
Top transport news: TRNTOP &lt;GO&gt;
On labor issues: NI LABOR &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sara Forden  in Milan at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of Fiat SpA and Chrysler LLC, listens during a Confindustria meeting in Parma, on April 9, 2010. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
