-- Argentina to Become First Latin American Nation to Allow Same-Sex Marriage
-- Eliana Raszewski
-- 2010-07-15T15:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/argentina-to-become-first-latin-american-nation-to-allow-same-sex-marriage.html

          
          
             Argentina became the first Latin
American country to legalize same-sex marriages after an early
morning Senate vote overcame lobbying by the Roman Catholic
Church.  
 Following a 14-hour debate, the upper house voted 33-to-27
to approve the bill, which was passed by the lower chamber in
May and is backed by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner .  
 “This is a very significant step on the way to equality,”
said Senator  Miguel Pichetto , head of the ruling coalition bloc,
after the vote. “Having approved the bill is a very positive
fact that moves forward the principles of equality and
freedom.”  
 Thousands of people marched in Buenos Aires streets in the
past days at rallies in favor and against same-sex marriage.
Argentine Cardinal  Jorge Bergoglio  said July 8 that the proposal
isn’t “a political fight but an intention to destroy God’s
plan,” according to newspaper InfoBae.com.  
 To become law, the bill has to be signed by Fernandez and
published in the country’s official gazette.  
 “Today’s historic vote shows how far Catholic Argentina
has come, from dictatorship to true democratic values, and how
far the freedom-to-marry movement has come as 12 countries on
four continents now embrace marriage equality,”  Evan Wolfson ,
the executive director of the New York-based Freedom to Marry
organization, said in an e-mail statement.  
 The city of Buenos Aires has since 2003 allowed gay couples
to enter into civil unions, which gave health-insurance benefits
to spouses of city employees and forced a city-run bank to offer
joint loans to same-sex couples.  
 Still, the law didn’t allow them to adopt or give them
rights to inheritance, according to Gustavo Lopez, a lawyer of
the government-run Argentine Anti-Discrimination office.  
 Full marriage “recognizes families that already exist and
protects them,” Lopez said. “The state has an obligation to
protect all families.”  
 Mexico City allows gay marriage and permits same-sex
couples to adopt. Uruguay permits civil unions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        