-- Harry Reid Holds Off Tea Party at Gunpoint: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-07-15T01:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/harry-reid-holds-off-tea-party-at-gunpoint-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             Some choices look easy. Between
 Nevada  Republican Sharron Angle, an ardent believer in the
constitutional right to bear arms anywhere from a national park
to a corner bar, and one of  Washington ’s most powerful
Democrats, who would the  National Rifle Association  choose?  
 If you said Angle, that’s the easy choice, and probably the
wrong one. The NRA’s political arm has yet to make endorsements,
but gun owners around the U.S. are  worried,  with evident reason,
that the group may be prepared to forsake Angle for her
Democratic opponent, Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader.  
 Angle’s devotion to gun rights is unquestioned. In one
interview, she coyly wouldn’t say whether she was carrying a
concealed weapon because she didn’t want the bad guys to know.  
 When “government becomes tyrannical,” she has said, it’s
the citizenry’s right to lock and load.  
 And  she fretted:  “People are really looking toward those
Second Amendment remedies and saying, ‘My goodness, what can we
do to turn this country around?’ I’ll tell you, the first thing
we need to do is take  Harry Reid  out.” She later acknowledged
that comment might have been “a little strong,” and that, lest
the trigger-happy among her supporters misunderstand her, she
meant “take him out of office.”  
 Reid occasionally flirts with the NRA, as Western Democrats
must, but mostly breaks its heart. He helped secure land and
funding for a 2,900-acre park for shooting and gamely  took down 
clay birds with his 12-gauge shotgun at the opening in March. He
worked to keep insurance premiums from being raised on those who
keep a gun at home and supported a carve-out exempting the NRA
from new campaign-donation disclosure requirements.  
 Kagan Test  
 The gun owners’ bill of particulars against Reid is longer.
He supported the confirmation of Attorney General Eric Holder,
who strongly favors gun limits. He is currently pushing the
confirmation of Elena Kagan to the  Supreme Court , a  vote  the NRA
is going to score. That should bring Reid’s rating, even grading
on a curve, to a gentleman’s “C” from the “B” he received
the last time he ran, in 2004.  
 The Gun Owners of America, by contrast,  gives Reid  an
“F.” So why is the NRA on such a different page?  
 While his headquarters may be in Fairfax,  Virginia , NRA
Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre is part of the
Washington firmament. And like the Christian Coalition before
it, LaPierre’s NRA is forgetting the faithful -- who, online,
are up in arms about a possible Reid endorsement.  
 Big Win  
 LaPierre has a lot to crow about. The NRA just won a ruling
from the Supreme Court that states and cities are bound by the
Second Amendment. What did the rank-and-file, those weekend
minutemen or militia men or patriots in camouflage, have to do
with that?  
 At the core, LaPierre has more in common with the heretic
Reid than with a sweaty believer like Angle. She’s proven to be
a strong brew even by Tea Party standards.  
 Before Republicans muffled her, she was for gradually
privatizing Social Security, defunding the new health-care
system, abolishing the income-tax code and massively cutting the
federal government, including eliminating the Energy Department
and the Environmental Protection Agency, which probably are too
busy trying to clean up the  Gulf of Mexico  to pay much attention
to Nevada politics. Even right-wing voters in her state must
gulp at her desire to make Yucca Mountain home to the country’s
nuclear waste.  
 (For more Angle unplugged, see her primary-campaign
 website , which Nevada Democrats salvaged after Angle tried to
bury it, like a radioactive fuel rod deep under Yucca.)  
 Firm on Abortion  
 Asked if she’d permit abortion in the case of a teenager
raped by her father, Angle  said no  -- two wrongs don’t make a
right, and the teenager should make lemonade from lemons.  
 Such views aren’t likely to attract the growing number of
independents in Nevada’s suburbs and are splitting the state
GOP. Some influential Nevada Republicans aren’t supporting
Angle, whom they view as the accidental nominee, winning because
her opponent suggested the uninsured should get health care in
exchange for live poultry. Reno Mayor Bob Cashell called Angle
an “ultra right-winger” whom he couldn’t support over Reid.  
 A reluctant supporter, former Congresswoman Barbara
Vucanovich,  told  the Las Vegas Review-Journal that she cautioned
Angle, “Sharron, you’re scaring the bejesus out of everybody.”  
 One pragmatic concern is that if Reid loses and Republicans
don’t retake the Senate, the NRA leadership would be faced with
a new majority leader who wouldn’t know one end of a rifle from
the other. One likely candidate to replace Reid in that scenario
is  Charles Schumer , Democrat of -- dare I say it? --  New York .  
 No one should blame NRA leaders for preferring the devil
they know to a city slicker who would pry guns from the fingers
of law-abiding citizens in a New York minute. Majority Leader
Schumer: that’s enough to scare the bejesus out of any gun
owner, concealed or not.  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        