-- Stocks Advance on Earnings Optimism; Treasuries Retreat
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-07-19T20:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/asia-stocks-commodities-decline-on-outlook-for-slower-china-u-s-growth.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks advanced, while
Treasuries retreated, as optimism about corporate earnings
overshadowed a slump in homebuilder confidence. European
equities fell for a fourth day.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.6 percent to
1,071.25 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  The Stoxx Europe 600
Index  fell 0.8 percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
climbed 0.05 percentage point to 2.97 percent, rising for the
first time in four days. Oil snapped a three-day slump and the
euro rose on speculation stress tests will show strength in the
region’s banks. Gold declined to an eight-week low.  
 Microsoft Corp.  rallied 1.4 percent to help lead technology
stocks higher after UBS AG increased earnings estimates, while
Halliburton Co. surged on profit and sales that topped analysts’
projections. Stocks fell earlier, and the two-year Treasury
yield matched a record low of 0.5765 percent, as a gauge of
homebuilder sentiment slid to the lowest in more than a year.  
 “These numbers that have been coming out for the second
quarter have been pretty good overall,” said  Hayes Miller , the
Boston-based head of asset allocation in North America at Baring
Asset Management, which manages $43.8 billion. “For now, for
the most part, our expectation would be the second half of the
year would be pretty good.”  
 The  S&P 500  today recovered only about one-fifth of its 2.9
percent plunge on July 16, the biggest decline this month, which
came after revenue at Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and
General Electric Co. missed analysts’ estimates and a gauge of
consumer confidence slid to the lowest level in a year.  
 Halliburton Earnings  
 Halliburton rose 6 percent, the most since June 10.
International Business Machines Corp., which releases results
after markets close today, increased 1.4 percent. All but three
of the 25 companies in the S&P 500 that have released second-
quarter results posted better-than-estimated earnings, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Earnings season look pretty good so far this quarter and
will probably buoy stocks,” said  Jeff Saut , the chief
investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates, which
manages $230 billion in St. Petersburg, Florida. “It’s a
mistake to get too bearish now.”  
 All but one of 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600
retreated as the regional benchmark extended its retreat since
July 13 to 3.8 percent.  
 BP Slumps  
 BP Plc slid 4.7 percent after the oil company’s talks to
sell half its stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay oilfield to Apache
Corp. stalled over the weekend, said a person with knowledge of
the matter.  
 Electrolux AB slid 7.8 percent in Stockholm, the most in
five months, after the world’s second-biggest appliance maker
said that demand weakened “substantially” in southern Europe.  
 The euro strengthened against 12 of 16 major counterparts,
rising 0.1 percent to $1.2942. European regulators are examining
the strength of 91 banks to determine whether they can survive
potential losses on sovereign-debt holdings. Stress-test results
will be released July 23.  
 Investors have been adding to their euro positions,
according to Bank of New York Mellon Corp.’s iFlow data.
Cumulative inflows from the euro totaled about two times the
average amount compared with the previous year.  
 Canadian Dollar, Forint  
 The Canadian dollar gained against 15 of 16 major
currencies with the central bank forecast to increase interest
rates tomorrow for the second time in less than two months. The
Hungarian forint fell to the weakest level in almost 15 months
against the euro after the International Monetary Fund and
European Union ended talks with the government without endorsing
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s plans to control the budget
deficit.  
 The Irish 10-year yield climbed five basis points to 5.48
percent after the nation’s credit rating was cut one level at
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a “significant loss of
financial strength” and the cost of bank bailouts.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined for a third day,
losing 0.4 percent. Asian stocks fell, dragging down the
benchmark MSCI Inc. index by 0.8 percent, on concern global
economic growth is faltering.  
 Crude oil for August delivery rose or 0.7 percent to $76.54
a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The August
contract expires tomorrow. More-active September futures
increased 52 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $76.90 a barrel.  
 Gold Slips  
 Gold prices fell to an eight-week low on reduced investment
demand. Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators trimmed
their net-long positions, or bets on a rally in Comex gold
futures, by 2 percent to 204,921 contracts in the week ended
July 13, according to government data. That marked the lowest
level since April 6. Gold futures for August delivery fell 0.5
percent to $1,181.90 an ounce on the Comex in New York. The
metal has dropped 6.7 percent from a record on June 21.  
 Corn prices tumbled 3.3 percent, the most in seven weeks,
to $3.94 a bushel in Chicago and soybeans fell after weekend
rains revived crops in the southern U.S. and widespread
precipitation in the next five days in the Midwest may replenish
soil moisture.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A trader talks on a phone while working on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks rose, rebounding from the market’s biggest drop this month, as optimism about earnings from technology and energy companies overshadowed a drop in financial shares. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Leo Grohowski, chief investment officer at BNY Mellon Wealth Management, talks about his investment strategy for equities.
     Grohowski also discusses the outlook for U.S. stocks, corporate earnings and the economy. Grohowski talks with Carol Massar, Matt Miller and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Barry Knapp, head of U.S. equity strategy at Barclays Capital, talks about the outlook for the U.S. stock market for the second half of 2010.
     Knapp speaks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Roach, chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, talks about the U.S.'s budget deficit and exit strategy.
     Roach, speaking with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Blomberg Radio's "Surveillance," also discusses China's economy and his investment focus. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- David Rovelli, managing director of U.S. equity trading at Canaccord Genuity Inc., discusses the outlook for U.S. corporate earnings and the prospects for stocks.
     Rovelli speaks with Betty Liu, Sheila Dharmarajan and Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Ka Chung Law, chief economist and strategist at the Hong Kong branch of Bank of Communications Ltd., China's fifth-biggest lender, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his outlook for the Hong Kong stock market and global economy.
     Hong Kong stocks dipped on Friday after the U.S. reported manufacturing declined, heightening concern an economic recovery may falter. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Andy Xie, an independent economist, discusses China's economy.
     China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter and industrial production cooled more than forecast in June. Xie speaks from Shanghai with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
