-- Asian Currencies Recoup Losses as China GDP Data Counters U.S. Concerns
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-07-15T09:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/asian-currencies-weaken-on-u-s-slowdown-pare-losses-on-china-gdp-data.html

          
          
             Asian currencies  recovered from
losses after China’s economic growth exceeded 10 percent for a
third quarter, damping concern a worsening outlook for the U.S.
will derail the global recovery.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asian Dollar  Index  and the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index  of shares earlier retreated from three-week highs
after Federal Reserve minutes showed the central bank cut its
U.S. economic growth forecast for this year to no more than 3.5
percent, from as much as 3.7 percent. The won led a rebound in
regional currencies on optimism China, the biggest buyer of
exports from South Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan, will hold off
from tightening monetary policy.  
 “Asian currencies will be a bit choppy because the debate
about a slowdown or a double-dip scenario needs time to
settle,” said  Sim Moh Siong , a currency strategist at Bank of
Singapore Ltd.  
 South Korea’s won closed little changed at 1,202.65 per
dollar in Seoul, after sliding as much as 0.5 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit fell as much
as 0.4 percent before trading 0.1 percent weaker at 3.2010 as of
5:38 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  
 The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
used currencies excluding the yen, slid 0.1 percent and the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.9 percent.  
 China Growth  
 China’s economic expansion slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, compared with an 11.9
percent pace in the first three months, after the government
succeeded in tempering investment and property speculation.
 Inflation  eased to 2.9 percent in June, the statistics bureau
reported, less than the 3.3 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists and the 3.1 percent pace in May.
Government bonds rose as stocks halted gains.  
 “The numbers are not that great but the market’s knee-jerk
reaction was all positive,” said  Charles Han , Hong Kong-based
head of foreign-exchange trading at Newedge Financial HK Ltd.
“The consumer price index was lower than expected, and I think
that was a catalyst, plus economic growth showed it’s still
robust.”  
 Taiwan’s dollar pared earlier gains as the central bank
intervened in late trading to counter gains that may hurt
exports. The currency rose as much as 0.3 percent after today’s
data eased concern China would step up curbs on bank lending and
property purchases.  
 Taiwan Intervention  
 Policy makers “intervened in the market at the end of
trading,” said Hao-Yun Juan, a currency trader in Taipei at
Kingstown Bank.  “The China data is a little bit bullish. The
Taiwan dollar will still appreciate.”  
 The island’s currency closed at NT$32.187 versus the
greenback, compared with NT$32.192 yesterday, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. The currency was 0.2 percent stronger a minute
before the market closed. It touched NT$32.001 on July 9, the
strongest level since June 28.  
 Thailand’s baht rose to a three-week high, climbing 0.2
percent to 32.28 per dollar, after the central bank yesterday
raised interest rates for the first time in two years. The Bank
of Thailand increased the one-day bond repurchase rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 1.5 percent, a decision
forecast by 13 of 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “The  rate hike  is one of the supporting factors for the
baht but the currency stalling gains near a specific level every
day leads to speculation of intervention,” said  Minori Uchida ,
senior analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. “On
top of that, sentiment for Asian currencies is not so strong on
concern over the U.S. economic outlook.”  
 The Philippine peso slid 0.2 percent to 46.36 per dollar
before an interest-rate review today. The central bank left its
benchmark rate at a record-low 4 percent after the close of
trading in local financial markets, a decision forecast by all
but one of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Elsewhere, China’s yuan slid 0.06 percent to 6.7755 per
dollar and India’s rupee traded at 46.70, from 46.69 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        