-- Asian Stocks Drop as Fed Cuts Forecast, Retail Sales Fall
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-07-15T08:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/asian-stocks-decline-as-fed-cuts-growth-forecast-u-s-retail-sales-fall.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  fell from a three week
high on concern an economic recovery may falter after U.S.
retail sales declined, Federal Reserve members cut their growth
forecasts for the world’s biggest economy, and China’s expansion
slowed.  
 Nissan Motor Co. , a Japanese carmaker that counts North
America as its biggest market, retreated 3.3 percent, while LG
Electronics Inc., which gets more than a third of its sales in
the Americas, lost 0.8 percent in Seoul.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the
world’s largest miner, fell 0.7 percent in Sydney on concern
slower U.S. growth will crimp demand for commodities.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  declined 0.9 percent to 116.62
as of 5:50 p.m. in Tokyo, set for the biggest fall since June 30.
About seven stocks fell for each two that advanced on the gauge,
which rallied 1.5 percent yesterday after Intel Corp., the
world’s biggest chipmaker, reported record second-quarter sales
and Singapore raised its economic growth forecast.  
 “The worst is already behind us, but the strength of the
recovery is weak,” said  Masayuki Kubota , a fund manager at
Tokyo-based Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which oversees about $51
billion in assets. “Concerns remain about the future once
support from economic measures expires.”  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  dropped 1.1 percent, its
biggest fall in two weeks. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost
0.4 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index slid 0.8 percent in
Wellington. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index retreated 1.5 percent.  
 S&P Futures Advance  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  declined 1.9 percent after
adding as much as 0.7 percent as Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
completed the first part of its initial public offering and the
Chinese government said the country’s economy grew 11.1 percent
in the first half of the year. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
briefly pared losses after the nation’s slowing economic
expansion and lower inflation fueled speculation the government
won’t seek to curb growth further.  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. In New York yesterday, the index slipped less than 0.1
percent as the decline in retail sales and the Federal Reserve’s
assessment that the economic outlook has “softened”
overshadowed Intel’s report.  
 Nissan dropped 3.3 percent to 648 yen in Tokyo.  Sony Corp. ,
which gets almost a quarter of its sales from the U.S., declined
2.4 percent to 2,530 yen. LG Electronics, South Korea’s second-
largest electronics maker, retreated 0.8 percent to 99,200 won
in Seoul.  
 Sales at U.S. retailers dropped 0.5 percent in June, more
than projected, after declining 1.1 percent in May, Commerce
Department figures showed yesterday in Washington.  
 ‘Outlook Has Softened’  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number
of members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” according to minutes released yesterday of a June
meeting of Federal Reserve officials.  
 Japanese exporters also fell as the dimmer global economic
outlook led the yen to appreciate to as much as 88.11 against
the dollar in Tokyo, compared with 88.92 at the close of stock
trading yesterday. Against the euro, Japan’s currency
strengthened to 112.06 from 112.99. A stronger yen reduces
income at Japanese companies when overseas revenue is converted
into their home currency.  
 BHP Billiton declined 0.7 percent to A$38.13 in Sydney and
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company, fell
1.1 percent to A$66.61.  
 Oil, Metals  
 Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s largest trading company,
retreated 1.9 percent to 1,963 yen in Tokyo. Inpex Corp.,
Japan’s largest oil explorer, sank 5.1 percent to 418,500 yen.
In Hong Kong, Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore energy
explorer, slumped 2.7 percent to HK$12.40.  
 Copper futures for September delivery lost 0.3 percent
yesterday in New York, while crude oil for August delivery
dropped as much as 0.7 percent in electronic trading today.  
 Among other stocks that fell today,  Nufarm Ltd. ,
Australia’s largest supplier of farm chemicals, tumbled 28
percent to A$3.75 after the company cut its full-year profit
forecast and said it won’t achieve one of its loan conditions.
Nufarm also had its stock rating lowered at Credit Suisse Group
AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG.  
 CSL Ltd., the world’s second-biggest maker of medical
treatments derived from blood, dropped 2.8 percent to $32.80
after a German rival lowered its full-year profit forecast
because of lower prices.  
 ‘Upside Potential’  
 “It’s hard to eliminate concerns about the future,” said
Mitsushige Akino, who oversees about $450 million in assets in
Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “However, shares
have significant upside potential in terms of valuations.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has dropped 3.2 percent in 2010,
compared with a 1.8 percent decline for the  S&P 500  and a 0.8
percent gain by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at 14.1 times estimated  earnings , compared
with 13.4 times for the S&P 500 and 11.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  
 China’s inflation cooled to 2.9 percent in June, the
statistics bureau reported in Beijing today. Industrial output
rose a less-than-estimated 13.7 percent.  
 China’s data “could be a signal for a slowdown in economic
growth and corporate earnings for the second half of the year,”
said  Peter So , head of research at CCB International Securities
Ltd. Still, “this data is lower than market expectation and
forms a case for credit easing and for holding interest rates.”  
 In Shanghai,  Agricultural Bank  rose 0.8 percent to 2.70
yuan on its first day of trading. China’s largest lender by
customers rose from the IPO price of 2.68 yuan after raising
$19.2 billion in the world’s biggest initial public offering in
four years. The lender is scheduled to list its shares in Hong
Kong tomorrow.  
 Intoll Group , an Australian toll-road operator, jumped 30
percent to A$1.45 in Sydney, the biggest gain on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, after Canada Pension Plan Investment Board
offered A$3.47 billion ($3.1 billion) for the Macquarie Group
Ltd.-backed company.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney on 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 0.8 percent to 116.82 as of 10:12 a.m. in Tokyo. About seven stocks fell for each that. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Lakshman Achuthan, managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about Federal Reserve monetary policy and the outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     Fed officials, in their minutes released today, saw no need to boost stimulus to the economy while trimming their forecasts for growth and noting that risks to the recovery had increased, minutes of the June Federal Open Market Committee meeting showed. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Richard Yamarone also speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Edward McKelvey, senior U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., discusses U.S. economic conditions and the prospects for the Federal Reserve to deploy additional tools to stimulate the economy.
     McKelvey talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
