-- Last U.S.-Run Prison Handed Over to Iraqis Ahead of Planned 2011 Pullout
-- Caroline Alexander
-- 2010-07-15T13:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/last-u-s-run-prison-handed-over-to-iraqis-ahead-of-planned-2011-pullout.html

          
          
             U.S. forces transferred the last
American-run detention facility in Iraq to the government in
Baghdad at a ceremony today, the military said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 The maximum-security site on the outskirts of Baghdad
airport has held a total of about 100,000 inmates since opening
just after the U.S.-led invasion more than seven years ago.
 Saddam Hussein  was jailed there before his execution in 2006,
along with former Deputy Prime Minister  Tariq Aziz , who was
handed over to Iraqi authorities yesterday.  
 The transfer is part of the Status of Armed Forces
Agreement between the U.S. and Iraq, which paves the way for the
exit of American troops by the end of 2011. The Obama
administration will have scaled back its force to about 50,000
by the end of August from a peak of about 165,000 in 2007.  
 The top U.S. military commander in Iraq, General  Ray Odierno , said in a July 13 briefing the military had been
training and preparing Iraqis to run Camp Cropper, which holds
about 1,500 detainees and has a capacity of 4,000.  
 “We have been working for a year on the turnover,”
Odierno said. “This isn’t something that happened overnight.”  
 Iraq’s Justice Ministry will change the name from Camp
Cropper to al-Karkh, the Iraqi al-Sumaria  news agency  said.  
 The U.S. will manage power, water and waste management
services to the center until Dec. 31, according to the  military .
It was named for Maryland National Guard Staff Sergeant  Kenneth
Cropper , who died on duty at the Pentagon in 2002.  
 Allegations of Abuse  
 Camp Cropper first came into the spotlight in 2004 when the
International Committee of the Red Cross said it had documented
harsh living conditions at the prison, though the worst
instances of abuse occurred at the Abu Ghraib jail, southwest of
central Baghdad.  
 Among the 25 prisoners handed over with Aziz are Hussein’s
former secretary, Abed Hmoud, former Interior Minister Mohammed
Zumam and former Oil Minister  Amir Rashid , government spokesman
 Ali al-Dabbagh  told state-sponsored al-Iraqiyah television.  
 Twenty-nine former regime figures were handed to Iraqi
authorities 10 months ago and three were transferred last month,
the U.S. military said. Eight others are among 200 inmates,
mostly linked to al-Qaeda, who will remain in U.S. custody at
Iraq’s request until the American withdrawal, the military said.  
 Aziz, who surrendered in April 2003, was sentenced to 15
years in jail in March 2009 for his role in the 1992 killing of
42 Baghdad merchants who had been found guilty of profiteering.  
 Assurance of Safety  
 The Iraqi administration will ensure the detainees are
treated humanely, al-Dabbagh told al-Arabiya television in an
interview yesterday after Aziz’s lawyer, Badea Araf Azzit, said
he feared for his client’s life.  
 Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki ’s Shiite Muslim-led
government was embroiled in its own abuse scandal in April, when
the Los Angeles Times reported that security forces under the
premier’s control ran a secret jail where dozens of Sunni
Muslims, who dominated Hussein’s Baath party regime, were
tortured. The government denied the allegations.  
 The transfer of Camp Cropper follows the March handover by
the U.S. of Camp Taji, at an airbase north of Baghdad. Camp
Bucca, where many detainees were sent after Abu Ghraib closed
following the abuse scandal, was handed over in September.  
 In April 2006 an empty Abu Ghraib was transferred to Iraqi
authorities, and the U.S. set out to improve the prison system,
introducing vocational and education programs. The site was
opened again in February 2009 and renamed Baghdad Central
Prison.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        