-- Tata Consultancy Profit Rises a Fifth Quarter on Orders, Beating Estimates
-- Anoop Agrawal
-- 2010-07-15T23:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/tata-consultancy-first-quarter-profit-18-4-billion-rupees.html

          
          
             Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. ’s
profit rose for a fifth consecutive quarter, beating analysts’
estimates as overseas companies outsourced more computer
operations to India’s largest software-services provider.  
 Net income  gained to 18.4 billion rupees ($395 million) in
the three months ended June 30, from 15.3 billion rupees a year
earlier, Mumbai-based Tata Consultancy said yesterday. That
compared with the 17.6 billion rupee average of 25 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Tata Consultancy joins smaller rival Infosys Technologies
Ltd. in signaling demand for information-technology services is
strengthening in the U.S. as customers resume spending. Growth
in India’s services industry accelerated to a two-year high in
June, as companies including Microsoft Corp. and Oracle Corp.
forecast a rebound in sales after declines through the recession.  
 “We’re seeing that demand from the U.S. is very strong,”
said Naushil Shah, analyst with Anand Rathi Financial Services
Ltd. in Mumbai. “Normally in a downturn, the discretionary spend
is what goes for a toss. That’s turning around now--they are
seeing a pickup in spending, and possibly a pricing increase
towards the end of the year.”  
 Sales Rise  
 Sales rose 14 percent to 82.2 billion rupees, compared with
the 80.6 billion rupees average of 36 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. The earnings were announced after trading hours.  
 Tata Consultancy gained 1 percent to close at 782.1 rupees
in Mumbai trading, compared with a 0.2 percent decline by the
benchmark Sensitive Index, or Sensex. The stock has nearly
doubled in the last year, outperforming the Sensex’s 29 percent
advance, and Infosys, its closest competitor, which gained 52
percent.  
 “While we remain alert about changing macro dynamics in
many markets, our customer-centric business model helps us
participate in the ongoing recovery,” Chief Executive Officer  N. Chandrasekaran  said in a statement.  
 The company is in negotiations to add 15 “large” software
services contracts, he said at a press conference in Mumbai.  
 Tata Consultancy, which provides computer services and back
office support to clients including  Citigroup Inc.  and General
Electric Co., saw an 8.1 percent increase in volume in the
quarter ended June 30. Information-technology services companies
define volume as the number of man-months workers spend on
projects for clients.  
 36 New Customers  
 The company, which  derived  53 percent of its revenue from
companies in North America, 16 percent from the U.K., and 11
percent from continental Europe last year, added 36 clients and
won orders during the quarter from Norway’s  Telenor ASA  and
entered into an agreement with Rolls-Royce Group Plc to set up a
design and engineering services center in Bangalore.  
 Indian information-technology vendors cut prices and
renegotiated contracts last year to keep clients. “We’re going
to see volume-driven growth for all the IT companies,” said
 Hitesh Shah , vice president of research at IDFC Securities Ltd.
in Mumbai, before the earnings announcement. He has an
“outperform” rating on the stock. “Pricing, at best, will
remain flat.”  
 Worldwide information technology spending, which includes
computer equipment and software purchases, will grow 9.3 percent
this year from an estimated $1.4 trillion in 2009, according to
Forrester Research, Inc. in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The U.S.
will lead the growth, spending an estimated $550 billion on
information technology this year.  
 Hiring, Churn  
 Tata Consultancy, added a net 3,271 employees during the
quarter, raising the total to 163,700. The company, which
expects to hire 40,000 people this fiscal year, will raise
salaries by an average 13 percent starting this month. The aim
of salary increases is to stay competitive and cut attrition,
said  Ajoy Mukherjee , vice president and global head of human
resources at Tata Consultancy.  
 Employee attrition was 13.1 percent in the quarter,
according to the company’s statement.  
 “Our attrition has gone up this quarter,” CEO
Chandrasekaran said. “But we have done a good job of retaining
key performers.”  
 Wages across India’s IT industry have been on the rise,
creating a new source of pressure on profit margins. Tata
Consultancy in April said it would spend $200 million in the
coming fiscal year on salary increases, and planned to award 10
percent raises to its Indian workers. Infosys gave the highest
pay awards in the industry last quarter to its Indian employees
-- between 14 and 16 percent -- in order to combat rising worker
churn rates, Chief Executive Officer  S. Gopalakrishnan  said in
an interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       First-quarter profit was 18.4 billion rupees  
                       
                         
                           Adeel Halim/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Tata Consultancy Services Ltd chief executive officer Natarajan Chandrasekaran. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tata Consultancy Services Ltd chief executive officer Natarajan Chandrasekaran. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
