-- Latvian Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Refinancing Rate Unchanged at 3.5%
-- Aaron Eglitis
-- 2010-07-15T13:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/latvian-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-refinancing-rate-unchanged-at-3-5-.html

          
          
             Latvia’s central bank kept its
benchmark refinancing rate unchanged after lowering it three
times in the last 16 months.  
 The rate was held at 3.5 percent, Governor  Ilmars Rimsevics 
told reporters in Riga today. The central bank cut its 7-day
deposit rate by half a percentage point to 0.5 percent, and
lowered the overnight deposit rate to 0.375 percent from 0.5
percent to spur lending in the economy. The bank has cut the
main rate a total of 2.5 percentage points since March 2009.  
 Latvia exited the European Union’s deepest  recession  last
quarter after exports and industrial production picked up,
generating a 0.3 percent expansion from the previous period. The
 economy  may contract between 2 percent and 2.5 percent this
year, Rimsevics said at the press conference.  
 “The Latvian Bank’s goal by lowering the deposit rates to
promote lending will be difficult to achieve,” said Andris
Larins, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Riga, in an e-mailed
note. “The main obstacle to credit growth is the weak health of
the economy and the comparatively small number of quality
borrowers.”  
 Interbank Lending  
 Asking rates on the  three-month Rigibor , the interbank
lending rate, were at 1.96 percent today, close to a record-low
1.91 percent. The three-month rate climbed to a high of 29.8
percent on June 26 when speculation mounted that the country may
have to devalue its currency.  
 The government was forced to turn to a group led by the
European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund  in 2008
for a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.6 billion) loan to shore up the
economy.  
 “Latvia does not need to borrow the whole loan” because
it has sufficient funds in its reserves, Rimsevics said. The
state will see borrowing costs drop after it adopts its 2011
budget, he said, adding that Latvia has no need to draw on its
bailout for the remainder of the year.  
 Poland, the Czech Republic, Estonia and the Nordic states
had previously agreed to lend Latvia money as part of its
international loan program. The government agreed with its
bailout donors not to enter bilateral loan arrangements beyond
the IMF, EU deal, Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis  said on June
7.  
 The refinancing rate affects the minimum interest rate on
central bank swaps and repurchase agreements, worth about 75
million lati ($134.8 million) a week. The bank runs a quasi-
currency board system, where lati in circulation are backed by
foreign currency.  
 The deposit facilities are funds in lats that the central
bank receives from a bank for a definite period and repays it
with interest upon maturity. By changing the facility rate, the
Bank of Latvia says it increases or decreases the attractiveness
of the deposit facility.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at   aeglitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        