-- Lawyer Lynne Stewart Sentenced to 10 Years for Aiding Imprisoned Terrorist
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-16T00:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/lawyer-lynne-stewart-sentenced-to-10-years-for-aiding-imprisoned-terrorist.html

          
          
             Lynne F. Stewart , the lawyer
convicted in 2005 of helping an extremist cleric pass messages
from prison to his terrorist followers, was sentenced to 10
years in prison, compared with a 28-month term imposed earlier.  
 A federal appeals court in November ruled Stewart’s first
sentence didn’t reflect the seriousness of her actions or take
into account that the crimes of the 70-year-old attorney were
terrorism-related.  
 Judge  John Koeltl , in Manhattan, who handed down the
stiffer sentence today, said today he didn’t view his original
sentence as “trivial.” He said Stewart’s statements in a
television interview after the appeals court ruled -- that she
would “do it again” and “not do anything differently” --
indicated she didn’t consider the prison term severe enough.  
 “The comments that the defendant made immediately after
the sentence indicate that the defendant did indeed view the
sentence as a trivial sentence,” he said. “A ‘trivial
sentence’ would not promote or reflect a just punishment,” he
said.  
 Koeltl, who presided over the ninth-month trial, said the
comments “indicate a lack of remorse for conduct that was
illegal and potentially lethal.”  
 Blind Sheik  
 The lawyer was convicted by a jury in 2005 of helping her
former client, the blind Egyptian sheik  Omar Abdel Rahman ,
smuggle messages to followers in defiance of so-called
administrative measures imposed on him by the U.S.  
 The appeals court said Koeltl gave too much weight to her
personal qualities, such as her years as a New York school
teacher or lawyer for the indigent.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Dember said Stewart deserved
15 to 30 years, citing “the deadly serious nature of her
terrorist crimes of conviction.”  
 “Stewart has made it clear that if given the opportunity
to engage in the unlawful conduct for which she now stands
convicted she would do it again,” the government said in court
papers.  
 Stewart asked Koeltl to impose the same 28-month term.  
 “I have learned that no one, particularly this 70-year old
woman, can do 28 months standing on my head,” she said. “The
last 28 months in prison has diminished me,” she said, “Twenty
eight months set a horizon on a journey I thought I could
complete.”  
 September 11  
 Her lawyers argued that the first term was appropriate,
citing sentences in other terrorism prosecutions, including
those where the defendants joined terrorist groups. The longer
terms cited by an appeals court judge were for crimes that
occurred after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, they said.  
 Koeltl, who presided over the nine-month trial, was in the
best position to judge, her attorneys argued.  
 Defense lawyers argued she hadn’t committed perjury during
the trial, as prosecutors argued in court papers, and that she
didn’t know the true terrorist nature of Rahman’s followers.  
 “I did not commit perjury,” Stewart told the judge today.
“I did not attempt to obstruct justice. I spoke only the truth
as I knew it.”  
 In November, a federal appeals court ordered Stewart, who
had been free pending her appeal, to begin serving her prison
term.  
 After the judge formally imposed sentence today, he asked
Stewart if she wanted to address the court.  
 ‘Somewhat Stunned’  
 “I am somewhat stunned,” she replied. “We will continue
to struggle here. We will of course take all available options
and to do what needs to be done to change this. I just feel I’ve
let all my good people down.”  
 Her supporters, who had greeted her arrival into the
courtroom with applause, erupted in shouts of “No Lynne!”  
 Dember today said that as Rahman’s former trial lawyer,
Stewart knew “these people meant business.”  
 “She knew what he was convicted of,” Dember told Koeltl.
“She knew about his participation in a plot to blow up the
World Trade Center in 1993. She sat through weeks of testimony
in that case. She knew what they were capable of.”  
 Stewart defended Rahman, the Islamic Group’s spiritual
leader, against charges that he plotted to blow up the United
Nations, an FBI building, two tunnels and a bridge in New York.
He was convicted in 1995 and is serving a life sentence in a
high-security prison, where Stewart had meetings with him.  
 Prison Visits  
 Prosecutors’ evidence during Stewart’s trial included
videotapes made during four prison visits with the cleric from
1997 to 2001 in which she smuggled messages.  
 Rahman relied upon Stewart and co-defendants to send a
message withdrawing his support for the group’s cease-fire with
the Egyptian government, U.S. authorities contended.  
 The organization suspended its violent activities after a
1997 attack that left 62 people dead at a temple in Luxor,
Egypt, prosecutors said. Testimony showed the Islamic Group
later demanded the cleric’s release from a U.S. prison U.S. and
planned an attack in Egypt that was thwarted in 2000.  
 The case is U.S. v. Stewart, 06-5015-cr, U.S. Court of
Appeals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        