-- Back-to-School Sales May Rise 16%, Adding Muscle to Rebound
-- Cotten Timberlake
-- 2010-07-15T20:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/back-to-school-sales-may-rise-16-adding-muscle-to-rebound.html

          
          
             Back-to-school spending may rise as
much as 16 percent in the U.S. this year, reversing year-ago
declines and putting more muscle behind the economic rebound.  
 Families with students plan to spend about $55.1 billion in
the period, compared with $47.5 billion a year earlier, the
National Retail Federation said, citing consumers surveyed by
BIGResearch.  Gap Inc.  and Macy’s Inc. are introducing new
clothing lines to lure shoppers.  
 Investors are banking on the back-to-school season, the
second-largest sales period after the year-end holidays, to show
that a pickup in retail sales earlier this year is sustainable.
Consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of the U.S.
economy, making retailers’ success crucial to a recovery from
the worst slump in more than seven decades.  
 “I’m pretty confident the sales will be good,” Fifth
Third Asset Management fund manager  Dan Popowics  said in a
telephone interview. “The profitability will be a bit under
pressure given the urgency companies have of achieving those
sales. It will be promotional.” His firm has $18 billion in
assets under management, including  Target Corp.  shares.  
 Sales at stores that sell family clothing, shoes,
electronics and books will jump 5.4 percent in the July to
September period from a year ago, when they declined 2.8
percent, the  International Council of Shopping Centers  said
today. That would be the best showing since 2005. Clothing will
have the biggest gain with 6.5 percent, the group said.  
 College Spending  
 Excluding some chains like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , sales at
stores open at least a year at the more than 30 retailers the
ICSC tracks will climb 3 percent in July through September, the
most since 2006, the trade group said separately. A year ago,
those same-store sales shrank 2.2 percent.  
 This year, the average family with students in kindergarten
through 12th grade may spend $606.40, up from $548.72 last year,
for a total of $21.4 billion, the Washington-based NRF said.
College spending probably will amount to about $33.8 billion.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Retailing Index climbed 2.85
points to 403.93 at 4:11 p.m. New York time. The 31-member index
has declined 1.7 percent this year after surging 47 percent in
2009.  
 Retailers are vying for a bigger piece of back-to-school
spending with new collections and special offers. Macy’s will
debut clothing designed by pop singer Madonna and her daughter
Lourdes, while Gap extended its 1969 premium denim line to
children.  
 American Eagle  
 American Eagle Outfitters Inc. , based in Pittsburgh, is
offering free smart phones to shoppers who try on its jeans
alongside new styles like “jeggings,” leggings that look like
tight versions of the denim pants.  
 Staples Inc. , the largest U.S. office-supply retailer, has
increased inventory and is offering more discounts while
spending more on advertising, said  Demos Parneros , president of
U.S. retail at the Framingham, Massachusetts-based company.
Sales growth for back to school has been hard to predict because
shoppers have been difficult to gauge since the recession, the
executive said in an interview yesterday.  
 “We are being very aggressive with good offers,” Parneros
said. “It worked last year and customers responded. We need to
generate more traffic into the stores.”  
 Getting Aggressive  
 The retailers aim to outdo their performance in June, when
sales at stores open at least a year trailed some analysts’
estimates. The New York-based ICSC said comparable-store sales
rose 3 percent at more than 30 chains’ stores last month. Such
results don’t bode well for the back-to-school season, according
to Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics Inc.  
 U.S. retail sales decreased a more-than-projected 0.5
percent in June following a 1.1 percent May drop, the U.S.
Commerce Department reported July 14. Excluding autos, gasoline
and building materials, sales rose 0.2 percent.  
 “Retailers are being reasonably conservative,” Levi
Strauss & Co. Chief Executive Officer  John Anderson  said in a
telephone interview. “They are expecting us to carry some of
the inventories, which we are, for selective retailers, willing
to do. We are all looking at it with some caution.”  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, less than the 3 percent previously calculated,
reflecting a smaller gain in consumer spending, according to the
Commerce Department.  
 Some Improvements  
 Some analysts foresee improvements in the second half.
Atlantic Equities LLP analyst  Daniela Nedialkova  is predicting
“sequentially stronger traffic” in coming months. June results
failed to signal a “meaningful drop-off in consumer demand,”
she said in a report this month.  
 U.S. retail sales excluding cars, gas, and restaurants will
climb 5.2 percent in July and August from last year, according
to  Craig Johnson , president of New Canaan, Connecticut-based
consulting firm Customer Growth Partners LLC.  
 “Back-to-school is a need type of event that is difficult
to postpone, as kids grow and new fashions come out,” Fifth
Third’s Popowics said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers in a mall in Aurora. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- David Strasser, analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, speaks about the outlook for U.S. consumer spending and investment strategy in Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and McDonald's Corp.
     Strasser speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness with Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
