-- Ballooning European Budget Deficits Mean Longer Waits for the Gold Watch
-- Mark Scott
-- 2010-07-15T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/ballooning-european-budget-deficits-mean-longer-waits-for-the-gold-watch.html

          
          
             Mamadou Doukowu, a security guard in
Paris, had been hoping to retire on a state pension in 2016.  
 Now, President  Nicolas Sarkozy  wants to raise France’s
retirement age to 62 from 60. The country is grappling with a
ballooning deficit that’s expected to reach 8.2 percent of gross
domestic product, or $207 billion, this year, up from 2.9
percent of GDP in 2005, according to European Union statistics.  
 That means Doukowu, 54, may have to put his dream to hang
up his badge on hold a bit longer. “If you’ve worked for 40
years, your body is tired,” he said as he directed trucks into
a Paris construction site. “I’ve paid into the system. They owe
it to me.”  
 Politicians from Athens to Madrid have targeted pension
reform as a way to curb government debt, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its July 19 issue. Public pensions in Europe can pay
up to as much as 95 percent of pre-retirement earnings,
according to the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, although some countries cap the
amount. Germany’s current maximum is 5,400 euros, or $6,963 a
month, and France limits the payout to $3,686.  
 That compares with up to 39 percent of pre-retirement
earnings paid by Social Security in the U.S., although many
Americans supplement that with private 401(k) funds and
Individual Retirement Accounts.  
 ‘Fantasy World’  
 “Europe is in a fantasy world” when it comes to
retirement, said David Blake, director of the Pension Institute
at Cass Business School in London. Retirement ages are often
lower than in the U.S. For example, Greek citizens who have
worked at least 35 years can retire early at age 58 and receive
a full pension although the official retirement age is 65 for
men.  
 With so many in Europe eligible for a public pension,
governments know they need to make workers spend more years on
the job. Currently, there are four workers for every retiree in
Europe. That ratio will halve by mid-century as the population
ages, the OECD said. The change risks leaving Europe without
enough tax revenue to pay pension costs.  
 “Working longer is the only solution for avoiding old-age
poverty,” said Monika Queisser, head of the OECD’s social
policy division.  
 Austerity Plan  
 As part of an austerity plan endorsed by the International
Monetary Fund, Greece aims to make people work longer by raising
the retirement age for female workers to 65 from 60, the same as
men. Early retirees before age 60 may also face financial
penalties and automatic bonuses awarded at Christmas, Easter and
during the summer also may be curbed. Spain is proposing to stop
inflation-linked increases in entitlements and to raise its
retirement age to 67 from 65. British workers may soon have to
wait until they turn 68.  
 The overhaul could ease the burden on public finances. The
changes in France will add $24 billion a year to government
coffers as pension costs drop and income taxes rise, the Labor
Ministry said. Even a one-year increase in Britain’s retirement
age would add $19.5 billion annually to the state budget, said
Chris Curry, research director at the Pension Policy Institute
in London. “There’s real fiscal pressure to change the
system,” he said.  
 Unions across Europe have taken to the streets to protest
the new rules. On June 23, French workers held more than 200
demonstrations. A strike in Madrid on June 29 led to clashes
with police. And Greece has been rocked by a half-dozen general
strikes this year, shutting down airports, ferry services,
banks, and hospitals.  
 ‘Anti-Social’ Measures  
 “We want to overturn these harsh and anti-social
measures,” said  Spyros Papaspyrou , the head of Greece’s civil
servants’ union, in a telephone interview June 29. Unions fear
blue-collar workers, particularly those in hazardous industrial
jobs, will suffer the most under the pension changes.  
 With the European Union’s unemployment rate at 9.6 percent,
keeping older people on the job longer will make it harder for
younger workers to get hired. Some workers already leave their
jobs for medical or personal reasons before they’re eligible for
full public pensions. That means governments may need to pick up
health-care costs and even some welfare benefits, so the savings
from later retirement could be less than expected.  
 “Many people stop working because they’ve just had
enough,” said Krzysztof Hagemejer, coordinator of social
security policy at the  International Labour Organization  in
Geneva. “Raising the retirement age won’t solve that problem.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Scott  in London 
 mscott50@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        