-- Bank Evidence for European Stress Tests, Reforms in Conflict, M&G Says
-- John Glover
-- 2010-07-15T08:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bank-evidence-for-european-stress-tests-reforms-in-conflict-m-g-says.html

          
          
             Banks are contradicting themselves
by claiming to be strong enough to pass stress tests but too
weak to implement reforms, according to  Tamara Burnell , a credit
analyst at M&G.  
 Europe’s stress tests are taking place as banks push to
water down proposed standards for capital and liquidity being
considered by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .
Lenders argue they won’t be able to bear tougher rules until an
economic recovery is in place and will have to cut lending to
conserve capital.  
 “How can the banks claim they are too strong to be
concerned about the stress tests but are  too weak  to implement
painful and much-needed regulatory reform?” said London-based
Burnell, who’s head of financials and sovereign research at M&G.
Assurances that Greek and Irish banks will pass “highlight how
pointless the whole exercise is looking, given those two
countries’ banks have very clear and obvious problems.”  
 M&G is the asset management arm of Prudential Plc, the
biggest U.K. insurer.  
 Europe’s proposed stress tests are likely to be “extremely
unstressful,” because holdings of government bonds probably
won’t be tested unless they are in banks’ trading books,
according to Burnell.  
 “German Landesbanks claiming to be ‘very relaxed about the
stress’ is particularly worrying given the track record of
Landesbanks having to admit to chunky losses on virtually every
problem asset class,” she said.  
 Spanish plans to report the results of the savings banks
they are merging into larger groups “on the basis of
consolidated legal structures that don’t exist yet and where
capital is not going to be fully interchangeable” is an
“absurdity,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        