-- Bank Bonds Beat Industrials as Finance Bill Advances
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-07-16T16:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bank-bonds-beat-industrials-as-wall-street-bill-advances-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Bank bonds are outperforming debt
from industrial companies by the most since March as investors
wager the biggest overhaul of Wall Street regulations since the
Great Depression won’t cripple profits at financial firms.  
 U.S. bank bonds returned 1.35 percent this month, the
second-best performing class of investment-grade debt after
tobacco companies, compared with a gain of 0.5 percent for
industrial companies, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. Non-financial firms returned 2.09 percent in June
versus 1.89 percent for banks.  
 Bank debt yields 252 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, a spread that’s 81 basis points wider than
industrial debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
The cost of protecting  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  bonds from
default fell to the lowest since April after the bank settled
its fraud lawsuit with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the same day the U.S. Senate sent its bill to the White House
for President  Barack Obama ’s signature.  
 “It’s a good situation for the market that we do have a
little clarity on both” regulatory reform and the Goldman Sachs
lawsuit, said  Lon Erickson , managing director at Santa Fe, New
Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management, which oversees
about $9 billion in fixed-income assets.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, raised $2.9 billion in its largest bond offering in more
than a year after reporting that quarterly profit rose 76
percent. Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. ,
the largest U.S. lender, and  Citigroup Inc. , the third-biggest,
posted earnings today that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 Spread to Treasuries  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of government debt was
unchanged at 188 basis points, or 1.88 percentage point,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. Average yields fell to 3.891 percent from 3.929
percent.  
 A benchmark credit-default swaps indicator in the U.S.
rose. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 3.5 basis points to a
mid-price of 111.4 basis points, according to Markit Group Ltd.  
 The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 Surging Bonds  
 Energy Future Holdings Corp.  bonds jumped the most since
July 2009 after the Dallas-based electricity provider formerly
known as TXU Corp. said it’s seeking to swap bonds at a discount
to help cut $38 billion of outstanding debt.  
 Energy Future’s 11.25 percent notes due in 2017 rose 0.75
cent to 66.75 cents on the dollar as of 12:34 p.m. in New York
after earlier jumping as much as 4.75 cents to 70.75 cents, the
biggest gain since last July 31, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  
 The securities have climbed from 62 cents in May as the
 utility  has been seeking to reduce debt and extend maturities
after private-equity firms KKR & Co. and TPG Capital acquired
the company for $43.2 billion in the biggest buyout ever before
a collapse in credit markets.  
 JPMorgan bonds were the most actively traded U.S. corporate
securities yesterday by dealers, with 204 trades of $1 million
or more, followed by General Electric Co., with 173, Bloomberg
data show. The most active in junk bonds was Ford Motor Co. with
52 trades. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 ‘More Attractive’  
 “Financials definitely are more attractive than
industrials on a spread basis,” said  Rajeev Sharma , who
oversees $1.4 billion of investment-grade credit at First
Investors Management in New York. “In this kind of market,
where yields are so low, it’s kind of hard to not take a close
look at financials because they do look attractive relative to
industrials.”  
 Senators voted 60-39 yesterday in favor of rewriting rules
governing Wall Street firms, passing a bill that aims to avoid a
repeat of the 2008 credit crisis.  
 Rules on derivatives and proprietary trades are largely left
for the Federal Reserve, SEC and Commodities Futures Trading
Commission to complete.  
 ‘Multi-Year Process’  
 “Given all the uncertainty of what the financial bill is
ultimately going to look like, what the regulators are going to
do, this is going to be a multi-month, multi-year process before
all the rules are set in stone,” said  William Dennehy , senior
fixed-income portfolio manager at Chicago-based Northern Trust
Co., which has $150 billion in assets under management.  
 Credit-default swaps on Goldman Sachs for five years fell
20 basis points yesterday to a mid-price of 150 basis points,
according to broker Phoenix Partners Group. The swaps had been
trading as high as 177 basis points before the SEC’s
announcement.  
 Goldman Sachs  agreed to pay $550 million and change its
business practices to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled
investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime
mortgages. The penalty is the largest ever levied by the SEC
against a Wall Street firm, the agency said in a statement.
Goldman Sachs acknowledged it made a “mistake” and that
marketing materials for the instruments had “incomplete
information,” the agency said.  
 ‘Economic Win’  
 The settlement appears to indicate “negligence, not
fraud,”  Brad Hintz , an analyst at Sanford Bernstein & Co., said
in an e-mail, citing the SEC’s use of words such as “mistake”
and “incomplete information.”  
 “Bottom line the SEC and the administration gets a
headline and a ‘political win’ and GS gets an ‘economic win,’”
he said.  
 JPMorgan’s offering was its biggest since selling $3
billion of 10-year debt in April 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The two-part offering yesterday included
$2.5 billion of 4.4 percent, 10-year notes that priced to yield
145 basis points more than Treasuries, the data show. The bank
paid a spread of 127.5 basis points in its sale of similar-
maturity 4.95 percent notes in March.  
 JPMorgan took a $6.3 billion reduction in provisions for
soured mortgages and credit-card loans from last year, as
second-quarter net income climbed to $4.8 billion.  
 Citigroup said profit dropped 38 percent even as falling
stock and bond markets curbed trading revenue and prompted
companies to pull or delay mergers and underwriting mandates,
and Bank of America said pressure from overdue loans abated.  
 “Loan performance is the biggest thing we’re watching in
the short term,” said  Guy Lebas , chief fixed-income strategist
at broker dealer Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.
“The markets can’t place a valuation on trading profits if
there’s little way to guess what future trading profits will
be.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama makes a statement on the Senate's passage of a regulatory reform bill outside the White House. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
