-- Vale Should Reconsider Iron Ore Pricing as Demand Weakens, Baosteel Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T08:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bhp-rio-should-reconsider-iron-ore-pricing-as-demand-drops-baosteel-says.html

          
          
             Baosteel Group Corp. , China’s
second-largest steelmaker, said iron ore producers should
reconsider how they price the raw material as prices slide.  
 The steelmaker is in talks with mining companies and hopes
to achieve a “win-win” conclusion, Chairman  Xu Lejiang  told
reporters today in Beijing. Imports by China, the biggest buyer,
may equal last year’s level at best and may fall, he said.  
 Chinese iron ore purchases  dropped  for a third straight
month in June as steel demand weakened from automakers and
builders. Vale SA, BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, the
biggest exporters of the commodity, this year abandoned a 40-
year custom of annual contracts in favor of quarterly agreements
as they bet on rising prices.  
 “The supply and demand for iron ore has changed as prices
fall,” Xu said. “This must prompt the suppliers to rethink ore
pricing. We hope to reach a pricing system that’s sustainable
over the long term.”  
 The cost of 62 percent iron ore delivered to Tianjin port
dropped for a 16th straight day to $117.60 a ton on July 13.
That’s down 37 percent from the April 21 price of $186.50, the
highest since data from the Steel Index was compiled on
Bloomberg from November 2008.  
 Slowing Demand  
 China will cut annual  imports  for the first time since 1998
because of slowing demand, according to  Xu Xiangchun , chief
analyst of Mysteel Research Institute. The imports dropped 9
percent to 47.2 million metric tons from a month ago.  
 Jiangsu Shagang Group Co., China’s fourth-biggest
steelmaker, and Nanjing Iron & Steel Co. said they have put off
iron ore purchases after prices dropped.  
 Steel demand from carmakers will slow in the second half
from the first six months, Baosteel’s Xu said, signaling a
decline in the world’s biggest metal market will continue.  
 Growth in auto production may be as low as 15 percent this
year, he said. Sales of cars, buses and trucks in China gained
48 percent in the first half of the year.  
 Crude steel production  in China fell to a four-month low in
June, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics
today. Prices are likely to drop 10 percent for the rest of the
year because of high inventory and poor demand, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said in a July 12 note.  
 Baosteel is in talks with  PT Aneka Tambang , an Indonesian
nickel producer, to build a ferronickel plant in the country, Xu
said, without providing the possible investment value.  
 Dow Jones reported July 13 that the two partners will sign
a $1.2 billion agreement this month for the project.  
 -- Xiao Yu ,  Helen Yuan . Editors:  Tan Hweee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        