-- Bilfinger Berger Eyes Acquisitions, Says Australia IPO May Resume in 2011
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-07-15T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bilfinger-berger-eyes-acquisitions-says-australia-ipo-may-resume-in-2011.html

          
          
             Bilfinger Berger AG, the German
construction company that pulled the initial public offering of
its Australian unit on July 5, may try again next year and is
looking for acquisitions in the meantime.  
 “The earliest possible date to re-start the IPO is spring
of 2011,” Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Bodner  told
journalists in Munich yesterday. He said the company can spend
about 300 million euros ($382 million) on  acquisitions  without
stretching its  balance sheet  too much, and an IPO of the Valemus
Ltd. unit would have raised that to about 1 billion euros.  
 “We are constantly screening the market for acquisition
targets for our three services units,” Bodner said, adding that
potential candidates are more likely to be located abroad than
in its German home market. He had planned to reduce the group’s
dependence on construction by selling Valemus and using the
proceeds to add more  services  business.  
 Bilfinger pulled the offering in Sydney as investors were
only willing to pay less than 10 times 2010 earnings amid
declining Australian stocks, while the company sought as much as
12 times. No industry buyer is currently willing to pay the
price for Valemus that Bilfinger is seeking, the executive said.  
 More than 50 companies worldwide have pulled IPOs since
April amid falling stock markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index  has fallen  8.8
percent this year, with Leighton Holdings Ltd., the country’s
largest construction company, which is majority-owned by
Hochtief AG of Germany, declining 18 percent. Germany’s  MDAX 
index for medium-sized companies has risen 11 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        