-- BlackRock's Kushel, Hallac in New Posts After Barclays Global Acquisition
-- Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
-- 2010-07-15T19:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/blackrock-appoints-kushel-as-portfolio-management-chief-hallac-named-coo.html

          
          
             BlackRock Inc. , the world’s biggest
asset manager, named  Rich Kushel  as head of portfolio management
and  Charles Hallac  as chief operating officer, reshaping its
leadership team after the purchase of Barclays Global Investors.  
 Kushel, 44, the former head of international businesses,
will be responsible for investment management and information
sharing in the newly created position, according to a memo today
to employees, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
Hallac, 45, most recently co-COO, will be responsible for
operating efficiency, the company said.  
 BlackRock said it was changing its organizational
structure, creating three regional units for the Americas, Asia-
Pacific, as well as Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  James Charrington , 58, will lead the EMEA region, subject to
regulatory approvals, and  Rohit Bhagat , 46, will oversee the
Asia Pacific unit, the company said.  
 “We are strengthening the role of regional and country
heads to create additional focus on each of these markets,” the
firm said in today’s memo.  
 The Dec. 1 purchase of BGI more than doubled New York-based
BlackRock’s assets to $3.4 trillion, adding index and exchange-
traded funds to the firm’s mix of actively managed stock, bond
and money-market products. The new structure addresses
BlackRock’s bigger presence around the world, as well as its
expansion into products it previously didn’t manage.  
 Latham, Tobin  
 Last week, BlackRock named  Mike Latham  the global head of
its iShares ETF unit and said  Rory Tobin , the former head of the
iShares international business, left the company. Other
executives that have departed since the acquisition include
 Kristi Mitchem , a former managing director in BlackRock’s
retirement unit.  
 “What you’re seeing here is not uncommon in transactions
as people critical to the business get golden handcuffs and
others leave,”  Geoffrey Bobroff , an independent fund consultant
in East Greenwich, Rhode Island, said today in a telephone
interview. “It will take awhile to see if the moves help
BlackRock gain ground in getting assets.”  
 BlackRock shares have declined 35 percent this year, after
jumping 73 percent in 2009, as investors size up the firm’s
ability to capture assets during equity-market volatility. The
Standard & Poor’s index of asset managers and custody banks has
fallen 9.1 percent while the S&P 500 Index is down 2.6 percent.  
 Executive Team  
 BlackRock said firm functions will continue to be split
among three groups, portfolio management, operations and the
global client team, which is led by  Robert Fairbairn .  
 Hallac previously shared the COO position with  Sue Wagner ,
who was named to a five-member executive team led by Chief
Executive Officer  Laurence D. Fink  and President  Robert Kapito .
 Blake Grossman , the former chief of the Barclays’s investment
unit, and  Kendrick Wilson III , an ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
banker, also were appointed to the team.  
 “We are strengthening the role of regional and country
heads to create additional focus on each of these markets,” the
firm said in today’s memo.  
 Bobbie Collins , a spokeswoman for BlackRock, confirmed the
memo’s authenticity.  
 BlackRock, co-founded in 1988 by Fink, began as a fixed-
income firm. In 2006, it expanded its equity business with the
purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co.’s money-management unit. In
2008, BlackRock acquired a division of Quellos Group LLC to add
hedge-fund assets. The $15.2 billion purchase of BGI, the
biggest seller of index-tracking ETFs, was its largest takeover.  
 The firm now has about 12 percent of its assets in mutual
funds aimed at individuals, 15 percent in ETFs and the majority
in institutional products.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BlackRock was co-founded in 1988 by Fink  
                       
                         
                           Robinson, Lerer & Montgomery via Bloomberg 
                         
                         BlackRock Inc chief executive officer Laurence D. Fink. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     BlackRock Inc chief executive officer Laurence D. Fink.  Source: Robinson, Lerer & Montgomery via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
