-- Blackstone Backs EOP's Peatross in New U.S. Commercial Real Estate Venture
-- Hui-yong Yu
-- 2010-07-15T21:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/blackstone-backs-eop-s-peatross-in-new-u-s-commercial-real-estate-venture.html

          
          
             Christopher Peatross resigned as
president and chief executive officer of  Blackstone Group LP ’s
Equity Office Properties to form a company to buy commercial
real estate with backing from the New York-based buyout firm.  
 Peatross , 44, left Chicago-based EOP June 30 to form Swift
Realty Partners in San Francisco. The company plans to invest in
office properties and research and development sites with its
own money and capital from Blackstone, he said in an interview.
Blackstone raised a $10.9 billion real estate fund in 2008.  
 Peatross said he expects to buy properties valued at $20
million to $200 million, mainly in Northern California but also
in other markets on the West Coast.  
 “I don’t think the deal flow is out there today” to
invest larger amounts, Peatross said in a telephone interview.
“The latter part of this year and next year there are going to
be people buying real estate. There’s distress in the market.”  
 U.S. commercial  property values  have fallen more than 40
percent from the October 2007 peak, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. The national office vacancy rate climbed to
17.4 percent in the second quarter, the highest level since
1993, the property research firm Reis Inc. said July 6.  
 Blackstone bought Equity Office Properties Trust at the
height of the real estate boom for $39 billion, including debt.
The firm quickly resold more than $28 billion of buildings to
pay down borrowings. The New York-based company is working to
extend the maturity on $4.9 billion of loans from the February
2007 buyout.  
 Staying in California  
 EOP, which now includes assets from Blackstone’s takeovers
of CarrAmerica Realty Corp. and Trizec Properties Inc. in 2006,
recently consolidated its leadership into one location.  Tom August , who was chairman before succeeding Peatross as CEO, will
be moving to Chicago from Dallas. Peatross had been based in San
Mateo, California, and said he wanted to stay on the West Coast.  
 “I’ve always wanted to start my own company,” Peatross
said. “Blackstone gave me this opportunity and it felt like a
good time.”  
 Blackstone spokesman Peter Rose declined to comment.  
 Peatross declined to say how much Blackstone is investing.
Swift Realty is seeking “value-add and opportunistic”
investments, he said.  
 “We’re starting to see some signs of recovery but it’s not
perfect,” he said. “The concentration of buyers is around core
assets, assets that will carry them through the next year or
two.”  
 Employment Weakness  
 Employment , the main driver of office-space demand, remains
weak. While 882,000 U.S. nonfarm jobs were created in the first
half of this year, 58.5 percent of those were from the
temporary-services industry and government workers hired for the
census, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  
 Peatross earned a bachelor’s degree in quantitative
economics from Stanford University in Stanford, California. He
started his career at Spieker Properties, once the biggest
commercial landlord on the West Coast, where he stayed six
years. The company was later bought by Equity Office Properties
Trust, then a publicly traded company led by  Sam Zell .  
 He spent two years at Hunter Properties, a developer of
retail real estate, and then worked three years at Catellus
Development Corp., an industrial developer. He next joined
DivcoWest Properties overseeing 9 million square feet of office,
research and development and retail properties.  
 In 2002, he joined CarrAmerica as managing director for the
San Francisco Bay Area.  
 August, 61, became chairman of EOP in October. From
February 2008 to August 2009, he was chief operating officer of
Behringer Harvard REIT I Inc., also serving as the REIT’s CEO
from May 2009 to August 2009. From October 1999 to January 2006,
he was president and CEO of Prentiss Properties Trust and prior
to that held other executive roles at the REIT, an affiliate and
the predecessor company starting in 1987.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        