-- Boeing, NTT Data, Bertram Capital, Detroit's WADL: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-15T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/boeing-ntt-data-bertram-capital-detroit-s-wadl-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Boeing Co. , whose composite-plastic
787 Dreamliner aircraft survived its first lightning strike in
June, received a patent on a construction method to improve
lightning-strike protection.  
 Patent 7,755,876, one of  5,094 U.S. patents  issued July 13,
covers a fastening assembly to be used on composite structures
that will reduce or eliminate internal sparking and prevent hot
gas from escaping into the structure when it is hit by
lightning.  
 According to the patent, composite materials, such as those
used on the 787, don’t normally disperse current from lightning
as evenly in an aircraft body as metals such as aluminum do. A
lightning strike near an ordinary fastener can quickly produce a
high current density entering the body of the aircraft through
the fastener.  
 A key element of the patented fastener is a washer that can
contain hot gasses and prevent arcing.  
 Chicago-based Boeing applied for this patent in June 2007
with the assistance of Law Office of Charles W. Peterson Jr. of
Herndon, Virginia.  
 NTT Data Says It Will Investigate Actions of Arrested Employee  
 NTT Data Corp. , a provider of networking system services,
said it will investigate the actions of an employee who was
arrested on suspicion of bribing a patent office worker.  
 The Tokyo-based company, which confirmed the arrest on June
22, said it will seek to restore public trust. It released
yesterday’s statement on its website.  
 The alleged bribe was in exchange for bidding information
on a computer-systems development program at the patent office,
Japan Times  reported .  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Bertram Capital Unit Sued Over Royalties From Inmate’s Book  
 Bertram Capital’s XLibris unit was sued for copyright
infringement by an inmate in a Michigan correctional facility.  
 Brian Andr’e Warren, who is presently confined at the Pine
River Correctional Facility in St. Louis, Michigan, submitted a
manuscript in 2000 to  XLibris , a print-on-demand publisher.  
 He said that his work, “Through My Eye’s: Helping
Tomorrow’s Men & Women Cope with the Struggles of Today through
Jesus Christ,” has been advertised and sold through Books in
print from 2000 to 2005. He received no notice of publication
and no compensation from XLibris, according to the complaint
filed July 6 in federal court in Indianapolis.  
 Warren said he only found out by accident that this book
was being published. An exhibit he filed with his complaint is a
copy a page from the 2004-2005 edition of “Books in Print,”
which lists his book as published by XLibris with a price of $25
for the hardbound edition and $16 for a paperback.  
 According to the XLibris website , authors pay the
Bloomington, Indiana-based publisher to publish their books and
then receive royalties of 25 percent of the book’s retail price
when copies are sold through the publisher. If the book is sold
through some other channel, such as  Amazon.com Inc. ’s website,
the royalty rate is 10 percent of retail.  
 He asked the court for money damages totaling $70 million.  
 Warren is unrepresented by counsel.  
 The case is Brian Andr’e Warren v. Xlibris Corp., 1:10-cv-
00885-WTL-TAB, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  
 Detroit’s WADL-TV Accused of Infringing ‘Remarkable Mouth’  
 Adell Broadcasting Corp., the owner of  WADL-TV  in Detroit,
was sued for copyright infringement by a California company that
creates commercials promoting radio stations.  
 Remark LLC of Los Angeles developed a series of
“Remarkable Mouth” and “Hot Lips” commercials that have been
used to promote radio stations in the U.S., according to the
complaint filed July 13 in federal court in Detroit.  
 WADL, which bills itself as “Detroit’s Urban Station,”
began broadcasting television commercials promoting itself and
featuring the “Remarkable Mouth,” Remark said in its
complaint.  
 These commercials “willfully, deliberately, and
maliciously” infringe Remark’s copyright, according to court
papers.  
 Remark asked the court for money damages, and to order
seizure and destruction of all infringing commercials, including
excerpts and outtakes. The company also requested awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs.  
 The Los Angeles company is represented by  Michael K. Grace 
of  Grace & Grace LLP  of Los Angeles.  
 The case is Remark LLC v. Adell Broadcasting Corp, 2:10-cv-
12767-GCS-MKM, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan
(Detroit).  
 Stephens Media’s Las Vegas Review-Journal Sues Over Web Posts  
 Righthaven LLC, which says it’s the holder of the copyright
for content published in the Las Vegas Review-Journal, has filed
more than 60 copyright-infringement suits since March 31.  
 The suits relate to the unauthorized posting of the
newspaper’s content on various websites.  
 Among the defendants Righthaven has sued are the National
Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, the Democratic
Party of Nevada, the American Society of Safety Engineers, the
Motorcycle Racing Association of Nevada, and the Dr. Shezad
Malik Law Firm.  
 A number of the earlier cases have already settled for
undisclosed terms. The case against the marijuana reform group
was settled on June 4, and the case was dismissed July 9,
according to court records.  
 One of the newest cases is against Anthony Curtis, the
operator of the Las Vegas Advisor website.  
 According to a document filed with the complaint, Curtis is
accused of posting to his website an article from the Review-
Journal that is about a survey he conducted and initially
published on his own site. The survey was of prices of various
shows on the Las Vegas strip.  
 In addition to seeking money damages, litigation costs and
attorney fees, Righthaven asked the court to order it be
transferred Curtis’ domain name. Righthaven is also seeking
“all evidence and documentation relating to the names and
addresses” of anyone with whom Curtis communicated about his
use of the story from the newspaper.  
 Righthaven is represented by Steven A. Gibson and J.
Charles Coones, who are listed with no law-firm affiliation.  
 According to  the website of Las Vegas-based Stephens Media ,
it is the publisher of the Las Vegas Review-Journal, and other
newspapers in Arkansas, Hawaii, Missouri, Nevada, North
Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas and Washington State. The
closely held company’s website doesn’t mention Righthaven.  
 The case against Curtis is Righthaven LLC v. LVA In The
Media, 2:10-cv-01018-LRH-RJJ, U.S. District Court, District of
Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 The case against the marijuana-advocacy group is Righthaven
LLC v. National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws,
2:10-cv-00351-LDG-PAL, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada
(Las Vegas).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 1-800 Contacts Says Standard Optical’s Keywords Infringe  
 Fenway Partners LLC’s 1-800 Contacts unit sued a Utah-based
optical company for trademark infringement.  
 Standard Optical Co. of Salt Lake City is accused of buying
keywords that confuse members of the public who are actually
searching for 1-800 Contacts website. The two companies compete
by offering contact lenses for sale over the Internet, according
to the complaint filed July 13 in federal court in Utah.  
 Affiliate networks associated with Standard Optical are
also used to misdirect potential 1-800 Contacts customers,
according to court papers. This misdirection has caused
“confusion and mistake” and falsely suggests a connection
between the two companies, 1-800 Contacts said in its pleadings.  
 In addition to asking for an order barring future
infringement of its trademarks, Draper, Utah-based 1-800
Contacts asked the court for money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs. It also requested that the court order
Standard Optical to conduct corrective advertising.  
 1-800 Contacts is represented by  Mark A. Miller ,  Bryan G.
Pratt  and  Brett L. Foster  of  Holland & Hart LLP  of Denver.  
 The case is 1-800 Contacts Inc. v. Standard Optical Co.,
2:10-cv-00643-PMW, U.S. District Court, District of Utah.  
 ‘Basilico Genovese’ Protection Expanded by European Union  
 The European Community has approved some changes to the
protected geographical indication for Basilico Genovese,
according to  a notice  published in the Journal of the European
Union July 12.  
 The changes deal with the packaging, which includes a logo
comprised of images of the sun, the basil leaves and a map of
Liguria, which is the region in which plants accorded the
“Basilico Genovese” designation must be grown.  
 When the plant is sold fresh, it must be put in bunches
comprised of three to 10 plants with roots, and wrapped
individually in paper. It can also be sold in “bouquets”
comprised of the number of plants equivalent to 10 bunches. The
plants may have between two and four pairs of true leaves.  
 According to the plant specifications published in the
journal, Basilico Genovese has “the complete absence of minty
odor,” and contains an essential oil that is “markedly
different” from that of basil grown elsewhere.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 University Technology Transfer  
 University of Utah Out-Licenses Eye-Tracking Lie Detection  
 Credibility Assessment Technologies, a closely held startup
in Park City, Utah, has taken a license to lie-detection
technology developed at the University of Utah, the university
said in a  statement .  
 The invention is a method of tracking eye movement to
detect lies and was developed by Professors  John C. Kircher ,
Doug Hacker, Anne Cook,  Dan Woltz , and  David Raskin . Raskin, a
professor emeritus, is considered an expert in polygraph
techniques.  
 Eye-movement tracking measures a subject’s cognitive
reaction rather than an emotional reaction, according to the
university statement. Lying is harder work than telling the
truth, researchers found, so they look for indications in a
person’s eye movement that he is working hard.  
 Terms of the license weren’t disclosed. According to the
university statement, other potential licensees for the
technology are the U.S. Department of Defense, Customs and
Border Protection, the Department of Energy, the Department of
Homeland security and various other government agencies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        