-- Boeing Says First 787 Delivery Could Move Into 2011
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-07-15T20:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/boeing-says-first-787-dreamliner-delivery-could-move-into-11-shares-fall.html

          
          
             Boeing Co.  said the initial delivery
of the 787 Dreamliner, now more than two years behind schedule,
may be pushed back until the first weeks of 2011 instead of
later this year as flight-test delays accumulate.  
 Boeing is still working to get the composite-plastic jet to
launch customer  All Nippon Airways Co.  by the end of 2010, “but
we’re seeing enough pressure that we just want to communicate a
cautionary note,”  Scott Fancher , the 787 program chief, said
today on a conference call with reporters.  
 Another postponement of the 787’s entry into service would
be the sixth since October 2007 as Boeing struggles with new
materials, parts shortages, redesign work and a manufacturing
process that relies more on suppliers. The recent delays include
flight tests going more slowly than planned, Fancher said.  
 “People are very aware of the challenges and in general
expected that things are running a little late,” said  Carter Copeland , a Barclays Capital analyst in London. “Investors
would need to see more significant delays to shake their
confidence that things are heading in the right direction.”  
 It’s taking longer than expected to change required
instruments as the Federal Aviation Administration evaluates the
787 for certification for passenger service, Fancher said.
Chicago-based Boeing’s workers also are doing more quality
inspections than planned, which has kept the test fleet on the
ground longer and eaten into the schedule, he said.  
 Tail Section  
 The latest glitch was the discovery last month of the
improper installation of horizontal stabilizers on the tail
section built by supplier  Finmeccanica SpA ’s Alenia Aeronautica
unit. The 787 is the first airliner built mostly of composite
plastics.  
 Work was finished yesterday on the tail of the third test
jet, which is due to fly to England’s Farnborough air show on
July 18 from Boeing’s commercial base in Seattle, Fancher said.
Repairs are under way on the other planes, he said.  
 The last setback in the delivery schedule came the week
after the 2009 Paris air show, which alternates with Farnborough
each year. Boeing discovered it had to strengthen sections where
the wing joins the body and pushed back the maiden flight until
December of last year.  
 All Nippon  
 An  All Nippon  spokesman, Kaz Watanabe, said today he wasn’t
aware of the possibility of a new delay by Boeing and couldn’t
comment. The Tokyo-based airline said last month it expected to
receive its first 787 in November.  
 Boeing fell 38 cents to $64.37 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 19 percent
this year.  
 “There was an expectation that the schedule at the end of
the year would be very tight to begin with,” said  Peter Arment ,
a Gleacher & Co. analyst in Greenwich, Connecticut, who has a
“buy” rating on the stock. “We’ve had a lot of success in the
last year on the 787 program. We’ve had no real major unknown
unknowns, it’s been more or less smaller issues that have caused
minor schedule changes.”  
 Copeland, the Barclays analyst, predicted further delays in
a May 18 note while keeping his “buy”  recommendation  on the
shares.  
 The reworking of the 787’s tail starting last month “was a
straightforward quality issue,” Fancher said. Boeing has taken
corrective action such as reviewing workers’ assembly
instructions and training, he said. A spokeswoman for Rome-based
Finmeccanica wasn’t immediately able to comment.  
 Boeing’s sixth and final test jet won’t be airborne until
August, Fancher said. That’s about two months later than
planned.  
 “The airplane continues to perform very well and we’ve
found nothing in flight tests to diminish our confidence,”
Fancher said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in London at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Boeing’s sixth and final test jet won’t be airborne until sometime next month, 787 program chief Scott Fancher said. Photographer: Tom Goertel/Boeing via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
