-- BOJ Says Japan's Growth Will Slow Next Year, Keeps Benchmark Rate at 0.1%
-- Mayumi Otsuma
-- 2010-07-15T08:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/boj-says-japan-s-growth-will-slow-next-year-keeps-benchmark-rate-at-0-1-.html

          
          
             The Bank of Japan kept interest
rates unchanged and predicted growth in the world’s second-
largest economy will slow next year as fiscal stimulus
evaporates worldwide and overseas demand loses steam.  
 Policy makers raised their growth forecast for the year
ending March 2011 to 2.6 percent from 1.8 percent estimated in
April, while cutting next year’s to 1.9 percent from 2 percent,
the central bank said in a  statement  today in Tokyo. The board
held the benchmark  overnight lending rate  at 0.1 percent.  
 “The upward revision of this fiscal year’s growth doesn’t
necessarily mean the BOJ is becoming more confident about a
self-sustaining recovery, given that downside risks from Europe
and the U.S. are mounting,”  Seiji Shiraishi , chief economist at
HSBC Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, said before the
announcement. “It’s becoming more likely that the Japanese
economy will slow or stagnate later this fiscal year.”  
 Prime Minister Naoto Kan, whose government lost its upper-
house majority this week, may put pressure on the central bank
as he seeks support from smaller parties wanting to end
deflation. The International Monetary Fund said yesterday that
the Bank of Japan could support the recovery and ease the
decline in prices, including through purchasing a wider range of
assets and expanding fund-supplying operations.  
 Recovery Path  
 Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said the economy
will stay on a recovery path even as a stronger yen hurts
exporters in the short term. The central bank “had already
expected the pace of the economic recovery to slow down in
coming months” from the “rapid” rebound since late last year,
he said at a news conference after the policy meeting.  
 Japan’s currency climbed 5.8 percent against the dollar
over the past three months and gained 0.6 percent today to 87.95
at 5:22 p.m. in Tokyo. That’s stronger than the 92.90 average
breakeven point estimated by exporters.  
 “Growth prospects will likely be higher for fiscal 2010
mainly due to acceleration of growth in emerging economies, but
remain broadly unchanged for fiscal 2011,” the BOJ said.  
 Global investors have become increasingly concerned that
the world recovery will falter as European governments cut
budgets, U.S. unemployment stays above 9 percent and China cools.
Growth in  China , Japan’s biggest overseas market, slowed to 10.3
percent in the second quarter from 11.9 percent in the first
three months, the government said in Beijing today.  
 Stock Slump  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  slid 1.1 percent today,
extending its decline over the past three months to 14 percent.  
 “The BOJ probably isn’t inclined to a bullish economic
view even though it upgraded this fiscal year’s growth
forecast,” said  Yasunari Ueno , chief market economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “With chronic deflation and the global
crisis lingering, the central bank will have to keep its super-
low interest-rate policy for a long time.”  
 Board members said  consumer prices  excluding fresh food
will fall 0.4 percent this fiscal year, less than the 0.5
percent predicted in April. It maintained its projection for
prices to rise 0.1 percent in the year starting April 2011.  
 Yamaha Motor Co. , the world’s second-largest motorcycle
maker, said yesterday that sales in North America and Europe may
fall twice as much as forecast as the debt crisis damps demand.  
 Other companies are shrugging off the market turbulence as
growth in Asia spurs exports.  Fujifilm Holdings Corp.  said today
that it will spend 40 billion yen to expand output of protective
film for liquid-crystal displays.  
 More Confident  
 Manufacturer confidence  is at a two-year high, and large
firms plan to boost investment this year for the first time
since fiscal 2007.  
 Shirakawa said risks to the economic outlook have increased
since April. Upside and downside risks for Japan are “almost
balanced,” he said, a recognition that emerging economies could
overheat while the U.S. and Europe slow.  
 The BOJ’s most recent policy move came last month, when it
unveiled details of a 3 trillion yen program to encourage
 lending  to companies in areas that can boost  economic growth .
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group is among banks that plan to
establish investment funds to extend loans under the operation.  
 The IMF said yesterday that the BOJ should consider
“improving access to credit for small and medium-sized
enterprises.” It also urged the government to push ahead with
plans to raise the sales tax to reduce the budget deficit.  
 Prime Minister Kan, who has pressed the bank to tackle
price declines, may seek alliances with parties that want more
aggressive monetary policy.  
 Yoshimi Watanabe , leader of Your Party, a group that won
the third-most seats in the July 11 election, said yesterday
that the Bank of Japan law should change to let the government
and the bank share policy goals.  
 “If the ruling party seeks to form a coalition with Your
Party, the BOJ will come under increased political pressure,”
said  Chotaro Morita , chief strategist at Barclays Capital Japan
Ltd. in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Masaaki Shirakawa, governor of the Bank of Japan. Source: Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
