-- Bombay Stock Exchange Expects `Long Queue' of State Companies Share Sales
-- Rishaad Salamat
-- 2010-07-15T09:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bombay-stock-exchange-expects-long-queue-of-state-companies-share-sales.html

          
          
             India’s initial share sales will
more than double in 2010 as the market stabilizes and state
companies go public, according to the Bombay Stock Exchange.  
 The country will complete about 50 initial public offerings
this calendar year,  James E. Shapiro , the bourse’s head of
market development, said in Singapore today. Twenty-eight
companies have raised 97 billion rupees ($2.1 billion) in IPOs
so far this year, BSE data show. Twenty IPOs raised 195 billion
rupees last year and 38 IPOs raised 170 billion rupees in 2008.  
 “There is definitely a long queue of government companies
who have announced their intention to sell stakes and become
public traded companies,” Shapiro said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  
 Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  aims to raise 400 billion
rupees in the year ending March 31 by selling stakes in state-
run companies including  Coal India Ltd.  and  Steel Authority of
India Ltd.  to help pay for the biggest budget deficit reduction
in 19 years. A total of 67 companies have pending  draft offer
documents  with the regulator seeking approval for share sales.  
 “We see a fairly healthy and diverse IPO market in
India,” Shapiro said.  
 Banks have until July 26 to bid to manage the sale of a 20
percent stake in Manganese Ore (India) Ltd. by the federal and
two state governments, according to an advertisement in the
Economic Times newspaper today. The company is among 68 state-
run companies in which the government plans to sell stakes.  
 Beat BRICs  
 The BSE’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , was the best
performer among the 20 biggest equity markets last quarter. It
rose 1 percent in the second quarter, outperforming the so-
called BRIC nations that include Brazil, Russia and China.
India’s $1.2 trillion  economy  expanded 8.6 percent in the three
months through March, the fastest pace after China among Asia’s
major economies.  
 The BSE, Asia’s oldest bourse founded in 1875, and Eurex,
Europe’s largest exchange partly owned by Deutsche Boerse AG,
plan to start trading in Sensex futures and options, according
to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 BSE products accounts for less than 1 percent of Indian
equity options and futures trading, which is dominated by the
rival  National Stock Exchange , Shapiro said. The NSE was
incorporated in 1992, according to its website.  
 ‘Quite Behind’  
 “We are quite a bit behind the NSE,” he said. “The
Sensex is the benchmark index but it’s not the most actively
traded derivative in India. We’d like to change that.”  
 The  Sensex futures  and options will be available during
Asian and European hours and the  BSE  is optimistic that several
global financial companies will make a market in the derivatives,
Shapiro said.  
 “It’s part of our strategy to grow and develop visibility
for the Sensex outside India,” he said. Actively traded Sensex
derivatives overseas would boost interest in Sensex futures and
options in the country, he said.  
 The BSE plans to list itself as soon as the regulator has
decided on the requirements for exchanges to go public, Shapiro
said. “We’re kind of ready to go,” Shapiro said.  
 A Security and Exchange Board of India committee may
complete a report by August or September, he said. “Assuming it
does not require us to do anything too dramatic, we’ll do
whatever it requires and move forward.”  
 An IPO by the BSE is more likely next year, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at  rishaad@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- James E. Shapiro, head of market development at India's Bombay Stock Exchange, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the market for initial public offerings.
     Shapiro, speaking from Singapore, says Asia’s oldest bourse expects a "long queue" of government companies seeking IPOs. Shapiro also discusses the outlook for the exchange traded funds market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
