-- Most Brazilian Stocks Fall on U.S., China Global Economic Growth Concerns
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-07-15T20:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bovespa-index-futures-climb-as-petrobras-overshadows-slowing-china-growth.html

          
          
             Most Brazilian stocks fell after
reports showed the economic expansion is slowing in China and
the U.S., overshadowing a rally by homebuilders.  
 Iron-ore producer  Vale SA  slid after a report showed growth
in China, the biggest buyer of the steelmaking ingredient,
decelerated more than analysts forecast.  Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA , Brazil’s third-biggest steelmaker, dropped 2.8
percent.  Fibria Celulose SA , the world’s biggest pulp producer,
slumped to the lowest price since November.  
 The  Bovespa  stock index was little changed at 63,489.37.
Thirty-seven stocks fell on the measure while 27 rose. Losses
were limited as real-estate advanced after higher second-quarter
sales bolstered the industry’s growth prospects. The real
weakened 0.1 percent to 1.7649 per dollar.  
 “The equation remains the same with the question of
international growth,” said  Mohamed Mourabet , chief investment
officer at Sao Paulo’s Victoire Brasil Investimentos, which
manages 1 billion reais ($567 million). “But we don’t think
there will be a new crisis. We see a relatively solid, robust
outlook for Brazil.”  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. agreed to pay $550 million to
settle a lawsuit with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the SEC said in an e-mailed statement after markets
closed. The Bovespa erased its loss in the final minutes of
trading, following U.S. stocks up as investors speculated the
New York-based securities firm would settle its fraud case.  
 Manufacturing in the U.S. contracted in June by the most in
a year and wholesale prices declined more than anticipated.
Factory output fell 0.4 percent last month, a Fed report showed
today. Producer prices slid 0.5 percent after a 0.3 percent
decline the month before, the Labor Department said. Other
reports showed factories pulled back in the New York and
Philadelphia regions in July.  
 China Expansion  
 The pace of economic expansion in China eased to 10.3
percent in the second quarter, while industrial production
cooled more than forecast in June, the statistics bureau
reported in Beijing today. Growth was less than the median 10.5
percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists.
Industrial output rose 13.7 percent, less than all but one
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  
 China, the biggest buyer of iron ore, will cut annual
imports for the first time since 1998 as government measures to
curb speculation in property trim demand for the commodity,
according to Mysteel Research Institute.  
 Vale , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, fell 1 percent
to 37.93 reais, while  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state oil
company, declined 0.7 percent to 27.11 reais as crude tumbled.
Fibria slid 0.6 percent to 25.50 reais. Steelmaker CSN dropped
75 centavos, the most since June 29, to 26.20 reais after
selling $1 billion of 10-year bonds to yield 6.625 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Homebuilder Sales  
 MRV Engenharia and its rival Camargo Correa Desenvolvimento
Imobiliario SA reported sales growth that bolstered profit
expectations for the real-estate industry.  
 PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes, the
Brazilian homebuilder that said July 12 second-quarter
contracted sales increased 53 percent, surged 2.9 percent to
17.95 reais. MRV, Brazil’s fifth-biggest homebuilder by revenue,
increased 0.3 percent to 14.55 reais as the BM&FBovespa Real
Estate Index rose to the highest level since December.  
 “MRV announced strong operating figures,” JPMorgan Chase
& Co. analysts  Adrian Huerta  and  Marcelo Motta  wrote in a note
to clients. “We believe that for this year the risks of
companies not reaching our presales growth expectation of 30-40
percent is low and that the focus will soon be on next year’s
growth expectations, which we have now at 10-15 percent.”  
 The  Bovespa index  trades for 12 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.7 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.5
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 14 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        