-- BP Says It Has Stopped Flow of Oil to Gulf
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bp-begins-test-on-leaking-well-in-gulf-of-mexico.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is evaluating data from a
pressure test it began yesterday that will determine whether its
leaking Gulf of Mexico oil well can remain sealed.  
 By shutting off valves in a cap bolted to the top of the
Macondo well this week, BP stopped the flow of oil for the first
time in almost three months.  
 “It felt very good not to see any oil going into the Gulf
of Mexico,” BP Senior Vice President  Kent Wells  told reporters
on a conference call yesterday. “We’re very encouraged.”  
 National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said in a statement
it “remains likely” that BP will have to reopen the flow of
oil from the well and collect as much as 80,000 barrels of oil a
day until the well can be permanently plugged.  
 “This isn’t over,” Allen said.  
 The test is measuring the pressure inside the well, and may
continue for as long as 48 hours, BP said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  
 The disaster, the biggest oil spill in U.S. history,
followed an April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig. The well has been spewing 35,000 to 60,000
barrels of oil a day, according to a U.S. government-led panel
of scientists.  
 Shares Jump  
 BP’s confirmation that it had stopped the flow from the
well pushed the London-based oil company’s  U.S. shares  up 7.6
percent to $38.92, the highest value in more than a month.  
 Success in stopping the leak, even temporarily, “has the
market excited that this could lead to an earlier-than-expected
containment of the well, from expectations of mid-August to
within the next several days,”  Brian Gibbons , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in New York, said in an interview.  
 If BP detects lower pressures, it may stop the test sooner
and resume recovering as much oil as possible through pipelines
leading from the well to vessels on the surface of the Gulf,
Allen said in a New Orleans press conference. Lower pressures
indicate a leak has erupted elsewhere and the flow will continue
until the well is plugged, said BP officials.  
 Higher pressure between 8,000 and 9,000 pounds per square
inch will show the oil is trapped in the wellbore drilled by the
Deepwater Horizon, an encouraging sign the well might be
successfully sealed with the cap.  
 Hurricane Proofing  
 Being able to shut in the oil would help in the event a
hurricane entered the Gulf before BP permanently plugs the well,
Allen said.  
 If the well withstands high pressure for two days, BP will
reopen the valves, let the pressure drop, and run a seismic
survey to check for any leaks before shutting the valves for
good, Allen said.  
 “I would prefer that the pressure test goes well, that it
holds pressure,” said  Philip Adams , an analyst at Gimme Credit
LLC in Chicago. “And that they are in fact able to say that
there has not been damage to the wellbore below the seafloor.”  
 The pressure test was delayed after the government raised
concerns it might cause the well to burst open beneath the
seabed. After getting necessary approvals, BP halted the test
July 13 because a leak developed when it began shutting off the
flow to allow pressure to build up.  
 Sealing the leak using the new cap is an interim step
before BP can permanently plug the well with cement, Allen said.  
 “The number-one goal is to shut in the well and kill it
and stop it at the source,” Allen said yesterday.  
 The first of two relief wells being drilled to plug the
well is about 100 feet (30 meters) from intercepting the leak,
Allen said.  
 BP had been sending captured oil from the well to the Helix
Producer I platform and Q4000 rig at the surface, where the oil
and gas are separated, stored and some is burned off.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net 
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oil gushes from a valve atop the failed blowout preventer (BOP) at the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill site in the Gulf of Mexico Source: BP Plc via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) Jane Coffey, head of equities at Royal London Asset Management, talks about the outlook for BP Plc shares and the possible sale of assets.
     She talks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
