-- BP Fixing New Cap Leak as It Prepares to Start Gulf Well Test
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bp-fixing-oil-leak-from-new-well-cap-as-it-prepares-for-gulf-pressure-test.html

          
          
             BP Plc  said it will begin a pressure
test of its gushing Gulf of Mexico well after fixing a leak that
erupted while it was shutting off oil flow with a new
containment cap.  
 The leak was detected in a “choke line” leading from the
stack of valves that makes up the cap installed July 12 on the
Macondo well, BP said in a statement yesterday. BP said the leak
had been “isolated” and was being repaired.  
 Some of the flow of oil has been temporarily stopped after
the company shut the top valve on the cap. London-based BP said
it will gradually close all the valves to raise the pressure
inside the well in six-hour intervals. The test will determine
whether the containment cap can remain sealed without causing
the well to burst open elsewhere.  
 “This is an important test,” BP Senior Vice President
 Kent Wells  told reporters on a conference call yesterday.
“We’re proceeding with an overabundance of caution.”  
 BP may require 48 hours of test data to determine whether
it can safely seal the leak, which began after an April 20 rig
explosion. The test required BP to delay some work on two relief
wells, which it plans to use to permanently kill the gusher
around the middle of August by filling it with cement.  
 Delayed Again  
 The procedure was previously postponed more than 24 hours
after Energy Secretary  Steven Chu  and a team of experts said
more analysis was needed, National Incident Commander  Thad Allen 
said.  
 The delay was necessary to avoid an “irreversible
mistake” because improper test procedures pose a risk of
cracking the well casing and causing oil and natural gas to
erupt from the seabed, Allen said during a press conference
yesterday. BP now has two remotely operated robots monitoring
the seabed, Wells said.  
 The first of the two relief wells is now about 4.5 feet
(1.4 meters) from Macondo’s leaking bore, and the successful
test may help guide the well-plugging procedure, Allen said.  
 The Macondo well has been leaking as much as 60,000 barrels
of oil a day, according to a government estimate, since the
drilling-rig blast that killed 11 workers.  
 BP lost 2.3 percent, or 9.35 pence, to close at 401 pence
in London yesterday. BP reached a five-week high of 410.4 pence
July 13.  
 Stock Plunge  
 The disaster at one point wiped out more than half of BP’s
 stock value , forced the company to suspend its dividend, halted
deep-water drilling in the U.S. and closed as much as 37 percent
of the Gulf of Mexico to fishing as the oil spread. BP has
pledged $20 billion to fund an account that will be used to pay
damages claims related to the spill.  
 The new cap has pressure-monitoring equipment that wasn’t
available in May, when  BP  and the government abandoned efforts
to seal Macondo from above. Without that equipment, operators
wouldn’t know if shutting the valves forced oil and gas to
rupture the well elsewhere, the company said earlier this week.  
 “If all of a sudden, they have a pressure drop, they’re
going to open that thing wide up and leave it alone,”  Don Van Nieuwenhuise , director of Petroleum Geoscience Programs at the
 University of Houston , said in an interview. “A quick drop
means a leak closer to the seabed, where oil and gas might work
their way to the surface.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oil gushes from a valve atop the failed blowout preventer at the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill site in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana Source: BP Plc via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
