-- BP Lawsuits Top 300 With Claims by Rig Workers, Mall, Sheriff
-- [bn:PRSN=1] Leslie Snadowsky []
-- 2010-07-15T20:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bp-lawsuits-exceed-300-with-claims-by-rig-workers-shopping-mall-sheriff.html

          
          
             BP Plc  faces more than 300 lawsuits
seeking billions of dollars in potential claims as damage from
the worst oil spill in U.S. history ripples through the nation’s
Gulf Coast economy.  
 A regional shopping mall in southern Louisiana sued July 12
in New Orleans federal court over the loss of customers, a
parish sheriff filed suit there July 9 to recover lost business
tax revenue, and growing numbers of BP employees and investors
lodged claims over alleged corporate mismanagement that caused
BP’s share price to fall by half. The complaints surpassed 300
yesterday, according to court records compiled by Bloomberg.  
 These lawsuits join scores of proposed class actions filed
by commercial fishing companies, beach-front property owners,
restaurant owners and environmentalists claiming harm from the
drifting oil. Legal experts said the number of suits will
continue to rise after the damaged well has stopped gushing oil.  
 “There are more than 100,000 individual damage claims
filed in the BP claims process, so we’ll probably see a multiple
of that number of court cases before it’s all said and done,”
Houston attorney  Brent Coon  said today in a telephone interview.  
 Coon said he’s filed “very few” lawsuits so far on behalf
of the 100 spill-related clients he represents, because he’s
waiting to see whether London-based BP pays claims from the $20
billion fund the company created for that purpose.  
 Michael Salt, a spokesman for BP, declined to comment.  
 New Lawsuit Phase  
 The lawsuit for lost tax revenue filed July 12 by the
Tensas Parish, Louisiana, sheriff may be the first of a new
phase of lawsuits. Such claims by state and local governments
seek money to cover budget shortfalls caused by the spill’s
impact on local businesses, said New Orleans lawyer  Stephen Herman .  
 Herman told the New Orleans City Council in late June that
claims for lost municipal tax revenues are specifically covered
by the federal law governing BP’s oil spill claims-payment
process.  
 “It seems to all be spelled out in the Oil Pollution Act
of 1990, but so far BP is not committed to paying lost tax
revenues,” Herman said in a phone interview.  
 The 1990 law states that “damages equal to the net loss of
taxes, royalties, rents, fees or net profit shares” can be
recovered by the U.S., states or a “political subdivision.”  
 Injured Worker  
 Injured Deepwater Horizon worker Oleander Benton and the
children of deceased rig crew member Keith Manuel also filed
separate lawsuits in the last week in state court in Houston and
New Orleans federal court, respectively. Their suits, against BP
and Transocean Ltd., which owned the rig, are among those filed
by 40 survivors or relatives of the 126-member crew that was
onboard the Deepwater Horizon when it exploded off the Louisiana
coast on April 20, killing 11.  
 Estimates of BP’s ultimate payout over the spill are rising
along with the number of lawsuits. Analysts in May estimated
costs of judgments and claims wouldn’t exceed $20 billion. A
June 2 Credit Suisse report assessed BP’s liabilities at $37
billion in cleanup and potential litigation expenses. Three
weeks later, oil analyst  Fadel Gheit , at Oppenheimer & Co., put
the financial hit from the Deepwater Horizon rig disaster as
high as $60 billion.  
 “We don’t know what the ultimate cost to BP will be,”
Coon said. “The oil is still spilling, and we don’t know how
far it will go, or what dispersants will do to the underwater
plumes, or whether a hurricane will cause deviations in the
projected path. We just don’t know.”  
 Consolidation  
 Lawyers will ask a panel of federal judges in Boise, Idaho,
on July 29 to consolidate the cases into two multidistrict
litigations, or MDLs, to streamline pretrial rulings, evidence-
gathering and organization.  
 One MDL would cover economic loss and environmental damage
claims in a dozen states. Most of these cases also name as
defendants  Transocean Ltd. , Halliburton Energy Services, Cameron
International Corp. and Anadarko Petroleum, all of whom
allegedly played a role in the spill. BP has asked the Boise
panel to consolidate the cases in federal court in Houston,
while attorneys for multiple plaintiffs are seeking assignment
to New Orleans.  
 The other MDL will cover lawsuits by investors in BP U.S.
 shares  who claim the company’s officers failed to disclose
safety problems, artificially inflating stock value, or that
management failures led to the spill.  
 “BP’s procedures for minimizing its financial losses from
drilling rig problems were no more than fantasies,” according
to a complaint in a shareholder class action filed in Lafayette,
Louisiana. “BP was simply not the enterprise that its public
communications pictured.”  
 BP Workers  
 This MDL might not cover the growing number of lawsuits by
BP’s U.S. workers claiming the company breached its duty to them
in managing the employee savings plan, said attorney  Thomas Ajamie  in Houston. These lawsuits claim BP and retirement
savings plan managers knew or should have know that investing in
the oil company was imprudent.  
 “We don’t think an MDL would be proper for our case,”
said Ajamie, who filed a class action in federal court in
Chicago July 7 for U.S. BP employees. So far, at least six of
these cases have been filed, five of them in Chicago, two this
week. The lawsuits are in Chicago because the BP plan is
administered there, Ajamie said. Plaintiffs lawyers involved
should be able to develop the cases without an MDL, Ajamie said.  
 Lawyers in these cases claim the company’s value has been
hurt not only by the spill but also by funds BP must pay to
clean up the spill and compensate victims.  
 “As BP’s $20 billion fund reduces the damages for everyone
else in this courtroom, it increases the damage to the
shareholders,” Michael Swick, a lawyer representing BP
investors said last month in a New Orleans court hearing over
spill claims.  
 Private Parties  
 Compensation sought by private parties may be dwarfed by
claims by governments, including the U.S. and the Gulf states,
over damage to natural resources. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990
requires those responsible for oil spills to restore a resource
to its pre-incident condition, or provide an equivalent to
offset the loss, such as to wildlife habitat, breeding stocks
and clean water.  
 The U.S. and state governments began assessing possible
damage by early May to determine the type and amount of
restoration needed, according to the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration .  
 “If the standard Louisiana sets for cleaning up the spill
is to go wipe the oil off of every blade of grass in every marsh
and recreate every estuary, that’s going to take more than the
value of BP to do that,” Coon said. “It will take umpteen
billions of dollars to recreate the estuaries, maybe trillions
of dollars.”  
 For Related News and Information:
BP litigation: BP/ LN <Equity> LITI <GO>
Top stories: TOP <GO>
Top legal news: TLAW <GO>
Bloomberg legal resources: BLAW <GO>
  
          
          


  


        