-- BP Nears $11 Billion Asset Sale to Apache
-- Stanley Reed
-- 2010-07-15T22:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bp-nears-11-billion-asset-sale-to-apache.html

          
          
             BP Plc  may reach an agreement as
soon as next week to sell assets including half its stake in
Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay field to  Apache Corp . for $10 billion to
$11 billion, according to two people familiar with the matter.  
 The deal will probably be an all-cash transaction, said
one of the people, who asked not to be named because the
negotiations remain private.  
 BP  is pressing to get the deal done before July 27, when it
reports second-quarter earnings, said one of the people. Talks
were progressing so swiftly this week, negotiators thought the
deal might be clinched by July 19. Discussions about the rights
of BP’s partners in Prudhoe Bay, the largest U.S. oil field,
slowed the timing by a few days, said this person.  
 “This is the kind of asset that I would expect BP to be
selling because it’s a mature asset, and it’s got a declining
production profile,” said Philip Weiss, an analyst at Argus
Research in New York. “Anything that BP does to shore up its
liquidity, whether it really needs to or not, is a positive.”  
 Apache ’s progress in raising between $6 billion and $7
billion in financing has helped speed negotiations, one of the
people said. Apache was able to raise money more quickly for the
transaction because lenders saw potential for  Apache  to squeeze
more production from Prudhoe Bay, which has been a declining
field, the person said.  
 $10 Billion Goal  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
are advising  Apache . Standard Chartered Plc is advising  BP .  
 The deal would accelerate BP’s plan to sell $10 billion of
assets over 12 months to fund compensation payments for damages
related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, caused by the explosion
of its Macondo well.  
 Apache declined 70 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $86.13 as of 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. BP’s American
depositary receipts  gained  $2.74, or 7.6 percent, to $38.92.  
 BP said it will concentrate on selling assets outside
regions with the most lucrative production growth. Prudhoe Bay’s
output, once greater than 1.5 million barrels a day, averaged
234,772 barrels a day this month, according to Alaska state tax
records.  
 Andrew Gowers , a BP spokesman, and  Bill Mintz , a spokesman
for Apache, declined to comment.  
 Alaska Partners  
 BP owns a 26 percent share and is the operator in Prudhoe
Bay and neighboring Alaskan fields such as Midnight Sun and
Aurora. Exxon Mobil and ConocoPhillips each own 36 percent and
Chevron has 2 percent. The partners have a right of first
refusal when the company considers selling its stake.  
 John Roper , a spokesman for ConocoPhillips, said the
company doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.  Kurt Glaubitz ,
a spokesman for Chevron Corp., and  Margaret Ross , an Exxon Mobil
Corp. spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  
 Apache, the largest independent U.S. oil company by market
value, has bought ma2ture fields from BP in the past. The
Houston-based company paid $1.3 billion in 2003 for BP assets in
the Gulf of Mexico and North Sea.  
 Apache has been able to “breathe life” into projects,
such as its Forties Field in the North Sea, said  Fadel Gheit , an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York who has an
“outperform” rating on both Apache and BP’s American
depositary receipts.  
 Doubling Production  
 Apache said in 2006 that it almost doubled production in
the Forties Field from the second quarter of 2003 through the
fourth quarter of 2005 with improved drilling techniques and
production efficiency. The North Sea region produced the
equivalent of some 22.4 million barrels of oil for Apache in
2009, or about 11 percent of its global output.  
 Gheit said Apache also is able to cut costs while taking on
projects that have reduced risk and lower returns.  
 A $10 billion deal would be “huge” for Apache at about
one-third of its market value, he said. Last month, Apache
closed a deal to buy Gulf of Mexico assets from Devon Energy
Corp. for $1.05 billion. The company also announced in April a
plan to buy Mariner Energy Inc. in a deal valued at the time at
about $2.7 billion.  
 Weiss, the Argus analyst, questioned whether Prudhoe Bay
partners would want BP to remain the operator at a reduced
percentage. Weiss has a “hold” rating on Apache and BP’s
American depositary receipts.  
 BP also may sell its 60 percent holding in Pan-American
Energy LLC, as well as fields in Colombia, Venezuela and
Vietnam, a person with knowledge of the matter said last week.  
 Swaps Rise  
 The cost to protect against losses on Apache bonds rose to
the highest in more than a month amid concerns that debt taken
on to finance the purchase will lower the company’s
creditworthiness.  
 Five-year credit-default swaps on Apache rose 7 basis
points to 112 basis points, the highest since June 11, according
to swaps data provider CMA. The contracts reached 122 basis
points on June 10, the highest since March 2009, CMA prices
show.  
 Egan-Jones Ratings Co. today said in a statement it lowered
its rankings on Apache today to A- from A, citing “the
expectation of significantly higher leverage” if the deal is
completed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stanley Reed  in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Jeffrey McCracken talks with Mark Crumpton, Julie Hyman and Adam Johnson about the prospects for a BP Plc asset sale to Apache Corp.
     BP may reach an agreement as soon as next week to sell assets to Apache Corp. for $10 billion to $11 billion, including half its stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay field, according to two people familiar with the matter. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC, talks about the outlook for BP Plc and his investment strategy for energy stocks.
     BP is in talks with Apache Corp. to sell assets, including its Alaska business, for less than $12 billion, two people familiar with the discussions said. Larry talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
