-- BP Plc Buys Verenium Corp.'s Cellulosic Biofuels Unit for $98.3 Million
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-15T15:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bp-plc-buys-verenium-corp-s-cellulosic-biofuels-unit-for-98-3-million.html

          
          
             BP Plc  will acquire  Verenium Corp. ’s
cellulosic biofuels business, expanding its operations in
alternative fuels.  
 BP Biofuels North America will pay $98.3 million for the
business, which includes facilities in Jennings, Louisiana, and
San Diego, the two companies said in a statement today. Shares
of Verenium, which will keep its commercial enzyme business,
surged the most since they started trading in February 2000.  
 BP, fighting the worst oil spill in U.S. history in the
Gulf of Mexico, has invested about $3 billion in alternative
fuels since 2005 on forecasts for global energy demand to rise
50 percent in the next two decades. Cellulosic biofuel is a
liquid fuel made by extracting the sugars out of grass.  
 “This acquisition demonstrates BP’s intent to be a leader
in the cellulosic biofuels industry in the U.S.,”  Philip New ,
chief executive officer of BP Biofuels, said in a statement.
“BP Biofuels should be well placed to accelerate the delivery
of low cost, low carbon, sustainable biofuels, at scale.”  
 The sale will enable the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
company to focus on its enzymes business, Verenium Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Riva  and Chief Operating Officer  Janet Roemer  said on a conference call today. Enzymes are used in the
manufacture of biofuels.  
 ‘Opportunity to Focus’  
 “We continue to believe in the potential of cellulosic
ethanol and its ability to be a significant and sustainable
component of the world’s alternative energy mix,” Riva said.
“The best and clearest way for Verenium to profit from the
opportunity is to focus our resources on the enzyme component of
the business.”  
 Roemer said the company has a “deep pipeline” of possible
products and a “tremendous capacity” for growth. “This
transaction provides the focus and capital needed to pursue that
growth,” she said.  
 Verenium shares surged as much as 79 percent today and were
up $1.61, or 65 percent, in Nasdaq trading at about 11 a.m. New
York time today.  
 BP, Poet LLC and other companies are trying to find ways to
produce ethanol from switchgrass, wood chips and agricultural
waste, as an alternative to biofuels from food crops such as
corn. Even so, the technology for affordable production of non-
corn ethanol remains uncertain,  Joe Glauber , the U.S. Department
of Agriculture’s chief economist said in April.  
 The Obama administration in February slashed the nation’s
2010 cellulosic-ethanol mandate to 6.5 million gallons from the
100 million that had been required under a 2007 energy law.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        