-- BP to Start Test on Leaking Gulf Oil Well Today
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-15T16:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bp-will-start-test-on-leaking-gulf-oil-well-today-in-effort-to-cap-blowout.html

          
          
             BP Plc  plans to start a twice-
delayed pressure test today to determine if it can safely seal
its leaking oil well in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 “We’ll start up sometime this morning or later today,”
Senior Vice President for Exploration and Production  Kent Wells 
said during a conference call with reporters. “We have a very,
very intricate procedure we need to go through.”  
 The test will determine if BP can stop the flow from the
biggest U.S. oil spill in history, which erupted after an April
20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, killing
11 workers. The well is spewing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil
a day, according to a U.S. government-led panel of scientists.  
 The pressure test was delayed after the U.S. government
raised concerns it might cause the well to burst open elsewhere.
After getting necessary approvals, London-based BP halted the
test yesterday because a leak developed when it began shutting
off the flow to allow pressure to build up.  
 Engineers today replaced the faulty valve assembly and are
checking it for any new leaks, Wells said. After the leak was
found, BP resumed piping oil from the leaking well to two ships
on the surface, reducing spillage into the sea, Wells said. The
ships collected 12,840 barrels of oil yesterday.  
 BP is ready to start the well-pressure test, National
Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said at a New Orleans press
conference today. The test will last for at least six hours and
as many as 48 hours, he said.  
 Pressure Readings  
 Low pressure during the first six hours will indicate a
leak elsewhere, which would cause the test to stop and BP to
resume recovering as much oil as possible thorough lines from
the well to vessels on the surface of the Gulf, Allen said.  
 High pressure readings, between 8,000 and 9,000 pounds per
square inch, will show the oil is flowing through the wellbore
drilled by the Deepwater Horizon. If the well withstands high
pressure for two days, BP will reopen the valves, let the
pressure drop, and run a seismic survey to check for any leaks
before shutting the valves for good, Allen said.  
 Being able to shut in the oil would help in the event a
hurricane entered the area before BP permanently plugs the well,
Allen said.  
 The first of two relief wells to plug the well is about 100
feet (30 meters) from intercepting the leak, Allen said.  
 BP has been sending captured oil from the well to the Helix
Producer I and Q4000 rig, which are capable of handling as much
as 33,000 barrels a day.  
 Connection of a third processing vessel, the Toisa Pisces,
has been delayed to July 24 from July 19, because the problems
with the pressure test interrupted installation of the lines
that will connect it, Allen said.  
 BP  gained  less than a pence to 401.75 pence at 4:35 p.m. in
London trading. The shares have dropped 39 percent since the rig
exploded.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oil gushes from a valve atop the failed blowout preventer (BOP) at the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill site in the Gulf of Mexico Source: BP Plc via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
