-- BP Would Be Barred From U.S. Leases in Measure Sent to House
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-07-15T19:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/bp-would-be-barred-from-new-u-s-offshore-leases-in-measure-sent-to-house.html

          
          
             A congressional committee approved a
measure barring  BP Plc  from new U.S. offshore leases to drill
for oil or natural gas because of safety violations, sending the
legislation for a vote by the full House of Representatives.  
 The  House Natural Resources Committee  voted 27-21 today to
move forward with the bill, which strengthens safety standards
as a response to BP’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The House
Energy and Commerce Committee separately approved a measure to
require chief executive officers to vouch for oil-well designs.  
 “While the incident in the Gulf does not signal the end of
drilling off America’s coasts, it certainly is a game changer
and is proof positive that broad reforms are needed,” House
Natural Resources Committee Chairman  Nick Rahall , a West
Virginia Democrat, said in a statement.  
 Companies with violations of federal or state safety
standards more than five times the industry average going back
seven years would be barred under the legislation, the
Consolidated Land, Energy and Aquatic Recovery Act. The measure
would also ban leases to companies that have received fines of
$10 million or more for violating the Clean Water Act as well as
those that have more than 10 fatalities at their facilities.  
 BP is the only company that would fail those standards,
according to Representative  George Miller , a California
Democrat, who wrote the provision. The new rules wouldn’t affect
BP’s current leases, and the company could continue to
participate as a minority partner on future leases, Miller said.  
 Hydraulic Fracturing  
 Before approving, the committee adopted an amendment by
Representative  Jay Inslee , a Washington Democrat, that would
encourage geothermal energy production on federal lands.  
 The measure also would require companies drilling for gas
in shale formations on federal lands to disclose chemicals used
in hydraulic fracturing, a process in which water mixed with
sand and chemicals are injected into the ground to break up
rock. The panel rejected an amendment by Representative  John Fleming , a Louisiana Republican, to remove the provision.  
 The Energy and Commerce Committee’s measure,  the Blowout
Prevention Act , sets well minimum design standards, adding
redundancy, testing and third-party certification of blowout
preventers, according to a statement by Representative  Henry Waxman , the California Democrat who is the panel’s chairman.  
 “This tragedy, which is the greatest environmental
catastrophe in American history, can be termed ‘accident’ in
name only,” Waxman said. “BP made a series of reckless
decisions before the blowout.”  
 Disaster Plans  
 The panel held a June 17 hearing during which lawmakers
grilled BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  about actions on
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the days before the April
20 explosion. Hayward declined to answer most of the questions,
citing pending investigations.  
 At a June 15 hearing, the committee criticized executives
from BP, Exxon Mobil Corp., ConocoPhillips, Chevron Corp. and
Royal Dutch Shell Plc for having “carbon copy” disaster
response plans that were inadequate for dealing with a major
offshore oil spill.  
 Before the explosion at  BP’s  Gulf of Mexico well, which
killed 11 workers, a 2005 explosion at the company’s refinery in
Texas City, Texas, killed 15 workers, and a 2006 pipeline leak
dumped 200,000 gallons of crude at Prudhoe Bay, Alaska.  
 Minerals Management Service  
 Lawmakers haven’t decided whether to bring the bills
related to the BP oil spill to the floor as single legislation
or separately, House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland
Democrat, told reporters today. The Blowout Prevention Act is
likely to make it to the floor, while the bill banning BP from
leases is still under discussion, he said.  
 President  Barack Obama  has called on Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  and Congress to boost oversight of the offshore drilling
industry and end its “cozy” relationship with regulators.  
 Measures being debated in Congress would place into statute
Salazar’s decision to eliminate the Minerals Management Service,
the agency formerly charged with promoting energy development
and enforcing safety standards. The service would be replaced
with three new agencies.  
 Three Gulf-state Republican senators introduced a measure
today that would repeal the Obama administration’s July 12
offshore-drilling moratorium.  
 The bill, sponsored by Senators  David Vitter  of Louisiana,
 Roger Wicker  of Mississippi and  John Cornyn  of Texas, would
speed up the Interior Department’s permitting process and force
regulators to make decisions on permits once a company has
complied with the new safety and inspection requirements.  
 The Blowout Prevention Act, is H.R. 5626. The measure that
would ban BP leases is H.R. 3534.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Transocean Ltd. Development Driller II platform, at the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill site in the Gulf of Mexico. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
