-- Brazil Rate Futures Drop Most in Two Months as Mantega Sees Slower Growth
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-07-15T15:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/brazil-rate-futures-drop-most-in-two-months-as-mantega-sees-slower-growth.html

          
          
             Brazilian traders are paring bets
for interest rate increases at the fastest pace in two months as
the economy shows signs of slowing.  
 Yields on rate futures contracts due in January 2011
declined 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, in the past
two weeks, the most since May, to 11.16 percent. The plunge puts
traders’ year-end forecast for the central bank’s benchmark  
Selic  overnight rate at 11.6 percent, below the consensus
economist forecast of 12 percent for the first time since at
least September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Latin America’s largest economy may be cooling from a 9
percent annual pace in the first quarter, the fastest since
1995, after reports showed that increases in  industrial output 
and retail sales slowed more than analysts forecast in May.
Future yields are sliding from their highest level in 16 months
at the end of June.  
 “It’s impossible for Brazil to maintain these China-like
quarterly growth rates,” said  Aryam Vazquez , an emerging
markets economist with Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “We’re
seeing an economy that is easing towards more sustainable
levels. The past couple of data readings have certainly reduced
the prospects for more aggressive monetary tightening.”  
 Forecast  
 The year-end traders’ forecast is down from about 12.5
percent in September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  has raised the rate
150 basis points to 10.25 percent from a record low of 8.75
percent in April. The futures market shows he will lift
borrowing costs at least another 50 basis points at a meeting
next week.  
 Meirelles told reporters today in Brasilia that policy
makers will evaluate all relevant data released right up to next
week’s policy meeting in making their decision on interest
rates.  
 Brazil’s economic growth will ease in the third quarter
after the government withdrew stimulus measures including tax
cuts, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday.  
 Gross domestic product  will expand between 5.5 percent to 6
percent in the third quarter and as much as 7 percent for the
year, Mantega said. The International Monetary Fund increased
its 2010 growth forecast for Brazil to 7.1 percent last month
from a 5.5 percent prediction in April.  
 “The market may keep reducing their expectations for
hikes,” said  David Beker , the head of Latin American economics
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York. “The assumption a
few months ago was that inflation will remain under pressure and
that activity won’t slow down. Then both things happened, so
people changed their rates expectations.”  
 Slowing Inflation  
 The  annual inflation  rate dropped to 4.8 percent in June,
the lowest since February, from 5.2 percent in May as food
prices declined, the government reported on July 7. The central
bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent.  
 Retail sales  climbed 1.4 percent in May from April, less
than the 1.8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
Industrial production was unchanged, below the 1.5 percent
median estimate.  
 The reports suggest the economy expanded 0.8 percent in the
April-to-June period, the slowest  quarter-on-quarter pace  since
March 2009, after growing 2.7 percent from January to March,
according to  Diego Donadio , an economist at BNP Paribas in Sao
Paulo.  
 ‘Normal Levels’  
 “The first quarter was very strong,” Mantega said in
Brasilia. “From the third quarter on, growth will return to
more normal levels.”  
 Policy makers  will raise the benchmark rate to 12 percent
by year-end, according to the central bank’s July 9 survey of
about 100 economists. The forecast is 30 basis points above what
rates traders are predicting. In September, economists were
predicting a year-end 2011 rate of 9.5 percent, about 300 basis
points below traders’ consensus call.  
 “The prospect for a smaller and shorter tightening cycle
is most likely temporary,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at
Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. Santos, the second most accurate
forecaster in the central bank survey for June, predicts traders
will push futures yields back higher.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. securities rose eight basis points to 229,
according to JPMorgan. The real weakened 0.6 percent to 1.7726
per dollar.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose three basis points
yesterday to 124, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 ‘Less Bullish’  
 As traders have pared their rate increase expectations, the
yield difference between January 2011 and January 2013 contracts
narrowed to a 16-month low of 69 basis points on July 5. The gap
was 81 basis points today.  
 Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, is betting yields will fall further as the
U.S. recovery loses momentum and European nations struggle to
finance their budget deficits, said  Guillermo Osses , who helps
oversee $50 billion in emerging-market assets at the Newport
Beach, California-based firm.  
 “Now that the situation has deteriorated abroad and the
inflation and retail data came lower, rates are going down,”
Osses said in a telephone interview. “We have been long rates
in Brazil because we have been less bullish than the consensus
view on the global economy. It’s working so far and we’re not
planning to change it.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Latin America’s largest economy may be cooling  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         President of the central bank of Brazil Henrique Meirelles. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President of the central bank of Brazil Henrique Meirelles. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
