-- Brent Crude Futures in Backwardation Following North Sea Supply Reductions
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-07-15T10:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/brent-crude-futures-in-backwardation-following-north-sea-supply-reductions.html

          
          
             Crude oil futures in London for the
earliest delivery were more expensive than later contracts for a
second day, after settling at a premium yesterday for the first
time in almost a year following North Sea field maintenance.  
 Brent crude futures on the city’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange for August traded today at 25 cents more than their
September equivalent. Yesterday was the first time the contract
closest to expiration has settled above the subsequent month
since Aug. 14. Before that date, front-month Brent contracts had
not consistently traded at a premium since May 2008.  
 “The crude structure is strengthening and finally flipping
into backwardation,” said  Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu , chief
investment officer at Archbridge Capital in Zug, Switzerland.
“Local factors like North Sea maintenance at full swing while
refineries resuming operations after maintenance season are
adding to crude support. Strong Chinese imports are working down
the stock overhang.”  
 Daily shipments of the four North Sea crude grades that
determine the price of Dated Brent, the benchmark for two-thirds
of the world’s oil, are scheduled to fall 11 percent in August
as fields halt for maintenance, according to loading programs
obtained by Bloomberg last week.  
 Brent for August settlement, which expires today, advanced
33 cents to $77.10 as of 11:24 a.m. London time. The more-active
September contract gained 21 cents to $76.87 a barrel. A market
in which near-term contracts are more expensive than those
further out in time is described as being in backwardation. The
reverse condition is called contango.  
 Contracts from September onwards remained in contango
through to 2018, with October Brent about 30 cents more than
September.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        