-- Buffett Posts $2 Billion in Collateral to Win CNA Asbestos-Liability Deal
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-15T18:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/buffett-posts-2-billion-in-collateral-to-win-cna-asbestos-liability-deal.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. , which was stripped of its top credit ratings over the last
two years, agreed to put up $2.2 billion in a collateral trust
to win a reinsurance deal with  CNA Financial Corp.   
 The cash will fund asbestos and environmental claims from
CNA clients. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire will receive a $2
billion premium and the right to collect reinsurance of $200
million from third parties, CNA said today in a statement.  
 “We’re in this new environment where people want
collateral posted,” said  Jeff Matthews , author of “Pilgrimage
to Warren Buffett’s Omaha” and founder of hedge fund Ram
Partners LP. “$2.2 billion is a large number.”  
 Insurance companies, banks and investors are looking for
greater reassurances that counterparties will be able to pay
when bills come due. Berkshire, which Buffett leads as chief
executive officer, posted  profit declines  during the recession
on stock slumps and lower sales at manufacturing and retail
units. The firm was  cut  to the second-highest rating at Standard
& Poor’s and the third-highest at Moody’s Investors Service.  
 “It was surprising,”  Meyer Shields , an insurance analyst
with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said of the collateral trust.
“Looks like CNA is trying to get that certainty where they can
retain control.”  
 Buffett has resisted making contracts with collateral
requirements that would constrain how he invests Berkshire’s
funds. The 79-year-old billionaire  built  the company over four
decades by picking stocks and buying businesses with premiums
collected from insurance clients.  
 Stock Picks  
 Berkshire got a  $7.1 billion premium  in 2007 for assuming
asbestos risks previously held by Lloyd’s of London investors.
Those funds were delivered to Berkshire as a portfolio of
investments that Buffett then reshaped, with the expectation
that his stock picks would beat the return of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  
 “They actually sent us the S&P 500 they had in their
equity portfolio,” Buffett said of the Lloyd’s premium at a
press conference in May 2007. “I proceeded to sell 496 or 497
of them in a couple of days.”  
 The CNA transaction won’t increase  Berkshire’s  investable
premium, or float, said Matthews. To make a profit, Buffett may
be counting on claims falling short of the premium, Matthews
said. The net liabilities assumed by Berkshire are about $1.6
billion, Chicago-based CNA said. The difference between premiums
received and claims and expenses paid is an insurer’s
underwriting profit.  
 ‘Significant’ Profit  
 “There’s a significant underwriting profit on this deal,”
said Shields of Stifel Nicolaus. The potential for Berkshire to
retain more premium than it pays out may explain the firm’s
willingness to place funds in the collateral trust, which, “in
general, they try to avoid,” Shields said.  
 Berkshire’s float from insurance businesses rose 5.9
percent last year to $61.9 billion. Buffett also collects
investable funds from derivatives counterparties. The collateral
posting requirement for Berkshire on derivatives contracts was
$35 million at the end of December, according to the firm’s
annual report.  
 Berkshire “always holds the money,” Buffett said of his
derivative contracts in the 2008  annual report . This float means
that when the contracts are settled, “the substantial
investment income we earn on the funds will be frosting on the
cake.”  
 Berkshire’s potential liability on the CNA claims is
limited to $4 billion. CNA has the No. 10 rating at Moody’s.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        