-- Cable Proposes Graduate Tax to Pay for University Tuition, Replacing Fees
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-07-15T14:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/cable-proposes-graduate-tax-to-pay-for-university-tuition-replacing-fees.html

          
          
             Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said
Britain may introduce a tax on university graduates to pay for
tuition costs, with higher earners paying more than their lower-
paid former classmates.  
 “It surely can’t be right that a teacher or care worker or
research scientist is expected to pay the same graduate
contribution as a top commercial lawyer or surgeon or City
analyst whose graduate premium is so much bigger,” Cable said
in a  speech  to university officials in London today. “I am
interested in looking at the feasibility of changing the system
of financing student tuition so the repayment mechanism is
variable graduate contributions tied to earnings.”  
 Cable, a Liberal Democrat, made the proposal on higher-
education funding even though his party and its Conservative
coalition partners have agreed to await the results of an review
currently being carried out by  John Browne , the former chief
executive officer of  BP Plc . Students now borrow to pay for
their education and repay the loans when they’re working.  
 Browne, who was  appointed to investigate  the issue in
November by the previous Labour government, with the support of
the Conservatives, is considering the option in his review,
Cable said. Both parties backed the current system of tuition
fees paid in advance, while the Liberal Democrats fought the May
election proposing to scrap them.  
 Opt-Out  
 Cable’s party is so concerned about tuition fees that it
was one of only three areas where he and colleagues negotiated
an opt-out in the  coalition agreement  to protect their lawmakers
from having to vote for a proposal they couldn’t accept. As head
of the department responsible, Cable would still find himself a
target for criticism if he introduced legislation raising fees.  
 Cable said the  current system , under which students take
out loans to pay for tuition and living costs and start repaying
them when their annual salary exceeds 15,000 pounds ($23,000),
is a “poll tax” and is unfair. While the average graduate
earns an extra 100,000 pounds in his or her working life
compared with a non-graduate, there are wide discrepancies in
that “graduate premium,” he said.  
 Cable, who said no decisions had yet been taken, also
suggested moves toward cutting from three years to two the
length of a degree course and making it easier for students to
transfer credits for courses between institutions.  
 ‘Fair Solution’  
 The graduate-tax plan “is a milestone in a lengthy
campaign by students to ensure a fairer university funding
system,” Aaron Porter, president of the  National Union of
Students, said in a statement on the organization’s website .
“The fair solution is to abolish tuition fees and ensure that
graduate contributions are based on actual earnings in the real
world, rather than sticker prices in prospectuses, which are
based on guesswork.”  
 The University and College Union , which represents 120,000
higher-education staff, said the government needs to clarify if
students will be paying to make up a shortfall created by budget
cuts.  
 “The government must understand that it simply cannot
rebrand student debt as a graduate tax, nor should it expect
students to pick up the bill for its punitive cuts agenda,”
General Secretary Sally Hunt said on the union’s website.
“Whether or not graduate debt goes up will be the key test for
students and their parents around the fairness of the system.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        