-- Calpers Gains 11.4%, Best Return in 3 Years as Shares Surge
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-07-15T15:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/calpers-gains-11-4-best-return-in-3-years-as-shares-surge.html

          
          
             The California Public Employees
Retirement System, the largest U.S. public pension fund, gained
11.4 percent in the past fiscal year, its best performance in
three years.  
 The $203.7 billion plan, known as Calpers, said  equities  it
held rose 14.4 percent while its bonds climbed 19.5 percent for
the year ended June 30. The value of alternative investments,
such as private-equity funds, gained 30.9 percent, while real
estate fell 37.1 percent and inflation-hedging investments, such
as commodities and infrastructure, advanced 2.7 percent.  
 The net gain compares with a 23.4 percent loss in fiscal
2009, the biggest one-year drop in the fund’s  78-year history  as
the economic crisis felled Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
pushed global  stock markets  down 31 percent. Because of the 2009
loss, Calpers has sought more money from taxpayers to cover
retiree benefits, fueling public concern that the plan may be
too generous when 12.4 percent of Californians are  unemployed .  
 “We’re definitely in the recovery mode with the
opportunity to capture future returns because of our long-term
investment horizon,” Chief Investment Officer  Joe Dear  said in
a statement.  
 Returns Under Dear  
 Calpers valued the plan at $200 billion as of June 30. The
growth from $180.9 billion a year earlier marks the first full
year of returns under Dear, who was hired in March 2009 to
stabilize the fund. Calpers had hemorrhaged $96 billion from its
record high of $260 billion, reached in October 2007, falling to
$164 billion by January 2009. Dear joined the plan from the
Washington State Investment Board.  
 Calpers lost 4.9 percent in fiscal 2008. That followed four
straight years of gains that topped 10 percent, including a 19
percent return in 2007. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 
28 percent in fiscal 2009 and rebounded 12 percent in the year
through June.  
 The fund’s 13-member administration board is considering
lowering the assumed minimum rate of return on assets, currently
at 7.75 percent. If the rate is reduced, the plan will need
larger contributions from taxpayers to cover pension costs,
unless benefits are curtailed. The plan serves about 1.6 million
current and retired government workers.  
 Can’t Be Nimble  
 “When you are that big, you largely can’t outperform the
markets,”  David Crane , Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger’s 
economic adviser, said before the annual report. “You just do
what markets do. It’s not like you can be nimble and slide in
and do deals that nobody else knows about and move the needle on
your $200 billion.”  
 Returns for real estate, private equity and some components
of the inflation-linked class reflect market values through
March 31. Performance including the final quarter of the fiscal
year will be available after asset valuations are completed,
Calpers said in the statement.  
 The pension fund had high-profile real-estate losses during
the fiscal year related to residential markets.  
 A $500 million investment with Tishman Speyer Properties LP
and  BlackRock Inc. , tied to New York’s Stuyvesant Town-Peter
Cooper Village, was written off after attempts to increase rents
at Manhattan’s largest apartment complex failed to generate
enough income to pay a $3 billion mortgage. The 80-acre (32
hectare) property with about 25,000 tenants, many in rent-
regulated units, went into default this year.  
 Placement Agents  
 The fund also was forced to write off a $970 million
investment in the Newhall Ranch project north of Los Angeles.
The developer, LandSource Communities Development LLC, entered
Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization after failing to
restructure debts.  
 Calpers was caught up in federal and state probes last year
into influence-peddling for access to the $2 trillion in U.S.
public retirement-fund assets.  
 California Attorney General  Jerry Brown , now running for
governor, sued two former Calpers officials in May, claiming
they sought to use their influence as middlemen, known as
placement agents, to win fund business. The state accused
 Federico Buenrostro Jr.  and  Alfred Villalobos  of trying to
improperly sway investment decisions at the fund and place $4.8
billion with clients such as Apollo Global Management LLC.  
 Apollo wasn’t accused of wrongdoing. Villalobos has denied
the state’s claims, and a statement from his lawyers said
Buenrostro also would be vindicated.  
 The fund since then has sponsored legislation to limit how
much money investment managers can pay to placement agents. Dear
also has set up a process so that money managers can pitch their
services directly to Calpers officials and make placement agents
unnecessary.  
 Last month, Calpers announced its first direct investment
in large-scale public facilities, a 12.7 percent equity stake in
London’s  Gatwick Airport . Gatwick is the U.K.’s second-busiest
airline hub, serving 34 million passengers in 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Joe Dear, chief investment officer of California Public Employees' Retirement System (Calpers). Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
