-- Canada Interest Rates May Mean Higher Inflation, Former Bank Adviser Says
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-15T19:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/canada-interest-rates-may-mean-higher-inflation-former-bank-adviser-says.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada policy makers may be
anticipating  inflation  will overshoot their published
projections after bringing interest rates to record lows to
fight an economic slump, according to a former adviser at the
central bank.  
 Angelo Melino , a University of Toronto economist who was a
special adviser at the Bank of Canada last year, said there may
be an inconsistency between the bank’s internal modeling and its
current projection for  core inflation  -- a measure closely
followed by the bank that strips out the effect of the most
volatile prices. The bank most recently projected core inflation
at 2 percent or below through 2012, and under the bank’s
modeling, Canada’s historically  low levels of interest rates 
would imply faster price increases, he said.  
 “The bank may have decided that telling people inflation
would overshoot by half a percent for a few quarters is a bad
idea,” Melino said in a telephone interview. “They don’t want
to distract or send a bad signal. But I don’t know if that’s a
good thing to have done.”  
 The bank’s internal model assumes policy makers prefer to
increase interest rates only gradually, Melino said, suggesting
the benchmark rate will remain at levels that continue to
stimulate the economy for a long time.  
 Below Average  
 In a joint  paper  with University of Western Ontario
Professor Michael Parkin, released yesterday by the Toronto-
based research group  C.D. Howe Institute , Melino calculated the
central bank’s internal modeling would show the bank’s policy
interest rate -- currently 0.5 percent -- would only rise to 2
percent by the end of 2012, unless Canada’s core inflation rate
exceeded the 2 percent projected by the central bank.  
 A 2 percent policy rate would leave the real policy
interest rate, which is adjusted for inflation, well below its
historical average at a time when the central bank projects the
economy would have returned to “balance,” Melino said.  
 “In the past, they had a balanced demand and supply at a
nominal rate of 4.75, which was a real interest rate of 2.75,”
Melino said. “Why would the markets expect that they can do
that now at a real interest rate of 0.25?”  
 If inflation exceeds 2 percent, that would imply an
interest rate path that makes “a lot more sense,” said Melino.  
 ‘Neutral’ Rate  
 Bank of Canada spokesman  Jeremy Harrison  declined to
comment in an e-mail, citing the bank’s policy of refraining
from making statements related to monetary policy in the week
before its interest rate announcements. The central bank is due
to make its next announcement July 20 and publish an updated
detailed economic forecast July 22.  
 Investors have fully priced a 25-basis-point rise in the
bank’s policy rate to 0.75 percent next week, according to  an
index  published by Credit Suisse based on Overnight Index Swap
rates.  
 Another explanation for the discrepancy between the
interest rate path projected by the bank’s model and the
inflation forecast could be that the bank’s policy makers
believe the country’s long-term “neutral” interest rate is
lower than in previous years. Governor  Mark Carney  could also be
planning much faster increases in interest rates than the bank
has implemented following previous economic shocks, Melino said.  
 The bank could help reduce such “ambiguities” stemming
from its modeling by being more transparent and publishing a
conditional forecast path for its policy interest rate, Melino
said.  
 “Where is the discrepancy coming from?” Melino said.
“That’s the sort of question we are asking.”  
 Futures Contract  
 Investors are not anticipating a return to higher real
interest rates. Yields on June 2012 bankers’ acceptances
futures, a contract that typically settles about 20 basis points
above the central bank’s overnight rate target, were trading at
2.63 percent today, down from 2.76 percent yesterday.  
 The Bank predicted in  April  that core inflation would
remain below 2 percent until the fourth quarter of next year and
remain at 2 percent during 2012. The consumer price index, the
broadest measure of inflation, would remain at near 2 percent
throughout that period, after excluding the effects of sales tax
changes in two of Canada’s provinces, the bank projected.  
 Prices rose 1.4 percent in May from a year earlier,
according to data released by Statistics Canada June 22, down
from a 1.8 percent gain in April. Core inflation slowed to 1.8
percent in May from 1.9 percent. The bank’s April projection
called for total inflation to average 1.7 percent in the April-
June period, and core inflation to average 1.9 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .
 Theophilos Argitis  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        