-- Carrefour Quarterly Sales Increase 6.3%, Beating Estimates, Led by France
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-15T16:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/carrefour-second-quarter-sales-rise-6-3-beating-estimates-led-by-france.html

          
          
             Carrefour SA , Europe’s biggest
retailer, reported a 6.3 percent increase in second-quarter
sales, beating analysts’ estimates, led by growth in France.  
 Revenue rose to 24.9 billion euros ($32.1 billion) from
23.4 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today in a statement after markets closed. The average  estimate 
of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg was 24.6 billion euros.  
 Carrefour derives about  40 percent  of revenue from France,
where sales increased for a second straight quarter, ending more
than a year of decline. The retailer is pumping investment into
discounts and advertising to increase its domestic market share,
while seeking  acquisitions  in Brazil, China and Spain.  
 “Carrefour is building on its momentum,” Chief Executive
Officer  Lars Olofsson  said in the statement. The 5.9 percent
increase in first-half revenue reflected “continued market-
share gains in France, strong growth in Latin America and faster
growth in Asia,” he said.  
 Carrefour rose 3 cents to 35.34 euros in Paris trading
today. The  shares  have gained 5.3 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 24.9 billion euros.  
 Sales in France rose 2.7 percent in the quarter as the
combination of lower prices and increased advertising paid off.  
 Same-store sales at French superstores gained 0.8 percent.
Carrefour is reviewing the format and will open pilot stores in
the country this fall as it looks to boost sales per square
foot, Olofsson said in May. French supermarket same-store sales
grew 5 percent, while revenue at so-called hard-discount outlets
declined 11 percent, the company said.  
 Latin America, Asia  
 Same-store sales in western Europe, excluding France, fell
4.9 percent. Sales slid 8.6 percent in Belgium, where Carrefour
this month agreed with labor unions to close 16 unprofitable
stores. Eastern European sales declined 5.8 percent.  
 In Latin America, same-store sales jumped 6.4 percent,
while Asian revenue climbed 1.9 percent on that basis. Carrefour
plans to open 22 hypermarkets and 140 discount stores in China
this year, Olofsson said in May. The retailer will open 12 cash
& carry stores under its  Atacadao  brand in Brazil as well as two
hypermarkets and 40 discount stores. Carrefour also intends to
add 13 stores in Indonesia, where it announced in April it sold
a 40 percent stake to Trans Corp., a unit of Para Group.  
 Carrefour is seeking offers for its units in Malaysia,
Thailand and Singapore and may ask for bids by early September,
people familiar with the matter said last week. The retailer is
“obliged” to listen to offers for its businesses in markets
where leadership is unattainable, Olofsson said in May.  
 The units combined may fetch $800 million to $1 billion,
people familiar with the matter said last week.  Tesco Plc , the
U.K.’s largest supermarket chain,  Japan’s Aeon Co ., Hong Kong’s
 Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd.  and Thailand’s  Big C
Supercenter Pcl  may put in bids, the people said, on condition
of anonymity because the sale process isn’t public.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 Aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        