-- Carrefour Shares Advance on Quarterly Sales Increase, 2010 Profit Forecast
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-16T07:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/carrefour-shares-may-advance-as-sales-exceed-estimates-paced-by-france.html

          
          
             Carrefour SA , Europe’s biggest
retailer, gained in Paris trading after reporting a 6.3 percent
increase in second-quarter sales and forecasting better-than-
expected full-year operating profit.  
 Revenue rose to 24.9 billion euros ($32.1 billion) from
23.4 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
yesterday after markets closed. Excluding currency swings, sales
gained 2.2 percent. The  shares  advanced as much as 1 percent.  
 So-called activity contribution, or  operating profit , is
expected to be about 1.1 billion euros in the first six months
of 2010, Carrefour said. For the full-year, the measure should
reach 3.1 billion euros, compared with 2.8 billion euros last
year, the retailer said. The average  estimate  of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg is 2.9 billion euros.  
 “The activity contribution is good news,”  Fabio Fazzari ,
an analyst at Equita Sim in Milan said in a phone interview.  
 Carrefour is pumping investment into discounts and
advertising to increase market share in France, which accounts
for  40 percent  of revenue. The retailer is also shifting its
international focus on markets where it thinks it can be a
leader, such as Latin America and China. Carrefour added 222,000
square meters of shop space during the quarter, opening or
acquiring 293 stores and expanding others.  
 “We expect the environment to remain challenging,” Chief
Financial Officer  Pierre Bouchut  said on a conference call.
“Growth in China and Latin America should remain solid but we
remain prudent about the outlook” in Europe.  
 Lower Prices  
 Carrefour rose 9 cents to 35.43 euros at 9:14 a.m. in Paris
trading. The  shares  have gained 5.6 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of about 25 billion euros.  
 Sales at stores open at least a year grew 0.3 percent in
the quarter, Carrefour said. In France, same-store sales rose
2.6 percent as the combination of lower prices and increased
advertising paid off. Market share widened by 80 basis points on
a like-for-like basis in the first half, Bouchut said.  
 Same-store sales at French superstores gained 0.8 percent
in the quarter, boosted by an increase in average basket value.
Carrefour is reviewing the store format and will open pilot
units in the country this fall as it looks to boost sales per
square foot, Chief Executive Officer  Lars Olofsson  said in May.
French supermarket same-store sales grew 5 percent, while
revenue at so-called hard-discount outlets declined 11 percent,
the company said.  
 European Sales  
 Same-store sales in western Europe, excluding France, fell
4.9 percent. Revenue slid 4.4 percent in Spain, 3.5 percent in
Italy and 8.6 percent in Belgium, where Carrefour this month
agreed with labor unions to close 16 unprofitable stores. The
retailer plans to invest about 300 million euros in its Belgian
business in the next three years, signaling its confidence in
the market’s “value creation potential,” Bouchut said.  
 Sales in other European markets, such as Poland, Turkey and
Greece, declined 5.8 percent on the same basis. Carrefour’s
business in southern Europe “is definitely being affected by
the recent austerity measures, which result in reduced
consumption,” Bouchut said.  
 In Latin America, total second-quarter sales gained 34
percent after Carrefour opened or acquired six superstores, 24
hard discount stores and 14 convenience stores, boosting market
share. Same-store sales jumped 6.4 percent led by  Atacadao  cash
& carry units in Brazil, the retailer said.  
 Second-quarter Asian sales increased 21 percent, led by
China, where Carrefour plans to add 22 hypermarkets and 140
discount stores this year. The retailer also said it agreed to
buy 51 percent of Chinese superstore operator Baolongcang to
expand in the Hebei region.  
 “We expect that success of our Baolongcang venture will
help us in the future to convince other Chinese entrepreneurs to
join Carrefour and will boost our expansion through similar
local partnerships,” Bouchut said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 Aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        