-- Cavendish Wins 11th Stage of Tour; Teammate Thrown Off Race, AFP Reports
-- Peter Evans
-- 2010-07-15T19:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/cavendish-of-u-k-wins-tour-stage-teammate-ousted-for-head-butt-afp-says.html

          
          
             Mark Cavendish  of the U.K. won stage
11 of the Tour de France after his teammate Mark Renshaw
headbutted an opponent out of his way in the closing sprint.  
 Australian Renshaw was thrown out of the race, Agence
France-Presse reported.  Andy Schleck  retained the overall
leader’s yellow jersey, and is 41 seconds ahead of defending
champion Alberto Contador of Spain.  
 Cavendish, who rides for Team HTC-Columbia, surged to
victory after the 114-mile ride from Sisteron to Bourg-les-
Valence to claim his third stage in this year’s Tour, and the
13th of his career. He said he started his sprint from further
out than normal when he saw an opportunity.  
 “Three hundred and seventy five meters to go I saw the
gap,” Cavendish said in a televised interview. “It wasn’t
really a sprint, more of a long breakaway by my standards,
anyway, it was a really long way.”  
 As Cavendish broke from the pack, television pictures
showed his lead-out man Renshaw banging his helmet several times
against that of New Zealander  Julian Dean  of the Garmin-
Transitions team.  
 “Renshaw was declassified immediately but we have decided
to also throw him off the race,” race official Jean-Francois
Pescheux was cited as saying by AFP. “We’ve only seen the
pictures once, but his actions are plain for all to see. They
were blatant. This is a bike race, not a gladiator’s arena.”  
 A breakaway pack of three riders had led for much of the
race, only to be caught in the final mile as the sprinters took
control after a 93-mile downhill ride to the finish.  
 Italy’s  Alessandro Petacchi  wrested the sprinters’ green
jersey from  Thor Hushovd  of Norway as the riders head toward the
Pyrenees mountains for tomorrow’s stage.  
 Seven-time champion  Lance Armstrong  is more than 17 minutes
behind Luxembourg’s Schleck in the overall classification.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Evans  in London at 
 pevans15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        