-- CEE Stock Exchange Group May See Trading Volumes Double in Next Four Years
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-15T15:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/cee-stock-exchange-group-may-see-trading-volumes-double-in-next-four-years.html

          
          
             The CEE Stock Exchange Group, which
includes bourses in Vienna, Budapest, Prague and Ljubljana, said
development of an electronic trading system in eastern Europe
may double volumes within the next four years.  
 The group, which traded about 13.6 billion euros ($17.5
billion) on average each month in the first half of 2010, will
see volumes surge between 50 percent and 100 percent within
three years after the introduction of the Xetra system in all of
its markets, said  Michael Buhl , the Vienna bourse’s co-chief
executive officer. Vienna now runs on Xetra, with Ljubljana to
follow by October, Prague in mid-2011 and Budapest by the end of
2011, he said.  
 “We will have one system for all our members to trade
across the markets after this is complete,” Buhl  said in an
interview in London today. “Volumes will rise.”  
 Wiener Boerse AG in 2008 bought stakes in exchanges in
Ljubljana, Budapest and Prague to form an alliance. Buhl and
 Heinrich Schaller , who both head the Vienna exchange, now lead
the group.  
 Once all members are on the Xetra system, non-domestic
members will be able to access other markets more easily, Buhl
said.  
 The exchange also plans to have a central counterparty for
the entire market by mid-2011, Buhl said. Traders use a central
counterparty as a middleman to help reduce risk and provide
trading anonymity. The service will also allow investors to net
their trades, or settle the difference between their buy and
sell orders on a particular day, which is cheaper than settling
every trade individually.  
 ‘Interested in Partnering’  
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , owner of the second-largest U.S.
stock exchange, has said it expects stock trading on its three
Nordic markets to rise as much as 25 percent this year after the
introduction of a central counterparty and its new trading
system.  
 The CEE group is “interested in partnering with the Warsaw
exchange in any way possible,” Buhl said, adding that the group
has been rebuffed repeatedly and is holding no talks at present.
Buhl said he’s unlikely to make a hostile offer after the Warsaw
Stock Exchange’s initial public offering.  
 “If the two of us came together it would make a lot of
sense,” Buhl said. “I don’t see us as in competition but they
do. We would like to team up or work with the Warsaw exchange
though we would never approach them in a hostile way.”  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net 
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        