-- Champagne, Massage Lure Hedge Fund Women to Help Needy Students
-- Patrick Cole
-- 2010-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/champagne-massage-lure-hedge-fund-women-to-support-new-york-city-students.html

          
          
             Tami Kesselman knew Texas Hold’em
wouldn’t cut it with her target donors: women hedge-fund
executives, bankers, lawyers and other professionals.  
 So the executive director of  Reach: Rewarding Achievement ,
a New York educational nonprofit, went with champagne and spa
treatments. She called the fundraiser Bubbles and Bling.  
 “A lot of women don’t play poker, and women prefer to
spa,” said Ji-mei Ma, the event’s chairwoman and the head of
product marketing and client development at  Nebula Capital
Management , Stamford, Connecticut.  
 The Reach program, started three years ago, tutors
disadvantaged high-school students preparing for Advanced
Placement tests administered by the  College Board .  
 “Demographics shouldn’t affect destiny,” Kesselman said.
“The program instills confidence in the students and changes
their lives.”  
 The event tonight for about 150 is at  Spa Chakra  on
Manhattan’s Fifth Avenue, part of a chain of luxury pampering
sites in the U.S. and Europe, and the target is about $50,000.
For $195, attendees will sip champagne on the spa’s rooftop
relaxation deck and get a quick facial or sample a massage.  
 Kesselman said the organization also pitched the event to
single men and the husbands of women attendees, since a good
portion of Spa Chakra’s clients are male. So far, men make up
about 10 percent of the fundraiser’s ticket buyers.  
 “For single male investment bankers, there will be a good
male-female ratio for them, and it’s for a good cause,” she
said.  
 An Affinity  
 Beginning tomorrow, Spa Chakra will donate a third of the
value of a 2-hour spa treatment (at $225 hour) if the client
mentions Reach when booking a reservation. It costs $265 per
student to fund tutoring sessions, Kesselman said.  
 “We have always had an affinity for charities that focus
on high-risk students,” Michael Canizales, Spa Chakra’s chief
executive officer, said in a phone interview. “I’m a believer
that it only takes one person to give a darn, and
philosophically, this is a wonderful age and focus for us.”  
 One of the Reach’s initial funders was Pershing Square
Foundation, a nonprofit launched by hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman . The foundation has continued to support the nonprofit
with a $1 million gift last year, Kesselman said.  
 Reach was set up about three years ago as an innovative
pay-for-performance initiative by the New York-based Council of
Urban Professionals, which prepares minorities for jobs in
business, politics and government service.  
 Today, Reach tutors about 3,700 disadvantaged and poor
students in 31 New York schools on Saturdays, Ma said. Students
who receive an AP score of 5 (extremely well-qualified) get $500
from Reach; $400 goes to those who score a 4 (well-qualified);
and $300 to those who score a 3 (qualified).  
 Top Schools  
 Many of the students have been admitted to educational
institutions on  U.S. News & World Report’s annual list of top
undergraduate colleges , Kesselman said. Past Reach participants
are now at Harvard College, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Williams College and  Spelman College , a historically
black women’s institution in Atlanta.  
 Ma, a Smith College graduate, said she wants to bring the
Reach program to the Stamford, Connecticut, area where she
lives. Kesselman said schools and potential funders are
interested in taking the concept to Washington, San Francisco
and Newark, New Jersey, in the next two years.  
 “I’m a child of working-class immigrants and benefited
greatly from having a handful of mentors outside the school
system,” said Ma, a Reach board member. “They helped guide me
into a great school, which has and continues to open doors to
great opportunities. I can never truly repay my mentors, so it
is a privilege to pay it forward with my involvement in Reach.”  
 Bubbles and Bling is July 15 at Spa Chakra, 663 Fifth Ave.
at 7 p.m. Tickets are $195 and $500. Information:
 http://nycup.wufoo.com/forms/bubbles-bling-spa-chakra-fundraiser 
or +1-646-619-5188.  
 To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ji-mei Ma, REACH board member and head of product marketing and client development at Nebula Capital Management LP. Ma helped organize ``Bubbles and Bling,'' a charity event at Spa Chakra in Manhattan that seeks to raise as much as $50,000. Source: Nebula Capital Management via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     High school students at a practice Advanced Placement exam. The session was funded by REACH: Rewarding Achievement, a three-year-old nonprofit that tutors needy and disadvantaged students. Photographer: David Negron/REACH:Rewarding Achievement via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
