-- Osborne Said to Be Planning to Demand Banks Set Target for Corporate Loans
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-07-15T12:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/chancellor-osborne-said-to-plan-demand-banks-set-corporate-loan-targets.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will demand today that banks, including those
that didn’t receive a taxpayer rescue, set targets to increase
lending to businesses, people familiar with the matter said.  
 Osborne is set to meet chiefs of Britain’s biggest banks at
the Treasury in London later today. Banks will offer to fund a
study of the problems British companies are having in borrowing,
one of the people said.  
 The showdown between the government and banks comes days
after Treasury minister  Mark Hoban  called on lenders to show
restraint over bonuses as the government plans the deepest
spending cuts since World War II to reduce the record budget
deficit. Osborne and Business Secretary  Vince Cable  are urging
banks to funnel loans to companies to help the economy recover
from recession.  
 “Lending isn’t picking up, particularly with small
companies,” said  David Owen , chief economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London. “Whatever Osborne and Cable say
to them, it’s going to be difficult to get them to step up to
the plate because there is pressure on them to raise capital.”  
 RBS, Lloyds  
 The institutions in which the government holds a stake,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc ,
are obliged to comply with government goals for loans. They will
aim to resist pressure for those targets to be for net lending,
taking repayments into account, the person added.  
 Other lenders oppose any voluntary targets altogether and
argue that international demands that banks raise more capital
to protect against economic shocks aren’t compatible with
efforts to expand lending.  
 Osborne told lawmakers at a parliamentary hearing today
that uncertainty over international agreement on capital
requirements is leading banks to hoard money and constraining
lending. He dismissed accusations that a 2 billion-pound ($3
billion) levy on bank balance sheets he announced in last
month’s budget was hurting banks’ ability to lend.  
 “Capital requirements are much more important to a bank’s
lending than the levy,” Osborne said.  
 One of the banks will also argue that businesses and
consumers are reducing their borrowing and aren’t looking to
take out more loans, making any target irrelevant, according to
another person with knowledge of the situation.  
 Ministers are also exploring the introduction of taxes on
bank profits and pay.  
 Coalition Agreement  
 Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron  and his Liberal
Democrat Deputy  Nick Clegg  forged a coalition agreement in May
that pledged to create a “major loan guarantee scheme and the
use of net lending targets for the nationalized banks.”  
 RBS and Lloyds failed to meet lending targets after the
U.K. Treasury spent 117 billion pounds rescuing the banking
industry, the National Audit Office said in December.  
 The  public spending watchdog  said in a report the two banks
received 76 billion pounds from the government and that the
government can do little to force them to lend more to
companies.  
 Britain’s five largest banks,  HSBC  Holdings Plc, Barclays
Plc,  RBS , Lloyds, and Standard Chartered Plc, are expected to
make a combined profit of 28 billion pounds in 2011, according
to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        