-- Chevron Wins Appeal to See Unscreened Footage From `Crude' in Ecuador Case
-- Joel Rosenblatt
-- 2010-07-16T00:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/chevron-wins-appeal-to-see-unscreened-footage-from-crude-in-ecuador-case.html

          
          
             Chevron Corp. , the oil producer
fighting lawsuits over environmental damage from drilling in
Ecuador, won a request to see outtakes from “Crude: The Real
Price of Oil,” a film about oil exploration in the country.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York today ordered
filmmaker  Joseph Berlinger  to turn over footage not included in
the publicly released version of the movie. Appearing in the so-
called outtakes are lawyers for the plaintiffs in a lawsuit
against Chevron, private and court-appointed experts in the
suit, and current and former Ecuadorian officials.  
 “We have already seen instances of collusion and fraud on
the part of plaintiffs’ lawyers in portions of Crude that have
been publicly released,”  Justin Higgs , a spokesman for Chevron
said in an e-mailed statement. “We are confident that review of
the outtakes will reveal additional instances of misconduct.”  
 Chevron won a lower court ruling in May ordering Berlinger
to surrender outtakes from his documentary about the San Ramon,
California-based company’s operations in Ecuador. The company
argued that footage shot for the film may be relevant in a
lawsuit brought by Ecuadoreans, in Chevron’s arbitration against
Ecuador, and in criminal proceedings in the South American
country.  
 The lower-court judge postponed a Chevron subpoena
requiring Berlinger to surrender his outtakes to allow him to
appeal the ruling. Berlinger’s lawyer, Maura Wogan, had argued
that rulings against her client will compromise the rights of
other documentary makers protecting their unpublished material.  
 Wogan didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment
today.  
 The district court case is In re Application of Chevron
Corp., M-19-111, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The appeals court case is Chevron v.
Berlinger, 10-1918, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
Court (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        