-- Chile Raises Benchmark Rate to 1.5% as Growth Threatens Inflation Target
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-07-15T22:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/chile-raises-benchmark-rate-to-1-5-as-growth-threatens-inflation-target.html

          
          
             Chile’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate for the second straight month after the
fastest economic growth in almost five years pushes inflation
back up toward policy makers’ target.  
 The five-member policy board, led by bank President  Jose De Gregorio , raised the overnight rate by a half point to 1.5
percent from 1 percent, matching the forecasts of all but one of
the 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. One economist predicted
a quarter-point increase.  
 The bank’s policy committee acted after the economy grew
7.1 percent in May from a year earlier and industrial output
rose for the first time since a February earthquake diminished
productive capacity. In the statement explaining their decision,
policy makers said they would continue to raise interest rates.  
 “The board will continue to reduce the significant
monetary stimulus at a rate that will depend on the evolution of
internal and external macroeconomic conditions,” the central
bankers said in the statement.  
 The economy’s faster-than-forecast recovery has pressured
the central bank to raise rates to keep inflation within its
target of 2 percent to 4 percent, said  Rodrigo Aravena , an
economist with Banchile Inversiones. Prices rose 1.2 percent in
June from a year earlier after rising at an annual rate of 1.5
percent in May.  
 ‘Back to Normal’  
 “All the elements were there for a half-point increase:
the economy’s strong performance in May and the increase in
underlying inflation,” he said in a telephone interview from
Santiago. “A 50 basis-point increase is designed to bring
interest rates back to normal levels.”  
 The central bank in July 2009 reduced the benchmark rate to
0.5 percent to help pull South America’s fifth-biggest economy
out of its deepest slump in a decade. The bank kept the rate at
the record low until last month’s policy meeting as Chile
recovered from the 8.8-magnitude earthquake.  
 The peso weakened 0.2 percent today to 532.85 per dollar.
The central bank decision was announced after trading closed.  
 Policy makers said June 15 when they raised rates for the
first time since September 2008 that they would begin
withdrawing the monetary stimulus.  
 “We’re still far away from what we would consider neutral
rates,” De Gregorio said July 2 in a speech in Santiago.  
 Chile’s economy, the bank’s president said, has been
“surprisingly” dynamic following the Feb. 27 temblor, which
destroyed roads and factories and flooded ports in a swathe of
Chile south of Santiago.  
 Pre-Quake Growth  
 “Data on activity confirm that the Chilean economy has
regained its pre-Feb. 27 growth trajectory,” central bank
economists wrote in a note to policy makers published yesterday
on the bank’s website.  
 In the bank’s most recent quarterly monetary report
published June 16, policy makers estimated that the economy will
grow 4 percent to 5 percent this year.  
 The economic growth figures for May exceeded the 5.5
percent median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg and
prompted analysts to increase their forecasts for the year.  
 Economists in a July central bank survey raised their
estimates for economic growth in 2010 to 4.8 percent from 4.5
percent in the previous month’s survey.  
 Higher Forecasts  
 “There’s a migration toward higher growth estimates, which
probably will be reflected in the central bank’s next quarterly
monetary report,”  Jorge Selaive , chief economist at Banco de
Credito e Inversiones in Santiago, said in a phone interview.  
 Consumer demand has provided a boost to Chile’s recovery,
with retail sales jumping 19.1 percent in May from a year
earlier and supermarket sales growing 7.2 percent, the National
Statistics Institute said June 30. Growing consumer demand could
cause consumer prices to rise.  
 “The reactivation in domestic demand is leading the
economic recovery, so policy makers believe that if they don’t
act now there really could be inflation in two years,”  Leonardo Suarez,  chief economist at Larrain Vial, said in a telephone
interview from Santiago.  
 Policy makers in the central bank and Finance Ministry
believe Chile’s growth is “more or less” immune from global
economic uncertainties, Suarez said.  
 Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  told reporters last month
during a visit to Vienna that Europe’s credit crisis would have
a “limited” impact on domestic growth because of the South
American country’s trade diversification.  
 “I’m not saying the impact on Chile is insignificant, but
it is very limited,” Larrain said during a conference call.  
 Asia was Chile’s biggest export market in the first
quarter, accounting for 47 percent, followed by the Americas
with 29 percent and Europe with 19 percent, according to the
latest central bank data.  
 Global Imbalances  
 The central bank said in its quarterly monetary policy
report that the possibility of an economic slowdown in China,
Europe or the U.S. still could threaten Chile’s growth.  
 “The persistence of global imbalances continues to be a
source of latent risk,” policy makers said in the report.  
 The probability that the international economy will damp
Chile’s growth is low, economists  Juan Eduardo Coeymans  and
 Alejandro Fernandez  told reporters yesterday in Santiago.
Coeymans is an economics professor at the Pontificia Universidad
Catolica de Chile and Fernandez is director of studies at
consulting company Gemines Consultores.  
 “Asia and emerging economies likely will lead global
economic growth, although an expansion of the European crisis
and a stop to the U.S. recovery would make that work more
difficult,” they said in a statement on behalf of the monetary
policy group, which is a team of economists who give
recommendations on central bank decisions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        