-- Chilean Foreign-Bond Demand Exists Over `Next Few Months,' Larrain Says
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-15T20:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/chilean-foreign-bond-demand-exists-over-next-few-months-larrain-says.html

          
          
             Chilean Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said investor demand exists for any international bond
sale by the government “in the next few months” after the
nation’s borrowing costs fell.  
 “I am not concerned about the market if we go in the next
few months,” Larrain, 52, said today in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “At the moment we go, if
we go, the markets will be able to make their judgment and their
judgment will be very positive.”  
 While Larrain wouldn’t give details on the timing or makeup
of any debt offering, he said in April the government plans to
sell $1.5 billion worth of 10-year bonds abroad this year in
dollars and pesos. Chile plans to sell $1 billion of the
securities in dollars and $500 million in pesos, the country’s
first global peso bond sale, Larrain told reporters in New York
at the time.  
 The cost of protecting Chilean debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps plunged to 90 basis points,
or 0.9 percentage point, from an 11-month high of 112 on June 9,
according to CMA Datavision Inc. in New York. The extra yield
investors demand to hold the government’s dollar bonds over U.S.
Treasuries sank to 135 basis points from 167 over the same
period, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  EMBI Global index .  
 “We have announced our intention to issue bonds, but I
cannot comment any further on that,” he said today.  
 Moody’s  
 Moody’s Investors Service raised its rating on Chile’s debt
to Aa3, the highest in the region, on June 16, citing the
country’s fiscal savings and “financial resilience” in the
wake of a February earthquake.  
 The bond sales will form part of Chile’s financing for
repairs after the world’s fifth-largest earthquake in a century,
and a subsequent tsunami, pummeled the country on Feb. 27,
killing more than 500 people and causing as much as $30 billion
of damage. Chile hasn’t sold international bonds in six years.
Its two outstanding dollar bonds mature in 2012 and 2013.  
 Chilean credit-default swaps traded at about 75 basis
points the day before the quake. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The price of the country’s 5.5 percent bond due 2013 rose
to 108.30 cents on the dollar from 108.14, pushing the yield
down about 7 basis points to 2.06 percent, according to
JPMorgan.  
 ‘Little Issuance’  
 “There’s been little issuance out of Chile over the last
four, five years and Chile is generally perceived to be a very
strong credit,” said  David Bessey , who helps manage more than
$10 billion of emerging-market debt at Prudential Financial in
Newark, New Jersey. “I suspect where investors are looking for
higher-quality assets that they can sleep at night with, that
Chile probably fits into that category.”  
 One of the factors influencing the government’s decision on
financing sources is concern over the exchange rate, Larrain
said. Chile is interested in making the peso internationally
convertible and meeting investors’ increased demand for local-
currency assets without hurting the nation’s economy, he said.
Chile is the world’s largest copper producer.  
 “We are concerned about the macroeconomic effects of any
type of financing,” Larrain said. “We need a competitive
exchange rate, particularly for small businesses in our country,
and that message has been very clearly stated.”  
 Peso Falls  
 The peso, the worst-performing major Latin American
currency in the past six months with a decline of 8.2 percent
against the dollar, is up 0.6 percent in the past five days. It
fell 0.2 percent today to 532.85 per dollar.  
 Chile is the region’s highest-rated borrower after it
became a net creditor in 2007 for the first time by paying down
debt and hoarding savings in an offshore wealth fund. Larrain
said the government is considering bond sales even though
Moody’s said the country’s $11 billion in an offshore copper
savings would be more than enough to cover its $8.4 billion in
financing needs following the quake.  
 Chile’s economy is recovering faster than analysts forecast
from the temblor that smashed ports, roads and factories across
an area of the country responsible for 17 percent of gross
domestic product.  Economic activity  expanded 7.1 percent in May
from a year earlier, the fastest in almost five years, and the
median forecast of 34 economists in a July 5 survey was that
activity grew 5.6 percent in June.  
 The central bank will probably raise its benchmark rate by
half a percentage point for a second month today to 1.5 percent
as traders predict surging demand will push inflation above
policy makers’ target this year, according to all but one of 16
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        