-- Chile May Lift Benchmark Rate to 1.5% as Growth Threatens Inflation Target
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/chile-may-lift-benchmark-rate-to-1-5-as-growth-threatens-inflation-target.html

          
          
             Chile’s central bank will probably
raise its benchmark  rate  by half a percentage point for a second
month as economists and traders predict surging demand will push
inflation above policy makers’ target this year.  
 All but one of 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg expect
the policy board, led by bank President  Jose De Gregorio , to
raise the overnight rate to 1.5 percent. The bank last month
increased rates from a record low 0.5 percent, saying in a
statement that it would continue to increase lending costs at a
pace determined by economic conditions.  
 South America’s fifth-biggest economy has rebounded faster
than policy makers forecast from February’s 8.8-magnitude
earthquake. Reports released in the past month show the economy
grew at the fastest annual pace since 2005 in May while output
rose the most in two years. Demand-led growth that’s
outstripping production sets the stage for faster inflation,
said BBVA Chile SA’s  Alejandro Puente .  
 “When you combine expanding consumer demand with supply
that is growing at a slower rate, you can expect inflationary
pressure,” Puente, an economist with the bank, said in a
telephone interview from Santiago.  
 Puente is among the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who
expect a half-point increase today. A central bank survey of 35
economists taken July 9 also forecast that the policy makers
will raise borrowing costs to 1.5 percent.  
 The central bank board is scheduled to announce its
decision after 6 p.m. New York time.  
 Rate Swaps  
 Chilean interest-rate swaps yesterday rose to the highest
level since February 2009 a day after breakeven inflation
reached a three-month high.  
 The  two-year swap  rate climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.89 percent, the one-year rate climbed
five basis points to 3.19 percent and the six-month swap rate
added one basis point to 2.51 percent.  
 The inflation forwards market is pricing in inflation of
3.86 percent this year.  
 The peso yesterday rose for a third day, gaining 0.7
percent to 531.65 per dollar.  
 Domestic demand has increased since the earthquake as
Chileans increase spending to replace items lost in the disaster
and to celebrate their country’s first appearance in the World
Cup soccer tournament in 12 years.  
 A July 5 central bank report showed that  economic activity
expanded  7.1 percent in May from a year earlier, the fastest
since June 2005, while June 30 reports showed annual gains of
4.2 percent for  industrial production  and 19.1 percent in retail
sales.  
 Imports Climb  
 Chilean imports increased 44 percent in the three months
ended June 30 from a year earlier while imports of consumer
goods in the first three weeks of June reached the highest
levels since the first three weeks of October 2008, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on  monthly data  published July 7 on
the central bank’s website.  
 Consumption will probably slow as the effects of the quake
and World Cup spending ebb, said  Ricardo Matte , director of
research group Libertad y Desarrollo’s economics program.  
 “The economy clearly is recovering, but it’s difficult to
interpret what path we’re on,” Matte said in a telephone
interview from Santiago. “We’re probably recovering quickly,
but not explosively. Price indicators haven’t reflected
explosive growth.”  
 Chile’s consumer prices were unchanged in June from a month
earlier, the statistics agency said July 8, less than all 15
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Prices rose 1.2
percent from a year earlier.  
 Inflation  
 BBVA’s Puente said the data support his view that the bank
won’t consider raising rates by more than 50 basis points.  
 “With zero percent inflation last month, there’s no need
for the central bank to discuss increasing rates by 75 points,”
Puente said.  
 Flavio Magnasco , an economist with Banco Falabella, said he
saw signs of inflationary pressures in the June price report. A
4.1 percent monthly decrease in gasoline prices partially offset
other gains in June, while non-fungible consumer prices rose, he
said in an interview from Santiago.  
 “Goods produced in Chile increased in value during the
month, which could be a result of the earthquake or a product of
higher internal demand,” he said.  
 Consumer prices in July probably will increase as taxes on
loans temporarily rise in the first half of the month,  Jorge Selaive , chief economist at Banco de Credito e Inversiones in
Santiago, said in an interview.  
 Price Forecasts  
 Inflation in August could reach 1 percent because of an
increase in electricity and public transportation rates, he
said.  
 Traders and investors  in a monthly central bank survey
published yesterday said they expect consumer prices to rise 0.6
percent in July.  
 Annual inflation may accelerate to 3.5 percent in 12
months, the same survey showed, while a separate central bank
 survey of economists  forecast July inflation of 0.5 percent and
an annual rate of 3.5 percent for 2010.  
 Policy makers target annual inflation of 3 percent.  
 “There are a lot of one-time increases that definitely
impact inflation,” Selaive said.  
 Policy makers probably will consider underlying inflation
figures from June when deciding to increase interest rates,
 Matias Madrid , chief economist at Banco Penta, said in an
interview from Santiago.  
 Underlying inflation , which excludes fuel and food prices,
was 0.3 percent in June compared with the previous month.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        