-- Argentina, China Are Still in Talks on Soybean Oil Trade, Fernandez Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T08:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/china-argentina-are-still-in-talks-on-soybean-oil-trade-fernandez-says.html

          
          
             China, the world’s biggest user of
cooking oils, and Argentina remain in talks about China’s
embargo on imports of soybean oil from the South American nation,
according to President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner .  
 If China continued to restrict shipments, Argentina can
sell its soybean oil to other countries, such as India,
Fernandez told executives during a visit to Shanghai today.
Argentina had been the largest supplier of the commodity.  
 China halted shipments in April as part of a dispute over
antidumping measures. The Asian government in May told companies
including Cofco Ltd., the grain trader, that it will maintain
the embargo and buyers should seek Brazilian and U.S. supplies.  
 “The trade between us needs to be equal and beneficial to
both sides,” Fernandez said today, speaking through a Chinese
translator in response to a question. “We are now selling
soybeans and soybean oil to India”  
 Argentina’s Agricultural Minister  Julian Dominguez  told
reporters last month that the two nations were on “good
course” to resolve the dispute. The government was working to
adjust production to meet Chinese standards, Dominguez said then.  
 Fernandez is in China for a five day visit at the head of a
trade delegation from South America’s second-largest economy,
with today the final day of the trip. China agreed to work on
rail projects worth at least $12 billion in Argentina, according
to a statement yesterday from the Argentine embassy in Beijing.  
 China imported 784,157 metric tons of soybean oil in the
six months from Oct. 1, according to customs data. Argentina
supplied 80 percent, while Brazilian exports represented 19.2
percent, according to calculations by Bloomberg.  
 Soybean oil and rival palm oil are the world’s most
consumed edible oils, accounting for more than 60 percent of the
global market, and Argentina is the third-largest exporter of
soybeans after the U.S. and Brazil. Soybean oil futures have
lost about 5 percent this year and traded today at 38.77 cents a
pound on the Chicago Board of Trade.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        