-- Flight From China's Urumqi Forced to Land on Bomb Warning, Xinhua Reports
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T03:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/china-southern-plane-makes-emergency-landing-on-bomb-threat-xinhua-says.html

          
          
             A  China Southern Airlines Co.  flight
from Urumqi, capital of western Xinjiang province, made an
emergency landing late yesterday after receiving a warning that
a bomb may be on board, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  
 Flight 3912, headed for the southern city of Guangzhou, was
forced to land at 9:53 p.m. local time at Zhongchuan Airport in
Lanzhou, capital of western Gansu, Xinhua reported, citing the
provincial public security bureau. All 93 passengers and 18 crew
were evacuated and a six-hour search found no explosive device,
it cited an unidentified bureau spokesman as saying.  
 The Chinese government has pledged to crack down on ethnic
Muslim separatists in  Xinjiang  whom it accuses of planning
terrorist activities and of pushing for independence. Clashes
erupted in Urumqi a year ago between ethnic Uighurs and the
majority Han Chinese, leaving almost 200 people dead and more
than 1,000 injured.  
 Chinese police said last month they had broken up a
“terror” group of more than 10 people that included at least
two men from Xinjiang. The group carried out “many” terrorist
attacks starting in 2008, including one incident in the city of
Kashgar at the start of that year’s Olympic Games in Beijing,
Ministry of Public Security spokesman Wu Heping said on June 24,
without elaborating.  
 On Aug. 4, 2008, 16 border patrol policemen were killed
when two men drove a truck into them, Xinhua said at the time.  
 A 2008 China Southern flight from Urumqi to Beijing also
made an emergency landing in Lanzhou after several passengers
were found to be carrying a “suspicious liquid,” according to
the General Administration of Civil Aviation.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories about terrorism in China: TNI CHINA TERROR BN <GO>
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>  
          
          


  


        