-- Williams Sees China as Next `Fallen Angel' After Japan, Nasdaq
-- Lu Wang
-- 2010-07-16T09:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/china-stocks-may-be-next-fallen-angel-after-record-rally-williams-says.html

          
          
             Larry Williams , a trader who
correctly forecast the 1982-1987 bull market, said the bear run
in Chinese equities may last until at least 2012, based on a
benchmark index’s exponential growth followed by steep declines.  
 The quadrupling in the  Shanghai Composite Index  between
2006 and 2007 reminds Williams of the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
in the 1980s and the  Nasdaq Composite Index  in the late 1990s.
Both the Nikkei 225 and Nasdaq created fallen-angel patterns --
they rose exponentially, then failed to extend their record
highs, setting off accelerated declines from which they have
since been unable to recover, Williams said.  
 “We saw the exponential rise in Japan, we saw it in
Nasdaq, and now we’re seeing it in the Shanghai index,”
Williams, 67, said in a telephone interview from his home at St.
Croix, Virgin Islands. “When markets topped out and broke hard,
they just don’t come back for a long time.” Drawing parallels
to Japan and Nasdaq, Williams said China’s current bear market
may last until 2012 or beyond.  
 Williams, who won the 1987 World Cup Championship of
Futures Trading by turning $10,000 into more than $1.15 million
in 12 months, met with central-bank officials during his trip to
China this month. The government will continue to keep  inflation 
in check over the next two years and as a result, stocks will
stay under pressure, he said.  
 Shanghai Decline  
 The Shanghai index is down 26 percent this year for the
second-worst performance among the 93 major equity benchmarks
tracked by Bloomberg globally. Shares slumped after the
government stepped up measures to curb inflation and property
speculation. The measure closed unchanged at 2,424.27.  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. shares  climbed  2.2 percent
on its first day of trading in Hong Kong. The stock fell 0.4
percent in  Shanghai , erasing part of yesterday’s gains that
marked the smallest first-day advance among the nine lenders
that have sold shares in the city.  
 Since reaching a record high of 6,092.06 on Oct. 16, 2007,
the Shanghai Composite has tumbled as much as 72 percent. After
rebounding last year, the index hasn’t recouped a quarter of the
loss.  
 “That’s the real kicker to it -- monetary constraints act
as brakes on the stock market,” Williams said. “We’ll have
rallies and declines, but not that exponential zoom into new
highs. People are not going to say, ‘Happy days are here again.
Pop open Champagne bottles.’”  
 Likely Rebound  
 Frank Li , a strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a
July 13 note that a short-term stock rebound is likely as
valuations improve and a decline in agricultural prices may give
authorities more leeway to adjust monetary policy. Consumer
prices increased 2.9 percent last month, slowing from May’s 3.1
percent gain, the fastest pace in 19 months, according to
China’s National Bureau of Statistics.  
 Williams started trading securities in 1962 and created the
 Williams %R  market-timing tool. In his best-selling book, “How
to Prosper in the Coming Good Years,” published in 1982, he
forecast a booming stock market by the end of the decade,
bolstered by tax cuts, low inflation and growing high technology
industries. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose every year
through 1989, and almost tripled during the period.  
 Williams, who first visited China in 1980, said he still
sees trading opportunities in the country’s stock market, even
though he thinks it’s range-bound.  
 “The pattern is we’re in a sideline,” he said. “Buy the
big rally and sell the break. There will be no new high coming
for a long time.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An investor looks at stock quotes at a securities trading firm in Shanghai. Photographer: Kevin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Anthony Bolton, Fidelity International's president of investments, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the Chinese economy and the nation's property and stock market. 
     Bolton said yesterday China’s "golden era of exports" is over and a bull market will resume for the country’s stocks this year as domestic consumption drives economic expansion. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
