-- China Bill Yield Declines for First Time in Six Weeks After Growth Slows
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T08:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/china-s-central-bank-sells-3-year-bills-at-lower-2-65-yield-traders-say.html

          
          
             China’s central bank sold  three-year
bills  at a lower yield for the first time in six weeks,
signaling it favors policies to support the economy after a
report showed slowing growth.  
 The People’s Bank of China offered a  record  160 billion
yuan ($23.6 billion) of the securities at 2.65 percent, three
basis points lower than the previous auction two weeks ago. The
bank has kept the yield stable at 2.68 percent since June 3,
having allowed declines at four previous sales.  
 The economy’s  expansion  slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, compared with an 11.9
percent pace in the first three months, after the government
succeeded in tempering investment and property speculation.
Premier Wen Jiabao said on July 3 the government faces
increasing “dilemmas” in setting policy as the impact of the
global financial crisis is more serious than expected.  
 “A lower yield suggests the PBOC is seeking to maintain a
relatively easy monetary policy on concern the economy may face
a slower recovery in the second half,” said  Chen Jianbo , a
Beijing-based fixed-income analyst at BOC International (China)
Ltd., the investment banking arm of Bank of China Ltd., the
nation’s third-biggest lender by market value.  
 Cash Injection  
 The monetary authority  added  a net 49 billion yuan of cash
into the money market, injecting cash for an eighth consecutive
week. The additions have helped lower the seven-day repurchase
rate from a 19-month high on June 2.  
 The  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, has dropped 75 basis points this month to 1.87
percent, according to a daily fixing rate published by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It slid to 1.8 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since May 20.  
 “Investors enormous demand for the three-year PBOC bills
helped depress the yield,” said  Chen Liang , a Shenzhen-based
fixed-income analyst with Guohai Securities Co.  
 Inflation  cooled to 2.9 percent in June, the statistics
bureau reported in Beijing, less than the 3.3 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey and the 3.1 percent pace in May.
 Industrial output  rose a less-than-estimated 13.7 percent. The
government has cooled the economy by targeting a 22 percent
reduction in new loans this year, raising lenders’ reserve
requirements and selling bills to soak up cash.  
 Rates on Hold  
 The central bank also sold 45 billion yuan of three-month
bills at 1.5704 percent yield at today’s auctions, unchanged for
a third straight sale.  
 The PBOC, which has kept the benchmark one-year deposit
rate at 2.25 percent, may not raise yields on one-year and
three-month bills in the third quarter, said  Liu Junyu , a bond
analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s fifth-largest
lender.  
 “Inflation may continue this trend of a slowdown,” he
said. The central bank won’t raise benchmark interest rates this
year. The possibility of a hike next year is also low. The
interest rate on three-year bills may continue to decline but it
won’t drop below 2.6 percent.”  
 -- Belinda Cao , Judy Chen Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past the People's Bank of China in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Peter So, Hong Kong-based head of research at CCB International Securities Ltd., a unit of China’s second-largest bank, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about China's economy.
     China’s economic growth eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter after the government succeeded in tempering credit expansion, investment spending and property speculation. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
