-- China Economic Growth Slows After Credit Cuts
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T07:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/china-growth-eases-to-11-1-in-first-half-dimishing-risk-of-overheating.html

          
          
             China’s  economic expansion  eased to
10.3 percent in the second quarter and industrial production
cooled more than forecast in June, signaling a deeper second-
half slowdown that may add to risks for the global economy.  
 The gain in gross domestic product was less than an 11.9
percent increase in January-March from a year earlier.  Inflation 
cooled to 2.9 percent in June, the statistics bureau also
reported in Beijing today.  Industrial output  rose 13.7 percent,
less than all but one of 27 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The figures signal a diminishing risk of economic
overheating and give Premier  Wen Jiabao  more room to scale back
restrictions on bank lending or property purchases by year-end.
The Shanghai Composite Index of stocks slid the most in two
weeks, leading declines across Asia as weaker growth in China
added to European budget cuts and limited American job gains in
clouding prospects for the world recovery.  
 “There’s no more tightening happening in China” given the
slowing expansion, said  Stephen Green , head of China research
for Standard Chartered Bank in Shanghai. Policy makers may
loosen some real-estate curbs and approve more infrastructure
and investment projects in the fourth quarter as growth slows
toward 7 percent before picking up into 2011, he said.]  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its full-year growth estimate for
China to 10 percent from 10.8 percent and Royal Bank of Scotland
also made a reduction.  
 Less Than Estimates  
 Second-quarter growth was less than the median 10.5
percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists.
The moderation follows the government’s success in tempering
credit expansion, investment spending and property speculation.
In the U.S., industrial production probably fell in June for the
first time in a year, a separate survey indicated ahead of a
report due today.  
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , the biggest publicly traded
Chinese steelmaker, cut prices this week, highlighting the
weakness in industrial output that Credit Suisse AG. economist
 Tao Dong  described as the “biggest worry” from today’s numbers.  
 Analysts’ forecasts had indicated June inflation of 3.3
percent and industrial production growth of 15.1 percent. In May,
consumer prices rose 3.1 percent, the fastest pace in 19 months.  
 Stocks Slide  
 Stocks in China and across Asia have retreated the past two
months in part on concern that Chinese tightening measures --
including guidance to banks to curb lending and tougher mortgage
lending rules -- may be excessive.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 1 percent as of 4 p.m. in
Tokyo. Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards slid 0.1
percent. The Shanghai Composite Index closed 1.9 percent lower,
extending this year’s decline to 26 percent.  
 Some of today’s numbers, including inflation and investment
growth, matched “rumors” reported this week by the 21 Century
Business Herald newspaper.  
 The government may by year-end move to bolster spending by
loosening quotas limiting bank lending, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Credit Agricole CIB said July
12 that “modest” extra fiscal stimulus is possible.  
 China’s central bank sold three-year bills at a lower yield
for the first time in six weeks today, suggesting that officials
favor policies to support the economy as growth slows.  
 ‘Solid’ Growth  
 A leading economic index for China rose 0.8 percent to
145.8 in May, The Conference Board said today. The indicator
signals “solid but less robust growth in the second half,”
said  Bill Adams , a Beijing-based economist for the research
organization.  
 China remains the fastest-growing among the world’s biggest
economies. U.S. GDP rose 2.4 percent in the first quarter from a
year before. Companies from  Komatsu Ltd. , the world’s second-
largest maker of construction equipment, to Honda Motor Co.,
Japan’s second-largest carmaker, are counting on sales in China
to help drive earnings.  
 China’s  export  gains may have prevented a deeper slowdown,
a support that may wane as the nation’s currency strengthens,
European policy makers implement budget cuts and America’s
unemployment rate hovers above 9 percent. China last month
eliminated the yuan’s peg to the dollar, allowing gains for the
first time since July 2008.  
 Statistics bureau spokesman Sheng Laiyun said today that
property curbs have yet to affect the real economy and indicated
that Europe’s debt crisis may have a bigger effect on exports in
the second half.  
 Investment Slowdown  
 Urban fixed-asset investment  gained 25.5 percent in the
first six months of 2010 from a year earlier, the statistics
bureau said in today’s statement. The pace compares with a 33.6
percent increase in the first half of 2009, when a 4 trillion
yuan fiscal stimulus program was kicking in.  
 Retail sales rose 18.3 percent in June from a year earlier,
the bureau said.  Producer-price  inflation cooled to 6.4 percent.
Industrial output growth was the weakest since September
excluding January and February numbers distorted by a Lunar New
Year holiday.  
 Consumer-price inflation may peak at about 4 percent this
month and slow for the rest of the year, the official Shanghai
Securities News reported July 12, citing government economist
 Zhu Baoliang .  
 Nomura economist  Tomo Kinoshita  said the central bank may
raise interest rates this year, even as the expansion moderates,
to remedy so-called negative real rates. With inflation
outstripping the 2.25 percent return on one-year deposits,
savers are losing spending power.  
 Inflation Risks  
 In contrast, Barclays Capital abandoned today a forecast
for China to raise rates this year, citing diminished inflation
risks. Likewise,  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. said this week that easing price
pressures have reduced the need. It’s now yet clear how floods
in southern China may affect the grain harvest and food prices,
Shen added.  
 China’s growth will keep slowing partly because comparisons
will be with levels that rose steadily in 2009 as the economy
recovered from the effects of the global financial crisis,
analysts’ forecasts show. Fourth-quarter growth may be 8.5
percent, UBS AG says.  
 “It’s a moderation, stupid!” was the heading on a note
this month from Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
economist  Liu Li-Gang , who argued that “fears of a sharp
slowdown are vastly overstated.”  
 Infrastructure Projects  
 One reason, according to Liu, is that infrastructure
projects started under the stimulus program expiring this year
will take three to five years to complete. He said today that
“overheating risks have eased.”  
 China’s economy will overtake Japan’s as the world’s second
biggest this year and the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said in March that it may account for a third of
global growth. So far, the government has cooled the economy by
targeting a 22 percent reduction in new loans this year to 7.5
trillion yuan, raising lenders’ reserve requirements and selling
bills to soak up cash.  
 A clampdown on speculative real-estate purchases, via rules
for buyers, developers and lenders, triggered the first month-
on-month fall in  property prices  in more than a year in June. In
industry, policy makers have tightened controls on the
expansions of businesses that are heavy energy users and
polluters.  
 -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Jay Wang , Sophie Leung, Zhang
Dingmin and  Chinmei Sung . Editors: Paul Panckhurst,  Chris Anstey .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wen Jiabao, China's premier, speaks during a meeting in Tokyo. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Andy Xie, an independent economist, discusses China's economy.
     China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter and industrial production cooled more than forecast in June. Xie speaks from Shanghai with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Steven Sun, head of China equity strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc, discusses the outlook for the Chinese economy and interest rates.
     He speaks on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse" with Andrea Catherwood. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- David Riedel, president of Riedel Research Group Inc., discusses the outlook for China’s economy.
      China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter and industrial production cooled more than forecast in June. Riedel speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Aaron Boesky, chief executive officer of Marco Polo Pure Asset Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for Chinese stocks and the nation's property market.
     Speaking in Hong Kong, Boesky also discusses Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s initial public offering, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
