-- China's Growth `Less Robust,' Conference Board Says as Leading Index Rises
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T03:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/china-s-growth-less-robust-conference-board-says-as-leading-index-rises.html

          
          
             China’s growth is “solid but less
robust,” The Conference Board said, adding to evidence that
the expansion is cooling.  
 The Leading Economic Index for China rose 0.8 percent to
145.8 in May, The  Conference Board  said today in a preliminary
report posted to its website, publishing the data for the third
time. The measure included a “technical adjustment” and most
of its previous figures have been revised, the New York-based
research organization said. Today’s figures followed no change
in April and a 0.7 percent increase in March.  
 China’s growth eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter
from 11.9 percent in the previous three months, the government
said today, after it succeeded in tempering credit expansion,
investment spending and property speculation. Inflation cooled
and industrial production rose less than economists estimated.  
 “China’s growth is on track to continue to moderate in
the second half of the year,”  William Adams , a Beijing-based
economist for The Conference Board, said in a phone interview.
“We don’t see signs of a double-dip for China.”  
 Today’s adjustments to previous figures followed The
Conference Board’s correction to the April number on June 29,
when it revised the figure down due to an error in calculating
floor space under construction. The cut contributed to the
biggest sell-off in Chinese stocks in more than a month.  
 Review Process  
 Following the June statement, “we stepped up our review
process for LEI, we examined the use of the manufacturing
supplier delivery component,” Adams said. After today’s
adjustment, the delivery component is inverted, while the
change “has a small impact on the index back to 2005, when the
component first became available,” today’s release said.  
 The index has been criticized by some economists who say
it doesn’t adequately reflect the outlook for the economy.  
 The gauge “relies too much on low-quality monthly
numbers,”  Lu Ting , an economist at Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch in Hong Kong, wrote on June 30. He said he was concerned
that the composition of the index -- especially the inclusion
of the measure of the speed of deliveries from suppliers -- is
flawed, and seasonal adjustment may not be meaningful.  
 “The Conference Board leading index is no more than a
convenient composite of already-published data from official
sources,” Capital Economics economists  Julian Jessop  and  Mark Williams  wrote in a July 1 report. “Similar indices for other
major economies are watched much less closely,” they said,
adding that “the data are released with a substantial lag.”  
 Coincident Index  
 The Conference Board’s coincident economic index for China,
a measure of current economic activity, increased 0.9 percent
in May to 184.6 after gaining 1.4 percent in April.  
 The six components of the leading index are loans by
financial institutions, raw-material supplies, deliveries and
new export orders information from the manufacturing  purchasing
managers’ index , consumer expectations, and total floor space
started. The central bank publishes the first two components
and the statistics bureau releases the other four.  
 The Conference Board first published its leading economic
index for China in May after four years of development and says
it is designed to capture the outlook over the coming six
months. The board disclosed data tracking back to September.
The organization says that plotted back to 1986, the index has
successfully signaled turning points in China’s economic cycle.  
 -- Nerys Avery  in Beijing,  Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong. Editors:
 Russell Ward ,  Lily Nonomiya   
 To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
 Nerys Avery  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        