-- Christie Proposes Salary Caps for New Jersey Public-School Superintendents
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-15T20:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/christie-is-said-to-seek-pay-limits-for-new-jersey-school-superintendents.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
proposed salary caps on public school superintendents to help
rein in the highest property taxes in the U.S., a move he said
may slice pay for 70 percent of the top district administrators.  
 Christie, 47, announced the limit today as part of a
package to control rising  real estate tax  bills. The proposal
would cut salaries for 366 school superintendents when their
current contracts expire, the governor’s office said in a
statement.  
 More than 50 school administrators had base salaries of
$200,000 or more last year, the state Education Department
 reported  last month. The governor’s salary is $175,000.  
 Under Christie’s plan, salaries would range from $120,000
for a K-8 district with fewer than 250 students to $175,000 for
a superintendent in a district with as many as 10,000 students.
A superintendent in one of the state’s 16 districts with more
than 10,000 pupils may earn a higher base salary under the
proposal.  
 “The superintendent pay situation has gotten out of
control,” Christie said in  Spotswood , where he announced the
plan at an elementary school. “We need to make sure we’re
putting as much money as we can back into the classroom.”  
 Local Boards  
 State Education Commissioner  Bret Schundler  discussed the
plan with the New Jersey Board of Education, which sets rules
supervising the state’s 2,500 public schools, in a conference
call today, according to the governor’s office. Schundler will
propose regulations to implement the salary cap, the statement
said, without providing further details.  
 Administrative salaries are set by local boards of
education. However, Christie said the state has the authority to
place limits on pay packages they award to superintendents.  
 The limits may save as much as $100 million statewide,
Christie said. Districts would be able to award merit-based
bonuses of as much as 15 percent of administrators’ pay based on
factors such as student performance and increased graduation
rates, Schundler said.  
 Christie said he doesn’t anticipate a rush of retirements
due to the cap. Superintendents, despite average contracts of
three to five years, remain in districts an average of two
years, the governor said.  
 ‘Like Free Agents’  
 “People are bouncing around like free agents in baseball
for more money,” he told reporters, referring to the lure of
high salaries. “If that’s the real reason they’re here --
goodbye. They’ve got to be part of the shared sacrifice.”  
 Richard Bozza, executive director of the  New Jersey
Association of School Administrators , said the proposal would
make New Jersey less competitive than surrounding states in
attracting qualified superintendents. Local school boards should
retain control over the salaries, he said, comparing school
administrators’ responsibilities to those of police chiefs,
college presidents and hospital administrators.  
 “This is meant to be politically expedient,” he said in
an interview. “This is not about reform. This is about trying
to make them an example.”  
 Walter Uszenski, superintendent of the 2,000-student
 Spotswood  district, said he agreed this year to freeze his own
$142,000 salary. He declined to criticize the salaries paid to
his peers and said he doesn’t think the proposal would harm
districts’ recruitment efforts.  
 “A number of people in town have been losing jobs or
having their salaries frozen,” Uszenski, 58, said in an
interview. “As the leader of this district, I know I have to
set the tone.”  
 New Jersey schools get the bulk of their financing from
property taxes. The Republican governor signed a law setting a 2
percent limit on property-tax growth July 13, cutting in half a
4 percent cap enacted in 2007. The levies increased 72 percent
from 1999 to 2009, to an average of $7,281.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        