-- AIG, Citigroup Tell SEC They Classified Some Repos as Sales
-- Joshua Gallu
-- 2010-07-15T19:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/citigroup-says-it-misclassified-9-2-billion-of-repos.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. 
and  Citigroup Inc.  joined  Bank of America Corp.  in saying they
classified more than $25 billion of repurchase agreements and
securities lending transactions as sales since 2007.  
 AIG said in a letter to the Securities and Exchange
Commission released today that accounting rules forced it to
classify the agreements as sales. Citigroup told the SEC that it
misclassified the transactions and that the errors were
unintentional and “not material.” Bank of America said last
week that it unintentionally misclassified transactions.  
 The SEC wrote finance chiefs at about two dozen firms in
March asking whether they employed accounting strategies such as
those at  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The bankrupt securities
firm was accused of using repurchase agreements named Repo 105s
to move assets off its balance sheet to hide leverage, thereby
improving its capital ratios.  
 “AIG did not use repurchase agreements for the purpose of
moving assets off of its balance sheets,” company spokesman
 Mark Herr  said today. “Its use of repurchase agreements was
proper and fully disclosed.”  
 In late 2008, “certain of AIG’s counterparties demanded
significantly higher levels of collateral to enter into
repurchase agreements, which resulted in sales rather than
collateralized-financing” treatment under accounting
guidelines, the New York-based insurer said in an April 13
letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission released today.
The accounting didn’t materially affect any ratios or metrics
the company publicly disclosed, AIG said in the letter.  
 Accounting Rules  
 Accounting rules require the company to report such
arrangements as sales, not borrowing, if it doesn’t have
sufficient  cash  to repurchase “substantially all” of the
assets used as collateral, AIG said in its letter. As a result,
AIG “was required to account for such transactions as sales,”
the insurer said.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  Morgan Stanley  and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. said in their own letters that they didn’t classify
repurchase agreements as sales. Bank of America, the largest
U.S. bank, said it wrongly classified as much as $10.7 billion
of the combined transations as sales, according to
correspondence released July 9.  
 Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, said it
misclassified at most $9.2 billion of repurchase agreements and
$1.9 billion of securities lending transactions as sales in a
quarter during the past three years. AIG, the bailed-out
insurer, said it classified as much as $2.3 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2009 and $3.8 billion in the fourth quarter of
2008 as sales.  
 ‘Very Small Amounts’  
 Citigroup said in a May 7 quarterly filing that $5.7
billion of repurchase and securities lending agreements were
mistakenly accounted for as sales as of Dec. 31, 2009. The bank
said in the filing that the maximum error at any quarter-end was
$9.2 billion. The New York-based lender said in the letter that
the error resulted from “a change in the process surrounding
margining activities in the U.K.”  
 “A very limited number of our business units used this
type of transaction in very small amounts,” Citigroup spokesman
 Jon Diat  said in an e-mail today. “The impact of these
transactions was never large enough to have a material impact on
Citigroup’s financial statements or our published regulatory
capital ratios, including our leverage ratios.”  
 In a repurchase transaction, one party temporarily
transfers a security to another as collateral for short-term
cash with an agreement to buy back the asset at a later time.  
 Goldman Sachs said it “occasionally” enters into
“repurchase agreements to maturity” on U.S. Treasury bonds,
some European government bonds and debt issued by government-
sponsored entitities that are recognized as sales. The maximum
balance of such agreements was $2.4 billion over the three-year
fiscal period, Goldman Sachs said.  
 Morgan Stanley agreed to disclose its accounting policy for
repurchase agreements in future quarterly filings and quantify
any deviations from that policy. Goldman Sachs agreed to discuss
in its filings any circumstances where repos would be accounted
for as sales.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        