-- Citigroup's V. Srikanth Said to Become Reliance's Deputy Finance Chief
-- George Smith Alexander
-- 2010-07-15T13:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/citigroup-s-v-srikanth-said-to-become-reliance-s-deputy-finance-chief.html

          
          
             V. Srikanth , head of markets for
South Asia at Citigroup Inc., will move to  Reliance Industries
Ltd.  as deputy chief financial officer, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  
 Srikanth, 44, is leaving Citigroup after 20 years with the
New York-based company, the person said, declining to be named
before an official announcement.  
 Reliance, India’s largest company by market value,  bought 
shale gas assets in the U.S. for $1.7 billion in April and an
Internet services company for $1 billion last month. The company
plans to use its balance sheet to fund new ventures, expand
polyester and chemicals units, and create “unprecedented value”
for investors, billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  told
shareholders last month.  
 Srikanth, who oversaw fixed income, currencies, commodities
and equities trading at Citigroup, couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment on his mobile-phone.  Manoj Warrier  at
Mumbai-based Reliance Industries, and  Debasis Ghosh , a Mumbai-
based spokesman at Citigroup, declined to comment.  
 Shares of  Reliance  climbed 0.3 percent to 1,073.45 rupees
in Mumbai trading today, curbing its decline this year to 1.6
percent. The benchmark Sensitive Index has gained 2.6 percent.  
 Pankaj Vaish , managing director and head of equities at
Nomura Financial Advisory & Securities (India) Pvt., will
replace Srikanth at  Citigroup’s  Indian operations, according to
two people familiar with the matter. Vaish said he quit Nomura,
declining to immediately provide additional details.  
 Vaish was hired by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in April
2007 from Citigroup in New York, where he had been a managing
director responsible for proprietary trading of global equity
markets. Lehman’s Asian and European operations were acquired by
Nomura in 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        