-- Citigroup Sells $107 Million of Mortgages to India's Religare Enterprises
-- Ruth David
-- 2010-07-15T03:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/citigroup-s-indian-unit-sells-5-billion-rupees-of-mortgages-to-religare.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc. ’s Indian unit sold 5
billion rupees ($107 million) of mortgages to Religare
Enterprises Ltd., the Indian financial-services firm controlled
by billionaire brothers  Malvinder  and  Shivinder Mohan Singh .  
 The acquisition, made through Religare Finvest Ltd., is
expected to be completed in a month, Kavi Arora, chief executive
officer of the New Delhi-based buyer, said today. Citigroup’s
Indian banking unit has a total loan book of more than 400
billion rupees, with mortgages of 90 billion rupees, Abhijit Sen,
chief financial officer of Citigroup’s South Asia unit, said.  
 “Our treasury unit periodically looks at small tranches of
portfolio sale to deploy liquidity in fresh assets and optimize
return on capital,” Sen said in a telephone interview today.
“Mortgages is a core and priority business for us and we
continue to originate such assets.”  
 Religare Enterprises rose 3 percent to 423 rupees as of
9:17 a.m. local time in  Mumbai  trading, extending gains for this
year to 8.3 percent.  
 The  acquisition  is the first by Religare Finvest since it
started offering loans for small and medium enterprises,
commercial vehicles and construction equipment in the third
quarter of 2008.  
 The purchase will boost its non-capital markets lending
business’s total loan book to 33 billion rupees, and Religare
Finvest aims to expand that to 100 billion rupees in the medium-
term, Arora said, without providing additional details.  
 The sale of the mortgages by Citigroup to Religare was
earlier reported by the ET Now news channel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        