-- Clean Energy Beat Fossil Fuels for Share of New Power Generation in 2009
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-15T14:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/clean-energy-beat-fossil-fuels-for-share-of-new-power-generation-in-2009.html

          
          
             Wind, solar and other forms of
renewable power accounted for more new electricity generation
than fossil fuels in the U.S. and Europe for a second year in
2009, the United Nations Environment Program said.  
 Clean energy accounted for 60 percent of new capacity in
Europe, and more than half of new power generation in the U.S.,
UNEP said today in an e-mailed statement. Alternative power now
accounts for about a quarter of global generating capacity, or
1,230 gigawatts out of 4,800 gigawatts, the group said.  
 “It’s not a marginal niche market anymore, and it’s
universally relevant to developed and developing countries,”
UNEP Executive Director  Achim Steiner  said today on a conference
call. “The numbers are quite remarkable.”  
 Governments from China to the U.S. and Brazil to South
Africa are seeking to boost renewable power to lower their
dependence on fossil fuels and limit emissions of the greenhouse
gases blamed for global warming.  
 Globally, about 80 gigawatts of renewable power capacity
was added last year, almost half of it in China, UNEP said. That
compares with the 83 gigawatts of fossil fuel plants added.  
 Investment patterns in renewable energy are also changing,
with Asia overtaking the U.S. to move into second place last
year, and now threatening Europe’s lead, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance Chief Executive  Michael Liebreich  said on the call.  
 “What we’re seeing now in 2010 is that Asia is overtaking
Europe to take top place in clean energy investment,” Liebreich
said.  
 China in 2009 replaced the U.S. as the biggest investor in
renewable energy, pumping $34.5 billion into wind turbines,
solar panels and other low-carbon energy technologies, new
energy finance said in March. U.S. spending was just over half
that, at $18.6 billion. The U.K. ranked third.  
 More than 100 countries have now brought in policies to
promote renewable, UNEP said. The group’s statement was based on
twin reports by UNEP and by the Renewable Energy Policy Network
for the 21st Century, or REN21.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        