-- Clinton's Afghanistan, Pakistan Trip Shadowed by Domestic Doubts Over War
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-15T22:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/clinton-s-afghanistan-pakistan-trip-shadowed-by-domestic-doubts-over-war.html

          
          
             Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
travels to South Asia this weekend amid criticism at home that
the war in Afghanistan is foundering and doubts that Pakistan
shares U.S. goals in the conflict.  
 “Our progress is decidedly mixed,” Senator  John Kerry ,
who heads the  Senate Foreign Relations  Committee, said July 14.
It is “time to assess how our strategy fits the realities on
the ground,” said the Massachusetts Democrat, who also
expressed concerns that Pakistan isn’t doing all it could to
weaken Taliban insurgents on its border.  
 Clinton will attend the Kabul Conference, where Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai  will present plans for strengthening
governance and economic development to about 70 donor nations.
The U.S. has reconciled with Karzai after he said the West was
responsible for Afghan election fraud and threatened to join the
Taliban, comments the White House called “troubling.”  
 The Afghanistan stop is part of a nine-day trip that
includes Pakistan, South Korea and Vietnam. In Kabul, Clinton
will focus on civilian development work to build up Karzai’s
government, according to her envoy.  
 “Afghanistan cannot go forward unless the international
community led by its greatest nation, the United States,
continues to fulfill its commitments in the area beyond combat
troops,” Ambassador  Richard Holbrooke  told senators this week
who complained that U.S. war objectives are difficult to grasp.  
 More than 1,000 American military personnel have died in
Afghanistan since 2001 and almost 7,000 have been wounded,
according to Defense Department figures.  
 Withstand Terrorists  
 Amid congressional doubts about the development effort and
the shift in the war command to General  David Petraeus , Clinton
said June 25 that the U.S. is determined to “strengthen
Afghanistan and Pakistan to be able to withstand the pressures
from these extremist terrorist networks.”  
 Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin  said
this week that CIA air strikes in Pakistan should target a
Taliban safe haven and a network of militants responsible for
attacks across the border in Afghanistan. Levin said he is
pressing the State Department to add the Haqqani network to a
list of terror groups subject to sanctions.  
 Pakistan Factor  
 In its war strategy, the administration has made Pakistan
integral. “You cannot succeed in Afghanistan without Pakistan’s
involvement,” Holbrooke told senators.  
 One of Clinton’s tasks in Pakistan will be “to make sure
that we are on the same page on Afghanistan,” said  Teresita Schaffer , director of the South Asia program at the  Center for
Strategic and International Studies  in Washington and a former
U.S. diplomat in South Asia.  
 The prime U.S. objective is to eliminate al-Qaeda
connections and stabilize Afghanistan, Schaffer said. Pakistan’s
aim is minimizing the influence of its rival India, she said.  
 While Pakistanis will say they share the U.S. goal,
“that’s a way, way lower priority for them and they’re willing
to put up with a lot” from groups like the Taliban to keep
India out, Schaffer said.  
 In Clinton’s talks with Karzai, corruption will be a major
topic, Holbrooke said. Representative  Nita Lowey , a New York
Democrat, has put a hold on about $3.9 billion in Afghanistan
funding until improved accountability measures are put in place.  
 Spending Plan  
 The Obama administration asked Congress for $4.4 billion in
fiscal year 2010 for civilian programs in Afghanistan and
another $3.9 billion for the following year.  
 A  survey  released this month by  Integrity Watch
Afghanistan , a non-profit watchdog group in the country,
estimated that “bribery has doubled since 2007” there.  
 Holbrooke said the U.S. has assembled a team that includes
the Central Intelligence Agency and Treasury Department to work
on the issue. Karzai has also committed to upgrade his anti-
corruption efforts, Holbrooke said.  
 Karzai, Women  
 Clinton will remind Karzai that his plan to bring Taliban
members into the government requires them to accept the Afghan
constitution and its defense of women’s rights, Holbrooke said.  
 In 2009, Karzai signed into law a bill targeting Shiite
Muslims that required women to have sex with their husbands. It
also barred women from working, studying or leaving home without
spousal approval. The United Nations said the law legalized
marital rape.  
 ‘He’s willing to make accommodations with Islamic
fundamentalists,” said Arturo Munoz, a former CIA officer and
analyst at the  RAND Corp.  research group in Arlington, Virginia.
“Therefore we can expect if he’s negotiating with the Taliban
who are the most extreme, for whom these issues are important,
that in exchange for peace, he may give in.”  
 In Pakistan, Clinton and Foreign Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi  will follow up on a strategic dialogue in March and
discuss projects ranging from energy to security.  
 Continuing on to East Asia, Clinton and Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  will spend time in Seoul to discuss North Korea and
commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Korean War. In Hanoi,
Clinton will confer with Vietnamese leaders and attend an
Association of Southeast Asian Nations meeting.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        