-- CME Says Variable-Storage Rates Help Price `Convergence' in Wheat Markets
-- Alan Bjerga
-- 2010-07-15T21:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/cme-says-variable-storage-rates-help-price-convergence-in-wheat-markets.html

          
          
             The owner of the world’s largest
futures market, CME Group Inc., said today that its variable-
rate storage plan for wheat contracts has helped to encourage
so-called convergence between cash prices and futures.  
 David Lehman , a director in the executive division of CME
Group, told a subcommittee of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission that cash prices are more closely matching futures
prices as they approach expiration. The concept of variable
storage prices, and last month’s announcement that rates would
rise 3 cents to 8 cents a bushel beginning July 18, don’t appear
to be curbing investor interest in wheat, he said.  
 “You can see all of the cash-price series moving nicely
toward futures,” Lehman said in a teleconference meeting of the
subcommittee.  
 Groups including the National Farmers Union have complained
that commodity markets have been made more volatile by increased
speculation from funds created by banks including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. The CME plan allows it to change storage rates based
on prices among nearby contracts, encouraging farmers to store
wheat longer, which would lift cash prices.  
 Wheat traded on the Chicago Board of Trade rose 77 percent
in 2007 and reached a record in February 2008, before a collapse
in commodities sent the grain down 31 percent for 2008. Prices
fell another 11 percent last year and are up 10 percent this
year.  
 Futures for September delivery advanced 37.25 cents, or 6.7
percent, to $5.9625 a bushel on the CBOT today on speculation
that drought in Russia will damage crops in the world’s fourth-
largest exporter. The gain was the most in 19 months, and the
close was the highest since November.  
 Review in August  
 The conference call was organized by a subcommittee of the
CFTC’s Agricultural Advisory Committee, which has been
investigating problems with convergence since 2009. The full
Agriculture Advisory Committee is scheduled to review the issue
on Aug. 5. The CFTC regulates commodity markets.  
 Several members of the 18-member subcommittee, which
includes farmers, exchange representatives and trade groups,
said the effectiveness of the new storage rates in promoting
convergence will take at least several months to evaluate fully.  
 “It’s way too early to give VSR credit for the
strengthening dynamics,” said  Michael Ricks , an assistant vice
president for Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Cargill and a member
of the board of directors of the Minneapolis Grain Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        