-- GE Finance Unit to Sell BAC-Credomatic to Colombia's Aval for $1.9 Billion
-- Will Daley
-- 2010-07-15T20:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/colombia-s-grupo-aval-to-purchase-ge-s-bac-credomatic-for-1-9-billion.html

          
          
             General Electric Co. ’s finance unit
agreed to sell BAC-Credomatic GECF Inc. to  Grupo Aval Acciones y
Valores SA , Colombia’s biggest financial holding company, for
$1.9 billion as it sheds assets to focus on commercial lending.  
 GE, owner of 75 percent of BAC-Credomatic, will buy the
rest and sell the entire stake to Bogota-based Aval, the holding
company said in a statement. The bank has about $10.6 billion in
loan assets and deposits, with operations in Central America and
Mexico, GE said in a statement.  
 Jeffrey Immelt , GE chief executive officer, is divesting
the bank as the company aims to reduce the size of GE Capital.
GE has said it wants to shrink its net investment in finance
assets by the end of 2012 to $440 billion from about
$516 billion at the end of the first quarter.  
 “Getting what might be upwards of a billion-dollar gain has
got to be a good thing as long as we don’t have any hidden
liabilities,”  Steven Winoker , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an interview. He rates the
company’s shares “outperform”  
 GE rose 5 cents to $15.25 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Grupo Aval gained 18 pesos, or
1.9 percent, to 980 pesos in Bogota.  
 GE Capital Chief Executive Officer  Michael Neal  said June 4
that possible sales by the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company
include its 21 percent holding in Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS,
Turkey’s biggest listed bank, and “other things like that.”  
 Increased Stake  
 The GE Capital global banking unit bought a 49.99 percent
stake in BAC-Credomatic in 2005 and increased it in January 2009
to a mandated 75 percent. At the time, BAC-Credomatic had about
$7.5 billion in assets and $4.7 billion in deposits, according
to a Business Wire statement.  
 The finance unit accounted for about half of GE’s earnings
in 2007. The global financial crisis that led to the takeover of
Bear Stearns Group Inc. in 2008 and the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. cut GE Capital’s contribution to the
parent company’s profit to about 14 percent last year.  
 The sale of BAC, which has operations in Costa Rica, El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and Mexico, is
expected to close by the end of this year, GE said in the
statement. BAC has about $5.1 billion in loan assets and
$5.5 billion in deposits. The transaction requires regulatory
approval, Grupo Aval said in a  filing  today.  
 “This is part of Grupo Aval’s strategy to reach new
international markets,” said  Estefania Leon , senior analyst at
brokerage Correval SA in Bogota. “Though the success of the
purchase can only be judged in the long term, the market is
reacting positively to inorganic growth, as Aval became a much
bigger entity.”  
 Credit Suisse served as GE’s financial adviser. Its legal
adviser was Latham & Watkins.  
 Grupo Aval received legal advice from Davis, Polk &
Wardwell, Martinez Neira Abogados, and Arias & Munoz.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net  or:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 Ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        