-- Commodity Shipping Index Extends Longest Slump in 15 Years on Vessel Glut
-- Alistair Holloway
-- 2010-07-15T12:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/commodity-shipping-index-extends-longest-slump-in-15-years-on-vessel-glut.html

          
          
             Commodity shipping costs measured by
the  Baltic Dry Index  extended their longest losing streak to
almost 15 years as reduced demand for iron ore carriers worsened
a surplus of vessels with fleets expanding.  
 Fleet capacity of vessels able to carry commodities shipped
in bulk, such as iron ore and coal, will grow 16 percent this
year, according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker.
Imports of iron ore by China, the world’s biggest user of the
commodity, will decline this year for the first time since 1998,
Mysteel Research Institute forecasts.  
 “We’re faced with oversupply,”  Nigel Prentis , director of
research and consultancy at HSBC Shipping Services Ltd., said by
phone today. The fleet of capesize vessels, three times the size
of the Statue of Liberty, expands by about one every two days,
he said.  
 The index fell 9 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,700 points,
according to the Baltic Exchange in London. That’s the 35th
consecutive drop, the longest streak since November 1995. Daily
rates for capesizes fell 1.7 percent to $12,073, the lowest
since January 2009.  
 Chinese iron-ore demand is cooling as steelmakers use up
stockpiles, putting pressure on prices for the raw material,
Prentis said. Iron ore accounted for 29 percent of all seaborne
dry-bulk trade in the first quarter, according to Drewry
Shipping Consultants Ltd. in London.  
 Steel Production  
 Crude steel production in China fell to a four-month low in
June as economic growth slowed to 10.3 percent in the second
quarter, government data showed today.  
 The drop in the shipping index may be nearing an end. The
spread in the price of imported and Chinese iron ore has
narrowed to $15 a ton from $30 a ton in mid-April,  Martin Sommerseth Jaer  and  Erik Nikolai Stavseth , analysts with Arctic
Securities ASA in Oslo, said in a note e-mailed today.  
 “Should the gap continue to shrink, imported iron-ore
volumes should pick up, providing help to depressed freight
rates,” they said.  
 Daily rates for smaller panamaxes, which compete for
coal and iron-ore cargoes and also transport grains, gained 2.4
percent to $16,331 a day. Supramaxes, used on routes that
include carrying Indian iron ore to China, fell 2 percent to
$17,595 and  handysizes  that carry grains declined 1.1 percent to
$13,921, according to the exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alistair Holloway  in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        