-- Commodity Futures Trading Agency Wants Budget Boost, Prepares Swap Rules
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-07-15T15:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/commoidty-futures-trading-agency-wants-budget-boost-prepares-swap-rules.html

          
          
             The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is requesting a bigger budget as it organizes staff
to write new rules governing the $615 trillion over-the-counter
derivatives market, Chairman  Gary Gensler  said.  
 Congressional  legislation , which may be voted on today by
the Senate, would give the CFTC new authority over swaps markets
that have been explicitly  unregulated  since 2000. The commission
has identified 30 areas where rules will need to be written,
Gensler said, according to prepared remarks he is expected to
deliver today at a Security Industry and Financial Markets
Association  conference  in New York.  
 “Teams of staff within the agency have been assigned to
each rule-writing area and will see the process through, from
analyzing the statute’s requirements, to broad consultation, to
recommending proposed rulemakings to publishing final rules,”
Gensler said. The first group meeting to plan the rule-writing
process was held this week, he said.  
 The push to overhaul the banking industry follows the
collapse of the housing bubble that caused the financial crisis
after credit markets froze, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went
bankrupt, and more than 8 million U.S. jobs were lost. Private
swaps complicated efforts to solve the crisis when regulators
couldn’t easily determine how interconnected banks had become
through trading the contracts.  
 ‘Substantial Boost’  
 The $261 million CFTC  budget  proposed by President  Barack Obama  for 2011 is an increase from $168.8 million this year and
represents “a substantial boost in funding,” Gensler said.
Based on how the legislation has taken shape, however, the
commission is requesting $25 million more, he said.  
 This comes on top of an additional $45 million Gensler
asked for earlier this year to deal with the legislation’s
demands.  
 “We need significant new resources,” Gensler said. “The
next year of rule writing will test the very talented staff of
the CFTC.” The commission will rely on the bill language as
well as input from other regulators and the public in its
creation of new rules, Gensler said.  
 The bill also requires the commission to set aggregate
position limits, or caps on the number of contracts a single
trader can hold, across both regulated exchanges and similar
derivatives in the OTC market. That forces the commission back
to the drawing board on position limits, since a proposal in
January related to energy contracts was limited to contracts
that trade on regulated markets.  
 Definitions Needed  
 Among definitions and rules the CFTC will have to spell out
are what is meant by the terms “major swap participant” and
“swap execution facility,” what constitutes a “standardized”
swap trade, and whether corporations that use swaps will have to
back the trades with cash.  
 The last issue arose after proposed margin rules for
companies using swaps, such as Caterpillar Inc. and 3M Co., were
changed June 25 during the House and Senate conference.
Companies aren’t required now to post cash to back their
interest-rate, currency or other swap transactions with banks,
and an exemption to continue this practice was removed from the
bill, catching many in the industry by surprise.  
 Morgan Stanley said getting rid of the exemption could cost
companies $110 billion while the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association, a trade and lobbying group, put the
total at $400 billion.  
 “Even if we have a bill passed and signed into law we
ultimately have a long way to go to know what the market will
look like two years down the road,” said  Brian Yelvington , head
of fixed-income strategy at broker-dealer Knight Libertas LLC in
Greenwich, Connecticut. “Whoever wins the regulatory oversight
with respect to derivatives will ultimately have to decide how
this plays out.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        