-- German Stocks Drop, Snapping Seven-Day Rally for DAX; Deutsche Bank Falls
-- Adam Ewing
-- 2010-07-15T15:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/conergy-enbw-evotec-henkel-rwe-shares-may-move-german-equity-preview.html

          
          
             German stocks declined, snapping a
seven-day rally for the benchmark DAX Index, after economic
reports in the U.S. disappointed investors.  
 Deutsche Bank AG led declining shares, falling 2.5 percent.
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest luxury-car
maker, rose 1.7 percent.  Conergy AG  soared 4.3 percent after
Handelsblatt reported that U.S. financial investor York Capital
intends to acquire a “significant” stake in the solar company.  
 The  DAX  fell 1 percent to 6,149.36. The gauge has climbed
3.2 percent this year compared with declines of more than 3
percent on the U.K.’s FTSE 100 and France’s CAC 40 benchmark
indexes, as UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG advised buying into the
measure due to its holdings of shares more geared to global
economic growth. The broader HDAX Index slipped 1 percent today.  
 Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in July at
the slowest pace this year, as measures of orders and sales
cooled. A separate report showed manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region cooled in July as orders fell for the first
time in a year, signaling the expansion is slowing.  
 “We need to be patient over a difficult summer and be
prepared for a much better opportunity later in the year,” said
Max King, a London-based investment strategist at Investec Asset
Management, which oversees about $55 billion. “We prefer to be
cautious in the short term, which means reducing risk
exposure.”  
 Boost Stimulus  
 Fed officials saw no need to boost stimulus to the economy
while trimming their forecasts for growth and noting that risks
to the recovery had increased, minutes of their June meeting
showed yesterday.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number
of members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” the minutes said. “The changes to the outlook were
viewed as relatively modest and as not warranting policy
accommodation beyond that already in place.”  
 Stocks rallied earlier after JPMorgan & Chase Co., the
second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said profit rose 76 percent,
higher than analysts expected as provisions for soured mortgages
and credit-card loans declined.  
 Deutsche Bank AG  slipped 2.5 percent to 49.17 euros, its
first loss in three days.  
 BMW rose 1.7 percent to 42.26 euros and Deutsche Telekom AG
advanced 1 percent to 10.18 euros.  
 Conergy  surged 4.3 percent to 77.7 euro cents. York Capital
plans to purchase loans that banks had granted to Conergy,
Handelsblatt said. Converting the loans into shares at a later
date would make York Capital a major shareholder in the company,
the newspaper said. York Capital declined to comment, according
to Handelsblatt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        