-- Congressional Overhaul Sent to Obama Maps Future of Financial Regulation
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-07-15T19:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/congressional-overhaul-sent-to-obama-maps-future-of-financial-regulation.html

          
          
             The regulatory overhaul Congress
sent today to President  Barack Obama  will prompt federal
agencies to  rewrite rules  for how financial companies conduct
business with each other, with other industries and with
consumers.  
 The bill’s provisions include new oversight of the over-
the-counter derivatives market, a ban on proprietary trading by
banks and creation of a new consumer financial protection bureau
to oversee mortgage and credit-card lenders.  
 In coming months, regulators will use the broad outlines in
the legislation to conduct dozens of studies and create hundreds
of new rules. It may take a decade, or more, to fully impose
some measures  
 What follows is a summary of the scope, impacts and impetus
for some major sections of the bill:  
 ‘Volcker Rule’  
 The Obama administration’s proposal to ban banks from
proprietary trading, nicknamed the Volcker rule after former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was softened by
congressional negotiators.  
 Under a measure that may not take full effect for as long
as a dozen years, banks can invest in private-equity and hedge
funds, though they will be limited to providing no more than 3
percent of the fund’s capital. Banks also can’t invest more than
3 percent of their Tier 1 capital. The change alters language in
a bill the Senate approved in May, which would have barred banks
from sponsoring or investing in private-equity and hedge funds.  
 The legislation defines proprietary trading as engaging as
a principal for a trading account of a bank or non-bank
financial company supervised by the Fed “in any transaction to
purchase or sell, or otherwise acquire or dispose of, any
security, any derivative, any contract of sale of a commodity
for future delivery, any option on any such security, derivative
or contract, or any other security or financial instrument”
that regulators designate through rule-writing.  
 Negotiators also agreed to give regulators less say than
previously proposed to define a ban on proprietary trading.
Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a
Connecticut Democrat, backed a change offered by Democratic
Senators  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon and  Carl Levin  of Michigan that
“more clearly defines the limits on proprietary trading” by
writing the ban into the legislation. The earlier Senate bill
would have let regulators write it.  
 The ban on propriety trading, in which a company bets its
own money, may reduce profits.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the
most profitable firm in Wall Street history, has said
proprietary trading generates about 10 percent of its annual
revenue. The firm made $1.17 billion in 2009 from “principal
investments,” which include stakes in companies and real
estate, according to a company filing.  
 Dodd backed a Merkley-Levin plan to prevent firms that
underwrite an asset-backed security from transactions that would
result in a conflict of interest.  
 The conflict-of-interest provision seeks to address
fraudulent conduct alleged in a Securities and Exchange
Commission lawsuit against Goldman Sachs. The SEC claims the
bank created and sold collateralized debt obligations linked to
subprime mortgages without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson &
Co. helped pick the underlying securities and bet against the
vehicles. Goldman Sachs has denied wrongdoing.  
 Derivatives  
 After spending months crafting legislation, lawmakers
reached a deal on what they termed the most challenging part of
their task -- establishing for the first time a regulatory
structure for the $615 trillion over-the-counter derivatives
market.  
 The most contentious part of the derivatives rules is a
provision that will force banks to push some of their swaps-
trading into subsidiaries, on the theory it would reduce
taxpayers’ risk if the trades are walled off from depositary
institutions that enjoy federal benefits such as access to the
Federal Reserve’s discount lending window.  
 The original proposal by Senator  Blanche Lincoln , an
Arkansas Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Agriculture
Committee, would have banned all swaps-trading by commercial
banks. It touched off intense lobbying from opponents including
the banking industry, banking regulators, the Obama
administration and lawmakers of both parties who said the
proposal could drive up costs for businesses and send business
to foreign lenders.  
 In the end, parties agreed that banks will be able to
maintain their trading operations so long as they are used to
hedge risk or trade interest rate or foreign exchange swaps, a
victory for banks that were on the verge of losing the desks
entirely. The proposal will force a fundamental shift in the
industry, giving federally insured banks up to two years to send
instruments such as un-cleared credit default swaps off to a
separately capitalized subsidiary.  
 Derivatives took a central role in the debate over Wall
Street regulation after losing bets on swaps tied to mortgage-
backed securities pushed New York-based insurer  American
International Group Inc.  to the brink of bankruptcy in 2008.
Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  
 Beyond the swaps-desk provision, the Senate legislation
will push most over-the-counter derivatives through third-party
clearinghouses and onto regulated exchanges or similar
electronic systems, a measure that will make it easier for the
market and regulators to track the trades. It will mean higher
margin costs on some transactions.  
 Regulators also will be required to impose heightened
capital requirements on companies with large swaps positions,
and would be given the authority to limit the number of
contracts a single trader can hold.  
 Businesses that use derivatives to hedge risk from
producing or consuming commodities, deemed “end users,” will
be exempt from the clearing requirements if the activities were
being undertaken as a way to hedge legitimate business risk.  
 Selling over-the-counter derivatives is among the most
lucrative businesses for the largest financial companies. U.S.
commercial banks held derivatives with a notional value of
$212.8 trillion in the fourth quarter, according to the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., 
Citigroup Inc.,  Bank of America Corp ., Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley hold 97 percent of that total.  
 Consumer Bureau  
 A consumer financial-protection bureau will be created at
the Federal Reserve to police banks and financial-services
businesses for credit-card and mortgage-lending abuses. The plan
was approved over the objections of Republicans and the
financial industry.  
 Obama originally proposed a stand-alone consumer agency,
saying it would play a central role in reorganizing regulation
to prevent future financial crises.  
 While the bureau will be housed at the Fed, it will have
independent authority. Led by a director appointed by the
president and confirmed by the Senate, the bureau will write
consumer-protection rules for banks and other firms that offer
financial services or products. It will enforce those rules for
banks and credit unions with more than $10 billion in assets.
Bank regulators will continue examining consumer practices at
smaller financial institutions.  
 The bureau could require credit-card lenders, including
 JPMorgan  and  Citigroup , to reduce interest rates and fees.
Mortgage lenders, including  Bank of America , may be subject to
tougher rules including more upfront disclosures to borrowers
about loan terms.  
 Automobile dealers won an exemption from oversight by the
bureau after lobbying from the industry. Dealers said the rules
would place unnecessary restrictions on their financing
business. The Obama administration had opposed the exemption.  
 The idea for a new agency grew out of criticism from
lawmakers and consumer groups that bank regulators, including
the Fed, failed to properly exercise their consumer-protection
authority during the housing boom. The consumer bureau will
assume much of that oversight. The bureau’s rules could be
overridden by the new Financial Stability Oversight Council if
the panel decided that they threatened the safety, soundness or
stability of the U.S. financial system.  
 The financial-services industry lobbied against the new
bureau, saying it would raise costs, limit choice, and
improperly separate oversight of consumer issues and safety and
soundness.  
 Credit, Debit Cards  
 The Federal Reserve will get authority to limit
interchange, or “swipe” fees, that merchants pay for each
debit-card transaction. The measure, pushed by Senator  Richard Durbin , lets retailers refuse credit cards for purchases under
$10 and offer discounts based on the form of payment.  
 The measure also directs the Fed to issue rules that let
merchants route debit-card transactions on more than one
network. That “provides additional competition to a previously
non-competitive part of the market,” Durbin, an Illinois
Democrat, said June 21.  
 Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , the world’s biggest payments
networks, set interchange rates and pass that money to card-
issuers including  Bank of America  and JPMorgan. Interchange is
the largest component of the fees U.S. merchants pay to accept
Visa and MasterCard debit cards. The fees totaled $19.7 billion
and averaged 1.63 percent of each sale last year, according to
the  Nilson Report , an industry newsletter.  
 The industry fought off earlier efforts to regulate
interchange fees, including a Durbin-sponsored bill that remains
in committee, by saying the income is needed to offset the risk
of lending money. That argument doesn’t apply to interchange on
debit cards, which tap funds in consumer checking accounts.
Shifting the focus to debit cards may have helped win support
from some Republicans, with Senator  Susan Collins  of Maine
calling the scaled-down version a “reasonable approach.”  
 The amendment directs the Fed to ensure that debit-swipe
fees are “reasonable and proportional” to the cost of
processing transactions. The provision will take effect a year
after enactment.  
 Durbin altered his proposal to exempt lenders with assets
of less than $10 billion, or 99 percent of U.S. banks. That
failed to win the support of trade groups representing community
banks and credit unions, who said the measure will make their
cards more expensive than those issued by bigger lenders. --
 Peter Eichenbaum   
 Oversight Council  
 The bill will establish the Financial Stability Oversight
Council, a super-regulator that will monitor Wall Street’s
largest firms and other market participants to spot and respond
to emerging systemic risks. The Treasury Department will lead
the panel, which includes regulators from other agencies.  
 “The idea of the council is to look at the interconnection
of highly leveraged financial firms,” said  Jim Hamilton , a
senior law analyst at Riverwoods, Illinois-based  CCH Inc. , which
provides information to businesses about regulatory changes.
“No one was able to do that before the financial crisis.”  
 With a two-thirds vote, the council can impose higher
capital requirements on lenders or place broker-dealers and
hedge funds under the authority of the Fed. The council also
will have authority to force companies to divest holdings if
their structure poses a “grave threat” to U.S. financial
stability.  
 The nine-member council will include regulators from the
Fed, SEC, Federal Housing Finance Agency, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and other agencies. State securities,
insurance and banking regulators and credit unions lobbied for
and won non-voting seats.  
 The Federal Home Loan Banks system, a financing co-
operative for mortgage lenders, also won an exemption from
council oversight after saying limits on credit concentration
could cut its lending capacity in half.  
 Trade groups including the  American Bankers Association 
supported the measure. Consumer groups including the  Center for
Responsible Lending  objected to the council’s power to overrule
the consumer financial-protection bureau at the Fed. -- Lorraine Woellert   
 Bank Capital Rules  
 The bill may force some  banks  to shore up capital. An
amendment introduced by Senator Susan Collins, the Maine
Republican who joined Democrats in voting for the broader bill,
will bar bank holding companies from keeping less capital than
their bank subsidiaries. That will have an impact on the use of
trust preferred securities, known as TruPS. Lawmakers bowed to
pressure from banks, agreeing to a transition period for large
firms and grandfathering of the securities for smaller lenders.  
 Banks with assets of at least $15 billion will get five
years to replace TruPS with common stock or other securities
that count as capital. Community banks that have raised cash
through TruPS since 2000 will, in effect, get 20 years to make
the switch because most of the securities have 30-year
maturities. Smaller lenders sold roughly $45 billion of the $150
billion in TruPS issued by U.S. banks, which packaged them into
collateralized debt obligations.  
 TruPS now count toward equity when calculating capital
ratios -- a bank’s cushion against losses -- while being treated
like bonds for tax purposes.  
 Regional banks such as McLean, Virginia-based  Capital One
Financial Corp.  and Buffalo, New York-based  M&T Bank Corp. ,
which rely heavily on TruPS, will be hurt most, according to
 Richard Bove , an analyst for Rochdale Securities. Banks unable
to replace the TruPS will have to shrink their balance sheets to
stay within the minimum capital rules dictated by regulators.  
 “It will disadvantage not just U.S. banks, but U.S.
businesses and consumers as well,”  Barclays Plc  President
 Robert Diamond  said in Washington before the rule was completed.
Removing the TruPS held as capital could restrict lending by as
much as $1.5 trillion, Diamond said, echoing a point made by
bank lobbying groups.  
 The Collins language also will require the U.S. holding
companies of overseas banks, such as Barclays, to comply with
the same capital rules as domestic lenders. For now, they’re
exempt as long as their foreign parents are regulated by an
entity recognized by the U.S.  
 The FDIC backed the Collins amendment, saying TruPS don’t
provide the cushion they were meant to. Banks couldn’t use them
as capital during the crisis because deferring dividends would
have been seen as a sign of weakness, the FDIC has said. The
regulator challenged Diamond’s analysis as being too simplistic.
It assumes banks lend $10 to consumers and companies for every
dollar of capital they get, ignoring the complicated instruments
such as collateralized debt obligations that they invested in
during the boom years, FDIC Chairman  Sheila C. Bair  said.  
 “This analysis ignores the ample transition period given
the industry to replace TruPS with true equity capital,” Bair
said last month. “Because of the demands of the market, most
bank holding companies have already built capital cushions well
above regulatory minimums even without TruPS. The Collins
amendment will strengthen, not weaken, the capacity of the
banking system to lend.”  
 Moody’s Investors Service said in a report last month that
the rule will have “minimal, if any” impact on banks’ ratings
because TruPS are already being disqualified as capital by
analysts. -- Yalman Onaran   
 Federal Reserve  
 The Federal Reserve will have a broadened supervisory scope
and be subject to the most transparency in its 96-year history
after negotiators rejected threats to its political autonomy and
bank-oversight powers.  
 Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will have a seat on a newly
created Financial Stability Oversight Council. That board will
deputize the Fed to set tougher standards for disclosure,
capital and liquidity. The rules will apply to banks as well as
non-bank financial companies, such as insurers, that pose risks
to the economic system.  
 Earlier drafts of Senate legislation would have curtailed
the Fed’s bank supervision. Lawmakers approved an amendment by
senators  Kay Bailey Hutchison , a Texas Republican, and  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat, maintaining the powers. That
avoided a clash with House members over the issue. Under the
bill, the Fed will keep supervising larger banks including  Bank
of America  and Goldman Sachs and smaller firms such as  Central
Virginia Bankshares Inc.   
 U.S. central bankers face a one-time audit of emergency
loans and other actions taken to combat the financial crisis
since 2007. Under another change, the Fed, after a two-year
delay, will have to identify firms that borrow through its
discount window and participate in its purchases or sales of
assets such as mortgage-backed securities.  
 Senators and House members voted down a tougher audit
measure, which would have removed the Fed’s 1978 shield from
examinations of interest-rate decisions. That plan, previously
approved by the House, was opposed by Bernanke and other Fed
officials as a step that might politicize monetary policy.  
 Central bank governance will also change. Commercial banks
will be ineligible to participate in selecting all 12 regional
Fed chiefs, leaving the task to non-bankers chosen by lenders
and the Fed’s Board of Governors. One of the seven Fed governors
will be a second vice chairman in charge of supervision.
Conferees rejected a Senate plan to make the New York Fed
president a political appointee. -- Scott Lanman   
 Credit Raters  
 Ratings companies, including  Moody’s Corp.  and the Standard
& Poor’s unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., may avoid a plan to have
regulators help pick which firms grade asset-backed securities.
Congress also softened a proposed liability provision, making it
harder for investors to sue credit raters than under language
approved by the House in December.  
 The overhaul legislation requires the SEC to conduct a two-
year study on whether to create a board to decide who rates
asset-backed securities. That curbed a Senate proposal to
establish the board with SEC oversight. After the study, the
board would be established only if regulators can’t come up with
a better alternative.  
 Profits grew at Moody’s and S&P, both based in New York,
during the U.S. housing boom because Wall Street paid them to
assess the creditworthiness of mortgages packaged into bonds.
After the housing market collapsed in 2007, pension funds and
banks that lost money on the securities blamed credit-rating
companies for assigning the assets their highest AAA rankings.  
 Lawmakers also adopted language that redefines what
investors must show to prevent a judge from dismissing a lawsuit
against a credit rater. Litigation may proceed if investors
demonstrate a company “knowingly or recklessly” failed to
conduct a “reasonable” investigation before issuing a rating.
The ratings firm could also avoid being sued by hiring an
independent company to do the investigation.  
 Legislation approved by the House in December would have
required investors meet a lower threshold of evidence, showing
that a rating company was “grossly negligent” in issuing a
grade. Current law requires investors to demonstrate they were
intentionally misled. -- Jesse Westbrook   
 Private Equity  
 Large private-equity and hedge funds will be forced to
register with the SEC, subjecting them to mandatory federal
oversight for the first time. Venture-capital funds were
exempted from the registration rule.  
 Hedge funds, in particular, pushed for the  registration 
requirement, which is less burdensome than regulations being
imposed on banks. In lobbying Congress, representatives of hedge
funds said the private pools of capital shouldn’t be heavily
regulated because they didn’t cause the financial crisis and
didn’t need to be bailed out by taxpayers.  
 Registration subjects funds to periodic  inspections  by SEC
examiners. Any firm with $150 million or more in assets, such as
ESL Investments Inc. and Soros Fund Management, will be covered
by the law. Funds also must hire chief compliance officers and
establish policies to avoid conflicts of interest.  
 Private-equity and hedge funds will be required to report
information to the SEC about their trades and portfolios that is
“necessary for the purpose of assessing systemic risk posed by
a private fund.” The confidential data could be shared with the
new Financial Stability Oversight Council.  
 Complying with registration rules may cost hedge funds as
much as $500 million in the first year, said Judith Gross,
founder of  JG Advisory Services LLC , a New York-based consulting
firm to the hedge-fund industry. The estimate is based on 2,000
new registrants and reflects the cost of implementing necessary
compliance procedures.  
 Should the government determine a fund has grown too large
or is too risky, it would be placed under Fed supervision.  
 Restrictions on banks’ ability to own private-equity and
hedge funds and trade for their own accounts may benefit the
funds that are subject to less regulation. The bill could push
new investment and trading talent toward the industry. Limits on
leverage and stiffer capital requirements for banks may also
give private-equity and hedge funds an edge landing investors
chasing bigger returns. -- Robert Schmidt   
 Unwinding Failing Firms  
 The bill gives the FDIC, which already has authority to
liquidate failed commercial banks, power to unwind large failing
financial firms whose collapse would roil the economy.  
 Regulators will have clout they lacked during the financial
crisis when, instead of seizing flailing companies such as  AIG ,
the government kept them afloat with a $700 billion taxpayer-
funded bailout. Had such authority existed in September 2008, it
might have been applied to  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , whose
bankruptcy that month froze credit markets and helped spur
Congress to approve bailouts under the Troubled Asset Relief
Program.  
 The House approved a version of the bill in December that
proposed a $150 billion fund, to be paid for by the financial
industry, to cover the government’s cost of unwinding failing
firms. Dodd proposed a similar fund of $50 billion in a Senate
version of the bill, which was assailed by Republicans as a
perpetual bailout of Wall Street firms. The protests stalled
consideration of the legislation on the Senate floor.  
 Dodd agreed to drop the fund to allow debate on the bill to
begin. Under the revised measure, the costs of unwinding failing
firms will be borne by the financial industry through fees
imposed after a firm collapses. The bill explicitly bars the use
of taxpayer funds to rescue failing financial companies.  
 Risk Retention  
 The legislation will force lenders to hold at least a 5
percent stake in debt they package or sell. The provision is
designed to rein in the trade of easy credit blamed for fueling
the financial crisis.  
 The rule will affect credit-card debt, auto loans,
mortgages and other securitized debt. Issuers of asset-backed
debt and the originators who supply them with pools of loans,
including credit-card companies such as Riverwoods, Illinois-
based  Discover Financial Services , will be forced to retain some
of the credit risk. The goal is to align the issuers’ interests
with those of the investors who buy their financial products.  
 Lawmakers exempted lower-risk mortgages from the rules
after lobbying by brokers and community banks, who said forcing
lenders such as  Bank of America  to keep safer loans on their
books would tie up capital and lead to higher interest rates.  
 To be exempted, a mortgage must be “qualified,” a term
that will be defined by regulators. Loans with features that
increase risk, such as those with balloon payments or certain
adjustable rates, may not qualify.  
 Loans guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration,
Department of Agriculture and Department of Veterans Affairs
also will be exempt from retaining risk. The three agencies last
year guaranteed more than 30 percent of new mortgages as private
capital fled the market after the collapse of the housing
bubble.  
 Sellers of commercial mortgage-backed securities won
language giving regulators flexibility to tailor risk-retention
rules to specific products. For example, regulators could set
underwriting standards as a form of risk retention. --Lorraine
Woellert  
 Fiduciary Duty  
 Lawmakers scrapped a proposal that would have made
securities firms more accountable to individual investors.
Instead, the SEC is required to study whether changes are
necessary.  
 The debate focused on whether stock brokers who offer
clients investment advice should have a fiduciary duty that
requires disclosure of all conflicts and restricts marketing to
products that are in customers’ best interest. Currently,
brokers must only ensure that a stock or bond is  suitable  before
selling it to a client.  
 Consumer advocates have said the fiduciary obligation is
needed because investors are sold products they don’t understand
or can be confused by titles used by financial advisers. Banks
and insurance companies lobbied against the change, saying
people selling securities shouldn’t be regulated the same way as
professionals who invest money for clients.  
 The House-Senate panel agreed to let the SEC impose a
fiduciary duty on brokers once the regulator completes a six-
month study. House lawmakers had earlier proposed implementing
stiffer rules without an SEC review, prompting opposition led by
Senator  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat. --Jesse Westbrook  
 Insurance Industry  
 The bill creates a new Federal Insurance Office within the
Treasury Department to monitor insurers for systemic risk to the
economy. Industry groups say a new layer of oversight may
complicate compliance and increase costs.  
 The measure was prompted by the near-collapse of AIG in
2008. The insurer, then the world’s largest, got $182.3 billion
taxpayer bailout funds after failing to set aside enough money
to cover obligations on  credit-default swaps  linked to subprime
mortgages.  
 Insurers, which are mainly regulated by states, will now
deal with a national watchdog. State insurance commissioners
have expressed concern that federal oversight will interfere
with rules already in place. Insurers say they will have to
devote more resources to answer to multiple officials.  
 A national regulator may coordinate agreements with
counterparts in other countries. -- Sarah Frier   
 For Related News and Information:
Government relief programs: GGRP <GO>
Worldwide credit crunch: WWCC <GO>
On banks and regulations: TNI BNK RULES <GO>
For stories on CDOs: NI CDO <GO>
Top finance news: FTOP <GO>
Biggest government stories: GTOP <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the Senate's passage of the biggest overhaul of financial industry since the Great Depression.
     Senators voted 60-39 today in favor of the top-to-bottom rewrite of rules governing Wall Street firms, ending a year of partisan wrangling over protections for consumers and investors. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Senator Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system.
     Corker also discusses the U.S. competitiveness in global banking markets, today's testimony by Federal Reserve nominees and the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bartlett, president of the Financial Services Roundtable, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman and Peter Cook about legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system.
     The U.S. Senate passed the biggest overhaul of financial-industry regulation since the Great Depression, sending the bill inspired by the 2008 credit crisis to the White House for President Barack Obama’s signature.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
