-- Congo Business Lobby Criticizes Prime Minister Over Changes to Mining Laws
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-07-15T13:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/congo-business-lobby-criticizes-prime-minister-over-changes-to-mining-laws.html

          
          
             Congo ’s main business association
criticized the country’s prime minister over changes to mining
laws that it says are damaging the investment climate in the
Central African country.  
 Decrees in April that rescinded tax exemptions on imports
of petroleum products and outlawed exports of concentrated
minerals contravene the mining code and have heightened
perceptions that investing in Congo is “risky,” the Kinshasa-
based  Fédération des Entreprises du Congo , or FEC, said in a
June 29 letter to Prime Minister  Adolphe Muzito .  
 Muzito’s spokesman, Aime Dionzo, said he couldn’t verify
whether the prime minister received the letter.  Simon Tuma-Waku ,
the FEC’s national vice president in charge of mining, said the
organization hasn’t had a response from Muzito’s office.  
 Judicial security in Congo is becoming “more and more
precarious in the mining sector,” FEC President Albert Yuma said
in the letter. “It’s creating a negative effect for banking
institutions that finance mining projects in our country.”  
 Congo holds 4 percent of global copper reserves, is among
the world’s largest producers of cobalt and industrial diamonds,
and is Africa’s largest producer of tin ore, according to the
U.S. Geological Survey’s website. Companies that operate in the
country include  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , Africa’s largest gold
producer, and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. , the world’s
biggest publicly traded copper producer.  
 Moratorium  
 On April 22, Muzito decreed a moratorium on tax exemptions
for miners on imports of petroleum products. Congo’s mining code
sets the rates at between 2 percent and 5 percent, depending on
the stage of the mining process.  
 The freeze on the exemptions came two weeks after Congolese
Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  called for a halt to shipments
of concentrated minerals. Exports are continuing after the
Katanga province enacted a $60-per-ton tax to circumvent the
government ban. FEC says the Katanga tax is also illegal. At
2009 production levels, the tax would cost miners more than
$33.8 million.  
 First Quantum Minerals Ltd. ’s Frontier mine in southeastern
Congo accounted for 84 percent of the nation’s concentrated
copper exports last year, according to Katanga’s Mines Ministry.
Glencore International AG’s Mutanda Mining SPRL shipped 39
percent of concentrated cobalt and Eurasian Natural Resources
Corp.’s Boss Mining SPRL shipped 17.5 percent, the ministry
said.  
 The export ban and the new taxes aim to encourage companies
to increase revenue for the state and add value to their
products by refining them in Congo, according to the Mines
Ministry. In March, Muzito called for a doubling of government
revenue in 2010. The Mines Ministry expects revenue from the
industry to more than triple this year to $87.5 million as
copper prices recover from 2008 lows.  
 Copper Price  
 Copper for delivery in three months fell 0.6 percent to
$6,683.75 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange today. The
price declined to as low as $2,817.25 a ton on Dec. 24, 2008.  
 The FEC said that while it supported Muzito’s aims, “the
mining sector cannot alone support the economic rebirth of the
DRC.” The chamber also argues that a 10-year “stability clause”
blocks changes to the 2002 mining code unless approved by an act
of parliament.  
 Miners are also struggling to raise financing in the Congo
because of the continuing dispute between  government and First
Quantum , Eric Monga, head of FEC’s mining unit in Katanga, said
by phone from Lubumbashi on July 13.  
 First Quantum’s $750 million Kolwezi copper and cobalt
project was canceled by the government in August following the
state’s review of mining contracts. The case is awaiting
international arbitration in Paris.  
 Political risk insurance premiums have risen 40 percent
since August as a result of the First Quantum case, according to
the African Trade Insurance Agency.  
 The insecure investment climate has cooled investor
interest in Congo, London-based Barclays Capital said in a July
12 research note. “It remains to be seen whether the DRC will
reverse Western investors’ perceptions,” it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        