-- Conrad Black Not Entitled to Bail on `Honest Services,' U.S. Tells Court
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-15T16:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/conrad-black-not-entitled-to-bail-on-honest-services-u-s-tells-court.html

          
          
             Conrad Black , the imprisoned ex-
Hollinger International Inc. chief executive officer found
guilty of fraud and obstructing justice, isn’t entitled to bail
as an appeals court reviews his conviction, prosecutors argued.  
 Black, 65, last week asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Chicago to free him while it reviews his conviction in light of
last month’s Supreme Court ruling that narrowed the scope of a
federal law making it a crime to deprive someone of the right to
“honest services.”  
 The government said today in court papers that Black’s
trial jury had proof that the ex-CEO committed fraud involving
money, not just the deprivation of honest-services.  
 Prosecutors “presented the honest-services fraud theory to
the jury based on the same fraudulent conduct that supported the
money-fraud theory,” the Justice Department told the court. The
jury had sufficient evidence to convict either way, they said.
Black shouldn’t be freed because he’s unlikely to win the
appeal, they said.  
 The honest-services fraud law was used to prosecute
corporate officers and public officials who the government said
had cheated shareholders and taxpayers. Ex-Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich  is facing honest-services fraud charges in a
criminal trial in the U.S. courthouse where Black was convicted.  
 Black and former  Enron Corp.  CEO  Jeffrey Skilling  were
convicted after trials based in part on that charge. Since March
2008, Black has been serving a 6 1/2 year sentence at a federal
prison in Coleman, Florida.  
 Bribes, Kickbacks  
 The Supreme Court in Skilling’s case ruled that the statute
could be applied only in cases involving alleged bribes or
kickbacks.  
 The high court separately returned Black’s case to the
appeals court to decide whether his conviction was based on
honest services.  
 “The Supreme Court has now unanimously ruled that a
violation affecting Mr. Black’s Sixth Amendment jury trial right
occurred,” wrote defense attorney  Miguel A. Estrada  of the
Washington office of Los Angeles-based Gibson Dunn & Crutcher
LLP.  
 Estrada told the court Black’s conviction must be set aside
unless the court is certain the jury’s verdict couldn’t be
attributed to instructions they received from the trial judge on
the honest-services law.  
 Black and three associates were found guilty in the theft
of $6.1 million from Hollinger International -- once the world’s
third-largest publisher of English-language newspapers -- as
they engineered its sale of assets.  
 Hollinger is now  Sun-Times Media  Group Inc., headquartered
in Chicago.  
 The case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, U.S. Seventh Circuit
Court of Appeals (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        