-- Conservative Donor Ashcroft Buys 23% Dods Stake From New Statesman Owner
-- Hannah Roberts
-- 2010-07-15T15:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/conservative-donor-ashcroft-buys-23-dods-stake-from-new-statesman-owner.html

          
          
             Michael Ashcroft , the U.K.
Conservative Party’s single largest donor, acquired 23 percent
of publisher Dods Group Plc from Michael Danson, said Chief
Financial Officer  Rupert Levy .  
 Dods, which owns the U.K. parliamentary magazine The House,
said July 5 that it had received approaches from a “number of
third parties” which may lead to an offer for the company. Levy
declined to comment when asked by Bloomberg who had made the
approaches.  
 The purchase makes Ashcroft the single largest shareholder
in Dods with a 25 percent stake followed by Schroders Investment
Management with 24 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Danson, owner of the New Statesman magazine, said in
a regulatory filing yesterday that he sold his stake at 13.5
pence per share. Dods rose 2 pence, or 18 percent, to 13 pence
yesterday, the biggest rise since April 2009. The stock was
unchanged today.  
 Beth Saint, a spokeswoman for Schroders Investment,
said “we have had no contact” when asked by Bloomberg if
Ashcroft had communicated with the company.  
 Any party that acquires 30 percent or more of the voting
rights of a company must make a cash offer to all other
shareholders at the highest price paid in the 12 months before
the offer was announced, according to U.K. Takeover Panel rules.  
 In April last year, the Sunday Times reported in its annual
rich list that Ashcroft was worth 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7
billion), with assets in Belize and more than 80 million pounds
in the U.K. including a holding in Watford Leisure Plc, which
owns Watford Football Club.  
 For Related News and Information:
Today’s top U.K. news: TOP UK <GO>
Link to Company News: DODS LN <Equity> CN <GO>  
          
          


  


        