-- Art Dealer Salander Faces State Jail Term After Bankruptcy Sale
-- Philip Boroff
-- 2010-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/convicted-art-dealer-salander-faces-state-jail-term-after-bankruptcy-sale.html

          
          
             Lawrence Salander, who once sold Old
Masters from a lavish Manhattan gallery, faces years pacing the
few feet of a prison cell.  
 The New York dealer is scheduled to be sentenced for his
multimillion-dollar fraud on Aug. 3 -- seven years after his
Upper East Side gallery was named the world’s No. 1 by the  Robb
Report , a luxury chronicler.  
 New York State Judge  Michael Obus  said he may sentence the
61-year-old to as much as 18 years in a state prison. That is
not good news for the former Old Master dealer, who used to
divide his time between his Manhattan mansion two blocks from
the Metropolitan Museum of Art and a 66-acre enclave in
Millbrook, New York.  
 William Maher, a state court judge in Peekskill, New York,
said in a telephone interview that white-collar criminals in the
know prefer to do time in federal prisons.  
 “In state prisons, the population is generally people who
committed violent crimes,” Maher said. “And I hear the food is
better in federal prisons. That’s the rumor.”  
 If Salander is indeed sentenced to six to 18 years, he’d
have to serve six before being eligible for parole.  
 “The length of the sentence would dictate a medium- or
maximum-security prison,” said Ted Poretz of the law firm 
Ellenoff Grossman & Schole  LLP. “But the nature of the crime
dictates less. My guess is he will go to someplace
intermediate.”  
 Salander was arrested in March 2009 and pleaded guilty in
March 2010 to stealing $120 million from clients and investors
such as  John McEnroe  and  Robert De Niro . In his last years in
business, Salander operated out of an Italianate mansion on East
71st Street with a base rent of $154,000 a month.  
 Taking Advantage  
 Some of his victims are incredulous that he remains free,
four months after he admitted to selling artworks he didn’t own
while failing to remit proceeds, among other crimes.  
 “They feel he’s been taking advantage of the system since
his guilty plea,” said Lawrence Sunden, whose Harrington Park,
New Jersey, graphic design company filed a claim in bankruptcy
court that it’s owed $933,000 by the defunct Salander-O’Reilly
Galleries.  
 Before the guilty plea, Salander’s criminal lawyer, Charles
Ross, requested that the dealer have a chance to raise
restitution for victims. That Salander hasn’t raised anything
isn’t surprising to Micki Shulman, a Manhattan assistant
district attorney. She noted in court on June 23 that earlier
efforts to enlist a friend to buy back property Salander
forfeited in his personal bankruptcy case also came to naught.  
 Lottery Tickets  
 “He’s unable to give us anything more concrete about his
ability to produce restitution than he would about his ability
to win the lottery,” she said. “He can, literally, come in
here with lottery tickets and say he’s trying. That doesn’t
count.”  
 In May, Salander met with the gallery’s lawyers and art
adviser to discuss art that was recovered. The aim was to help
creditors maximize the art’s value. Ross said Salander was
prepared for further meetings.  
 Shulman described the first and only meeting as a “wild
goose chase.”  
 “He had no concrete information about where he bought it,
who his art experts were, how he authenticated these objects,”
she said.  
 Alan Jacobs, the liquidating trustee of the gallery,
confirmed Shulman’s account.  
 “He didn’t provide useful information or helpful responses
to our questions,” he said in an e-mail.  
 Latest Auction  
 On July 24, carpets, old English and American furniture,
first-edition books plus artworks that Salander himself created
that were taken from his Millbrook country home go on the block.  
 The auction, at  Stair Galleries  in Hudson, New York, will
be at least the sixth Salander sale since he and his Salander-
O’Reilly declared bankruptcy in November 2007.  
 No one will confuse the Stair sale with an evening auction
at Sotheby’s in Manhattan. Most of the approximately 240 items
have a high estimate of less than $1,000. Exceptions include: a
mahogany sofa, for as much as $2,000; a Chippendale mahogany
bureau for $5,000; and a Steinway baby grand piano for $4,000.  
 In May, Stair raised about $472,000 selling furniture and
carpets seized from the Upper East Side townhouse where Salander
lived.  
 Colin Stair, president of Stair, said the July 24 items are
“one or two tiers” below what was recovered from the Manhattan
townhouse -- but desirable nonetheless.  
 “People thought Larry had trouble paying for things, but
he had a very good eye.”  
 Some 2,400 artworks recovered from the gallery remain
unsold, as does the Millbrook property, with a price of $4.5
million. Thomas Genova, the trustee overseeing the personal
bankruptcy case, said he will seek to lower the asking price of
the property to about $3 million to entice buyers.  
 The case is People v. Salander, 03581/2009, New York
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Art dealer Lawrence Salander. Salander, 61, is scheduled to be sentenced on Aug. 3,
five and a half months after he pleaded guilty to stealing $120 million from clients and investors. Photographer: Paul Goguen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
