-- Copper Futures Advance After Dollar's Decline Boosts Appeal of Commodities
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-07-15T20:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/copper-advances-in-new-york-as-dollar-s-drop-boosts-appeal-of-commodities.html

          
          
             Copper prices rose in New York as
the dollar’s decline enhanced the appeal of commodities as
alternative assets.  
 The greenback fell to a 10-week low against a basket of
major currencies. The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw
materials rose for the third straight day. Copper gained 4.7
percent last week as the dollar dropped for the fifth straight
week.  
 “The dollar will probably keep coming down over the next
few months, and it’s going to really help all commodities,
especially the metals, move higher,” said  Michael K. Smith , the
president of T&K Futures & Options in Port St. Lucie, Florida.  
 Copper futures for September delivery rose 0.35 cent, or
0.1 percent, to $3.012 a pound on the Comex in New York. The
price has climbed 26 percent in the past 12 months.  
 The metal fluctuated between gains and losses today as
traders weighed the dollar’s slump against a report that showed
economic growth slowed in China, the world’s biggest metal
buyer. Gross domestic product expanded by 10.3 percent in the
second quarter, compared with 11.9 percent in the first quarter.  
 “We did see weaker data out of China, but the fact is that
10 percent growth is still pretty strong,” Smith said. “The
big picture is still positive.”  
 The metal also pared gains after a report showed
manufacturing in the U.S. contracted in June by the most in a
year and wholesale prices declined more than anticipated,
supporting the Federal Reserve’s reduced forecasts for economic
growth and inflation.  
 Data from the U.S. and China “confirmed fears that the
economic recovery is slowing,”  Alex Heath , the head of
industrial-metals trading at RBC Capital Markets in London, said
in a report.  
 On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell $45, or 0.7 percent, to $6,680 a metric ton ($3.03 a
pound).  
 Lead, tin and zinc also dropped on the LME. Aluminum rose,
and nickel was unchanged.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        