-- Corn, Soybeans Surge as Hot, Dry Weather in U.S. Midwest May Damage Crops
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-07-15T20:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/corn-soybeans-surge-as-hot-dry-weather-in-u-s-midwest-may-damage-crops.html

          
          
             Corn futures surged to six-month
high, and soybeans rose to the highest price since early May on
mounting concern that hot, dry weather in the next six weeks may
damage crops in the U.S., the world’s biggest producer and
exporter.  
 In the Midwest, high temperatures in the western part of
the region and mostly dry weather in the eastern area will
deplete soil moisture in the next two weeks, said  Donald Keeney ,
the senior agricultural meteorologist for MDA EarthSat Weather
in Rockville, Maryland. The pattern will continue in the central
Midwest through August, he said.  
 “The market is adding a weather-risk premium,” said  Jim Gerlach , the president of A/C Trading Inc. in Fowler, Indiana.
“The crops will need rains fairly quickly” to prevent
significant yield damage, Gerlach said.  
 Corn futures for December delivery rose 9 cents, or 2.3
percent, to $4.0525 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Earlier, the price reached $4.10, the highest level for a most-
active contract since Jan. 12. The grain has soared 18 percent
since June 29, the day before the government said U.S. farmers
planted less this year than they had planned.  
 Soybean futures for November delivery jumped 26 cents, or
2.7 percent, to $9.88 a bushel. Earlier, the price reached
$9.8975, the highest level since May 5. The oilseed has gained
9.5 percent this month after the government said U.S. reserves
as of June 1 fell to a six-year low.  
 Shrinking inventories may raise costs for companies
including hog processor  Smithfield Foods Inc.  and poultry
producer  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp.  and ethanol maker Archer Daniels
Midland Co.  
 Potash, Monsanto  
 Shares of fertilizer companies  Potash Corporation of
Saskatchewan Inc.  and  Agrium Inc.  and seed manufacturers
 Monsanto Co.  and  DuPont Co.  rose as higher corn and soybeans may
encourage farmers to plant more next year.  
 The  National Weather Service  said today that August will be
warmer than usual in most of the Midwest, increasing the risk to
crops, said  Marty Foreman , a senior economist at Doane Advisory
Services Co. in St. Louis.  
 “If the heat lingers into August, that will change the
supply situation very quickly,” Foreman said. “We are on a
fence between having a shortage and having an adequate supply.”  
 Prices also rose on increased export sales, including new
shipments to China. Foreman said.  
 In the week ended July 8, U.S. exporters sold 678,145
metric tons of corn for delivery before Sept. 1, up 35 percent
from a week earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said
today. That included 125,200 tons to China,  
 Sales of soybeans last week more than doubled to 666,467
tons, the most since January, the USDA said.  
 ‘Positive’ Sales  
 U.S. exporters sold 152,400 metric tons of corn and 238,000
tons of soybeans to unknown destinations for delivery in the
year starting Sept. 1, the USDA said today. The agency also
reported a shipment of 116,000 tons of soybeans to China.  
 “The Chinese export sales are positive,” Foreman said.
“The price risk is still to the upside.”  
 Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government figures
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        