-- Crude-Oil Futures Advance on Weaker Dollar, OPEC Outlook for China Demand
-- Rachel Graham
-- 2010-07-15T11:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/crude-oil-rises-in-n-y-on-weaker-dollar-opec-outlook-for-china-demand.html

          
          
             Crude oil gained as the dollar
weakened against the euro, while rising equity markets and a
demand forecast from OPEC reaffirmed confidence that the
recovery will buoy fuel consumption.  
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries predicted
that global oil demand will grow in 2011 at about the same rate
as this year, led by developing economies such as China and
India. Equities gained as JPMorgan Chase & Co., the second-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, said profit rose 76 percent, higher
than analysts expected.  
 “Economic growth will remain high in China and that’s
going to continue to support oil prices,” said Thina Saltvedt,
a commodities analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo. “I still think
the $75 to $80 range will hold as long as we see second quarter
results continue to be better than expected.”  
 Crude for August delivery rose as much as 62 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $77.66 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange and was at $77.14 at 12:39 p.m. London
time. Brent crude for August settlement, which expires today on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, was up 36 cents at
$77.13 a barrel after falling as low as $76.19. The more
actively traded September future was up 45 cents at $77.11.  
 Worldwide crude oil consumption next year will increase by
1.05 million barrels a day, or 1.2 percent, to average 86.41
million barrels a day, OPEC said today in its first assessment
for 2011. This year OPEC predicts demand will grow 950,000
barrels a day, or 1.1 percent, driven by countries outside the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  
 Dollar Weakens  
 Futures had fallen 0.7 percent following reports showing
that China’s economic growth eased and that U.S. gasoline
inventories were 4.3 percent above their five-year average last
week. The Federal Reserve said risks to the U.S. outlook “have
shifted to the downside” in the minutes of its June meeting
released yesterday.  
 The European currency has recovered from a four-year low of
$1.1877 reached on June 7. The dollar traded at $1.2823 against
the euro after slipping to $1.2835. A weaker dollar makes oil
cheaper for investors in other currencies.  
 “Oil has been tracking the euro, after it strengthened to
$1.28 this morning,” up from its early June lows, said Roland
Stenzel, a crude and carbon trader at E&T Energie
Handelsgesellschaft mbH in Vienna.  
 U.S. gasoline inventories are 4.3 percent above their five-
year average, even in the midst of the country’s driving season,
an Energy Department report showed yesterday. Economic growth in
China, the second-largest energy user, slowed to 10.3 percent in
the quarter ended June, from 11.9 percent in the first three
months of the year, the Beijing-based statistics bureau said.  
 Brent in Backwardation  
 Brent futures in London for the earliest delivery were more
expensive than later contracts for a second day, after settling
at a premium yesterday for the first time in almost a year,
following North Sea field maintenance.  
 Yesterday was the first time the contract closest to
expiration has settled above the subsequent month since Aug. 14.
Before that date, front-month Brent contracts had not
consistently traded at a premium since May 2008.  
 A market in which near-term contracts are more expensive
than those further out in time is described as being in
backwardation. The reverse condition is called contango.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Graham  in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        