-- Crude Oil Rises, Poised for Second Week of Gains, as U.S. Equities Climb
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-07-16T00:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/crude-oil-rises-poised-for-second-week-of-gains-as-u-s-equities-climb.html

          
          
             Crude oil rose in New York, poised
for a second weekly gain, as a recovery in U.S. equities added
to signs of a rebound in fuel demand.  
 Oil climbed after U.S. equities advanced yesterday as BP
Plc halted the flow of oil from its Gulf of Mexico well and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. rallied before settling the federal
government’s fraud lawsuit. Crude inventories fell more-than-
expected last week, an Energy Department report showed.  
 “The market at the moment is pulling and pushing on the
U.S. economic outlook,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “There’s
a lot of volatility. For crude oil, the tone has been for a
movement back through to $80.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery gained as much as 53 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to $77.15 a barrel in electronic trading on the
New York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $76.96 at 8:07 a.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract dropped 42 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $76.62.  
 Futures are poised for a 1.1 percent gain for the week
after climbing 5.5 percent in the week ended July 9. Crude oil
has declined 3 percent this year.  
 Oil fell yesterday after the Federal Reserve said that U.S.
factory output dropped 0.4 percent in June, the biggest decline
in a year. Other reports showed factories pulled back in the New
York and Philadelphia regions in July.  
 Crude Supplies  
 U.S. crude-oil  supplies  shrank 5.06 million barrels to 353.1
million last week, an Energy Department report showed July 14.
Stockpiles were forecast to slip 1.5 million barrels, according
to a Bloomberg News analyst survey.  
 Inventories have dropped 12 million barrels in three weeks
to the lowest level since March 19. It’s the longest string of
declines since December.  
 “When you’re seeing draws in inventories, the same thing
that you’re seeing in copper and aluminum, it’s suggesting that
the recovery is still gathering momentum,” Commodity Broking
Services’ Barratt said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        