-- Darling Says BOE, ECB Should Have Reduced Interest Rates Sooner in Crisis
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-07-15T16:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/darling-says-boe-ecb-should-have-reduced-interest-rates-sooner-in-crisis.html

          
          
             The Bank of England should have cut
interest rates faster in the months before the financial crisis
intensified in September 2008, former U.K. finance minister
 Alistair Darling  said.  
 “It’s probably fair to say that central banks -- well, the
two in Europe -- I don’t think really appreciated how much the
storm was gathering,” Darling said in an interview on CNBC in
response to a question from former Bank of England policy maker
 David Blanchflower . “I think if interest rates had come down
slightly earlier then that would have helped.”  
 While Darling was bound by convention during his time as
Chancellor of the Exchequer not to criticize the bank, the
remarks hint at disagreement with Governor  Mervyn King  on
monetary policy at the height of the crisis. Darling’s Labour
Party gave the central bank rate-setting independence in 1997.  
 Cutting rates “would’ve sent a very clear signal that the
authorities were actually getting to grips with what was very
clearly a very difficult situation,” said Darling, who was
finance minister from June 2007 and May this year. Still,
“because of the nature of the crisis, because it was a crisis
in the banking system, it wouldn’t have stopped it at all.”  
 ‘Close to Breakdown’  
 For his part, Blanchflower publicly sparred with King on
the need to cut rates from October 2007, the month after the run
on mortgage lender Northern Rock Plc. He called for faster and
bigger rate reductions than the rest of the Monetary Policy
Committee through 2008 until the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  convinced them of the need for aggressive cuts.  
 “I knew that situations were very bad,” Blanchflower said
later in a radio interview with Tom Keene on Bloomberg
‘Surveillance.’ “I knew that the banking system was really very
close to breakdown.”  
 The benchmark rate, which stood at 5.75 percent in
September 2007, hit a record low of 0.5 percent in March 2009.  
 The U.K. central bank nevertheless moved faster than the
 European Central Bank . The Frankfurt-based central bank raised
its benchmark rate in July 2008 to 4.25 percent before Lehman’s
collapse forced it to slash the key euro-area rate to 1 percent.  
 Blanchflower told Darling that the U.K. government may have
handled things better than the Bank of England had it had kept
the power to set monetary policy.  
 “During 2008, I was trying desperately to get interest
rates down and I always had the view that if you’d been setting
them as previous chancellors had, that you would’ve been cutting
rates earlier,” Blanchflower told Darling.  
 Blanchflower’s three-year term at the Bank of England ended
in March 2009. He writes a column for Bloomberg News.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        