-- Default Rate May Rise as Company Finances Weaken in Europe, Moody's Says
-- John Glover
-- 2010-07-15T13:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/default-rate-may-rise-as-company-finances-weaken-in-europe-moody-s-says.html

          
          
             The default-rate on high-yield
companies in Europe may start rising, reversing a near-term
trend of increased stability and improving industry outlooks,
according to  Moody’s Investors Service .  
 The European speculative-grade default rate declined to 5.8
percent at the end of June, Moody’s said. The New York-based
firm expects the rate to fall to 1.4 percent by the end of the
year, it said in a report today.  
 The default rate “will rise again as some more weakly
positioned credits struggle to refinance without material debt
restructuring and writedowns,” analyst Chetan Modi said in the
report today.  
 Default rates are declining as investors snap up securities
rated lower than Baa3, allowing indebted borrowers to refinance
maturing bonds and loans. At the end of June a year ago, the
default rate was 7.4 percent, according to Moody’s.  
 Corporate credit quality and the pipeline for new issuance
is threatened by government austerity plans, which may force
indebted companies to restructure borrowing as the economy
deteriorates, Moody’s said. Concern about sovereign
creditworthiness may make access to capital markets
“volatile,” according to the report.  
 Issuance of high-yield bonds this year may surpass 2009,
when European borrowers sold $43 billion of the notes, Moody’s
said. In the first half of 2010, high-yield bond sales were
about $25 billion, compared with $6 billion in the same period
last year.  
 “Refinancing requirements are mostly driving new
issuance,” Modi wrote in the report. That’s “particularly for
first-time leveraged buyout issuers, which face a material
refinancing wall in 2013-2015,” Modi said.  
 High-yield debt is graded below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        