-- Dollar Set for Weekly Loss on U.S. Slowdown; Kiwi Drops on Inflation Data
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-07-16T00:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/dollar-heads-for-weekly-decline-as-weak-manufacturing-spurs-growth-concern.html

          
          
             The dollar headed for a weekly loss
against the yen on concern the U.S. economy is losing momentum,
spurring speculation the Federal Reserve will keep interest
rates near zero.  
 The greenback was also poised for a third weekly drop
against the euro before reports today that economists said will
show U.S. household sentiment deteriorated this month and
consumer prices fell in June. New Zealand’s dollar declined for
the first time in two weeks after a government report showed
inflation was slower than economists forecast, easing pressure
on the central bank to raise borrowing costs.  
 “The poor economic data has helped weaken expectations for
any increases in U.S. interest rates,” said  Yuichiro Harada ,
senior vice president of the foreign-exchange division in Tokyo
at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., a unit of Japan’s second-largest
lender. “The market is gradually leaning toward a ‘sell the
dollar’ mode.”  
 The dollar was at 87.42 yen as of 9:43 a.m. in Tokyo from
87.40 in New York yesterday, heading for a 1.4 percent loss this
week. The U.S. currency traded at $1.2916 per euro from $1.2950,
having dropped 2.2 percent since July 9. The euro was at 112.91
yen from 113.17 yen.  
 U.S. consumer sentiment fell to 74 this month from 76 in
June, according to a Bloomberg survey before the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary  index  is released
today. The consumer prices dropped 0.1 percent in June, a third
monthly decline, according to a separate Bloomberg survey ahead
of today’s Labor Department report.  
 Rate Outlook  
 Traders reduced bets to 14 percent the Fed will increase
its  benchmark rate  by its December meeting, compared with 27
percent odds a month earlier, according to futures on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  
 The yen traded near a one-week high against the dollar as
signs the world’s largest economy is slowing boosted demand for
Japan’s currency.  
 “The market is becoming increasingly worried about
downside risks to the U.S. economy,” said  Toshiya Yamauchi , a
senior foreign-exchange analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd.
“As risk sentiment weakens, the yen is likely to be sought.”  
 The  MSCI Asia  Pacific Index of shares fell 0.1 percent and
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.7 percent.  
 New Zealand’s dollar weakened for a second day against the
yen after the government said  consumer prices  rose 0.3 percent
in the three months through June from the previous quarter, less
than the 0.4 percent gain forecast by economists.  
 ‘More Time’  
 The report “buys the Reserve Bank a bit more time and
that’s why we’re seeing this reaction in the kiwi,” said  Khoon Goh , a senior markets economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington. “The market should start to focus on the fact that
some of the domestic momentum in the New Zealand economy seems
to be easing.”  
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard on June
10 raised the official cash rate for the first time in three
years to 2.75 percent. He will increase it again at the next
meeting on July 29, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Policy makers will boost rates by 1.23 percentage
points over the next 12 months, down from 1.30 percentage points
at the start of the week, according to a Credit Suisse AG  index .  
 New Zealand’s dollar dropped 0.8 percent to 72.36 U.S.
cents, and lost 0.7 percent to 63.30 yen.  
 Gain in the euro were limited on speculation its 1.6
percent surge yesterday was excessive.  
 The single currency’s 14-day stochastic oscillator against
the dollar stood at 96, above the 80 threshold that indicates it
may have risen too fast and is poised to weaken.  
 “There’s sentiment that the euro’s jump was overdone,”
said  Yoh Nihei , Tokyo-based trading group manager at Tokai Tokyo
Securities Co. “Some players seem to be unwinding long
positions.” A long position is a bet an asset will gain.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        