-- Dutch City Can Prohibit Marijuana Sales to Foreigners, EU Court Aide Says
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-15T16:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/dutch-city-s-marijuana-curbs-justified-to-keep-peace-eu-court-aide-says.html

          
          
             A Dutch city’s ban on sales of
marijuana and hashish to foreign customers in so-called coffee
shops is a lawful and necessary measure to cut crime from drug-
tourism, an adviser to the European Union’s highest court said.  
 The city of Maastricht’s ban on shops selling cannabis-
derived products to non-residents is necessary to maintain
public order,  Yves Bot , an advocate general at the  European
Court of Justice,  said in a non-binding opinion today.  
 “As drug tourism represents a genuine and sufficiently
serious threat to public order in Maastricht, the exclusion of
non-residents from coffee shops” is a “necessary” means to
protect residents, said Bot. The Luxembourg-based EU court
follows this advice in a majority of cases.  
 While the Netherlands decriminalized the use of marijuana
in 1976, it stopped short of fully legalizing the drug because
international treaties prohibited it from doing so. The
country’s first coffee shop, named after Donovan’s song “Mellow
Yellow,” opened its doors four years earlier.  
 It’s up to each of the EU’s 27 nations “to determine the
measures necessary for maintaining” public order,’’ said Bot.  
 The city of Maastricht will first study the opinion before
giving a reaction, spokeswoman Marianne Ravestein said by
telephone.  
 A ruling in line with today’s opinion would be a setback
for Marc Josemans, owner of the “Easy Going” coffee shop, who
has been entangled in a dispute with the mayor of Maastricht, a
city in the south of the Netherlands, since 2006, when Josemans
was forced to close his shop after breaching the disputed rules.  
 ‘Big Problem"  
 “At first sight, this verdict isn’t so good for us,” said
Josemans in a telephone interview. “This is a very big problem
for me as an entrepreneur, but nothing is final yet because the
EU court still has to decide and then the Dutch court will have
the final say.”  
 “Narcotics, including cannabis, are not goods like others
and their sale” doesn’t benefit from EU laws protecting the
free movement of products in the region, said Bot. While the
sale of marijuana is tolerated in coffee shops in the
Netherlands, “it remains an activity prohibited by all” EU
nations, the EU court adviser said.  
 About 10,000 people on average visit the city of Maastricht
a day, of whom some 70 percent come from Belgium, Germany and
France, Sander Lely, a lawyer for the mayor told the EU court.  
 The case is C-137/09, M.M. Josemans and the Burgemeester of
Maastricht v Rechtbank Maastricht.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        