-- E.ON Says European Utilities Need Financial Partners for Wind, Solar Push
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2010-07-15T07:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/e-on-says-european-utilities-need-financial-partners-for-wind-solar-push.html

          
          
             E.ON AG, Germany’s largest power
company, and European competitors need financial support from
investors and partners to reach their renewable energy targets,
said  Frank Mastiaux , who heads the company’s renewable division.  
 E.ON may expand cooperation with Masdar, the $22 billion
clean technology venture set up by Abu Dhabi, Mastiaux said
yesterday in an interview in Duesseldorf, Germany. E.ON aims to
increase the power it generates from renewable sources to 36
percent in 2030 from 13 percent in 2008.  
 The German utility is investing 8 billion euros ($10
billion) in the five years through 2012 on wind parks and to a
lesser degree on solar energy and biogas projects. Expanding at
a faster pace is “technically feasible” and E.ON is assessing
the price of carbon and other factors to determine how much it
spends on renewable energy in the coming years, Mastiaux said.  
 “We’ll see more and more ventures because all the big
companies’ balance sheets will not be enough to build the
expected rate of construction for offshore” wind-energy
installations, he said.  
 E.ON, Masdar and Dong Energy A/S are currently building an
offshore wind project called the London Array that will have
1,000 megawatts of power capacity when completed in 2013.
Duesseldorf-based E.ON yesterday completed an offshore wind farm
in Denmark more than a month ahead of schedule.  
 Of the 8 billion euros allotted for renewable projects,
E.ON has about 20 percent to 25 percent left to spend. Most of
that will be invested on wind projects, Mastiaux said.  
 Texas, Eastern Germany  
 E.ON already operates about 3,000 megawatts of wind farms
in regions including Texas and eastern Germany. The remainder of
the company’s generating capacity is fossil fuel-based as well
as hydropower and nuclear plants.  
 Europe has about 100,000 megawatts of offshore wind
projects planned for the coming decades, according to the
European Wind Energy Association. Currently 85 percent of
offshore wind capacity is installed in the U.K., the Netherlands
and Denmark.  
 E.ON is also considering installing solar panels at its
wind farms in Texas and on roofs at power plant sites. The
company has added panels to a generating station in Italy,
Mastiaux said.  
 “I get a new proposal for a renewable energy project on my
desk every day,” said Mastiaux.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        