-- HealthSouth's Scrushy Asks Court to Release Him From Prison Pending Appeal
-- Dawn McCarty
-- 2010-07-15T20:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/healthsouth-s-scrushy-asks-court-for-release-from-prison-pending-appeal.html

          
          
             Richard Scrushy , the  HealthSouth
Corp.  founder sent to prison in 2007 for bribery and mail fraud,
asked a federal appeals court to release him pending its review
of his conviction.  
 In papers filed yesterday with the court in Atlanta,
Scrushy says he should be let out due to changed circumstances
and his anticipated early release. In addition, Scrushy has
“extraordinary family support” and “there is no risk of
flight,” according to the filing by his attorney,  Arthur Leach .  
 Scrushy is serving a term of 6 years and 10 months for
bribery after a jury convicted him in 2006 of giving Alabama
Governor  Don Siegelman  a $500,000 campaign contribution in
exchange for a seat on a state hospital regulatory board. He was
acquitted in 2005 on criminal charges of directing an accounting
fraud.  
 Scrushy argues that the risk he will flee has diminished as
his release date nears, perhaps in a year; that his lack of
assets after a $2.8 billion state judgment leaves him without
resources to “abscond”; and his family’s continued loyalty
would make it inconceivable he’d become a fugitive.  
 “The only place Scrushy has to go is home to his wife and
children,” Leach wrote in the motion.  
 In an attachment, Scrushy’s wife, Leslie Scrushy, writes of
repeated visits to her husband in prison and the disruption for
the family.  
 ‘Together Again’  
 “I love knowing that sometime soon we will all be together
again,” she wrote.  
 Scrushy’s conviction is under reconsideration after a
decision by the U.S. Supreme Court last month in the case of
former Enron Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling . The
appeal involves the high Court’s interpretation of schemes to
“deprive another of the intangible right to honest services.”  
 HealthSouth, based in Birmingham, Alabama, fell 13 cents to
$18.17 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:01 p.m.  
 The case is U.S. v. Siegelman, 07-13163-B, 11th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta). The lower-court case is U.S.
v. Scrushy, 05-cr-119, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Alabama (Montgomery).  
 To contact the reporter about this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        