-- Heat Wave Seen Driving U.S. Coal Prices to 18-Month High: Energy Markets
-- Mario Parker
-- 2010-07-15T19:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/heat-wave-driving-u-s-coal-to-18-month-high-for-analysts-energy-markets.html

          
          
             U.S. coal prices may rise to the
highest levels in 18 months as soaring temperatures boost demand
for air conditioning, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The fuel will climb to $68 a short ton this year, according
to the median forecast of 10 analysts, the highest level since
Jan. 8, 2009, amid forecasts that snow would blanket the U.S.
Northeast. Coal traded at $63.75 yesterday on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Consumption by power producers will rise
4.6 percent in 2010 to 979.4 million tons, according to the
Energy Department.  
 “You’re seeing record levels of demand for a lot of
regions, especially in the Northeast,” said  Jeremy Sussman , a
senior coal analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York.
“It’s setting up a situation for prices to rise.”  
 Prices have gained 30 percent this year on hotter-than
normal weather from California to New York. Demand from
utilities increased amid stiffer federal scrutiny of the mining
industry after the  Massey Energy Co.  disaster on April 5 curbed
operations in Appalachia, home to 33 percent of U.S. coal
production.  Output  has dropped 6.9 percent in the past 12
months, Energy Department data show.  
 The hottest summer in 15 years is hitting Washington and
New York, where temperatures topped 103 degrees Fahrenheit (39
Celsius) in Central Park, according to AccuWeather.com. Eastern
states may experience temperatures as high as 110 degrees
Fahrenheit in August, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy
meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  
 Rising Demand  
 Electricity demand may climb 3.5 percent in the second half
of the year from a year earlier, the Energy Department said in
its  Short-Term Energy Outlook  on July 7.  
 “This summer has started out much warmer than last summer,
resulting in more demand for air conditioning,” the department
said in the report.  
 The heat has already trimmed supplies, according to
 Genscape Inc. , a Louisville, Kentucky-based data provider.
Utilities held about 158.4 million tons in the week ended July
12, down 2.5 percent from the previous period and 12 percent
lower than a year earlier, Genscape said.  
 The number of cooling degree-days, a measure of the cost to
run air conditioners, has been above normal in New York and
Philadelphia since June 1, according to the National Weather
Service. Total U.S. cooling degree-days in June were 28 percent
higher than a year earlier, the Energy Department said in the
July 7 report.  
 Mining Disaster  
 “We’ve had a very wild May and June, where temperatures
were near a record or the warmest on record,” Rouiller said in
a telephone interview. “I don’t see anything that will break
this trend of excessive heat this summer.”  
 The U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration started what
it termed an “inspection blitz” after 29 people died at
Richmond, Virginia-based Massey’s Upper Big Branch mine in West
Virginia on April 5, the worst U.S. coal mining disaster in 40
years. The agency said in the past two months it started
inspections at 57 mines with histories of violations and six
were ordered to close in Kentucky.  
 The increased scrutiny may curtail production for “the
next several years,”  Peter Socha , chief executive officer of
Richmond-based James River Coal Co., told a conference in New
York on June 24.  
 Coal-Gas Switching  
 Gains in coal prices may be capped should power producers
switch to natural gas, which has fallen 18 percent this year on
the Nymex, said  James Rollyson , an analyst at Raymond James
Financial Inc. in Houston. A slowdown in the economy may also
damp prices, he said.  
 About 10 percent of power plants, mostly in the Southeast,
can alternate between the two fuels, according to  Meredith Bandy , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets Inc. in Denver.  
 Plants in the Southeast that use gas to generate
electricity make about $16.53 per megawatt hour, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg as of yesterday. Units powered by
coal make $32.85, the data show.  
 Coal prices might rise as high as $74 a ton by September,
according to a technical analysis by  Jim Stellakis , founder of
New York-based research company Technical Alpha.  
 “It’s very steady to the upside,” Stellakis said. “The
price action can only be characterized as steady and rising.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        