-- Medvedev Hails Siemens Plans for Investment in His `Silicon Valley' Hub
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-07-15T14:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/medvedev-hails-siemens-plans-for-investment-in-his-silicon-valley-hub.html

          
          
             Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
hailed a decision by Germany’s Siemens AG to join his ‘Silicon
Valley’ innovation project in Moscow’s Skolkovo suburb, run by
billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg .  
 “We hope that the participation of German business will be
very, very active in the big project to be realized in
Skolkovo,” Medvedev told reporters in Yekaterinburg today after
talks with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  
 Medvedev said Russia supports Siemens’ intention to build a
research center at Skolkovo and to take part in the project’s
management. “This is a very encouraging example for us.”  
 Medvedev, who has called Russia’s reliance on oil exports
“humiliating,” wants to wean the world’s biggest energy
producer off its fossil-fuel dependence. He asked Vekselberg in
March to oversee plans to create a hub for the development and
marketing of new technologies.  
 Peter Loescher , chief executive officer of Siemens,
declined to say how much the company may invest at Skolkovo.
“We have not yet decided,” he said in an interview in
Yekaterinburg. “We are still in the early phase, but we will
certainly bring our full expertise and competence to Skolkovo.”  
 Job Creation  
 Loescher said Siemens plans to invest at least 400 million
euros ($515 million) in Russia during the next two years.
“Together with our partners, we’re creating jobs in the
neighborhood of 3,000 people.”  
 “There’s certainly more to come,” Loescher said.  
 In addition to the Skolkovo agreement, Siemens today signed
a memorandum of understanding with OAO Russian Railways on
production of 1,200 rail cars by 2020. The German side has
mentioned a price of 2.2 billion euros for delivery of the
trains, though  Valentin Gapanovich , a senior vice president of
Russia’s rail monopoly, said the final price may be lower and
will depend on metal prices.  
 The trains will be produced in Russia. Gapanovich said the
plant location will be chosen by Aug. 20 from five
possibilities: Moscow, Novorosiisk, Voronezh, Yekaterinburg or
Yelabuga. The “high-tech” trains will first be deployed in the
Black Sea resort of Sochi and later used across the country, he
said.  
 Siemens signed a partnership agreement with OAO RusHydro
and Russian Technologies Corp. on renewable energy. Siemens will
install wind turbines with a total capacity of as much as 1,250
megawatts in Russia by 2015, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Rosatom Corp., Russia’s nuclear power company, may begin
work with Siemens in atomic energy fields where the German
company’s former partner, Areva SA, isn’t competing, Russian
Energy Minister  Sergei Shmatko  told reporters in Yekaterinburg.  
 Rosatom and Siemens are “fully resolute” to partner in
building nuclear power plants and are waiting for Siemens’ court
action with Areva to be resolved, Shmatko said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Yekaterinburg at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        