-- EEX May Operate CO2 Platform Under EU Emissions Trading System, CEO Says
-- Ewa Krukowska
-- 2010-07-15T15:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/eex-may-operate-co2-platform-under-eu-emissions-trading-system-ceo-says.html

          
          
             The European Energy Exchange AG
is interested in operating a carbon-auctioning platform in the
European Union’s emissions trading system after 2012, the
company’s chief executive officer said today.  
 A regulation approved by the bloc’s 27 member states
yesterday laid the groundwork for the EU to set up a common
carbon auctioning platform in the next phase of its cap-and-
trade system,  the world’s largest. Member states will also be
able to apply for national platforms.  
 EEX , based in Leipzig, Germany, is continental Europe’s
biggest energy exchange, trading power, natural gas and coal. It
started handling auctions of EU carbon allowances this year for
the country’s Environment Ministry. This gives the exchange an
opportunity “to gather comprehensive experience for auctioning
during phase three,” which starts in 2013, according to CEO
 Hans-Bernd Menzel .  
 “It appears consequent to us to continue to use this
experience as a platform operator beyond the year 2012 for the
common European platform as well as for possible national opt-
out platforms,” Menzel said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Germany, the U.K., Spain and Poland have expressed their
interest in having individual carbon auctions starting in 2013.
 The European Commission , the EU regulator, said yesterday that
together with participating nations, it will start preparing for
the purchase of the common platform “without delay.”  
 The EU backed away from setting time limits on national
platforms for carbon auctions in the next phases of its cap-and-
trade program, deciding instead to review how they are working
within five years.  
 The bloc, which has given away the majority of allowances
since it started its emissions trading system in 2005, will
require most emitters to purchase their allotment of permits
starting in 2013. While the commission favored a single
auctioning platform, it agreed to give member states the option
of separately running their own national auctions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at   
          
          


  


        