-- Emerging Stocks Decline as China's Economic Growth Slows, Fed Cuts Outlook
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-15T22:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/emerging-stocks-decline-as-china-s-economic-growth-slows-fed-cuts-outlook.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in six days as China’s second-quarter economic
expansion trailed estimates and the Federal Reserve trimmed its
growth forecast for the U.S.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  declined 0.5 percent to
957.14 by 5 p.m. in New York. Earlier, the index was up as much
as 0.2 percent after a Spanish auction of 15-year bonds drew
bids worth more than double the amount offered and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. reported profits that topped analysts’ estimates.  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  tumbled 1.9 percent, the
most in two weeks, after the government said gross domestic
product rose 10.3 percent, less than the 10.5 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 28 economists. The Fed
cut its forecast for U.S. growth this year to a range of 3
percent to 3.5 percent versus 3.2 percent to 3.7 percent in
April, minutes of policy makers’ June meeting showed yesterday.
Developing nation shares also fell following a slowdown in New
York-region manufacturing growth.  
 In China, “the risk of a sharper slowdown is inevitable
unless the government reverses tightening measures,”  Zheng Tuo ,
president of Shanghai Good Hope Equity Investment Management
Co., said in a phone interview. “The external environment
remains uncertain.”  
 The MSCI gauge has slipped 3.3 percent this year on concern
the global economy’s recovery from its worst recession since
World War II is faltering. The Shanghai Composite gauge led
declines among national benchmark indexes in major emerging
markets, falling 26 percent.  
 Slower Growth  
 China’s growth was less than an 11.9 percent increase in
January-March from a year earlier. Inflation cooled to 2.9
percent in June, the statistics bureau also reported in Beijing
today. Industrial output rose 13.7 percent, less than all but
one of 27 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Jiangxi Copper Co. dropped 1.4 percent and Anhui Conch
Cement Co. declined 1.6 percent. Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd., the country’s largest lender by customers, rose 0.8
percent on its first day of trading, the smallest debut gain
among the nine lenders that have sold shares Shanghai in the
past four years.  
 Most Brazilian stocks fell after reports showed the
economic expansion is slowing in China and the U.S.,
overshadowing a rally by homebuilders.  
 Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, slid
following a report showing expansion eased in China, the biggest
buyer of the steelmaking ingredient.  
 India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  slipped 0.2
percent and South Korea’s Kospi Index declined 0.4 percent. The
Micex Index in Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter,
dropped 1.4 percent.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points to 3.08
percentage points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        