-- Energy Bill May Increase Taxes on U.S. Oil Companies, Senator Baucus Says
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-07-15T21:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/energy-bill-may-increase-taxes-on-u-s-oil-companies-senator-baucus-says.html

          
          
             U.S. Senate Democrats may revoke
some incentives for energy companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. 
and Chevron Corp. in legislation to be debated this month.  
 “Current oil industry tax breaks are on the table,”
Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, told
reporters in Washington today. Baucus said he couldn’t give a
specific estimate of the proposed new costs to the oil industry
because party members are still debating which tax incentives to
eliminate.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, is
preparing an energy bill that overhauls offshore drilling
regulation, boosts alternatives to fossil fuels, curbs energy
consumption and cuts carbon dioxide pollution from power plants.
Democrats are looking for energy-related changes to the tax code
to raise money for some of these new proposals, Baucus said.  
 “I’m not saying they ought to be enacted,” Baucus said.
Still, the tax changes are likely to be part of this month’s
energy debate “one way or another.”  
 Reid has said he plans to bring the energy legislation to
the Senate floor the week of July 26.  
 Baucus said he expects the changes to bring in less revenue
for the federal government than the $45 billion in President
 Barack Obama ’s budget proposal released in February.  
 Obama’s Goal  
 Obama proposed raising $36.5 billion from fiscal 2011 to
2020 by ending tax credits and deductions for domestic oil and
gas production, and $8.5 billion more by revising the so-called
dual-capacity policy so that oil companies can’t get credit for
taxes they pay overseas.  
 Oil and gas producers will oppose the effort to revoke the
industry’s tax breaks,  Bill Bush , a spokesman for the
Washington-based American Petroleum Institute, said in an e-
mail. Raising taxes on the oil and gas industry “is not a
recipe for putting people back to work or for spurring domestic
energy production,” Bush said.  
 “It is bad energy policy and bad economic policy,” he
said.  
 Senator  Bernard Sanders , a Vermont independent, last month
tried unsuccessfully to repeal $35 billion of oil and gas
industry tax breaks. The proposed repeal, offered as an
amendment to a bill extending unemployment benefits, failed in a
35-61 vote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        