-- Ethiopia Will Export Power to Sudan From September After Rains Boost Dams
-- William Davison
-- 2010-07-15T09:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/ethiopia-will-export-power-to-sudan-from-september-after-rains-boost-dams.html

          
          
             Ethiopia  will begin exporting
hydropower-generated electricity to neighboring Sudan in
September, after improved rains boosted dam levels and the
repaired Gilgel Gibe II power plant resumes output.  
 Supplies to Sudan will total about 200 megawatts, while
150 megawatts may also be sold to Djibouti should there be
sufficient supplies, said Mekuria Lemma, head of strategic
management and programming at the state-owned  Ethiopian
Electric Power Corp.   
 Gilgel Gibe II, which halted production in January
following a tunnel collapse, is expected to resume output by
the end of July. Production at Tana Beles, the country’s
largest plant, and Tekeze is also expected to be at full
capacity following recent rains. The three plants produce a
combined 1,180 megawatts of power.  
 “We have lots of water in all our reservoirs,” Mekuria
said in an interview on July 12 in the capital, Addis Ababa.
“We are in a good position now.”  
 Ethiopia has Africa’s second-biggest potential hydropower
capacity of 45,000 megawatts, according to the  World Bank .
Congo has the largest. Rainfall in Ethiopia was average or
above average in April and May in most parts of the country,
according to the National Meteorological Agency. In June, when
the main rainy season starts, average or above average
precipitation was recorded in central and western areas, it
said yesterday.  
 Kenyan Imports  
 Kenya  is in talks with Ethiopia to import 500 megawatts
of electricity and a feasibility study has been completed on a
transmission line to the East African country, Mekuria said.  
 The African Development Bank provided a $1 million loan
for the design of the line, which is expected to be built by
2014, Solomon Asfaw, an Ethiopia-based energy specialist at
the bank, said in an interview.  
 In addition, the bank is co-funding the construction of a
283-kilometer (176-mile) 230 kilovolt transmission line from
the eastern Ethiopian city of Dire Dawa to  Djibouti . The
network, which will be able to supply 260 megawatts of power,
will be completed within two months, Solomon said.  
 Ethiopia’s current generating capacity is about 2,000
megawatts, including the 420 megawatts from Gilgel Gibe II,
EEPCO spokesman Misiker Negash said in an interview. There are
plans to increase that to 8,000 megawatts, Mekuria said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        