-- Ethics Office Probes Wall Street Giving Ahead of House Vote on Bank Bill
-- Jonathan D. Salant
-- 2010-07-15T21:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/ethics-office-probes-wall-street-giving-ahead-of-house-vote-on-bank-bill.html

          
          
             A congressional ethics office is
investigating campaign donations made by the financial industry
to some U.S. House members as they were preparing to vote on the
Wall Street regulation overhaul in December.  
 The  Office of Congressional Ethics  is looking into
contributions to eight House members, including six members of
the House  Financial Services Committee . For seven of the
lawmakers, fundraisers were held days before the House passed
the financial plan on Dec. 11, according to invitations posted
online by the  Sunlight Foundation , a Washington-based watchdog
group.  
 The Senate passed the Wall Street plan today, 60-39, and
sent it to President  Barack Obama  for his signature. The biggest
overhaul of financial-industry regulation since the Great
Depression aims to prevent a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis.  
 The ethics office sent letters to people who hosted the
fundraisers in December and companies that made contributions
through their political action committees. The ethics office is
independent of the House ethics committee and recommends whether
the House panel should consider taking action against members.  
 “The OCE inquiry is simply that, an inquiry,” said
lobbyist  Julie Domenick , who held a Dec. 10 fundraiser for
Representative  Joseph Crowley , a New York Democrat, and said she
received a letter from the ethics office. “It doesn’t mean that
anyone has done anything wrong.”  
 Ethics Standards  
 The event was scheduled the previous Nov. 4, according to
an e-mail sent by the organizers. Domenick, of Multiple
Strategies LLC in Washington, said in an interview that the more
the public realizes that Congress, through the ethics panels,
“is serious about enforcing a high standard of ethics, we’re
all served well.”  
 Other lawmakers whose contributions are being examined
include Democrat  Melvin Watt  of North Carolina and Republicans
 Tom Price  of Georgia,  Frank Lucas  of Oklahoma and  Jeb Hensarling 
of Texas, their offices said. Also being examined, according to
a lawyer familiar with the investigation, are Democrat  Earl Pomeroy  of North Dakota and Republicans  John Campbell  of
California and  Christopher Lee  of New York.  
 Pomeroy and Crowley are members of the House Ways and Means
Committee; the others are on the Financial Services panel.
Hensarling is the lawmaker who didn’t schedule a fundraiser
during the days before the House vote, according to the Sunlight
Foundation.  
 Lawmakers said they were cooperating with the investigation
and that there was no connection between contributions and their
votes.  
 ‘Complete Separation’  
 “I have always kept complete separation of legislative and
fundraising activities,” Lucas said in a statement. “Any
suggestion to the contrary is totally inaccurate and not
supported by the facts. I have no doubt at the end of OCE’s full
review they will find no appearance of impropriety in my
actions.”  
 Hensarling’s press secretary, George Rasley, said, “The
premise of the complaint is unfounded, and Congressman
Hensarling looks forward to having this cleared up.”  
 In a statement, Price said his “voting record and
opposition to Washington bailouts has been consistent since Day
One under both the current and previous administrations.”  
 Crowley’s office issued a statement saying the lawmaker
“has always complied with the letter and spirit of all rules
regarding fundraising and standards of conduct.”  
 Watt didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.
Calls to Lee, Pomeroy and Campbell’s offices seeking comments
weren’t returned.  
 Political Committees  
 According to Federal Election Commission records,
 MasterCard Inc. ’s political action committee gave $5,000 to
Crowley on Dec. 11, while the  Morgan Stanley  PAC gave $2,000 to
him four days later. Lucas got $1,000 each on Dec. 3 from
committees for the Independent Community Bankers of America and
the Managed Funds Association, which represents hedge funds.  
 Watt received $1,000 from the  Bank of America Corp.  PAC and
$2,500 from the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  PAC on Dec. 15.
Hensarling got $2,500 from the Investment Company Institute PAC
on Dec. 7 and $1,000 from the  Citigroup Inc.  PAC on Dec. 22, FEC
records show.  
 The Wall Street regulation plan, passed over the opposition
of the financial industry and all House Republicans, would
tighten rules for derivatives, expand oversight of hedge funds
and set up a mechanism to liquidate failing financial firms
whose collapse would harm markets.  
 All of the Democrats involved in the ethics inquiry voted
for the bill in December; all of the Republicans voted against
it.  Jon Steinman , a spokesman for the ethics office, declined to
comment.  
 Membership Rewards  
 Membership on the Financial Services Committee has its
rewards. The 14 first-term representatives on the committee
raised an average 53 percent more than the other 44 lawmakers
who first took office in 2009, according to FEC records.  
 “Fundraising and lawmaking are inextricably linked,” said
 David Donnelly , campaign manager of the Campaign for Fair
Elections, an advocacy group that supports public funding of
campaigns. “The only surprising fact in this story is that just
eight members are under investigation.”  
 The ethics office refers its findings to the  House ethics
committee , which then decides whether to take action or close a
case.  
 The House ethics committee rebuked then-House Majority
Leader  Tom DeLay , a Texas Republican, in October 2004 for giving
“the appearance that donors were being provided with special
access.” DeLay solicited energy industry contributions for a
June 2002 fundraiser as House and Senate negotiators were
writing legislation to spur more domestic oil production.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        