-- European Emissions Cut Should Be 30%, Not 20%, U.K. French Ministers Say
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-15T12:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/european-emissions-cut-should-be-30-not-20-u-k-french-ministers-say.html

          
          
             The European Union should raise its
target to cut greenhouse-gas emissions to 30 percent by 2020 or
risk falling behind the U.S. and China in developing low-carbon
technology, French, German and U.K. officials said.  
 The 27-nation bloc’s current 20 percent goal isn’t enough
to drive the investment needed to slash emissions further,
German Environment Minister  Norbert Roettgen , U.K. Climate
Change Secretary  Chris Huhne  and their French counterpart,  Jean- Louis Borloo , wrote in an article published today in the
Financial Times, Le Monde and Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.  
 “If we stick to a 20 percent cut, Europe is likely to lose
the race to compete in the low-carbon world to countries such as
China, Japan or the U.S.,” the ministers wrote. “Ducking the
argument on 30 percent will put us in the global slow lane.”  
 EU leaders held back from raising their target at the UN
climate summit last December in Copenhagen, saying more nations
needed to make comparable cuts. Industry groups have warned of
job losses should European companies be put at a competitive
disadvantage by having to make costly emissions cuts.  
 The European Commission on May 26 said raising the target
to 30 percent would  cost  the bloc an additional 33 billion euros
($42 billion) a year by 2020. The cost of the 20 percent cut
would amount to 48 billion euros, the commission said, down from
the 70 billion euros it estimated in 2008. That’s because the
recession helped slash emissions at the bloc’s largest
industrial polluters by 12 percent in 2009 from 2008.  
 Hedegaard’s Warning  
 European Climate Change Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard 
yesterday told business leaders including  Vincent de Rivaz ,
chief executive of Electricite de France SA’s U.K. operations,
and Acciona SA Chairman  Jose Manuel Entrecanales  that Europe
risks falling behind China in the development of renewable power
and energy-efficiency technologies.  
 “If we are hesitating in Europe and if business is
dragging their feet for the next few years, then we will lose
the front-runner position that we have,” Hedegaard said in a
speech in London to members of Prince Charles’s Corporate
Leaders Group on Climate Change.  
 The European Union caps greenhouse gases by the bloc’s
biggest polluters using its Emissions Trading System, which puts
a price on carbon. That price at present is “far too low to
stimulate significant investment in green jobs and
technologies,” the ministers wrote in today’s article. A higher
target would raise carbon prices, they said.  
 The trading system, which has given away the majority of
carbon allowances since it started in 2005, needs an overhaul,
according to Chris Stubbs, an analyst at the consultant group
WSP Environment & Energy.  
 “The current framework is not working because the polluter
is not paying,” Stubbs said today. “Companies would be far
more committed to lowering emissions if they were faced with the
financial burden of having to buy allowances for all they
emit.”  
 EU member-states yesterday unanimously approved rules for
auctioning most of their carbon permits after 2012.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        