-- European Stocks Drop Most in Two Weeks; Rio Tinto, Gartmore Lead Retreat
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-07-15T16:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/european-stock-index-futures-fall-novartis-glaxo-iberdrola-bp-may-move.html

          
          
             European stocks  fell the most in two
weeks as a slowdown in Chinese economic growth and New York-
region manufacturing overshadowed a Spanish bond sale that drew
increased demand.  
 Rio Tinto Group led mining companies lower on concern that
demand from China, the biggest emerging economy, may weaken.
Gartmore Group Ltd. slid 6.5 percent after former fund manager
 Guillaume Rambourg  resigned. Greek banks surged after Piraeus
Bank SA offered to buy government stakes in two rival lenders.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 1.2 percent to 252.97, the
biggest decline since July 1. The measure had risen 8.1 percent
over the previous seven days, leaving the gauge trading at more
than 16 times its companies’ reported profits, the highest
 valuation  since May, according to Bloomberg data. The measure is
still 7 percent below this year’s high in April on concern the
economic recovery may falter.  
 “I think a double dip still can’t be ruled out,” said
 Christian Falkner , an analyst at Alpha Wertpapierhandels AG in
Frankfurt. “The early third quarter should still be supported
by strong second-quarter corporate earnings, then later in the
quarter the focus might already shift to the economic outlook
for next year.”  
 China’s economic growth eased to 10.3 percent in the second
quarter after the government succeeded in tempering credit
expansion, investment spending and property speculation. The
gain in  gross domestic product  was less than an 11.9 percent
increase in January-March from a year earlier.  
 U.S. Manufacturing  
 Reports today showed manufacturing in the New York and
Philadelphia regions cooled in July. The Federal Reserve Bank of
New York’s  general economic index  dropped to 5.1, lower than the
median forecast of 18 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s gauge fell to 5.1 from 8 in June.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion.  
 Fed officials saw no need to boost stimulus to the economy
while trimming their forecasts for growth and noting that risks
to the recovery had increased, minutes of their June meeting
showed late yesterday.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number of
members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” the minutes said. “The changes to the outlook were
viewed as relatively modest and as not warranting policy
accommodation beyond that already in place.”  
 Spanish Bonds  
 European stocks rose earlier today after investors bought
all 3 billion euros ($3.8 billion) of 15-year bonds offered by
Spain. Demand was 2.57 times the amount sold, compared with the
bid-to-cover ratio of 1.79 at an April sale, easing concern the
nation would struggle to cover debt payments.  
 National benchmarks fell in 15 of the 18 western European
markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  declined 0.8 percent and Germany’s
DAX fell 1 percent. France’s CAC 40 dropped 1.4 percent.  
 Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company, slid
3.3 percent to 3,030.5 pence, leading a gauge of basic-resource
producers to the biggest drop among 19  industry groups  in the
Stoxx 600. Xstrata Plc, the largest thermal coal exporter, lost
2.2 percent to 922 pence.  
  Gartmore , a U.K. fund-management company, dropped 5.5
percent to 104 pence after saying Rambourg is leaving the firm
after 14 years to focus on an investigation by the Financial
Services Authority into his conduct.  
 Gartmore shares fell 31 percent on March 30 after the
company said it was investigating Rambourg for breaking internal
rules by directing orders to buy or sell stock from favored
brokers. Rambourg, who previously helped run the firm’s two
biggest hedge funds with  Roger Guy , returned to work at Gartmore
as an investment analyst in April.  
 SKF Slides  
 SKF AB , the world’s biggest maker of ball bearings, slumped
4.8 percent to 140.4 kronor as industrial-goods shares
retreated, even after reporting record quarterly earnings.
Investors were waiting for the results to short sell the stock
after an almost 20 percent appreciation this year, said  Andreas Willi , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Sandvik AB, the largest maker of metal-cutting tools, sank
3.8 percent to 98.85 kronor. Safran SA, Europe’s second-biggest
aircraft-engine maker, slid 4.6 percent to 20.80 euros.  
 Clariant AG  fell 3.3 percent to 14.41 francs after the
Swiss maker of dyes and textile chemicals was cut to “sell”
from “neutral” at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 JCDecaux SA, the world’s second-biggest seller of outdoor
advertising, fell 4.3 percent to 19.61 euros. Natixis reiterated
its “reduce” recommendation on the shares and cut its price
estimate by 17 percent to 13.5 euros.  
 JCDecaux, Stroer  
 JCDecaux’s earnings will be curbed by more competition in
the industry, including from Stroer Out-of-Home Media AG which
began trading for the first time today, Natixis analyst  Thomas Jorion  wrote in a report. Stroer, a German outdoor advertising
company, closed unchanged at 20 euros.  
 Piraeus Bank surged 13 percent to 4.54 euros, the biggest
advance in more than two months. Greece’s fourth-largest lender
offered to buy government stakes in two banks for 701 million
euros after Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  urged the
country’s lenders to merge.  
 Piraeus offered to purchase 77 percent of Agricultural Bank
of Greece SA, which rallied 6.5 percent to 1.14 euros, and 33
percent of Hellenic Postbank SA, which jumped 21 percent to 3.28
euros. The combined bank would be Greece’s biggest, Chief
Executive Officer  Michalis Sallas  told a press conference in
Athens. Greece’s Finance Ministry said it is studying the offer.  
 National Bank, Eurobank  
 National Bank of Greece SA and  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA 
jumped 5.6 percent to 10.90 euros and 7.2 percent to 4.77 euros,
respectively. Alpha Bank SA rallied 6.7 percent to 4.91 euros.  
 Ferrovial SA  surged 9.7 percent to 6.50 euros after the
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board offered A$3.47 billion
($3.1 billion) for toll-road operator Intoll Group. Intoll’s
assets include a 30 percent stake in Ferrovial’s 407 ETR highway
near Toronto.  
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc climbed 1.8 percent to 1,203 pence. A
panel of outside advisers to the Food and Drug Administration
said the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker should continue to sell its
diabetes pill Avandia in the U.S. with more warnings about the
potential for heart risks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Lothar Mentel, chief investment officer at Octopus Investments Ltd., talks about the stress tests on European banks and their impact on bond and equity markets.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
