-- European Union Eases Stance on Limits for National Carbon-Dioxide Auctions
-- Ewa Krukowska
-- 2010-07-15T12:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/european-union-eases-stance-on-limits-for-national-carbon-dioxide-auctions.html

          
          
             The European Union backed away from
setting time limits on national platforms for carbon auctions in
the next phases of its cap-and-trade program, deciding instead
to review how they are working within five years.  
 The EU, which has given away the majority of allowances
since it started the world’s biggest emissions trading system in
2005, will require most emitters to purchase their allotment of
permits starting in 2013. While the European Commission, the EU
regulator, favored a single auctioning platform, it agreed to
give member states the option of separately running their own
national auctions.  
 The procedure for listing and approving individual
platforms was the most divisive issue among the 27 EU nations
before yesterday’s vote. In a compromise ironed out in Brussels,
they agreed to amend a draft provision that set “an initial
period of no more than five years” for national platforms.  
 The possibility of having individual auctions “implies
less than full harmonisation of the auction process and
therefore the arrangements put in place in this regulation
should be reviewed within an initial five-year period,”
according to the  regulation  approved yesterday.  
 The U.K. and Germany, which already have their own
platforms for selling CO2 permits, pushed for individual
auctions. Poland and Spain also backed the option.  
 No Problem  
 “We have one interface to the market as a group, and a
single platform would simplify participating in auctions,”
 Michael Rosen , spokesman RWE AG, Germany’s second-biggest
utility, said by e-mail yesterday. “However, a few different
platforms would not be a problem as long as we do not end up
having 27 different platforms.”  
 The new regulations pave the way for the commission to
start talks on early auctions of CO2 permits before the third
phase begins in 2013.  RWE  is one of the companies that said it
needs phase-three permits immediately to hedge the risk of power
it is selling now for delivery in 2013 and beyond.  
 West European utilities will get no more free permits in
the next phase of the EU emissions trading system. East European
power plants will have to buy 30 percent of their permits at
auctions when the third phase starts, with the amount rising to
100 percent in 2020.  
 The number of permits to be sold at auctions in 2011 or
2012 will be decided later and adopted as an annex to the
regulation, according to the agreed text.  
 Fast Track  
 The  International Emissions Trading Association , a Geneva-
based lobby for carbon traders, said yesterday the market now
expects discussions to “rapidly advance” on the timetable for
early auctions.  
 Under the new regulations, carbon allowances to be sold at
auctions starting in 2013 should be deliverable within five days
at the latest to promote competition between auction platforms
and trading places in the secondary carbon markets.  
 The EU may offer two-day spot permits or five-day futures
in phase-three auctions as part of the new regulation.  
 The EU also agreed that auctioning platforms should be
established through an “open, transparent and competitive
selection procedure.” The  commission  said yesterday that it
will work with participating nations to start setting up the
common platform “without delay.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at   
          
          


  


        