-- Texas Instruments Acquires Spansion Japan Factories to Increase Production
-- Ian King
-- 2010-07-15T00:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/texas-instruments-acquires-spansion-japan-factories-to-increase-production.html

          
          
             Texas Instruments Inc. , the second-
largest U.S. chipmaker, bought plants in Japan that will help it
produce enough semiconductors to add $1 billion in annual sales.  
 The company will keep running the smaller of the two
facilities, located in Aizu-Wakamatsu, moving some manufacturing
equipment to the U.S. The second will sit idle for now, Dallas-
based Texas Instruments said in a statement. The plants were
originally built and operated by  Spansion  Inc.  
 Adding fabrication plants gives Texas Instruments leeway to
tailor production to fluctuations in demand. The company is
exiting the market for mobile-phone baseband processors, which
it used to dominate, and says it can wring more  profit  from so-
called analog chips that that are integral to everything from
super computers to washing machines.  
 “We’ve got a wonderful opportunity to get equipment at very
cost-effective prices,” said  Gregg Lowe , senior vice president
in charge of the company’s analog business. “We have a very
clear objective of trying to grow market share and grow faster
than the market. We are putting our money where our mouth is.”  
 The purchase is the second time in a year that Texas
Instruments has snapped up production facilities from memory
chipmakers that can’t afford to operate them. In August, Texas
Instruments bought machinery from failed German memory chipmaker
Qimonda AG.  
 Texas Instruments, the largest maker of analog chips,
declined to disclose the purchase price because it’s “pretty
immaterial,” said Lowe. The plant in Japan will focus on Texas
Instruments’ data convertors, power controllers and amplifiers
by the end of this year, he said.  
 Analog, Memory  
 Analog chips, which convert things like sound and touch
into electronic signals, can be made on older equipment. That’s
in contrast with memory chips, which are typically made with the
most advanced production technology and require new machinery.  
 Spansion, based in Sunnyvale, California, exited bankruptcy
in May.  
 Lowe said that worldwide chip plants are running at close
to 90 percent of capacity and orders for new machinery are
taking up to a year to be filled. Any machinery that the company
can’t find a use for will be sold in a prearranged transaction,
he said.  
 Texas Instruments  fell  30 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $25.09
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange trading. The stock has
declined 3.7 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        