-- Calderon Picks Blake to Lead Security Fight at Mexico's Interior Ministry
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-15T13:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/mexico-s-calderon-picks-blake-to-lead-security-fight-at-interior-ministry.html

          
          
             Mexican President  Felipe Calderon 
named his fourth interior minister in as many years, appointing
Jose Francisco Blake Mora to help lead the country’s security
efforts amid a rising death-toll in the war on drug cartels.  
 Calderon also named  Bruno Ferrari , who headed the
investment promotion authority known as Promexico, to replace
 Gerardo Ruiz Mateos  as economy minister. Ruiz Mateos will return
to the president’s office to be chief of staff, a position he
held before being named minister in 2008.  
 Last night’s Cabinet shakeup comes as Mexico’s drug-related
violence has increased to the highest levels since Calderon took
office in 2006 promising to confront the cartels fighting for
cocaine and marijuana trafficking routes. In his remarks at the
swearing-in ceremony, Blake said he would “strengthen
democratic institutions” and seek greater coordination among
political parties to confront the security situation.  
 “We’ll focus our attention on the challenge of public
security and the fight against organized crime, in order to
recover the peace of mind of the Mexican people,” he said.  
 More than 22,000 people have been killed in Mexico in drug-
related violence since the crackdown began, according to the
U.S. State Department. Security decisions in Mexico are made by
a commission headed by Calderon. In the president’s absence, the
interior minister leads the commission, according to the
country’s public security law.  
 Political Role  
 The interior minister also manages negotiations between
political parties. Calderon’s frequent shuffling of the interior
minister post shows that he hasn’t been successful at persuading
the opposition to help him pass legislation, said  Jorge Chabat ,
a political science professor at the Center for Economic
Research and Teaching in Mexico City.  
 “If they haven’t been able to achieve important reforms in
the first 3 1/2 years, they probably won’t be able to do so in
the next two years,” Chabat said, referring to the remainder of
Calderon’s term in office. “It’s been difficult for the
Calderon government to achieve consensus.”  
 Blake replaces Fernando Gomez Mont, who was named to the
post in November 2008, after former minister Juan Camilo Mourino
died in a plane crash.  
 Congress has yet to pass labor legislation backed by
Calderon’s government as well as a bill to make changes to
Mexico’s political structure, including allowing re-election.
The Senate has yet to approve antitrust legislation proposed by
Calderon and passed by the lower house of Congress in April.  
 Tijuana Experience  
 Blake, 44, was the secretary-general of Baja California
state, a position that functions as second-in-command after the
governor. He was a federal congressman between 2000 and 2003.  
 Blake, who is from the violence-plagued city of Tijuana,
played a “fundamental” role in confronting organized crime in
Baja California, said Calderon, who served as a lawmaker during
the same period as Blake.  
 “This will be of great help in carrying out the fight
against organized crime,” Calderon said.  
 Ferrari, 48, is a lawyer who earned his degree at the
Mexico City-based Escuela Libre de Derecho.  Patricia Flores  will
leave as Calderon’s chief of staff after almost two years in the
position.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        