-- Fernandez Accelerates Argentina Bond Sale as Rally Cuts Yields Under 11%
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-07-15T21:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/fernandez-accelerates-argentina-bond-sale-as-rally-cuts-yields-under-11-.html

          
          
             The biggest drop in Argentine
borrowing costs in nine months is paving the way for President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  to sell international bonds for
the first time since the country’s 2001 default.  
 “They are getting all their stars in line to do it,” said
 Sergio Trigo Paz , who oversees $3 billion of emerging-market
debt, including Argentine bonds, at Fortis Bank SA/NV in London.  
 The  average yield  on Argentina’s dollar bonds tumbled 85
basis points, or 0.85 percentage point, since July 1 to 10.89
percent yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
index. The decline, the largest seven-day slide since October,
followed the completion of Argentina’s debt restructuring and a
Fitch Ratings upgrade of the country from default.  
 Argentina, South America’s second-biggest economy after
Brazil, is aiming to raise capital in international markets for
the first time since stopping payments on $95 billion of debt,
the biggest-ever government default. Average bond yields are
within 100 basis points of the 10 percent level that Economy
Minister  Amado Boudou  said in June was a limit for selling $1
billion of 2017 dollar securities.  
 “In a rallying market, that would be perceived as a very
positive step,” Trigo Paz said in an interview yesterday.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold  Argentine  dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries dropped 9 basis points to 733
today and is down from 814 on June 1, according to JPMorgan
indexes. The yield spread for  Brazil  rose 2 to 223.  
 Default Swaps  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 30 basis points to
912, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Similar
contracts for Brazil slid 1 to 123.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Argentine Economy Ministry spokesman Sergio Poggi said the
government is “continuing to monitor market conditions.”  
 The yield on Argentina’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
rose 1 basis point to 11.74 percent today, according to pricing
from Deutsche Bank AG. Warrants linked to gross domestic product
slid 0.05 cent to 8.35 cents on the dollar, while the peso slid
0.1 percent to 3.9369 per dollar.  
 Central bank reserves climbed today to a record $50.604
billion. Real Estate developer IRSA SA sold $150 million worth
of 10-year bonds to yield 11.875 percent, according to Bloomberg
data.  
 Argentine borrowing costs will remain among the highest in
the region until the government reaches an agreement to
restructure $6.7 billion of defaulted loans with the Paris Club
group of creditor nations and stops underreporting inflation
data, Miguel Kiguel, a former Finance Undersecretary who is now
head of research company Econviews, said. Among the Latin
American countries in JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index, only Ecuador and
Venezuela have higher benchmark yields than Argentina.  
 Inflation  
 Economists have questioned the government’s inflation data
since former President  Nestor Kirchner  began changing personnel
at the national statistics institute in January 2007. Consumer
prices rose 11 percent in June from a year earlier, the
statistics agency said yesterday. Credit Suisse Group AG
economist  Carola Sandy  estimates actual inflation is about 20
percent.  
 “These issues generate a sense that Argentina can still
give negative surprises -- that it’s a country that doesn’t play
by the rules that other nations play by,” Kiguel, who worked at
the economy ministry when the country defaulted, said in a
telephone interview in Buenos Aires.  
 Foreign Investment  
 Quickening inflation, government caps on utility prices and
the seizure of pension funds are also deterring investment,
 Federico Sturzenegger , president of Banco de la Ciudad de Buenos
Aires, said in a June 17 interview.  
 Foreign-direct investment in Argentina totaled $4.9 billion
in 2009, compared with $26 billion for Brazil and $17 billion
for Chile, according to the  United Nations Economic Commission
for Latin America . Brazil is the largest economy in South
America followed by Argentina, Venezuela, Colombia and Chile,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Argentine bonds rallied as a rebound in global stocks that
sent the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up  six-straight days  this
month fueled investor demand for higher-yielding, emerging-
market assets.  
 The country’s GDP warrants climbed as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. lifted its forecast for economic expansion this year to 8
percent on July 12, up from a previous estimate of 5.3 percent,
because of “lax” fiscal and monetary policies, a record
harvest and higher commodities prices.  
 Ratings Increase  
 Argentine bonds also gained after Fitch on July 12 raised
the country’s credit rating to B, citing the government’s swap
of defaulted securities that will be settled next month.  
 The South American nation’s Fitch rating is in line with
that for Ukraine,  whose spread  over Treasuries is 203 basis
points less. Argentina’s borrowing costs will fall to levels
similar to that of Ukraine, said Fortis’ Trigo Paz, who has held
an “overweight” position on Argentine debt for more than a
year.  
 “We look at Argentina’s fundamentals and we are getting
paid very well for the risk we are taking,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Argentina's president Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner. Photographer: Diego Giudice/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
