-- Fidelity's Bolton Says China Bull Market to Resume This Year on Valuations
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-07-15T11:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/fidelity-s-bolton-says-china-bull-market-to-resume-this-year-on-valuations.html

          
          
             Fidelity International’s  Anthony Bolton  says China’s “golden era of exports” is over and a bull
market will resume for the country’s stocks this year as
domestic consumption drives economic expansion.  
 China announced today that its economic growth eased to
10.3 percent in the second quarter, from a three-year high of
11.9 percent the previous quarter. Bolton said the slowdown may
give policy makers room to relax measures aimed at restraining
asset prices, which will help to improve market sentiment. The
mainland’s  Shanghai Composite Index  has fallen 26 percent this
year, following an 80 percent rally in 2009.  
 “Pressure for the government to tighten will wane or
reduce towards the end of the year,” Bolton, president of
investments for Fidelity International, which manages $215.9
billion of assets, said at a media briefing in Hong Kong, where
he is based. “We’ve had a bear market for a year. Valuations
are now very attractive on certain companies. We’ve got all the
background for a new phase of a bull market.”  
 Stocks in China and across Asia have retreated this year on
concern the nation’s tightening measures -- including guidance
to banks to curb lending and toughening mortgage-lending rules -
- will hamper the world’s fastest-growing major economy.
Inflation unexpectedly cooled to 2.9 percent in June, from 3.1
percent the previous month, the statistics bureau reported.  
 Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  has declined
11 percent this year after gaining 62 percent in 2009.  
 ‘Too Negative’  
 “A lot of people are too negative about China,” said
Bolton. “Its growth looks very attractive in an international
context.”  
 The International Monetary Fund last week raised its 2010
economic growth forecast for China to 10.5 percent, from an
April projection of 10 percent. The Washington-based lender
predicted expansions of 3.3 percent for the U.S. and 1 percent
for the 16-nation euro region.  
 Chinese officials have so far this year raised banks’
 reserve requirements  three times and issued new rules regarding
loans for second and third homes in a bid to mop up liquidity in
the banking system. China has yet to raise interest rates, the
main policy tool used by its overseas central bank counterparts.  
 Jorg Decressin , head of the IMF’s world economic studies
division, said July 8 that China’s expansion will moderate in
the second half, with the slowdown continuing into 2011.  The
Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development  said in
March China may contribute a third of 2010 world growth.  
 West’s Growth Slowing  
 “An 8 to 10 percent growth will be even more attractive to
Western investors as growth in their own economy is slower than
it used to be,” Bolton said.  
 Still, Bolton, 61, said he doesn’t expect a “double-dip”
in the global economy.  
 Chinese stocks are set to resume a rally also because
domestic investors’ cash positions are high, Bolton, who
achieved annualized returns of 19.5 percent during 28 years at
the helm of the Fidelity Special Situations Fund, said. He
expects international investors’ fund flows to China, which have
so far this year been “weak,” will increase later this year.  
 Bolton, who relocated to Hong Kong in April to manage the
closed-end  Fidelity China Special Situations Fund , said he has
made four trips to mainland China in the last four months to
meet with policy makers and the management of more than 150
companies. During these trips, Bolton also visited factories and
retail outlets.  
 “The golden era of exports has finished,” he said.
“China’s consumption growth story is going to be one of the
most interesting growth stories in the world.”  
 Favoring Retail  
 Among retailers, Bolton said he favors department stores,
sports goods, electrical, shoes, jewellery, and cosmetics. Wine
and spirits, hotels and restaurants, airlines, airports,
operators of packaged holidays, internet and media are also
among industries that are of interest to him. Bolton also named
banks and insurers as stocks that he likes.  
 Apart from the macro economy, another aspect that Bolton
found attractive about investing in China is the companies’
relatively high cash levels, he said.  
 “A surprise to me is how strong their balance sheets
are,” Bolton said. “Many companies have high cash positions,
stronger than their western counterparts.”  
 Bolton stepped down from day-to-day portfolio management at
the end of 2007, while overseeing Fidelity’s investment
management process and mentoring fund managers and analysts.  
 Fidelity International is the London-based affiliate of
Boston’s Fidelity Investments.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        