-- Finance-Overhaul Clears Senate Hurdle, Moves to Final Action
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-07-15T15:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/financial-overhaul-clears-senate-procedural-hurdle-moving-to-final-action.html

          
          
             The U.S. Senate voted today to clear
the path for final action on the financial-regulation bill, the
last step before passage of the biggest rewrite of Wall Street
rules since the Great Depression.  
 The Senate voted 60-38 to limit debate and allow the
legislation to move ahead. Lawmakers said the final vote on the
bill would come soon after 2 p.m. today Washington time. The
Senate’s approval would send the bill to President  Barack Obama 
to be signed into law.  
 “This is a major undertaking, one that is historic in its
proportions, that is an attempt to set in place the structure
that will allow us to minimize problems in the future,” Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut
Democrat who helped write the bill, said today on the Senate
floor.  
 Senate passage would represent a victory for Obama, who
proposed the regulatory overhaul in response to the 2008
financial crisis that led the U.S. to provide $700 billion in
bailout funds for companies including New York-based insurer
 American International Group Inc.   
 The House of Representatives approved the bill on June 30.  
 A majority of Republicans voted to block final
consideration. Republicans say the bill doesn’t go far enough to
prevent future taxpayer-funded bailouts of Wall Street firms and
creates a new bureaucracy by setting up a consumer financial
protection bureau at the Federal Reserve.  
 Senator  Richard Shelby , the banking committee’s top
Republican, called the bill a “2,300-page legislative
monster.”  
 ‘Vast Bureaucracies’  
 “It creates vast new bureaucracies with little
accountability and seriously, I believe, undermines the
competitiveness of the American economy,” Shelby of Alabama
said.  
 Democrats secured the 60 votes needed to move to a final
vote after Republican Senators Scott Brown of Massachusetts and
Olympia Snowe and  Susan Collins  of Maine announced this week
they would vote for the bill. Unlike the procedural vote, final
approval requires only a simple majority.  
 The bill, based on a package of reforms Obama unveiled in
June 2009, would set up a mechanism for liquidating failing
financial firms whose collapse would roil markets and a council
of financial regulators to police firms for systemic risk to the
economy. It also strengthens oversight of executive compensation
and derivatives, contracts whose value is derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada listens during a news conference with other Democratic senators in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Jay Mallin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Senator Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system.
     Corker also discusses the U.S. competitiveness in global banking markets, today's testimony by Federal Reserve nominees and the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Martin Baily, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about legislation to overhaul U.S. financial regulation.
     The Senate voted today to clear the path for final action on the biggest rewrite of Wall Street rules since the Great Depression. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
