-- Fiscal Restrains Will Apply to Climate Plans, Australia's Treasurer Says
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-15T01:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/fiscal-restrains-will-apply-to-climate-plans-australia-s-treasurer-says.html

          
          
             Australia’s cap on new spending to
balance the budget will apply to any climate-change legislation,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said, limiting resources for the programs
once at the heart of the ruling Labor Party’s election campaign.  
 “The new measures will fit into our fiscal rules,” Swan,
56, told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio in Canberra today.
Swan yesterday reaffirmed new spending growth would be capped at
2 percent. “They are strict and those fiscal rules will apply
to any new measures,” he said.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  replaced  Kevin Rudd  on June 24
and has vowed to review plans for a carbon-trading system in
2012. Rudd’s support fell to an election losing level ahead of
the vote later this year after he delayed his climate change
plans, which he had labeled a moral imperative.  
 Rudd’s climate plan would have taxed companies with high
emissions like energy, steel and cement makers and offset the
charges with free emissions permits and financial compensation.
The assistance package would have cost the government A$20
billion ($17.6 billion), the Grattan Institute, a Melbourne-
based think-tank, said in a report on April 22.  
 Rudd that month shelved the Carbon Pollution Reduction
Scheme until 2012 amid opposition from lawmakers. The proposal
had aimed to cut pollution by 5 percent through an emissions-
trading scheme. The move came almost four months after some 190
nations failed to agree on a binding greenhouse gas treaty at
talks in Copenhagen.  
 A new climate policy for the world’s biggest coal exporter
and driest inhabited continent would be the last of three areas
Gillard sought to address after ousting Rudd.  
 Working ‘Methodically’  
 “The government is working its way through these issues,
and we will do so methodically, taking the time necessary to get
it right,” Gillard told reporters in Canberra on July 13.  
 In the past three weeks, she struck a deal with  BHP 
Billiton Ltd.,  Rio  Tinto Group and Xstrata Plc to water down a
planned mining tax. She’s also said she’ll open a regional
center to process asylum seekers to curb the number of refugees
trying to reach Australia by boat.  
 The federal Cabinet this week agreed to set an interim
carbon price to reduce emissions in the next two years, the
Australian Financial Review reported today without saying where
it got the information. The government will build a consensus
with businesses on a short-term market-based mechanism, the
paper said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        