-- Fixing Spain's Savings Banks Means Paying Workers to Play Golf
-- Charles Penty
-- 2010-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/fixing-spain-s-savings-banks-means-paying-workers-to-play-golf-not-work.html

          
          
             Spain cut civil servants’ pay and
froze pensions as part of an austerity drive to reduce its
deficit, the third-highest in the region that uses the euro.
Laid-off savings banks workers will fare better.  
 The  central bank  has coaxed ailing savings banks to merge,
financing the process with more than 10 billion euros
($12.9 billion) from a government bailout fund. Consolidating
the lenders, known as “cajas,” may eventually cost as many as
50,000 jobs, with many workers taking early retirement, said
Carlos Trascasa, a partner at  McKinsey & Co .  
 Caixa Catalunya, a lender with 62 billion euros in assets
granted 1.25 billion euros of government funds to support its
merger with two other cajas, is offering staff over 60 the
chance to take 95 percent of their salary until the age of 64,
said Carlos Domingo, a savings bank union official in Spain’s
Catalonia region. They’ll also get 20,500 euros in a lump sum
plus pension contributions as part of  a deal  that will form a
template for negotiations at other cajas, he said.  
 “It’s a clear contradiction with the government’s
austerity message,” said  Carles Campuzano , spokesman for labor
policy at Convergencia i Unio, a pro-business Catalan party,
referring to the prospect of the mass early retirements. “It’s
also goes against the official message that people should
actually work longer before retiring.”  
 10-Year Boom  
 The task of restructuring the cajas, foundation-based
lenders that make about half of Spain’s loans, has taken on
fresh urgency as defaults mount on credit linked to a 10-year
property boom. The Bank of Spain seized CajaSur, an insolvent
savings bank, in May. European regulators will publish results
of stress tests on Spanish banks on July 23.  
 Cleaning up bad loans and cutting costs at the cajas is
just one part for the government’s drive to fix an industry that
expanded lending more than fivefold during Spain’s decade-long
property boom, making real estate and construction loans worth
241 billion euros. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Spain’s
second-largest bank, estimates the cost of fixing the “part”
of the industry that needs repair will run to 50 billion euros.  
 The cajas are negotiating early retirement deals as
the government tries to help companies shed staff more cheaply.
A decree passed in June makes it easier for struggling firms to
let staff go with 20 days in compensation for each year worked,
instead of the 45 days offered in most contracts.  
 “It doesn’t really seem fair because they go home and get
paid and younger staff come in to work for less,” Laura Garcia,
43, a market-research technician whose been out of work for 18
months said in an interview outside a Madrid job center.  
 Golf and Tennis  
 The cajas have long used early retirement to pare the
workforce, a process that has been good for employees if
expensive for the banks. Since a rule change in 2004, banks have
had to charge their cost directly to earnings.  
 Ignacio Barragan, 64, has spent much of his time playing
golf and tennis since retiring at 54 from Caja Madrid in 1999
after a 33-year career that took him to the rank of regional
director. He’s been earning 100 percent of his salary ever since
and expects his income to drop about 25 percent when he starts
drawing state and private pensions in August.  
 “I chose to enjoy my hobbies and economically there was no
obstacle to doing that,” Barragan said in a phone interview.
“For me it was a great solution.”  
 The combination of Caixa Catalunya with Caixa Manresa and
Caixa Tarragona, two other Catalan cajas, will allow workers 56
to 59 years old at get 85 percent of their salary plus a lump
sum of 31,000 euros if they stop working, said Domingo, the
union official.  
 ‘Shouldn’t Be Punished’  
 Employees can also opt to take a leave for four years and
receive a quarter of their pay. The agreements affect 1,300
staff, or about 14 percent of the workforce of the three savings
banks, he said.  
 “Our members aren’t to blame for all that has happened in
the industry, and they shouldn’t be punished for it,” Domingo
said. The average salary in Spain’s banking industry was about
42,000 euros in 2008, the  National Statistics Institute  said.  
 A spokesman for Caixa Catalunya declined to comment.  
 The government and the savings banks have to take into
account the need to fix the industry as quickly as possible to
support economic growth when it returns, said Alvaro Cuervo, a
business professor at Madrid’s  Complutense University . While it
would be better not to use public money to fund early
retirements, another consideration is Spain’s unemployment rate
of about 20 percent, the highest in the Euro zone, that makes it
hard for staff to find work, he said.  
 Four-Way Merger  
 “I think that if a company needs money, it should
restructure in the cheapest possible way and in the end that’s
good for the economy,” said  Inigo Lecubarri , who manages about
$170 million at Abaco Financials Fund in London. “In principle,
I hate the idea of early retirements, but I suppose you have to
do what’s possible.”  
 Caja Cantabria, a Santander, Spain-based that is combining
with three others to create a lender with 135 billion euros in
assets backed by 1.5 billion euros in government funds, will use
the money to pay for early retirements and purge bad loans,
General Director Javier Eraso said in an interview. Under the
rules for the government bank restructuring fund set up last
year, lenders can request funds that carry an annual interest
rate of at least 7.75 percent and that have to be repaid within
five years.  
 Rising Borrowing Costs  
 Savings banks are seeking to tap the rescue funds at a time
when Spain faces a surge in its own borrowing costs on investor
concern that the government may struggle to bring down a deficit
that hit 11.2 percent of gross domestic product last year.  
 The government’s  bank rescue fund  may seek a credit line
with banks to avoid having to issue more debt, a person with
knowledge of its plans said June 15. As many as 38 out of
Spain’s 45 savings banks are involved in 12 combination
processes that are seeking money from the rescue fund, the Bank
of Spain said.  
 Access to the fund, known as FROB, is subject to lenders
presenting a restructuring plan that the Bank of Spain approves.
In mergers that include requests for government funding, the
average proposals for staff cuts is 15 percent to 18 percent,
said  Javier Ariztegui , the central bank’s deputy governor.  
 Caja Madrid, Spain’s second-biggest savings bank, and
Bancaja, the third-biggest, will seek 4.5 billion euros in FROB
funds as they merge with five smaller lenders to create a lender
with 340 billion euros that will be Spain’s biggest deposit-
gathering institution, they said last month.  
 Santander Cuts  
 The lender aims to cut general administrative costs by up
to 12 percent by 2012 as it shuts branches and sheds staff,
mainly through early retirements, as it also writes down bad
assets earlier than planned, Caja Madrid said June 22. It said
the restructuring would set it on course to earn 2 billion euros
in profit by 2013.  
 Commercial banks have also used early retirements to cut
costs.  Banco Santander SA , the country’s biggest bank, has had
an agreement with unions since 2003 that allows Spanish staff to
seek early retirement from the age of 50 on at least 90 percent
of pay, said Cesar Sanz, a union official. Santander last year
used 463 million euros of one-time gains to fund costs including
early retirements, the bank said.  
 “It’s an expensive process and the bank needs a solid
earnings base to support it,” said Sanz, adding 1,120 staff
took early retirement last year. “With the cajas, it’s a much
more complex issue because it’s public money.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Penty  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians pass a branch of Caixa Catalunya bank in Madrid. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Central bank has coaxed ailing savings banks to merge  
                       
                         
                           Denis Doyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The European Union flag, center, flies between Spanish national flags at the Bank of Spain. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The European Union flag, center, flies between Spanish national flags at the Bank of Spain. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Employees can also opt to take a leave for four years  
                       
                         
                           Denis Doyle/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Spain's prime minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Spain's prime minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
