-- Flu Vaccine Blocked  Range of Flu Viruses in Animals, May Also Help People
-- Arielle Fridson
-- 2010-07-15T21:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/flu-vaccine-blocked-range-of-flu-viruses-in-animals-may-also-help-people.html

          
          
             An experimental vaccine was
effective in animals against a broad range of influenza strains,
suggesting that it may be possible for humans to be protected
with a shot received in childhood.  
 Mice, ferrets and monkeys that received a two-part vaccine
based on a 1999 flu virus developed resistance to H1N1 strains
from 1934 to 2007, said  Gary J. Nabel , the lead researcher on a
study published today in  Science Express . A human vaccine that
would provide immunity to the majority of flu strains may be
available in as little as five years, he said. The first trial
in humans of such a universal vaccine is under way, he said.  
 Flu vaccines are usually created each year from inactivated
viruses of three different strains. They work best against those
strains and need to be replaced after a year. A universal
vaccine could provide protection against most or all flu strains
for decades, even as flu mutates into new strains.  
 “If we’re successful, we may be able to generate just one
vaccine that could be given as a childhood vaccine to give
durable protection against all viral strains over the better
part of one’s lifetime,” Nabel, a virologist for the  National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases , based in Bethesda,
Maryland, said in an interview.  
 The same approach to vaccines might be used for hepatitis
and other diseases, Nabel said.  
 Pandemic Flu  
 Flu viruses can mutate rapidly, creating threats faster
than current technology makes new vaccines. In June 2009, the
World Health Organization said a flu pandemic, or global
epidemic, was under way. The cause was an H1N1 flu strain not
included among those then being used to make the annual vaccine.
The strain was linked to deaths in more than 18,000 laboratory-
confirmed cases globally as of July 9, according to WHO.  
 Sanofi-Aventis SA  in Paris and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  of
London are among the leading makers of vaccines.  
 Flu causes about 36,000 deaths in the U.S. and sends more
than 200,000 people to the hospital each year, according to the
 U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. That
costs the federal government more than $10 billion annually,
according to a 2009  report  from the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce .
Worldwide, the disease causes about 500,000 fatalities every
year, according to Geneva-based  WHO .  
 “A durable and effective universal influenza vaccine would
have enormous ramifications for the control of influenza,” said
 Anthony S. Fauci , the director of the National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases. The study represents “an
important milestone” in this quest, he said.  
 Universal Potential  
 There are three types of influenza in humans currently and
each year there are several strains of each that might be
circulating, said  John Treanor , a professor at the infectious
disease unit of the University of Rochester Medical Center in
Rochester, New York, in an interview. Over a 10-year period,
there could be as many as 40 strains circulating in humans.  
 “The approach in Gary’s study could potentially cover all
40 strains in a 10-year period,” Treanor said. “They didn’t
show that in the study, but that’s the direction I think it’s
going in.”  
 The researchers gave 20 mice the two-part vaccine, based on
a 1999 strain, and exposed them three weeks later to a 1934 flu
virus. A total of 16 mice, or 80 percent, survived. All the
animals given only one part of the vaccine or no part died.  
 Ferret Model  
 When the vaccine was given to ferrets, a model for
predicting vaccine efficacy in humans, the animals’ sickness
caused by infection was reduced 100-fold for a 1934 virus and
10,000-fold for a 2007 virus, according to the report.  
 The first part of the vaccine treatment, called the primer,
amplifies antibodies in general. The second part, known as the
booster, increases the effects of specific antibodies that learn
to recognize the structure of a virus.  
 “By broadening the ability of our vaccines to protect
against diverse viruses, we hope that it will be a bit of
insurance against viruses that might arise in the future for
which we don’t have seasonal vaccines prepared in time,” Nabel
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arielle Fridson  in New York at 
 afridson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        