-- Ford, GM Cars Top Imports in J.D. Power's Appeal Study
-- Theo Keith
-- 2010-07-15T18:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/ford-gm-cars-top-imports-in-j-d-power-s-appeal-study.html

          
          
             Ford Motor Co. ’s Taurus and General
Motors Co.’s Chevrolet Camaro helped U.S. automakers outperform
imported vehicles for the first time since 1997 in J.D. Power &
Associates’ annual study of vehicle appeal.  
 Ford vehicles topped five segments, the most of any brand
in the Westlake Village, California-based researcher’s report
released today.  Toyota Motor Corp. , which recalled 8 million
vehicles globally in the past year for defects linked to
unintended acceleration, received the second-lowest ranking for
its namesake brand.  
 Vehicles with high scores in consumer appeal generate
faster sales, higher profit margins and need fewer sales
incentives and less marketing, said  Dave Sargent , J.D. Power’s
vice president of global vehicle research.  
 “If you have an appealing product, customers will pay more
for it,” Sargent said in an interview. “It’s a culmination of
a lot of work the domestics have done in launching new or
heavily redesigned products.”  
 The Taurus, Fusion, Expedition, Flex and Explorer Sport
Trac all won categories for Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford. The
Taurus and GM’s Chevrolet Avalanche were the only vehicles to
win their segments in vehicle appeal and last month’s initial
quality survey, J.D. Power said.  
 GM models won three segments, and the Detroit-based
automaker’s Buick brand was the highest-rated mass-market
nameplate in the overall rankings, according to J.D. Power. The
Camaro won the midsize sporty-car category.  
 76,000 Buyers  
 The study is based on responses gathered between February
and May from more than 76,000 buyers or lessees of 2010 models
that were surveyed after 90 days of ownership. The respondents
were asked about more than 80 attributes, including styling,
power and interior design.  
 The 10 most appealing brands were luxury nameplates, and
non-U.S. automakers continued to dominate those categories, J.D.
Power said.  Porsche AG  had the highest-rated brand for the sixth
consecutive year, with Tata Motors Ltd.’s Jaguar luxury division
and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  also finishing in the top three.  
 BMW, Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz and Volkswagen AG’s Audi
each took first place in two segments. Audi topped two sport-
utility categories, while BMW and Mercedes won the four premium-
car awards.  
 Toyota was the second-lowest ranked overall, the result of
negative attention over the company’s recalls and its reputation
of making practical cars that generate little excitement,
Sargent said.  
 Chrysler Group LLC’s namesake brand and Jeep division also
finished in the bottom three in appeal. Jeep finished lowest as
its Auburn Hills, Michigan-based parent company’s lack of new
products hurt appeal across its brands, Sargent said.  
 Jeep’s redesigned Grand Cherokee, which began shipping in
June, is the first major new model Chrysler has introduced since
Fiat SpA took control of the company after its 2009 bankruptcy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theo Keith  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 tkeith6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ford Motor Co.'s new Taurus on display. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
