-- Ford Names Odell to Lead Europe as Fleming Focuses on Global Manufacturing
-- Ola Kinnander
-- 2010-07-15T14:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/ford-names-odell-to-lead-europe-as-fleming-focuses-on-global-manufacturing.html

          
          
             Stephen Odell , the  Ford Motor Co. 
veteran who has been chief executive officer of Volvo Cars since
2008, will run Ford’s European unit after  Zhejiang Geely Holding
Co.  completes a takeover of the Swedish carmaker.  
 Odell, 55, will succeed  John Fleming , 58, who will focus on
leading global manufacturing and labor affairs, the Dearborn,
Michigan-based  carmaker  said in a statement today.  Jim Farley ,
48, will take an expanded role as Ford’s global chief for
marketing, sales and service.  
 Ford of Europe this week reported a 17 percent decline in
monthly sales as expiring government incentive programs curbed
demand for models such as the Fiesta subcompact. Its market
share slid 1.2 percentage points to 7.8 percent. Odell will be
an asset as Ford seeks to avoid getting into a price war in the
region, said  Ian Fletcher , a European automotive analyst at IHS
Global Insight in London.  
 “Odell is pretty much Ford through and through,” Fletcher
said in a telephone interview. ”Initially his position will be
spent keeping the company on an even keel and maintaining the
steady progress they’ve been making.”  
 Ford projects European auto sales industry-wide will fall
to as few as 14 million vehicles in 2010 from 15.9 million a
year ago. Ford’s strategy has been to avoid replacing government
subsidies with its own discounts to preserve per-vehicle
profits.  
 Geely Deal  
 Also moving back to the parent company is Stuart Rowley,
Volvo’s 43-year-old chief financial officer, who will take on
the same role at Ford of Europe, the U.S. carmaker said today.  
 “These moves allow us to strengthen our global team as we
accelerate our One Ford plan and continue to profitably grow,
serving our customers around the world,” Ford CEO  Alan Mulally 
said in the statement.  
 Ford  fell  23 cents, or 2 percent, to $11.58 at 10:16 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 Geely is buying Volvo from Ford for $1.8 billion in the
biggest overseas purchase by a Chinese automaker. In a separate
statement, Geely said that  Li Shufu  will become chairman of
Volvo and  Hans-Olov Olsson  will be vice chairman.  
 Neither Ford nor Geely said who will succeed Odell as Volvo
CEO.  Olle Axelson , a Volvo spokesman, said Geely will probably
name a CEO for Volvo when it completes the deal.  
 Volkswagen AG  is negotiating with U.S. chief  Stefan Jacoby 
over terms of his departure before he may take over as CEO at
Volvo, people familiar with the matter said June 25.  
 Volvo’s new leader will have to boost sales to return the
company to profit while tapping growth in China, which surpassed
the U.S. as the world’s largest car market in 2009.  
 Odell, a 55-year-old Briton, was named head of Volvo in
September 2008, becoming the fourth leader since  Ford bought  the
Volvo Cars unit of truckmaker  Volvo AB  in 1999 for $6.5 billion.
Odell first joined Ford of Britain in 1980 as a trainee.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Stephen Odell of Ford Motor Co. Photographer: Fabrizio Costantini/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
