-- Foreign Investment in China Rises to Highest Level in More Than Two Years
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-15T08:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/foreign-investment-in-china-rises-to-highest-level-in-more-than-two-years.html

          
          
             Foreign direct investment  in China
rose to the second-highest on record in June, indicating
overseas investors’ confidence in the country’s long-term growth
even as the global economic recovery shows signs of weakening.  
 Investment climbed 39.6 percent to $12.5 billion, the
Ministry of Commerce said in Beijing today. That’s the most
since December 2007 and the fastest pace of growth since
December 2009, according to previously released data from the
ministry. Estimates among four economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News ranged from an increase of 7 percent to 27 percent.  
 The International Monetary Fund last week raised China’s
growth forecast to 10.5 percent this year, three times the pace
of the U.S., as government policies support consumption and
investment. Companies including Volkswagen AG and Tesco Plc. are
seeking to increase investment to tap rising incomes in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy.  
 “More than ever, the expanding Chinese market is
attractive to companies around the world,”  David Cohen , a
Singapore-based economist at Action Economics, said before the
data was released. “Even with increased wages and the
appreciation of the Chinese currency, it’s still a competitive
location for production and close to growing markets.”  
 Foreign investment in the first six months of the year rose
19.6 percent to $51.4 billion, after a 14.3 percent increase in
the first five months, the ministry said.  
 Investor Confidence  
 The rapid growth in June FDI “reflects a recovery in
investor confidence” and investment should be “relatively
good” in the second half, Liu Yajun, director of the commerce
ministry’s foreign investment department, told a briefing in
Beijing today. Still, uncertainties including the pace of the
global recovery and Europe’s debt crisis may cloud the outlook,
he said.  
 China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter and industrial production moderated more than
forecast in June, the government said today. HSBC Holdings Plc
predicts growth will slip to 9 percent in the second half of the
year while UBS AG estimates fourth-quarter growth of 8.5 percent.  
 “The Chinese economy is slowing, but we’re talking about a
slowdown to a more sustainable level not a hard landing,”  Song Seng-Wun , a Singapore-based economist at CIMB Research Pte, said
before the data was released.  
 The prospect of rising incomes and hundreds of millions of
people moving into cities is prompting foreign companies to
boost investment in the world’s most populous nation.  
 Rising Wages  
 Average earnings  rose 82 percent in the five years to end-
2008, the latest figures available from the statistics bureau,
and 21 provinces and cities are raising minimum wages by as much
as a third. The government is also easing the movement of the
population from rural areas to towns and cities to speed up the
pace of urbanization which currently stands at about 40 percent,
according to official data.  
 VW, Europe’s largest carmaker, said today it signed an
agreement to build a new assembly plant in eastern Jiangsu
province as part of a plan to double capacity in China, now the
world’s largest auto market.  
 Tesco, the U.K’s biggest retailer, said in April it will
spend 2.5 billion pounds ($3.7 billion) over five years to open
shopping malls and hypermarkets in China as sales in its
domestic market plateau.  
 New Industries  
 China could see higher foreign investment if it opened more
industries including telecommunications, transport and resources
to overseas companies, the World Bank said in a July 7  report .
Nearly 52 percent of foreign investment last year went to
manufacturing, with another 19 percent spent on real estate,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  
 The State Council, the nation’s Cabinet, in April announced
measures including preferential policies for land use and tax
breaks, to attract foreign investment into “encouraged
categories” such as renewable energy, high-technology and
service industries in central and western China.  
 “We’re seeing a lot of interest from foreign companies who
want to invest in industries that are just opening to overseas
investment,”  Jack Perkowski , founder of Chinese vehicle
components maker ASIMCO Technologies, whose new venture JFP
Holdings advises foreign investors wanting to enter or expand in
the Chinese market. “We have clients in smart grid, education,
health care, distribution all looking at expanding in China.”  
 -- Sophie Leung ,  Zhang Dingmin . With assistance from  Jay Wang .
Editors:  Nerys Avery ,  Cherian Thomas   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        