-- Ex-Minister Dumas Wins Human Rights Fight With French State Over His Book
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-15T15:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/former-french-foreign-minister-dumas-wins-human-rights-case-over-book-fine.html

          
          
             Former French Foreign Minister
 Roland Dumas  won a human rights case over comments in his book
about an investigation of corruption allegations at Elf
Aquitaine SA.  
 The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France,
today ruled Dumas’s rights to freedom of expression had been
violated by a fine imposed by French judges. France was ordered
to pay Dumas 8,000 euros ($10,200).  
 Dumas, who will turn 88 next month,  complained  to the human
rights court after a French ruling that he had defamed a public
prosecutor in his book “L’Epreuve, Les Preuves,” about a
scandal connected with the oil company. Dumas was acquitted of
all charges in a corruption case in January 2003.  
 “Roland Dumas had merely exercised his freedom, as a
former defendant in criminal proceedings, to recount the story
of his own trial,” the court ruled today. “He had also been
careful to put his comments in context and to explain them.”  
 Guillaume Didier , a spokesman at the French Justice
Ministry, declined to comment when reached by telephone.  
 “I am very happy to hear this,” Dumas said in a telephone
interview after being informed about the decision. “This is a
very satisfactory end to a fight that’s been going on for many,
many years.”  
 The Paris appeals court in 2006 fined Dumas 3,000 euros for
defamation of French prosecutor Jean-Pierre Champrenault in his
book. France’s highest court, the Cour de Cassation, in 2007
rejected Dumas’s appeal.  
 ‘Dubious’ Analysis  
 “The method of analysis used to convict Roland Dumas had
been dubious,” the court said today, adding that at the time of
the book release no criminal charges were pending against Dumas.
This should have been considered “in weighing up the respective
interests of Roland Dumas and the public prosecutor.”  
 Dumas, who also once served as the head of France’s supreme
court, took his case to the human rights tribunal in August
2007, arguing that his book was published at a time when there
was a wider interest in the corruption case.  
 Dumas was cleared of corruption charges by a Paris appeals
court in 2003. The court overturned a jail sentence and fine
levied against the former minister two years earlier for
defrauding the oil company, now part of Total SA.  
 Prosecutors had said Dumas accepted gifts and used an
apartment bought with money that his ex-mistress,  Christine Deviers-Joncour , illegally received from Elf. They said she was
given a bogus job at Elf as a reward for helping convince Dumas,
a close friend of the late President  Francois Mitterrand , to
back the appointment of  Loik Le Floch-Prigent  as head of the oil
company.  
 The case is Dumas v. France, no. 34875/07.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        