-- U.K. Stocks Drop, led by Barclays, Rio Tinto Group; GlaxoSmithKline Rises
-- Adam Ewing
-- 2010-07-15T15:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/ftse-100-index-fall-bt-miners-lead-declines-on-fed-u-s-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             U.K. stocks  declined for a second
day, led by mining companies, as reports on manufacturing in the
U.S. lagged economists’ forecasts, reigniting concern that the
global recovery may falter.  
 Kazakhmys Plc fell 1.8 percent, while Rio Tinto Group
slumped 3.3 percent. Barclays Plc tumbled 4.2 percent.
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  jumped 1.8 percent after the drugmaker said
it has settled the majority of product-liability cases linked to
its Paxil and Avandia treatments. Experian Plc, the world’s
largest credit-checking company, rallied 2.5 percent after
saying first-quarter revenue rose.  
 The  FTSE 100  slipped 42.23, or 0.8 percent, to 5,211.29 at
the close in London. The gauge is 11 percent below this year’s
high on April 15 amid concern that growth will be curbed by
austerity measures from European governments cutting their
budget deficits and as economic reports in the U.S. and China
disappointed investors. The  FTSE All-Share Index  fell 0.7
percent and Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  slipped 1.7 percent today.  
 “The disappointing eco data from the U.S. on manufacturing
is pulling down stocks and shows the recovery isn’t out of the
woods yet,”  Peter Braendle , who helps oversee about $51 billion
at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich, said today.
“Still, we must not forget the good performance over the past
few days.”  
 Provisions Declined  
 Stocks erased earlier gains after a report showed
manufacturing in the New York region expanded in July at the
slowest pace this year, as measures of orders and sales cooled.
A separate report showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region cooled in July as orders fell for the first time in a
year, signaling the expansion is slowing.  
 Federal Reserve officials saw no need to boost stimulus to
the economy while trimming their forecasts for growth and noting
that risks to the recovery had increased, minutes of their June
meeting showed.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number
of members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” minutes released yesterday in Washington said.  
 China’s national growth slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from an 11.9 percent gain in January-March.
Inflation cooled to 2.9 percent in June, the statistics bureau
reported in Beijing today. Industrial output rose a less-than-
estimated 13.7 percent.  
 Mining Stocks  
 Kazakhmys, the biggest copper producer in Kazakhstan, fell
1.8 percent to 1,052 pence. Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest
mining company, slumped 3.3 percent to 3,030.5 pence, its third
fall in four days. Copper, lead, nickel and tin were among
metals that fell on the London Metal Exchange.  
 Barclays , the U.K.’s third-largest bank by assets,
retreated 4.2 percent to 300.35 pence. U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  will demand today that banks, including
those that didn’t receive a taxpayer rescue, set targets to
increase lending to businesses, people familiar with the matter
said.  
  Glaxo , the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, rose 1.8 percent to
1,203 pence. The company expects to record a 1.57 billion-pound
($2.4 billion) charge in the second quarter to settle cases
including claims that its Avandia diabetes treatment led to
heart attacks.  
 The company is trying to “put the Avandia litigation issue
behind them before earnings and get the story as clean as
possible going forward,”  Mark Clark , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in London, said in a telephone interview.  
 Experian  Plc, the world’s largest credit-checking company
rose 2.5 percent to 649 pence, its ninth day of gains and the
longest winning stretch since at least 2006. The company said it
is seeing a modest, gradual recovery in the U.K.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        