-- Fundraiser Nemazee Sentenced to 12 Years for $292 Million Fraud on Banks
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-07-15T16:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/fundraiser-nemazee-is-sentenced-to-12-years-in-prison-for-defrauding-banks.html

          
          
             Hassan Nemazee , a fundraiser for
President  Barack Obama  and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
was sentenced to 12 years in prison for cheating  Citigroup Inc., 
 HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Bank of America Corp.  of $292 million.  
 Calling the case a “Shakespearean tragedy,” U.S. District
Judge  Sidney Stein  in New York also ordered Nemazee to pay
restitution of $292 million to the three banks. Nemazee may
remain free until he reports to prison by Aug. 27, Stein said.  
 “Pride, ego, arrogance, self-image, self-importance -- all
of this and more are among the reasons why I turned down this
destructive path,” Nemazee told the judge before he was
sentenced. “At the end of the day, there is no logical reason”
for the crime, Nemazee said.  
 Nemazee, 60, pleaded guilty in March to four fraud counts,
admitting he used stolen funds to live a lavish lifestyle, to
donate to political candidates and charities, and to buy and
maintain real estate.  
 When he pleaded guilty, Nemazee said his fraud began in the
mid-1990s as he faced mounting financial difficulties. He
admitted using forged documents to borrow from banks. He
couldn’t repay the lenders as he intended because his
investments went bad, he said.  
 Nemazee raised at least $100,000 for Clinton’s 2008
presidential campaign, brought in more than $500,000 for Obama
after Clinton lost in the primary campaign and raised at least
$1 million for dozens of others, disclosure statements show.  
 Ambassador Nomination  
 President  Bill Clinton  in 1999 nominated Nemazee to be U.S.
ambassador to Argentina. The nomination was withdrawn after a
news report raised questions about his finances.  
 Nemazee is a Harvard University graduate whose  father 
founded a hospital in Shiraz in Iran during the reign of  Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi .  
 “The crime is breathtaking in its brazenness, in its
scope,” Stein said in court, noting his family’s heritage.
“The proud name Nemazee also involves your being a federal
felon. That’s really the tragedy.”  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney  Daniel Levy  called for a prison
term of 15 1/2 to 19 1/2 years, citing the “staggering loss”
in what the government has called a Ponzi scheme in which
proceeds from one bank were to repay others.  
 ‘Deception’  
 “There are hundreds of acts of deception,” Levy said of a
fraud scheme that began in 1998.  
 Nemazee repaid some of what he owed to Bank of America with
funds he got from Citibank and drew on a line of credit at
London-based HSBC to repay Citibank, prosecutors said.  
 “Part of the manner in which the defendant was able to
dupe the banks into lending him substantial sums of money was to
trade on his substantial reputation in political circles as a
prodigious fundraiser,” the government said in court papers.  
 Stein cited more than 120 letters written on Nemazee’s
behalf in handing down a shorter sentence than recommended.  
 The letters -- including one from longtime friend  Alan Quasha , Nemazee’s former business partner and a victim of his
scheme -- cited Nemazee’s charity, his involvement in the
political process and his concern for fellow Iranian-Americans,
Stein said.  
 The judge called Nemazee’s scheme “simplistic” and
“bound to fail” and said he wanted to impose a sentence that
would deter others.  
 ‘Home Run’  
 Defense attorney  Paul Shechtman  told the judge that a
banker recently asked Nemazee why he had made such risky
investments. Nemazee told the banker he wanted “to hit a home
run” so he could repay lenders, the lawyer said. “He didn’t,”
Shechtman said.  
 Prosecutors have hired a forensic expert to help locate
Nemazee’s assets. They are investigating whether he stashed any
overseas. The government assailed him in court papers for
failing to cooperate in its investigation.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Lockard valued Nemazee’s
Manhattan apartment on Park Avenue at $16.5 million, his estate
in Katonah, New York, at $2.1 million, and two other New York
apartments at more than $2 million each. Nemazee also owns real
estate in Italy.  
 Prosecutors recovered $93.5 million in cash and securities,
including $75 million that Nemazee took from an HSBC line of
credit shortly before his arrest last August, they said. The
government is seeking the return of political and charitable
donations to more than 100 organizations, Lockard said.  
 Park Avenue Apartment  
 Sheila Nemazee, the defendant’s wife, and other family
members are contesting part of the forfeiture efforts, claiming
assets such as the Park Avenue apartment as their own.  
 Nemazee invested alongside Quadrant Management Inc., run by
Quasha, to buy  Carret Asset Management LLC  in 2004. Quasha
discovered that Nemazee forged his signature in 2008 on a line
of credit to draw down millions of dollars, Quasha said in an
interview earlier this year.  
 Nemazee’s brother-in-law, Shahin Kashanchi, owner of a home
electronic-equipment installation business in Colorado, has been
indicted for helping Nemazee in his fraud. Prosecutors said
Nemazee paid Kashanchi $500 on several dates to fabricate
documents. Kashanchi denies wrongdoing. At today’s sentencing,
Nemazee said he deceived Kashanchi along with other family
members.  
 “For the rest of my life, I will seek to atone for my
actions,” he said.  
 The Nemazee case is U.S. v. Nemazee, 1:09-cr-00902, and the
Kashanchi case is U.S. v. Kashanchi, 1:10-cr-00085, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        