-- GE, ABB Lead Group Investing  $106 Million in Trilliant Smart Power Grids
-- Christopher Martin
-- 2010-07-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/ge-abb-lead-106-million-investment-in-trilliant-smart-grid-systems.html

          
          
             General Electric Co.  and ABB Ltd.
led a group investing $106 million in closely held  Trilliant
Inc. , which is benefiting from U.S. stimulus funding of so-
called smart meters for electric utilities.  
 Trilliant plans to use the money to increase development of
the meters, which allow utilities and consumers to more
efficiently manage power use, the Redwood City, California-based
company said today in a statement. Trilliant also won a contract
to build a $200 million smart-meter system for the 610,000
customers of Augusta, Maine-based Central Maine Power Co.  
 Trilliant and competitors such as  Itron Inc. , the largest
U.S. maker of utility meters, are beginning to benefit from the
$4.5 billion in stimulus funds the Obama administration directed
toward smart grids to improve efficiency and accommodate
electric vehicles and rooftop solar panels.  
 “There’s been an avalanche of requests from utilities,”
Trilliant Chief Executive Officer Andrew White said in an
interview yesterday. “We’re getting about one a week.”  
 In Maine, Trilliant plans to begin the design and
installation of meters made by GE and Landis & Gyr by September
and the system will be completed in early 2012, the company
said.  
 Venture capital firm VantagePoint Venture Partners and
Investor Growth Capital also contributed to the latest round of
funding, which White says should be the last one needed before
the company can finance its own growth or sell shares to the
public. GE is an investor in and supplier to Trilliant.  
 “GE and Trilliant are aligned around a common vision to
modernize the power grid to support the energy needs of our 21st
century society,” Luke Clemente, general manager for metering
at GE’s Digital Energy unit, said in the statement.  
 Central Maine Power is a unit of Spain’s Iberdrola SA,
which owns utilities with more than 30 million customers in 40
countries.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        