-- Germans Book Last-Minute Vacations at Record Pace as Job Outlook Improves
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2010-07-15T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/germans-book-last-minute-vacations-at-record-pace-as-job-outlook-improves.html

          
          
             Germans are booking up last-minute
breaks at a faster pace this summer as improved  consumer
confidence  and falling prices tempt more holidaymakers.  
 Some 14.4 percent of German holidays taken in June were
booked four weeks or less before departure, an increase of 0.3
percentage points from the same month in 2009, according to
figures collected by research firm GfK SE.  
 “Germans are booking later than ever before,” said  Nina Meyer , a spokeswoman for L’TUR Tourismus AG, Europe’s largest
last-minute-travel organizer. L’TUR’s package-tour sales are
ahead of last year and the company aims to sell 1 million
journeys for the year, up from 2009’s record 832,000, which
produced revenue of 360 million euros ($464 million), she said.  
 More than a quarter of Germans book their vacations less
than four weeks before departure, betting on cheaper prices, GfK
said. This year, a larger proportion are doing so, according to
the DRV travel association, as price comparison websites allow
customers to search for the best deals. German  unemployment  fell
for a 12th month in June as the economy stabilized, giving
consumers increased confidence to make purchases.  
 Sales at  5vorFlug,  a smaller competitor of L’TUR, jumped 60
percent in the first two weeks of July, compared with the year-
earlier period, according to director Lamia Azimi.  
 Customers who booked their holiday in June paid an average
of 57.30 euros per night, less than the 64.25 euros paid by
those who booked earlier through a standard catalog, according
to GfK. Both prices were lower than a year ago, GfK data shows.  
 Cheaper Vacations  
 Package tours sold in Germany are on average as much as 8
percent cheaper this year than in 2009, DRV spokesman Torsten
Schaefer said. Early bookings, six months or more before
departure, also rose as tour operators cut prices, he said.  
 Customers of Baden-Baden-based L’TUR, which is 75 percent
owned by  TUI Travel Plc , get an average 30 percent to 50 percent
discount on catalog prices, according to Meyer.  
 “Early bookings are not part of many customers’ reality of
life any more as the future has become less predictable,” Meyer
said. The ash plume from Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull volcano as
well as riots in Greece and Thailand also put some vacationers
off making bookings earlier in the year, she said.  
 “People are anxious early in the year whether they will
still have their job in summer to pay for a holiday trip,” said
 Klaus Kraenzle , an analyst at GSC Research in Dusseldorf.  
 Websites such as tripadvisor.com and holidaycheck.de give
customers more transparency to find the best price, he said.  
 U.K.  
 “To get the best deal, consumers are spending more time
online and that’s reducing the time between booking and
travel,” said Caroline Bremner, global travel and tourism
manager at Euromonitor International in London.  
 The increased incidence of late bookings isn’t restricted
to Germany. In the U.K., more holidaymakers are booking at the
last minute this year after a rise in the value of the pound
against the euro made the prospect of going to mainland Europe
more affordable, said Clare Banham, a spokeswoman for Abta, the
country’s association of travel agencies and tour operators.  
 “Late bookers don’t want to have the cheapest trip
possible, but they want to get the best value for money ratio,”
L’TUR’s Meyer said. The company’s package tours to Greece are
about 15 percent cheaper this year than in 2009, she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Frankfurt at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        