-- Germany Moves Target for Meeting EU Budget Limit Ahead as Economy Recovers
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-07-15T12:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/germany-accelerates-deficit-cutting-plan-by-a-year-finance-ministry-says.html

          
          
             Germany will bring forward by a year
its plan to adhere to European Union budget rules as the bloc’s
biggest economy recovers faster than expected from a recession.  
 The combined deficit of the federal government, the cities
and the 16 states will decline to 3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012, the budget-planning stability council agreed
yesterday, the Finance Ministry said today in an e-mailed
statement. Under the EU’s excessive-deficit procedure, Germany
had pledged to respect the 3 percent rule again in 2013.  
 Irrespective of the improved outlook, “the task of
structurally consolidating the federal budget remains
colossal,” the Berlin-based ministry said. All levels of
government must act together to “ensure confidence in
sustainably solid public finances in Germany and continue to act
as an anchor of stability in Europe.”  
 German  unemployment  fell for a 12th month in June and
 exports  jumped in May more than twice as much as economists
forecast, helping the government cut unemployment-benefit
expenses and raising its revenue. Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has
said Germany “has the eminent task of leading by example” on
deficit reduction.  
 Spain attracted increased demand today at a sale of 15-year
bonds, fueling optimism Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is
easing. Two- and 10-year securities rebounded after Spain sold 3
billion euros ($3.9 billion) of securities maturing in 2025,
meeting the maximum set for the offering. Portugal yesterday
sold 1.68 billion euros of debt, above its previous target.  
 Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s ruling coalition
today won a confidence vote when the Senate backed budget cuts
worth 25 billion euros to bring the shortfall in line.  
 “This year should see the peak in public deficits caused
by the direct and indirect burdens from the economic and
financial crisis,” the German Finance Ministry said. Even so,
accumulated German debt will swell to 80.5 percent of GDP by
2013, compared with 78 percent this year, before shrinking to 80
percent in 2014, the ministry said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        