-- Rory McIlroy Shoots a 63 to Lead Oosthuizen by 2 Strokes at British Open
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-07-15T20:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/germany-s-marcel-siem-takes-early-lead-at-british-open-in-st-andrews.html

          
          
             Northern Ireland’s  Rory McIlroy 
capitalized on calm weather, shooting a record-tying 63 in the
first round of golf’s British Open to take a two-shot lead over
South Africa’s Louis Oosthuizen.  
 McIlroy’s 9-under par was the best opening round in the
history of the Open, held this year at St. Andrews in Scotland,
and ties the record for lowest round in a major championship.
Oosthuizen, 27, completed his round at 7-under after a bogey on
the 17th.  Tiger Woods  also bogeyed that hole, finishing four
shots off the lead with a 67.  
 The 21-year-old McIlroy eagled the ninth and then had six
birdies on the back nine. McIlroy earned his first U.S. PGA Tour
victory in May at Quail Hollow in Charlotte, North Carolina,
making him the youngest winner on the tour since Woods in 1996.
 Woods , who won the British Open when it was held in St. Andrews
in 2000 and 2005, had three straight birdies, starting on the
12th, to move into contention.  
 “There’s still a lot of people to go,” McIlroy said in a
televised interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. “We
needed to take advantage of the conditions this morning, and I
was lucky enough to do that.”  
 McIlroy tied seven other golfers for lowest round at the
Open, and it’s the 24th time someone’s shot a 63 at a major.  
 Play began at 6:30 a.m. under gray clouds with little wind.
There was some rain during the day, and the wind picked up as
the skies cleared in the afternoon, according to the U.K. Met
Office.  
 ‘Many Opportunities’  
 Two-time major champion  John Daly , England’s Steven Tiley,
Scotland’s  Andrew Coltart , Peter Hanson of Sweden and  Bradley Dredge  of Wales finished their rounds on 66, three shots behind
McIlroy.  
 Daly won the British Open in 1995. He didn’t make the cut
at the Travelers Championship last month, shooting 1-over par.
The 44-year-old, wearing purple and lime-green paisley trousers
with a pink shirt, lost a stroke on the 17th, and missed a putt
on the last hole of the round that would’ve taken him to 7-
under.  
 “The way I hit my driver today, I had so many
opportunities,” Daly told reporters. “It was just a great,
solid ball-striking day.”  
 Oosthuizen is playing in his first British Open, although
he’s played St. Andrews in other tournaments.  
 “The first nine holes there was a lot of birdies out
there,” the South African told reporters. “Just got really
windy when we turned on the 12th.”  
 Watson, Cink  
 Tom Watson , who lost last year’s championship in a playoff,
was 1-over par, tied for 103rd. He had bogeys on the second,
third and fourth holes before getting a shot back on the fifth.
 Stewart Cink , who beat Watson last year, was tied for 61st at 1-
under.  
 Phil Mickelson , the four-time major champion who won the
Masters Tournament in April, shot a 1-over-par 73, with a
double-bogey at the 13th and an 18th-hole birdie. He’s tied for
97th and has never won the British Open.  
 Woods was the 6-1 favorite at U.K. bookmaker William Hill
Plc at the start of the day. He won by a combined 13 shots in
2000 and 2005 and has called St. Andrews his favorite course.
The 34-year-old was 11-under par for the first two rounds in
both his victories at the venue, which is located northeast of
the Scottish capital, Edinburgh. He went on to win by eight
shots in 2000 and posted a five-stroke victory in 2005.  
 Woods is tied for eighth place with eight golfers after his
round of 67. He was 1-under for six holes, then shot 5-under for
the next eight holes.  
 “With the conditions we had, you had to go get it,” Woods
told reporters. “You had to take advantage of it. I felt like I
did a pretty good job of that today, and I let the round
mature.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       McIlroy eagled the 9th  
                       
                         
                           Ross Kinnaird/Getty Images 
                         
                         Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland acknowledges the crowd after a birdie on the 9th hole during the first round of the 139th Open Championship on the Old Course, St Andrews. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland acknowledges the crowd after a birdie on the 9th hole during the first round of the 139th Open Championship on the Old Course, St Andrews.  Photographer: Ross Kinnaird/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Rick Horrow, founder of Horrow Sports Ventures Inc. and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, reports from the British Open at St. Andrews in Scotland.
     Horrow talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     US golfer John Daly on the 2nd tee during his opening Round of the British Open Golf Championship. Photographer: Glyn Kirk/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
