-- Giannoulias Outraised by Republican Opponent in Illinois U.S. Senate Race
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-07-15T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/giannoulias-outraised-by-republican-opponent-in-illinois-u-s-senate-race.html

          
          
             Alexi Giannoulias , the Democrat
seeking the U.S. Senate seat once held by President  Barack Obama , raised less than half as much as his opponent in the
year’s second quarter even after fundraising help from Vice
President  Joe Biden  and other administration officials.  
 Giannoulias, the Illinois treasurer, collected slightly
more than $900,000 during the quarter that ended June 30, with
the bulk of the money donated in June, said  Kathleen Strand , a
campaign spokeswoman.  
 The campaign for Representative  Mark Kirk , the Republican
Senate candidate, said July 1 that he raised $2.3 million during
the second quarter. Kirk had about $3.9 million in the bank for
his Senate race at the end of the quarter, according to his
campaign.  
 Giannoulias, 34, had about $1 million in the bank at the
end of the quarter, Strand said.  
 Strand said Giannoulias lagged behind in fundraising
because of a self-imposed pledge to reject contributions from
corporate political action committees and federal lobbyists.  
 “Alexi is running for Senate to stand up against powerful
corporate special interests that contributed to our country’s
economic meltdown,” she said.  
 She said Giannoulias supports the financial-regulation bill
headed toward passage in Congress later this week while Kirk,
50, voted against the measure in the House.  
 Other Visitors  
 Besides Biden, others traveling to Chicago to spur
contributions to help Giannoulias in the second quarter included
U.S. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan , White House Deputy Chief
of Staff  Jim Messina  and  David Plouffe , who was Obama’s
presidential campaign manager.  David Axelrod , a senior adviser
to the president, is scheduled to help Giannoulias raise money
on July 25.  
 Giannoulias planned to hold an event in Chicago today to
criticize Kirk for taking money from Wall Street, a criticism he
also leveled in April when campaign contributions from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  employees started to come under scrutiny after
the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a fraud lawsuit
against the company.  
 “We are confident we are going to have the resources we
need to compete,” Strand said.  
 Kirk has taken $1.5 million from the securities and
investment industry and its employees during his political
career, according to  data  from the  Center for Responsive
Politics .  
 June Figure  
 Kirk’s campaign said it raised $1 million in June -- its
largest fundraising month -- during the time when he was dealing
with questions about his service as a Navy reservist. At a June
29 news conference, Kirk apologized for exaggerations and said
he had been “careless.”  
 Giannoulias also faced challenges during the second
quarter. Since April 23, he has dealt with the political fallout
from closure by regulators of the Chicago bank that his family
owned.  
 Broadway Bank had been operating since January under terms
of a consent order with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
because of  commercial real estate  loan losses.  
 Losses associated with the bank meant Giannoulias paid no
income taxes in 2009, according to a copy of his return that he
released on July 2. His campaign said he would donate his
$25,859 refund to charity.  
 On July 2, Giannoulias reported assets of between $7
million and $29 million on a disclosure form he released. Strand
declined to say whether he planned to use any of his own money
for the campaign.  
 Giannoulias raised $1.2 million during the first quarter of
2010. Kirk, a five-term House member from Chicago’s northern
suburbs, raised $2.2 million during that quarter.  
 The Senate seat is held by Democrat  Roland Burris , who
isn’t seeking a full term. Republicans are trying to take
advantage of ethical problems experienced by Illinois Democrats,
including a public corruption trial of former Governor  Rod Blagojevich , who appointed Burris to complete Obama’s term after
the 2008 presidential election.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        