-- Glaxo Sees $2.4 Billion Legal Charge in Second Quarter
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2010-07-15T16:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/glaxo-says-it-will-report-2-4-billion-legal-charge-in-the-second-quarter.html

          
          
             GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, expects to record a 1.57 billion-pound ($2.4
billion) charge in the second quarter to settle cases including
claims that its Avandia diabetes treatment led to heart attacks.  
 The charge equates to an after-tax cost of 1.35 billion
pounds, the London-based company said in a statement today. It
covers settlements over a U.S. government probe into the
company’s former manufacturing site at Cidra, Puerto Rico;
product-liability and antitrust cases relating to the Paxil
antidepressant; and lawsuits regarding Avandia and other
products, Glaxo said.  
 Glaxo said it has settled the majority of product liability
cases linked to Paxil and Avandia. The sum set aside includes
provisions for cases that have been concluded and estimates for
those that are still under way, Glaxo said. The company is
trying to “put the Avandia litigation issue behind them before
earnings and get the story as clean as possible going forward,”
 Mark Clark , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said in a
telephone interview.  
 “Most people are going to say this settles a substantial
portion of their litigation and say it’s a positive, and some
will balk at the size of the charge,” Clark said. “By any
standard, $2.4 billion is a big charge for a quarter.”  
 Shares Gain  
 Glaxo  shares  gained 1.8 percent to close at 1,203 pence in
London trading. The stock has fallen 8.8 percent this year
including reinvested  dividends , giving the company a market
value of 62.5 billion pounds. Glaxo reports second-quarter
earnings on July 21. The 1.57 billion-pound charge is in
addition to 2.3 billion pounds the company had previously set
aside for legal costs.  
 “The substantial majority” of the product-liability cases
related to Avandia have been settled, the company said today.
Glaxo agreed to pay about $460 million to resolve a majority of
lawsuits over Avandia, people familiar with the accords said in
a July 13 Bloomberg News article.  
 A 2007 study led by  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at
the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, found that Avandia was linked to a
43 percent increased risk of heart attacks. The U.S. Food and
Drug Administration began re-examining its 2007 decision to keep
Avandia on the market after members of Congress voiced concerns
and data emerged from almost a dozen new studies. A panel of
advisers to yesterday recommended that the agency keep Avandia
on the market with stronger warnings about the risks of heart
ailments and with restrictions on which patients can be
prescribed the medicine.  
 ‘Vast Majority’  
 Glaxo has also settled the “vast majority” of product-
liability cases related to Paxil. Glaxo’s  2009 annual report 
describes U.S. and Canadian cases “alleging failure to disclose
data” on the drug’s use by children under the age of 18.  
 Bloomberg News reported in December that the company had
paid almost $1 billion to resolve lawsuits over Paxil since it
introduced the antidepressant in 1993, including about $390
million for suicides or attempted suicides said to be linked to
the drug, according to court records and people familiar with
the cases.  
 The drugmaker also resolved a dispute over Paxil with
generic-drug maker Apotex Inc. for “alleged violations of
federal antitrust laws, as well as those involving advertising
and state antitrust and consumer protection laws,” the annual
report said.  
 Plant Investigation  
 Glaxo agreed in principle with the U.S. attorney in
Massachusetts and the U.S. Justice Department to pay 500 million
pounds to settle the Cidra investigation, the company said
today.  
 U.S. regulators in 2005 seized some lots of Paxil CR when
it was discovered that pills made at the plant sometimes split
inappropriately, Bloomberg reported in 2006. The final
settlement related to tablets made at the plant, agreed in
 September 2009 , is subject to the negotiation and execution of
definitive agreements.  
 The terms of settlements are confidential, Glaxo said.
 Claire Brough , a spokeswoman for the company, declined to
comment beyond today’s statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Trista Kelley  in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     GlaxoSmithKline Plc chief executive officer Andrew Witty. Photographer: Kuni Takahashi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
