-- Gold May Rise on Global Slowdown Indications, Weaker Dollar, Survey Shows
-- Nicholas Larkin
-- 2010-07-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/gold-may-rise-next-week-on-signs-of-global-slowdown-dollar-survey-finds.html

          
          
             Gold may advance on signs of slower
economic growth and speculation that a weakening dollar will
boost demand for the metal as an alternative asset, a survey
found.  
 Sixteen of 24 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 67 percent, said bullion will climb next week.
Three forecast lower prices and five were neutral. Gold for
delivery in August was up 0.2 percent for this week at $1,212.20
an ounce at 11:30 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in New York. It
reached a record $1,266.50 on June 21.  
 The dollar slid to a nine-week low against the euro
yesterday as reports showed manufacturing in the New York and
Philadelphia regions expanded at the slowest pace this year and
U.S. producer prices fell. U.S. retail sales declined for a
second month in June, a July 14 report showed.  
 “The poor retail sales have created concerns about the
health of the U.S. consumer,” analysts at Dublin-based broker
 GoldCore Ltd.  said in a report. Other negative economic data
“may see the dollar come under pressure again.”  
 Gold climbed to an all-time high last month as investors
sought to protect their wealth against the crisis in Greece and
other European nations struggling to repay debt, and on concern
that the global recovery may slow. The Federal Reserve on July
14 cut its forecast for the U.S. economy’s expansion, and China
said yesterday that the pace of growth dropped in the second
quarter.  
 The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling that most respondents expect a
decline. The green line shows the gold price. The data shown are
as of July 9.  
 The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 183 of 319 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  
 This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 16  Bearish : 3  Neutral : 5  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        