-- Goldman Sachs Raises Asia's Stock Index Targets on China's Economic Policy
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-15T03:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/goldman-sachs-raises-asia-s-stock-index-targets-on-china-s-economic-policy.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
targets for an index of  Asian stocks , citing a “turning point”
in China’s economic policy outlook, easing concerns over
external growth risks and the completion of stock sales.  
 Analysts led by  Timothy Moe  raised their three-month
forecast for the MSCI Asia-Pacific excluding Japan Index to 425
from 405, and increased their six-month target for the gauge to
440 from 430, according to a Goldman Sachs report yesterday.
They maintained their 12-month forecast of 485.  
 The  MSCI index  slipped less than 0.1 percent to 399.9 as of
10:44 a.m. in Singapore. The measure has retreated 4 percent
this year amid concern that the spread in Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis and efforts by China to curb surging asset prices
and property speculation will derail the global recovery.  
 “We see positive market catalysts on the horizon,” the
analysts wrote. “We keep our fundamental views unchanged, but
now forecast returns to be more front-loaded as risk appetite
may return sooner.”  
 Chinese stocks are the worst performers in Asia this year,
with the  Shanghai Composite Index  tumbling 25 percent. A
government report today showed gross domestic product rose 10.3
percent in the second quarter, after expanding 11.9 percent in
January to March.  
 Growth in industrial output also rose a less-than-estimated
13.7 percent in June and inflation cooled to 2.9 percent amid
efforts by policy makers to rein in liquidity and curb mortgage
lending has succeeded, reports today showed.  
 ‘Turning Point’  
 “Investor sentiment is much more focused on policy and has
already priced in the softening of some economic indicators,”
the Goldman Sachs analysts wrote. “Recent signals from
policymakers have had pronounced effects in the equity market,
suggesting that a turning point may be near.”  
 The slowdown in China coincides with increasing concern the
economic rebound in Europe and the U.S. may be faltering.  
 Federal Reserve officials lowered their forecast for growth
this year to a range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent versus 3.2
percent to 3.7 percent in April, according to minutes of their
June meeting that were released yesterday. Growth in Europe’s
services and manufacturing industries also slowed for a second
month in June and German investor confidence declined for a
third month in July as governments stepping up budget
consolidation measures.  
 Faster Growth  
 Still, the International Monetary Fund last week predicted
the global economy will expand 4.6 percent in 2010, the fastest
growth since 2007, instead of a previously projected 4.2
percent.  
 Investors may have also “over-discounted” the impact of
upcoming share sales on markets, according to the Goldman Sachs
analysts. About $119 billion of capital has already been raised
this year, with another $158 billion of supply set for the rest
of the year, the brokerage estimated.  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  rose as much as 2.2 percent
in its first day of trading in Shanghai today after raising
$19.2 billion in the world’s biggest initial public offering in
four years that had lured investors from Qatar’s sovereign
wealth fund to  Standard Chartered Plc .  
 The amount of supply this year “looks reasonable,” the
Goldman Sachs analysts wrote. “Recent news stories have
reported that upcoming deals are securing a substantial
strategic shareholder base, and if they turn out to be more
oversubscribed than investors expect, the market may eventually
realize that the potential supply has been over-discounted.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Aaron Boesky, chief executive officer of Marco Polo Pure Asset Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for Chinese stocks and the nation's property market.
     Speaking in Hong Kong, Boesky also discusses Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s initial public offering, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Vikas Pershad, chief executive officer at Chicago-based hedge fund Veda Investments LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy for Chinese and Indian stocks.
     Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. may overtake local rival Bank of China Ltd. on its trading debut today to become the world’s seventh-largest lender by market value, according to analysts and investors. Pershad also discusses the outlook for U.S. and European stocks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
