-- Goldman to Pay $550 Million to Settle SEC Suit
-- David Scheer
-- 2010-07-15T21:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/goldman-sachs-to-pay-record-550-million-to-settle-sec-subprime-fraud-suit.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  agreed to
pay $550 million and change its business practices to settle
U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in collateralized
debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.  
 The penalty is the largest ever levied by the Securities
and Exchange Commission against a Wall Street firm, the agency
said in a statement announcing the accord today. Under the deal,
Goldman Sachs acknowledged it made a “mistake” and that
marketing materials for the instruments had “incomplete
information,” the agency said.  
 For Goldman Sachs, the payment amounts to 14 days of
earnings, based on first-quarter results. It’s the equivalent
of 93 cents a share, said  Brad Hintz , an analyst at Sanford
Bernstein & Co., who had estimated a cost of $1.05.  
 “This appears to be negligence, not fraud,” Hintz said in
an e-mail, citing the SEC’s use of words such as “mistake” and
“incomplete information.” “Bottom line the SEC and the
administration gets a headline and a ‘political win’ and GS gets
an ‘economic win.’”  
 Goldman Sachs created and sold the CDOs in 2007, as the
U.S. housing market faltered, without disclosing that hedge fund
Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying securities and bet
against the vehicles, the SEC said in an April 16 lawsuit.
Billionaire  John Paulson ’s firm earned $1 billion on the trade
and wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  
 ‘It Was a Mistake’  
 “It was a mistake for the Goldman marketing materials to
state that the reference portfolio was ‘selected by’ ACA
Management LLC without disclosing the role of Paulson & Co. Inc.
in the portfolio selection process,” the SEC’s statement quoted
Goldman Sachs as saying in settlement documents.  
 The bank, based in New York, didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing under the accord, the SEC said. The payment includes
a $300 million fine and $250 million as restitution to
investors. IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG, the first German
lender bailed out during the subprime crisis, will receive $150
million, and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc will get $100 million,
the SEC said.  
 Shares of Goldman Sachs, which  closed  today at $145.22,
dropped 21 percent since April 15, the day before the suit was
filed, and jumped 4.4 percent today after the SEC said it
planned a “significant announcement.” The S&P 500 Financial
Index declined 13 percent since the SEC filed suit.  
 “This takes a cloud off the stock,” said  Peter Sorrentino , senior portfolio manager at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, which manages $13.3 billion including
Goldman Sachs shares. For Goldman Sachs, the settlement means
“we’re done, turn the spotlight off, we’re out of here,” he
said.  
 Fabrice Tourre’s Case  
 Sorrentino said his firm may still reduce its holdings in
Goldman Sachs on any price gains because he’s concerned about
the effect of financial regulatory legislation passed today by
the Senate. Goldman Sachs said the agency doesn’t ‘‘anticipate’’
it will bring more claims linked to collateralized debt
obligations.  
 Fabrice Tourre, the only Goldman Sachs worker targeted by
the SEC, remains an employee of the firm and is on leave, said
 Lucas van Praag , a company spokesman. The firm promised to
cooperate with the SEC in the case against Tourre and other
“ongoing litigation,” the agency’s deputy enforcement
director,  Lorin Reisner , told reporters in Washington.  
 SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  called the
settlement “a stark lesson to Wall Street firms that no product
is too complex, and no investor too sophisticated, to avoid a
heavy price if a firm violates the fundamental principles of
honest treatment and fair dealing.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Whalen, managing director of Institutional Risk Analytics, talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s agreement to pay $550 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.
     Whalen speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- William Cohan, author of "House of Cards" and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s agreement to pay $550 million and change its business practices to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.
     The penalty is the largest ever levied by the Securities and Exchange Commission against a Wall Street firm, the agency said in a statement announcing the accord today. Cohan speaks with Pimm Fox, Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Ron Geffner, a partner at Sadis & Goldberg LLP, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s agreement to pay $550 million and change its business practices to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages. 
     Under the deal, Goldman Sachs acknowledged it made a "mistake" and that marketing materials for the instruments had "incomplete information," the agency said. Geffner speaks from New York. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Daniel Alpert, managing director at Westwood Capital, discusses Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s agreement to pay $550 million to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit accusing the company of misling investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.
     Whalen talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
