-- Google Receives Third-Highest Credit Rating From Moody's in First Ranking
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-07-15T22:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/google-receives-third-highest-credit-rating-from-moody-s-in-first-ranking.html

          
          
             Google Inc. , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, received a first-time credit rating
of Aa2, the third-highest investment grade, with a stable
outlook from Moody’s Investors Service.  
 The ranking reflects the company’s leading position in its
market and online advertising, and its growth in the developing
businesses of online video through YouTube, mobile advertising
and mobile operating systems, Moody’s said today in a statement.
The New York-based ratings company also cited Google’s $9.4
billion of  operating profit  and free cash flow for the 12 months
through June, $30 billion of cash, and lack of debt.  
 “An important factor in the company’s rating considers
Google’s substantial financial flexibility as well as its
conservative financial philosophy,’ Moody’s analyst  Richard J. Lane  said in the statement.  
 The ranking was constrained by Google’s “deep pocketed
competition” from top-rated  Microsoft Corp. , and unrated Apple
Inc. and Facebook Inc., “and a host of other companies that
represent known and unknown longer term challenges,” Moody’s
said.  
 Moody’s also assigned Mountain View, California-based
 Google  a short term rating for commercial paper of Prime-1, the
highest grade.  
 “Google will continue to maintain and defend its very
strong market position as well as continue to profitably grow
other areas such as mobile and display advertising,” Moody’s
said.  
 Google will generate $10 billion of free cash flow a year
over the “intermediate” term, Moody’s said.  
 Profit Miss  
 The company today reported profit that missed estimates as
the company increased spending to take on social-networking
sites such as Facebook. Excluding some items,  profit  was $6.45 a
share in the second quarter, the company said today on in a
 statement . Analysts had estimated $6.52, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Net income rose 24 percent to $1.84 billion,
or $5.71 a share, from $1.49 billion, or $4.66, a year earlier.  
 Google’s board also authorized the company to issue as much
as $3 billion in commercial paper. Proceeds from the sale would
go to general corporate purposes, the company said.  
 Shares of Google fell $20.33 to $473.69 in extended
trading. The shares, down 20 percent this year, had risen $2.68
to $494.02 by 4 p.m. in regular Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        