-- Google 2nd Quarter Profit Misses Estimates as Spending Rises
-- Brian Womack
-- 2010-07-15T23:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/google-profit-misses-estimates-as-web-search-engine-owner-boosts-spending.html

          
          
             Google Inc. , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, reported profit that missed
estimates as the company ramped up spending to take on social-
networking sites such as Facebook Inc. The shares fell.  
 Excluding some items,  profit  was $6.45 a share in the
second quarter, the company said today in a  statement . Analysts
had estimated $6.52, according to a Bloomberg survey. Net income
rose 24 percent to $1.84 billion, or $5.71 a share, from $1.49
billion, or $4.66, a year earlier.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  is hiring staff and
increasing the pace of acquisitions to keep from losing business
to Facebook, the largest social-networking site, and Apple Inc.,
a competitor in mobile software and advertising. Google’s total
expenses rose 22 percent to $4.46 billion in the period. The
company also plans to raise as much as $3 billion by selling
bonds, giving it more money to spend.  
 “Google’s been pretty clear that, ‘Hey, we’re going to be
putting in expenses,’” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC
Partners LP in New York who rates the shares “hold” and
doesn’t own any. “They threw a lot of money into R&D and sales
and marketing.”  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, fell $19.69, or
4 percent, to $474.33 in extended trading following the report.
The shares, down 20 percent this year, had risen $2.68 to
$494.02 in regular Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  
 Bonds Approved  
 Google approved the bond offering, its first, to fund
general corporate expenses. Moody’s Investors Service assigned
the company an Aa2 rating, the third-highest investment grade.  
 The ranking reflects Google’s leadership in Internet search
and online advertising, as well as the emerging businesses of
online video, mobile advertising and operating systems, the
ratings company said. Moody’s also cited Google’s $30 billion of
cash and lack of debt.  
 Excluding revenue passed on to partner sites, second-
quarter  sales  were $5.09 billion, compared with an  estimate  of
$4.98 billion in a Bloomberg survey of  analysts .  
 Estimates for the quarter declined in the past four weeks
as the dollar strengthened against other currencies, including
the euro, fueling concern that overseas revenue would be worth
less when brought back to the U.S. Analysts cut  sales estimates 
by an average of $21.8 million, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The company’s cash and short-term investments rose to
$30.1 billion during the second quarter. The company had
$26.5 billion in the first quarter, up from $24.5 billion at the
end of last year.  
 Using Its Cash  
 Google, facing a slowdown in the search market, is using
 cash  to invest in sources of faster growth. Search-based online
ad spending will rise 16 percent this year and decelerate to 8.6
percent in 2011, according to EMarketer Inc. of New York.  
 “It’s reasonable to expect that they would be back in
investment mode,” said  Mark Mahaney , an analyst with Citigroup
Investment Research in San Francisco, who doesn’t own the
shares. “The question is how big is that investment mode.”  
 Google increased  its staff  by almost 1,200 to 21,805 people
during the quarter. The company, which gained around 300 workers
from acquisitions, is using many of the hires for sales and
engineering projects, Chief Financial Officer  Patrick Pichette 
said during a call with analysts.  
 Investment Needed  
 “Successful products do require investments,” he said.  
 The 22 percent increase in total expenses was a bigger rise
than Google posted in the first quarter, when costs climbed 18
percent year over year.  
 Acquisitions  are a growing part of Google’s expansion
plans. It has announced or completed more than a dozen purchases
this year. In May, Google wrapped up its $750 million deal to
buy AdMob Inc., a provider of display ads that go on mobile
applications and websites, following approval by the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission.  
 This year, AdMob and Google together may generate more than
$100 million in U.S. mobile-ad sales, according to  IDC  in
Framingham, Massachusetts.  
 Early this month, Google said it had agreed to buy flight-
information provider ITA Software Inc. for $700 million. The
deal gives it more of the online travel business and helps it
compete with rivals  Microsoft Corp.  and Kayak.com.  
 Google operations in China, the world’s largest Internet
market, have come under pressure amid the company’s tussle with
the government over censorship rules.  
 “The timing of the Google-versus-China dispute suggests
that the revenue likely took a significant haircut in the second
quarter,”  Jordan Rohan , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
who rates the stock a buy, said in a note. China likely only
contributes $100 million to $150 million annually to Google, he
said.  
 -- Editors:  Tom Giles ,  Nick Turner   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Eric Schmidt, chairman and chief executive officer Google Inc. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Doug Anmuth, an analyst at Barclays Capital in New York, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Google Inc.'s financial results.
     Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine, reported profit that missed estimates as the company ramped up spending to take on social-networking sites such as Facebook Inc. Anmuth also discusses Yahoo! Inc.'s outlook. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Clayton Moran, an analyst at Benchmark Co., talks about Google Inc.'s second-quarter profit.
     The owner of the world's most popular search engine reported profit that missed estimates as the company ramped up spending to take on social-networking sites such as Facebook Inc. Moran talks with Matt Miller, Carol Massar and Julie Hyman on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
