-- Greenspan Says Congress Should Let Bush's Tax Cuts Lapse
-- Mike Dorning
-- 2010-07-16T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/greenspan-says-lawmakers-should-let-bush-s-tax-cuts-lapse-to-trim-deficit.html

          
          
             Former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Alan Greenspan , whose backing of  George W. Bush ’s 2001 tax cuts
helped persuade Congress to pass them, said lawmakers should
allow the reductions to expire at the end of this year.  
 “They should follow the law and let them lapse,”
Greenspan said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ,” citing a need for the tax
revenue to reduce the federal budget  deficit .  
 The former U.S. central bank chairman also said the
economy is in “a temporary slump” and would emerge with a
“sluggish” 3 percent growth rate in the second half of the
year. He said banks’ lending will remain constrained because
financial markets are pressing them to maintain higher capital
levels and predicted the Wall Street regulatory measure the
Senate passed yesterday will reduce credit available for low-
income consumers.  
 Greenspan’s comments on taxes, to be broadcast today and
over the weekend, place him in the middle of an election-year
struggle over extending Bush’s trillions of dollars of tax
cuts.  
 President  Barack Obama  campaigned for election in 2008 on
a promise of extending the Bush tax reductions for families
earning up to $250,000 while eliminating the cuts for higher-
income Americans, a position also embraced by most
congressional Democrats. Republicans have pressed for
continuing the cuts for higher-income families, arguing that a
weak economy is no time for a tax increase.  
 House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat,
stoked the debate with comments on June 22 that permanent
extension of the middle-class tax cuts may no longer be
affordable because of the growing U.S. debt burden.  
 Across the Board  
 Greenspan, in a telephone conversation after his Bloomberg
TV interview was taped, said his position is that all the
expiring Bush tax cuts should end, for middle-class and high-
income families alike.  
 Ending the cuts “probably will” slow growth, Greenspan,
84, said in the TV interview. The risk posed by inaction on the
deficit is greater, he said.  
 “Unless we start to come to grips with this long-term
outlook, we are going to have major problems,” said Greenspan,
who led the U.S. central bank from 1987 to 2006. “I think we
misunderstand the momentum of this deficit going forward.”  
 Deficit Difficulty  
 Greenspan said reducing the deficit is “going to be far
more difficult than anybody imagines” after “a decade of
major increases in federal spending and major tax cuts.”  
 The economic recovery recently has shown signs of slowing
with June growth in private payrolls below forecasts at 83,000,
and retail sales declining for the second straight month.
Federal Reserve officials trimmed their forecast for economic
growth during a June meeting, according to minutes released
yesterday.  
 The White House budget office projects the federal deficit
this year will exceed $1.5 trillion, or 10.6 percent of gross
domestic product, and anticipates the deficit in five years
will remain as high as $751 billion, or 3.9 percent of GDP.  
 Greenspan has warned for months that the rising federal
debt and deficits projected in future years together risk
driving up long-term interest rates and choking off capital
investment. In a March 26 Bloomberg TV interview, he said an
increase in long-term interest rates was a “canary in the
mine.”  
 Yields  on 10-year Treasury notes have since fallen from
3.85 percent to 2.99 percent at 6:35 p.m. in New York.  
 Middle-Class Cuts  
 Bush tax cuts that passed in 2001 and 2003 gave middle-
income earners a 10 percent rate on couples’ first $14,000 in
income; subsidies for college expenses, a higher child-care
credit and relief from the marriage penalty. Keeping those and
other reductions for the 130 million households earning less
than $250,000 would cost about $300 billion a year, according
to the congressional  Joint Committee on Taxation .  
 In addition to those benefits, high-income households got
reduced top marginal rates, elimination of phase-outs for some
deductions and personal exemptions, and benefited the most from
lower rates on dividends and capital gains. The cost of
continuing the tax cuts for the most prosperous Americans would
be about $55 billion for one year.  
 In his 2007 memoir, “The Age of Turbulence,” Greenspan
attacked Bush for abandoning Republican principles on spending
and deficits and expressed regret for his 2001 congressional
testimony favoring the tax cuts, recounting how former Treasury
Secretary  Robert Rubin  and Democratic Senator  Kent Conrad  of
North Dakota asked him to hold off on an endorsement.  
 “It turned out that Conrad and Rubin were right,”
Greenspan wrote in the memoir.  
 ‘Typical Pause’  
 Addressing current economic conditions in the Bloomberg
Television interview, Greenspan said the U.S. is in the midst
of “the typical pause usually associated with recovery.” When
GDP growth for the second quarter is reported, it will likely
be at a 2.5 percent rate, he said.  
 “There is no evidence that there is a big pickup
coming,” Greenspan said. “We should be in the area maybe of 3
percent growth for the rest of this year.”  
 Banks are likely to maintain tight lending policies until
their capital levels rise “a couple of percentage points more
than it is at least.”  
 “The market right now is requiring more than they
actually have,” Greenspan said. “Right now our financial
institutions are undercapitalized.”  
 He criticized the financial regulatory overhaul the Senate
passed, saying banks would cut back on consumer lending in
response to new rules.  
 “There are a lot of loans made currently by the banking
system which are marginal,” Greenspan said. “These loans will
be eliminated and those marginal loans are largely the lower
credit risks, lower income groups, and people who before would
be going to pawnbrokers. I do not think that is necessarily a
good trend.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alan Greenspan, former chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan talks with Judy Woodruff about what Congress should do about tax cuts enacted under President George W. Bush that are set to expire at the end of the year and the budget deficit. (This is an excerpt of the full interview to air this weekend on "Conversations With Judy Woodruff." Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
