-- GSI, BP, Brown, Tribune, Capmark, Spheris: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-15T12:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/gsi-capmark-spheris-circuit-city-spansion-lucien-piccard-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             GSI Group Inc., a provider of laser-
based systems to aid manufacturing, reported the results of the
rights offering accompanying the Chapter 11 plan the bankruptcy
judge approved in a May 27 confirmation order.  
 Existing shareholders and noteholders subscribed for about
80 percent of the $85 million in new common stock in the
offering. The remainder is being purchased by holders of senior
notes who agreed to backstop the offering. GSI said it expects
to implement the plan and exit reorganization around July 23.  
 As a result of the offering and elections made by
noteholders to take stock, GSI said that 86.1 percent of the
reorganized company’s stock will be held by existing
shareholders, including those who are also noteholders. Holders
of senior notes, including those who provided the backstop, will
have 13.9 percent of the new stock.  
 The elections to take stock mean that GSI under the plan
will issue $107 million in new 12.25 percent senior secured
notes.  
 The new plan would have allowed shareholders to retain up
to 87.3 percent of the stock through the offering. For details
on the plan, click here for the May 12 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 The original version of the plan and explanatory disclosure
statement were filed along with the Chapter 11 petition in
November. The original plan was rejected by holders of 80
percent of the stock.  
 When the plan was improved for stockholders, they went
along, permitting the judge to confirm the plan which then had
all classes voting in favor.  
 The petition in November listed assets of $555 million and
debt totaling $370 million. Bedford, Massachusetts-based GSI has
no substantial secured debt.  
 The case is In re MES International Inc., 09-14109, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  
 BP  Oil-Spill  News  
 House Bill Would Limit a Bankrupt BP’s Ability to Sell Assets  
 The House of Representatives passed an amendment to the
U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  on July 1 that would limit the ability of  BP Plc  to sell property without assuring that claims arising
from the oil spill are paid in full. The amendment would apply
to BP were it to file bankruptcy in the U.K. or the U.S.  
 If adopted in the Senate and signed by the president,  H.R.
5503  would change bankruptcy law by preventing a company from
selling “significant property” unless creditors with personal
injury or property damage claims from an oil spill are being
paid in full or two-thirds of creditors with oil spill claims
consent to the sale.  
 Similarly, a company couldn’t sell property under a Chapter
11 plan unless two-thirds in amount of oil spill claims vote in
favor. The bill would preclude BP from using the so-called
cramdown process to confirm a plan and sell substantial property
over a “no” vote from creditors in the oil spill class.  
 If an involuntary bankruptcy petition were filed against BP
or subsidiaries, the bill likewise would prohibit selling
substantial property absent the same protections for spill
creditors.  
 The bill as adopted in the House deleted provisions
originally proposed by House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers Jr. that would have precluded BP’s use of Chapter 15 of
the Bankruptcy Code. With the provisions deleted, if BP or
subsidiaries were file their principal bankruptcies in the U.K.,
Chapter 15 would allow the U.K. court to decide how creditors
should be paid and whether their claims are valid.  
 The bill as passed in the House nonetheless appears to
preclude BP from selling property in the U.S. under Chapter 15
unless oil spill creditors consent or are paid in full.  
 Chapter 15 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code pertains to
multinational companies with bankruptcies pending in more than
one country. Generally speaking, the court in the country with
the head office is entitled to control the bankruptcy worldwide.  
 Updates  
 Capmark Creditors Investigating $1.5 Billion Loan  
 Capmark Financial Group Inc. agreed that the official
creditors’ committee can examine the company’s files as part of
an investigation into a $1.5 billion secured loan made 149 days
before the Chapter 11 filing in October. The committee believes
loan proceeds were used to pay off unsecured debt owing to
practically the same lenders.  
 The company agreed to begin producing document by Aug. 2
about the loan and alternatives the company considered. The
committee reserved the right to demand documents from directors
who weren’t company employees.  
 Because the loan was made more than 90 days before
bankruptcy, it can’t be attacked as a so-called preference.
Although the committee believes the loan delayed an inevitable
bankruptcy, the panel’s papers didn’t lay out a theory
explaining how the loan could be attacked successfully in
bankruptcy.  
 After filing in Chapter 11, Capmark completed three sales
to generate more than $1 billion cash.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .
and  Leucadia National Corp . bought most of the business for $468
million.  
 Capmark previously said it intends on filing a
reorganization plan giving stock to unsecured creditors while
reorganizing around its non-bankrupt bank subsidiary which was
not sold. Based in Horsham,  Pennsylvania , Capmark was called
GMAC Commercial Holding Corp. before control was sold in 2006.
It had been GMAC’s servicing and mortgage banking business.  
 KKR & Co.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., Dune Capital
Management LP and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC owned 75.4
percent of Capmark following a 2006 acquisition from General
Motors Corp. for $1.5 billion cash and repayment of $7.3 billion
in debt. Capmark’s debt includes a $1.5 billion term loan
secured by all assets except Capmark’s bank’s, $234 million
remaining under a bridge loan, a $4.6 billion senior credit,
$2.34 billion in notes, and a $250 million junior subordinated
debt. The bank had assets of $11.12 billion and deposits of
$8.39 billion, according to a court filing.  
 The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Brown Publishing Creditors Begin Attack on Lenders  
 The creditors of  Brown Publishing Co.  began an offensive
this week against the secured lenders. Brown is the publisher of
the largest-circulation local newspaper on eastern Long Island.  
 The committee started a lawsuit yesterday in bankruptcy
court against the lenders, contending that $72 million in liens
given in September 2007 were fraudulent transfers that can be
voided in bankruptcy.  
 The committee describes how some of Brown’s subsidiaries in
substance gave guarantees of pre-existing debt owing by sister
companies. Because the debt wasn’t originally their obligation
and they received no proceeds from the loan, the committee
contends the loan was a voidable transfer as to some of the
subsidiaries that were made insolvent.  
 On July 12 the committee filed a motion asking the
bankruptcy judge in Central Islip,  New York , to prohibit the
lenders from making a so-called credit bid at the auction
scheduled for July 19. If credit bidding is permitted, the
lenders can us their secured debt rather than cash as currency
at the auction.  
 The bankruptcy judge scheduled a hearing for today where
she will decide if the lenders can credit bid. The lenders are
Prudential Insurance Co. of America, Allied Irish Bank PLC,
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., and Wells Fargo Bank NA.  
 Initial bids are due tomorrow in advance of the auction.
The hearing for approval of the sale is set for July 22. The
banks have said they intend to credit bid.  
 The opening bid of $15.9 million will come from a group
including  Roy Brown , the president and chief executive.  
 Brown publishes  Dan’s Papers , the weekly newspaper with the
largest circulation on eastern Long Island, New York. It also
publishes the  Montauk Pioneer .  
 The Roy Brown group is required to make a 5 percent cash
deposit to qualify as a bidder. In setting up rules for the
auction, the judge previously ruled that the secured lenders,
with PNC Bank NA as agent, aren’t required to make a deposit and
may bid secured debt rather than cash.  
 Dolan Media Co., publisher of the  Long Island Business
News , previously filed papers earlier in the case saying it’s a
potential bidder.  
 Based in Cincinnati, closely owned Brown listed assets of
$94 million against debt totaling $104.6 million. First-lien
lenders are owed $70.2 million on a revolving credit and term
loan. Second-lien lenders are owed $24.3 million.  
 Brown has 15 daily, 32 weekly, 11 business and 41 free
publications. There are also 51 websites. Seventy-eight of the
publications are in Ohio. The business publications are in seven
states.  
 The case is In re Brown Publishing Co., 10-73295, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District New York (Central Islip).  
 Spheris Schedules August 26 Confirmation Hearing  
 Spheris Inc., a transcriber of medical dictation for
doctors and hospitals, will hold a confirmation hearing on Aug.
26 for approval of the liquidating Chapter 11 plan. The
bankruptcy judge in Delaware approved the explanatory disclosure
statement on July 13.  
 The disclosure statement tells unsecured creditors and
holders of senior subordinated notes they should take home a
recovery of almost 23 percent. If Spheris fail to eliminate a
$21.3 million disputed claim asserted by MedQuist Inc., the
dividend to creditors will be lower, the disclosure statement
says.  
 Spheris, now formally named SP Wind Down Inc., sold the
business for $98.83 million cash and a note later sold for
$13.77 million. At Jan. 31, secured lenders were owed $75.6
million. Unsecured claims consist largely of $125 million on
subordinated notes.  
 Franklin, Tennessee-based Spheris listed assets of $61
million against debt totaling $225 million, including $75.6
million on a senior secured credit and $125 million on
subordinated notes. For nine months ended in September, revenue
was $120 million.  
 The case is In re SP Wind Down Inc., 10-10352, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Sunwest Confirms Plan to Permit Blackstone Sale  
 The Chapter 11 plan for  Sunwest Management Inc. , now
formally named Stayton SW Assisted Living LLC, was confirmed by
the U.S. District Court on July 13, the company said in a
statement yesterday.  
 Approval of the plan allows Sunwest to complete a $1.3
billion asset sale to a group including an affiliate of  Blackstone Group LP , Emeritus Senior Living and Columbia Pacific
Advisors, according to a prior statement from Emeritus. Subject
to confirmation of the plan, the district judge approved the
sale in May.  
 The price includes cash, securities, and assumption of
approximately $1 billion in debt. To read about the sale, click
here for the May 12 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The group is
acquiring 149 communities made up of 12,165 units.  
 As originally announced in August 2009, Sunwest’s receiver,
creditors and investors reached agreement through mediation on a
plan to restructure the company and make distributions to
creditors through Chapter 11.  
 The plan gives creditors the option of taking cash or
securities in the new company. Those who elect securities may
receive either preferred stock with a 6 percent dividend or up
to 49 percent of the common stock.  
 A receiver was appointed by a federal district judge after
the Securities and Exchange Commission alleged Sunwest was
violating securities laws. The Chapter 11 case was moved from
the bankruptcy court to the district judge who was handling the
SEC receivership.  
 The case is In re Stayton SW Assisted Living LLC, 09-06082,
U.S. District Court, District of Oregon (Eugene).  
 Tribune Creditors Spar on Time for Confirmation Trial  
 The bankruptcy judge didn’t rule yesterday on how much time
he will devote at the plan confirmation hearing to claims by
some creditors of newspaper publisher Tribune Co. that the $13.8
billion leveraged buyout led by Sam Zell in December 2007
included fraudulent transfers.  
 The Chapter 11 plan proposes to resolve the fraudulent
transfer claims through a settlement some creditors oppose.
Although he said a full-blown fraudulent transfer trial isn’t
required before confirmation, the judge said the underlying
merits of the claims must be addressed. The judge will revisit
the issue at a hearing Aug. 9. For Bloomberg coverage of the
hearing, click here. For Associated Press coverage, click here.  
 Tribune’s examiner, Kenneth N. Klee, is scheduled to issue
a report by July 26 giving his opinion on the strength of
arguments about the fraudulent transfer. The confirmation
hearing was rescheduled to begin on Aug. 30 so creditors would
have time to digest the report before the Aug. 6 voting
deadline. Klee won’t provide an opinion about the merits of the
proposed settlement.  
 The plan, filed in April, is opposed by holders of $3.6
billion in pre-bankruptcy debt who announced their opposition
even before the settlement was formally disclosed. To read about
the plan, the proposed settlement, and the parties’ arguments,
click here for the April 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Circuit City Has Buyer for Land Under Head Office  
   Circuit City Stores Inc . has a $2.75 million offer for the
sale of land in the Deep Run Business Park in Richmond,
Virginia, where the corporate headquarters was located. The
property being sold doesn’t include the building.  
 Other bids are due by July 27. An auction will take place
July 29, followed by a hearing to approve the sale on Aug. 4.  
 Circuit City and the official creditors’ committee are at
loggerheads over details in the liquidating Chapter 11 plan. The
bankruptcy judge sent them to mediation with instruction to
report to him at a July 22 status conference.  
 Circuit City and the committee jointly filed a liquidating
plan in last August for the former 721-store electronics
retailer. They couldn’t agree on who would control the
liquidating trust to be created under the plan.  
 In addition to the dispute over the liquidating trust, the
plan couldn’t be confirmed in view of outstanding Canadian tax
claims.  
 All except approximately $5 million to $20 million in
secured claims were fully paid from store liquidation proceeds.
Unsecured creditors with claims ranging from $1.8 billion to $2
billion were estimated to have a recovery ranging between
nothing and 13.5 percent, according to the explanatory
disclosure statement for the joint plan.  
 Circuit City filed under Chapter 11 in November, 2008, in
its Richmond, Virginia, hometown, listing assets of $3.4 billion
and debt totaling $2.3 billion as of Aug. 31, 2008. Papers
originally listed $898 million owing to the secured revolving
credit lenders. Unsecured trade suppliers were owed another $650
million at the outset, the company said in a court filing.  
 The case is In re Circuit City Stores Inc., 08-35653, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond).  
 Spansion and Tessera Moving Dispute to District Court  
 Companies in Chapter 11 typically want the bankruptcy court
to decide every dispute, perhaps assuming the bankruptcy judge
by nature is inclined in favor of the reorganizing company.  
 Spansion Technology Inc., a manufacturer of flash memory
semiconductors, is an exception to the rule when it comes to a
patent dispute with Tessera Inc. over packaged semiconductor
components. Spansion’s Chapter 11 plan was confirmed and
implemented on May 10.  
 The dispute began when San Jose, California-based Tessera
filed a patent infringement suit in 2005 in U.S. District Court
in  California . The suit was put on hold after Tessera began a
proceeding before the International Trade Commission to halt the
importation of goods that allegedly infringed the patents.
Ultimately, the ITC ruled that there were infringements and
ordered a limited exclusion prohibiting importation of
infringing goods.  
 Tessera filed a $219 million claim against Spansion and
followed up with a motion for allowance of a $96.8 million
administrative claim based on patent infringement. If allowed,
an administrative claim is of a type requiring full payment.  
 Spansion and Tessera agreed that the disputes in bankruptcy
court over the claims should be transferred to the district
court in California. They will call on the bankruptcy judge to
bless the transfer of the proceedings to California at a July 28
hearing.  
 Spansion’s plan reduced debt from $1.5 billion to less than
$480 million. To read about the plan, click here for the Dec. 31
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Before filing under Chapter 11 in March 2009, Sunnyvale,
California-based Spansion hadn’t reported a profit since being
spun off by  Advanced Micro Devices Inc . in 2005. It had a $352
million net loss during the first three quarters of 2008 on net
revenue of $1.8 billion.  
 The case is  Spansion Inc ., 09-10690, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Point Blank Committee Wants Chapter 11 Trustee or Examiner  
 Point Blank Solutions Inc., a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, should be taken over
by a trustee in Chapter 11 or an examiner should be appointed,
the official unsecured creditors’ committee said in a July 13
motion.  
 The committee believes the case is being run for the
benefit of Steele Partners LLC, a New York-based private equity
fund. The committee points out how Steele Partners controls the
board and is also the secured lender in the Chapter 11 case.  
 The motion for a trustee or an examiner is on the
bankruptcy court calendar for Aug. 3.  
 The committee believes there is a need for a “neutral and
independent fiduciary” because Point Blank has “placed the
interests of insiders above maximizing the value of these
estates.” The creditors’ panel notes that while the company
filed under Chapter 11 on April 14, it didn’t announced until
almost three months later that it was “considering strategic
alternatives,” including a sale.  
 Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,  Florida , and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 was more than $153 million.  
 The petition listed assets of $64 million against debt
totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a $10.5 million secured
loan to be paid off by financing for the Chapter 11 case. Point
Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade suppliers. Three
former officers were indicted on charges of securities fraud.  
 The case is In re  Point Blank Solutions Inc ., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  
 New Filing  
 Lucien Piccard Watch Business Files in Fort Lauderdale  
 LP Watch Group Inc., the Hollywood, Florida-based owner of
the  Lucien Piccard  watch brand, filed for Chapter 11
reorganization yesterday in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, listing
assets of $10.59 million against unsecured debt of $6.24
million.  
 Affiliate A.G. Inc., also known as Lucien Piccard Inc.,
listed the same amount of assets and debt totaling $11.96
million, including $5.69 million in secured debt owing to
Comerica Bank & Trust NA.  
 The company diversified into other types of jewelry, in
part by acquiring an 80 percent stake in Charles Winston Luxury
Group LLC, which also filed a Chapter 11 petition. The Charles
Winston business makes what the company calls affordable jewelry
using simulated gems.  
 Other brands include Dufonte, Maddy Emerson, and Venetian
Gold.  
 The case is In re LP Watch Group Inc., 10-29921, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Texas Rangers Auction, Visteon, Lehman, and Nortel: Audio  
 The auction in early August for the  Texas Rangers  baseball
club, the Visteon Corp. ruling on retiree benefits, access to  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . documents, and the Nortel Networks
Inc. Chapter 11 plan are discussed in the latest bankruptcy
podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To
listen, click here.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Bank May Violate Stay by Holding Exempt Account Funds  
 A bank that refuses to turn over exempt assets in an
account does so at peril of being hit with sanctions for
violating the automatic stay in bankruptcy, the Appellate Panel
for the Ninth Circuit ruled on June 30.  
 The case involved two individuals in Chapter 7 who were
claiming an exemption for 75 percent of some $17,000 in bank
accounts at Wells Fargo NA. The day after bankruptcy, the bank
told the Chapter 7 trustee and the bankrupts that it would
release the money only as directed by the trustee.  
 The trustee never consented to releasing the funds.  
 After the time expired for the trustee to object to the
claimed exemption, the bankrupts demanded the bank turn over the
exempted money. The bank didn’t, and the bankrupts filed a
motion in bankruptcy court to hold the bank in contempt and
assess damages.  
 The bankruptcy judge denied the contempt motion, saying
that a violation of the automatic stay only applies to property
of the bankrupt estate. The bankruptcy judge reasoned that
exempt property is not property of the estate, thus making the
automatic stay inapplicable.  
 The Bankruptcy Appellate Panel reversed, relying in part on
the Supreme Court’s June decision in Schwab v. Reilly for the
proposition that property claimed as exempt is property of the
estate, at least initially. Accordingly, the bank could be
guilty of an automatic-stay violation for improperly asserting
control over the account.  
 The Appellate Panel utilized a narrow reading of a 1995
Supreme Court case called Citizens Bank of Maryland v. Strumpf
and held that Wells Fargo was exercising control over the
account because the bank was not protecting a right of setoff.  
 The Appellate Panel didn’t go so far as to hold the bank in
contempt. It sent the case back to the bankruptcy court with
instructions to decide whether continuing to freeze the account
“in the absence of instructions from the trustee was
reasonable” in light of the bankrupts’ demands that the bank
turn over the exempt funds.  
 The panel said that the bank’s mistake was in forcing the
bankrupts to file papers in bankruptcy court to force a turnover
of exempt money. The ruling means that a bank must either turn
over money after the time for challenging exemptions has passed
or take the initiative by filing papers in bankruptcy court
seeking absolution for turning over property that appears
exempt.  
 On remand, the bankruptcy court must also decide what
damages, if any, the bankrupts are entitled to receive.
Bankruptcy law gives individuals the right to punitive damages
“in appropriate circumstances.”  
 The case is Mwangi v. Wells Fargo Bank NA (In re Mwangi),
09-1408, Bankruptcy Appellate Panel for the Ninth Circuit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        