-- NBA's Golden State Warriors Sold to Lacob, Guber for Record $450 Million
-- Aaron Kuriloff
-- 2010-07-16T01:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/guber-lacob-are-said-to-buy-nba-s-golden-state-warriors-for-450-million.html

          
          
             Joe Lacob  and  Peter Guber  bought the
Golden State Warriors for $450 million, spending a record amount
for a team that had the second-worst record in the National
Basketball Association during the current owner’s tenure.  
 Lacob, managing partner at the San Francisco Bay area-based
venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, and
Guber, chairman of Mandalay Entertainment Group, bought the team
from  Christopher Cohan , according to Galatioto Sports Partners,
which advised Cohan on the sale.  
 They outbid other potential buyers including  Larry Ellison ,
the billionaire chief executive of Oracle Corp.  
 “I’m incredibly excited to have the opportunity to be the
next steward of this storied NBA franchise,” Lacob said in a
news release. “This is my dream come true. Peter and I intend
to do what we do best -- innovating and building.”  
 The Oakland, California-based Warriors cost Cohan $119
million in January 1995. He sold 20 percent to a group of local
investors in July 2004.  
 Lacob is also an investor with the Boston Celtics, who won
the team’s 17th NBA title 2008. Lacob must sell his share of the
Celtics, NBA spokesman  Tim Frank  said in an e-mail.  
 “Joe is an experienced investor and avid and knowledgeable
basketball fan who will be an excellent owner for the
Warriors,”  Steve Pagliuca , one of the lead investors in the
Celtics, said in an e-mail.  
 Money ‘On Line’  
 Guber’s Mandalay Entertainment makes movies and television
shows and it owns or operates six minor-league baseball teams,
according to the company’s Web site. His experience with those
businesses will help in running the Warriors, he said.  
 “I have my time, reputation and money all on the line,”
Guber said in an interview.  
 The NBA and its players union are negotiating a new labor
contract, which Commissioner  David Stern  says must include more
favorable terms for owners. The Lacob-Guber group gets a team in
the nation’s sixth-largest television market, according to
Nielsen. Golden State averaged 18,027 fans last season, 11th in
the 30-team league.  
 The Warriors won two championships playing in Philadelphia
between 1946 and 1962, and  Wilt Chamberlain  set an NBA record by
scoring 100 points in one of the team’s games against the New
York Knicks in the final season. The franchise relocated to San
Francisco in 1962 and Oakland in 1971, winning a championship in
1975 with players including  Rick Barry  and  Jamaal Wilkes .  
 Championships, Losses  
 Under Cohan, the Warriors had the worst playoff record in
the NBA, making the postseason once in the past 16 campaigns.
During his tenure, the team posted a 477-803 record, the second-
worst in the league behind the Los Angeles Clippers. Golden
State was 13th in the Western Conference last season with a 26-
56 record, 31 games behind the Los Angeles Lakers.  
 The previous record price for an NBA team was $401 million,
for the Phoenix Suns in 2004. Galatioto also handled that sale.  
 “The sale process was extremely competitive and the price
reflects the Warriors’ exceptional fan base, the outstanding
demographics of the Bay Area, the high level of interest in the
team and the strength of the NBA,” Galatioto said in the
release.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        