-- Liberals Would Stop F-35 Fighter Jet Contract That May Be Announced Friday
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-07-15T18:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/liberals-would-stop-f-35-fighter-jet-contract-that-may-be-announced-friday.html

          
          
             Canada’s opposition Liberal Party
wants lawmakers to review the Conservative government’s plans to
buy new fighter jets, and said they would stop a contract to buy
F-35  Joint Strike Fighter  jets from Lockheed Martin Corp. should
they come to power.  
 Marc Garneau , spokesman for the Liberal Party’s industry
and science issues, told reporters that Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government may be poised to announce the F-35 purchase
without seeking bids from competing firms, citing media reports.
He said the contract risks wasting billions of taxpayers’
dollars.  
 “We don’t need replacement planes until 2017, which means
we have the time to make the right decision and get the best
value for money,” Garneau said, calling the government’s
procurement policies “secretive” and “lacking in
transparency.”  
 Canada has said it wants to acquire 65 fighter jets to
replace its aging fleet of CF-18 planes. Le Devoir newspaper
reported last week the government will spend C$16 billion ($15.4
billion) to buy and maintain the  Lockheed  fighters.  
 Defence Minister  Peter MacKay  will make “an important
defence procurement announcement” Friday at 11 a.m. New York
time, according to a statement sent by e-mail.  
 Canada invested C$150 million in the Joint Strike Fighter
program in 2002, allowing it to buy aircraft and to have
domestic firms win contracts. The U.S. program to develop new
jets has eight other countries participating, including the
U.K., Australia and Italy.  
 Procurement Policy  
 The projected cost of the program is now $382.4 billion, 65
percent higher than the $232 billion estimated when the program
started in 2002, according to U.S. Defense Department figures
released last month, making it the most expensive U.S. weapons
program.  
 “Participation in the JSF program has allowed the
Department of National Defence and Canadian industry to be part
of a cutting edge international military program,” Jay Paxton,
a spokesman for MacKay, said in an e-mail. “Canada participated
in an extensive and rigorous competitive process where two
bidders developed and competed prototype aircraft.”  
 Paxton also said the minister will further comment at
tomorrow’s announcement.  
 Lawmakers should give Lockheed’s competitors a chance to
testify at a  parliamentary committee  hearing on the contract,
Garneau said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        