-- IKB, Nomura, Lehman, Federated, Las Vegas Sands, Rajaratnam in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-15T10:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/ikb-nomura-lehman-federated-las-vegas-sands-rajaratnam-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Novartis AG’s  U.S. unit agreed to
pay as much as $152.5 million to settle a gender-discrimination
class action brought by female workers.  
 As part of the settlement, Novartis will distribute money
to eligible class members and spend an additional $22.5 million
over three years to improve its personnel policies, the Basel,
Switzerland-based drugmaker said yesterday in a statement.  
 The settlement, which was filed in federal court in
Manhattan yesterday, follows a May 19 jury verdict in the case
awarding $250 million in punitive damages to a group of 5,600
employees. The settlement must be approved by the judge
overseeing the case before it can take effect.  
 “The terms of this agreement allow for full compensation
of both former and current female field force employees,
ensuring that every woman who worked at Novartis over the past
eight years has been compensated fairly,” David Sanford, lead
counsel for the plaintiffs, said in the statement.  
 The settlement wipes out the May verdict, which was subject
to challenge in post-trial motions or on appeal.  
 “While we believe that there was not systemic
discrimination at NPC, the trial revealed that some of our
associates had experiences influenced by managerial behavior
inconsistent with our values,” Joe Jimenez, Novartis AG’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  
 As part of the settlement, Novartis won’t oppose a request
by the class attorneys for $40.1 million in fees and expenses,
which must be approved by the judge.  
 The settlement money will go to the class, which is made up
of current and former women employees who held sales positions
at Novartis from July 15, 2002, until yesterday.  
 The case is Velez v. Novartis Corp., 04-cv-09194, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Bayer Loses Fifth Straight Trial Over U.S. Rice Crops  
 Bayer AG  lost its fifth straight trial over contaminated
U.S. long-grain rice to a Louisiana farmer who claimed the
company’s carelessness with its genetically engineered seed
caused exports to plunge.  
 A jury in St. Louis said yesterday the company should pay
damages of $500,248. The company previously lost two trials in
state court and two in federal, for a total of more than $52
million in jury awards.  
 It faces about 500 additional lawsuits in federal and state
courts with claims by 6,600 plaintiffs. It hasn’t won any rice
trials so far. The Louisiana grower, Danny Deshotels, and his
family claimed the company and its Bayer CropScience unit were
negligent in testing their genetically modified LibertyLink
seed, causing a dive in exports to Europe.  
 “Five different juries under the laws of four different
states in both federal and state courts now have unanimously
found that Bayer was negligent and liable to rice farmers for
damages,” Don Downing, Deshotels’ lawyer said after the trial.
“Not a single juror in any of the five trials found for
Bayer.”  
 Bayer, based in Leverkusen, Germany, denied it was
negligent and disputed the damages claims. It said after
yesterday’s verdict it “will consider its legal options.”  
 The case is In Re Genetically Modified Rice Litigation, 06-
md-1811, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St.
Louis).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-IKB Chief Ortseifen Convicted Over Subprime Risks  
 Former  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG  Chief Executive
Officer Stefan Ortseifen became the first person in Germany to
be convicted over the financial crisis and was given a 10-month
suspended sentence by a German court yesterday.  
 The Dusseldorf Regional Court convicted Ortseifen for
misstating IKB’s risks regarding asset-backed securities tied to
the U.S. mortgage market in a  press release , which his trial
centered on. The former executive has denied wrongdoing. In
addition to the suspended term, Ortseifen must pay 100,000 euros
($127,000) to charities.  
 “It wasn’t our task to investigate the reasons for the
financial crisis, the role of the banks or the rating
agencies,” presiding judge Brigitte Koppenhoefer said after the
verdict. “We simply had to look into whether Mr. Ortseifen
violated criminal statutes by the acts he was charged with.”  
 Ortseifen was accused of misleading investors by
downplaying the effect of the U.S. subprime crisis in the July
20, 2007, press release. IKB received a bailout package 10 days
later and subsequently got as much as 12 billion euros in
guarantees from Germany’s bank-rescue fund.  
 Ortseifen’s lawyer, Rainer Hamm, had asked for an acquittal
and said his client would appeal yesterday’s decision.  
 Prosecutor Nils Bussee had sought the 10-month suspended
prison term and an “adequate” penalty.  
 IKB’s shares dropped starting in April 2007 over rumors of
its subprime risks and Moody’s Investors Service said in early
July 2007 it needed to revise its ratings on some asset-backed
securities. Ortseifen wanted to react with a release that also
addressed the bank’s quarterly results, Koppenhoefer said.  
 The case is LG Dusseldorf, 14 KLs 6/09.  
 For more, click here.  
 Nomura, Hogarth Davies Settle U.K. Lawsuit Over Hires  
 Nomura Holdings Inc.  settled a U.K. lawsuit brought by an
executive-search firm that had claimed the bank owed it millions
of pounds for helping to recruit hundreds of bankers from  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.   
 The case filed by  Hogarth Davies Lloyd , which was in the
second week of trial in London, was settled yesterday, Nomura
spokeswoman Beth Brophy said in a telephone interview. She
declined to give further details.  
 Nomura acquired Lehman’s operations in Asia and Europe,
including about 8,000  former Lehman workers , after the New York
investment bank filed for bankruptcy in 2008. While Hogarth
Davies asked Justice David Steel to assess damages, the firm
sought as much as 35.1 million pounds ($53.6 million) in a court
filing earlier this year.  
 Hogarth Davies didn’t respond to a phone message seeking
comment. James Hogarth, one of the firm’s founders, didn’t
respond to an e-mail.  
 In court papers, Tokyo-based Nomura said the fee should be
around 2 million pounds and called the sum sought by Hogarth
Davies “commercially absurd.”  
 Hogarth testified last week that the job was “one of the
biggest headhunting exercises the market has ever known.”  
 The case is: Hogarth Davies and Lloyd Ltd. v. Nomura
International Plc, 09-519, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division Commercial Court.  
 For more, click here.  
 Federated Agrees to Settle Market-Timing Suit for $1.82 Million  
 Federated Investors Inc ., the third-biggest manager of
money-market funds, agreed to settle a 2003 class-action lawsuit
alleging improper trading for about $1.82 million.  
 A legal notice announcing the proposed settlement, which
received preliminary approval from the U.S. District Court of
Maryland, was published yesterday in the Wall Street Journal.
The settlement was agreed to in December.  
 The suit accused Federated of engaging in so-called market-
timing and late-trading practices that allowed large clients to
buy and sell mutual funds in ways that diluted the gains of
long-term shareholders. Pittsburgh-based Federated agreed in
November 2005 to pay $100 million to settle similar allegations
from regulators. Federated was among 30 companies to resolve
claims of improper trading.  
 The court scheduled a hearing on Oct. 21 and 22 to consider
final approval of the settlement, according to the notice.
Federated managed $350 billion for investors as of March 31.  
 Meghan McAndrew, a spokeswoman for Federated, declined to
comment.  
 The case is Mutual Funds Investment Litigation in re
Excelsior, Federated, Scudder and AMCAP, 1:04-MD-15861-CCB, U.S.
District Court of Maryland (Baltimore).  
 DBS to Pay $84 Million in Hong Kong Lehman Settlement  
 DBS Group Ltd.,  Southeast Asia’s biggest bank, agreed to
repay HK$651 million ($84 million) to Hong Kong clients who
bought notes linked to the collapsed  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Ltd.   
 DBS (Hong Kong) Ltd. has agreed to make the payments to
clients it classified as having a low or medium investment risk
profile, the Securities and Futures Commission  said  yesterday.  
 “This will serve as a useful guide for other distributors
in resolving complaints from customers,” said Martin Wheatley,
the commission’s chief executive. Over 60 percent of clients who
bought the so-called Constellation Notes from DBS will get back
their full investment back with interest, he said.  
 Hong Kong investors bought a total of HK$6.5 billion worth
of the notes, of which HK$1.3 billion were sold by DBS.
Yesterday’s agreement follows a settlement arrangement last July
in which 16 Hong Kong banks including DBS agreed to pay at least
60 cents on the dollar, for a total of HK$6.3 billion, to buy
back a batch of credit-linked notes linked to Lehman, known as
mini-bonds.  
 “Resolution payments are being offered, without admission
of liability, in the interests of our relationships with our
customers and in the broader interests of the Hong Kong
financial system,” DBS said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Sued Over California Claims  
 California Attorney General Jerry Brown sued  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  over claims the companies thwarted a program that
allows property owners to pay for energy upgrades over time
through special tax assessments.  
 The suit, filed yesterday in federal court in Oakland,
California, is based on the Property Assessed Clean Energy
program. Under the initiative, local governments pay to make
properties more energy efficient and owners then repay the costs
through the special property tax levy, according to the
complaint.  
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have blocked the program by
improperly characterizing the assessments as loans, and telling
lenders that they won’t fund mortgages on properties that
participate in the program, according to the suit.  
 “Because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac control the mortgage
resale market, lenders will not issue mortgages that do not meet
Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s requirements,” according to the
complaint. “As a result, Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s
determination -- which misrepresents California law --
essentially forecloses residential Property Assessed Clean
Energy programs.”  
 Fannie Mae spokeswoman Janis Smith said the company
declined to comment.  
 Freddie Mac spokeswoman Stefanie Mullin declined to
immediately comment.  
 The case is California v. Federal Housing Finance Agency,
10-3084, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(Oakland).  
 For more, click here.  
 Sands Sues Singapore Law Group Again for Unpaid Bills  
 Las Vegas Sands Corp .’s Singapore casino has filed a second
lawsuit against a lawyers’ group that refused to pay its bills
for a May conference, even though both sides are discussing a
settlement of their dispute.  
 The latest complaint, following one in May, comes after
Sands Chairman Sheldon Adelson said June 23 that he was ready to
settle with the lawyers “any day they want” and he would
“rather make love than war.”  
 Marina Bay Sands Pte, a unit of Sands, is now seeking
S$641,246 ($466,496) from IPBA 2010 Pte over unpaid bills, more
than double the original claim, according to a lawsuit filed
with the Singapore High Court on June 28.  
 The organizer of the Inter-Pacific Bar Association
conference said in its own counterclaim, filed June 8, that
Sands owed the group compensation for misrepresenting its casino
as a world-class venue at a time some rooms were unfinished and
some facilities were closed.  
 Sands, which hasn’t served the latest complaint, and IPBA
representatives met for settlement talks late last week, Yap Wai
Ming, chairman of IPBA’s organizing committee, said July 13 in
an e-mailed response to questions.  
 The casino resort has six months to formally turn over the
papers to IPBA, following which the law group will have eight
days to respond, according to court papers.  
 Lisa Williamson, a spokeswoman for Marina Bay Sands,
declined to comment.  
 IPBA paid S$200,000 of the S$841,245.75 bill, according to
court papers. Sands will deduct S$300,000 from its latest claim
if it manages to recover the amount from an earlier lawsuit, the
resort said in court papers.  
 The case is Marina Bay Sands Pte Ltd. v. IPBA 2010
Singapore Pte Ltd. S464/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Rajaratnam, Chiesi Get Details of Case, Judge Says  
 Raj Rajaratnam and Danielle S. Chiesi, co-defendants in the
biggest hedge-fund insider-trading prosecution, are entitled to
learn more about the government’s case against them, a federal
judge ruled.  
 Rajaratnam, 53, and Chiesi, 44, are among more than 20
people accused since October in overlapping criminal and civil
insider-trading cases. U.S. District Judge Richard J. Holwell in
Manhattan said prosecutors must give the co-defendants more
details about the nature of the inside information they are
alleged to have exchanged.  
 Holwell, who is presiding over the criminal case, said in a
ruling dated July 13 and made public yesterday that the
government has amassed a substantial amount of evidence. The
charges span six years, involve “dozens of stocks, dozens of
co-conspirators, and a total of seven conspiracies as charged in
the indictment,” he said.  
 “The merits of such a charge depend heavily on the facts
and context,” Holwell said. “A defendant might argue that the
information he sought to obtain was not material, or that it was
already public at the time he tried to get it. But he can only
do that if he knows what the information is and when it was
conveyed.”  
 Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara opposed further disclosures, saying the government had
already provided “sufficient information” about the nature of
the charges.  
 Robert Hotz, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, didn’t return a
voicemail message left at his office seeking comment. Alan
Kaufman, a lawyer for Chiesi, said he was still reviewing the
decision and didn’t have an immediate comment.  
 Rajaratnam, co-founder of New York-based Galleon Group, is
accused of using secret tips from corporate officials and hedge-
fund executives including Chiesi to earn millions of dollars in
illegal stock trades. The allegations involve trading shares in
12 companies, including  Intel Corp. ,  International Business
Machines Corp. ,  Akamai Technologies Inc. ,  Google Inc.  and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc.   
 The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-1184; the
civil case is SEC v. Galleon Management LP, 09-cv-08811, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Nigerian Bank Wins U.K. Freezing Order Against Ex-CEO  
 Intercontinental Bank Plc , a Nigerian lender bailed out by
the country’s central bank, won a U.K. court order freezing 83
million pounds ($127 million) in assets held by its former chief
executive officer.  
 The bank won the global-freeze order in January in a
lawsuit accusing Erastus Akingbola of using the bank’s money to
help buy apartments in London and enrich entities he controlled.
The bank yesterday won permission from a judge to add new claims
to the case, alleging that Akingbola wrongfully directed the
lender to buy its own shares, resulting in a loss.  
 The money was “misappropriated by the defendant and is due
to the claimant,” the bank said in court papers. Akingbola used
the money in “breach of fiduciary duty.”  
 The Central Bank of Nigeria said the country had asked the
U.K. to extradite Akingbola so he can face charges, which
include mismanagement of Intercontinental. Companies outside
Britain frequently use London courts to secure global freezes,
including Glitnir Bank hf’s freeze this year on assets of former
Baugur Group hf Chairman Jon Asgeir Johannesson.  
 Akingbola’s lawyer, Ed Crosse of Osborne Clarke in London,
declined to comment. Akingbola’s defense papers filed March 19
say the alleged transactions were either valid or were
mischaracterized in the lawsuit.  
 The Nigerian bank’s lawyer, Segun Osuntokun of Berwin
Leighton Paisner LLP in London, declined to comment.  
 The  U.K. Home Office  didn’t immediately have a comment
yesterday on Nigeria’s extradition request. Akingbola has been
living in the U.K. since last year.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials  
 Ex-Morgan Crucible CEO Said Not to Direct Shredding  
 Ex-Morgan Crucible Co.  Chief Executive Officer Ian Norris
didn’t order the destruction of documents about price-fixing
meetings with competitors, a former executive of the ceramics
maker testified in Norris’s criminal trial.  
 Robin Emerson, who retired from a Morgan Crucible unit that
makes carbon-based engine parts, said he was ordered by Norris’s
subordinates to destroy files detailing secret talks among
European makers of carbon and graphite products about how to fix
prices in a cartel lasting more than a decade. U.S. prosecutors
extradited Norris from the U.K. on conspiracy and obstruction of
justice charges tied to the destruction of company documents
about the cartel.  
 “Mr. Norris never instructed you to destroy documents?”
Christopher Curran, a lawyer for the former CEO, asked Emerson
yesterday in federal court in Philadelphia. “That’s correct,”
the ex-executive replied.  
 Norris retired from Windsor, England-based  Morgan Crucible 
in 2002 after battling prostate cancer. U.S. prosecutors alleged
he colluded with rivals to fix prices on carbon parts and then
orchestrated a cover-up of those activities. The cartel, which
originally operated in Europe, spread to the U.S. in 1989 and
continued until 2000, according to a U.S. indictment.  
 The case is U.S. v. Ian Norris, 03-CR-632, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia.)  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        