-- IMF's Cottarelli Says Advanced Countries Need Medium-Term Deficit Plans
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-07-15T17:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/imf-s-cottarelli-says-advanced-countries-need-medium-term-deficit-plans.html

          
          
             Advanced countries that based budget
plans on optimistic growth forecasts need to spell out how they
will meet deficit-reduction targets after 2011, the head of the
International Monetary Fund’s fiscal department said.  
 “The first year is relatively easy because most of the
adjustment that we have is simply the fiscal stimulus coming to
an end,”  Carlo Cottarelli , a former Bank of Italy economist,
said in an interview July 13 in Washington. “What is missing is
the medium-term perspective.”  
 President  Barack Obama  and other Group of 20 leaders agreed
in June to halve their budget deficits by 2013. While the plans
will narrow gaps by an  average  of 1.25 percentage points of
gross domestic product in 2011, Cottarelli urged governments to
instill confidence that “adjustment will continue in the
following years” after stimulus programs end.  
 European countries from the U.K to Germany, after having to
craft an emergency backstop worth almost $1 trillion to stop the
Greek debt crisis from spreading, have announced budget cuts.
 Spain  and Portugal, under rising market pressure, have already
implemented measures such as reductions in public workers’ wages
and rising taxes on high-income earners.  
 Cottarelli, who last month published with IMF chief
economist  Olivier Blanchard  a “Ten Commandments” for fiscal
adjustment, said developed countries including the U.S. have
built their deficit-reduction plans on more optimistic growth
forecasts than those of the IMF.  
 As a result, “in order to achieve the same nominal targets
you would need more measures,” he said.  
 Japan’s Plan  
 The IMF, in a staff report yesterday, said Japan’s plan to
balance its budget in 10 years would be more credible if the
government was specific about how it will boost revenue,
including details on a sales-tax increase.  
 Adding to the potential difficulties, many developed
nations haven’t yet addressed the issue of rising spending for
health care and pensions systems, Cottarelli said.  
 The IMF, which is providing about a quarter of a 110
billion-euro, European-led loan for Greece and is part of a
financial backstop for the euro region, has been urging
governments to cut public debt to prevent higher interest rates
and slower economic growth.  
 Yields on debt of so-called peripheral economies of Europe
are reflecting some “overreaction” among investors to the
countries’ fiscal situation even as they take steps to narrow
deficits, Cottarelli said.  
 Spanish Debt  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year debt from
Spain rather than German equivalents is still more than five
times the daily average spread of the past five years.  
 For the first time since getting bailed out in May, Greece
this week sold treasury bills at an interest rate below the 5
percent charged by the European Union.  
 Still, Greek debt still shows elevated concern about
default. Ten-year bonds yield  766 basis points more  than German
bunds. While that’s down from a record 965 basis-point spread on
May 7, just before the EU-IMF regional rescue was announced,
it’s about three times the average since the failure of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  
 Greece has adopted budget cuts and additional revenue-
raising measures worth more than 14 percent of GDP as part of
conditions to secure the loan and said last week it may beat a
target to reduce the budget deficit.  
 The U.S., which the IMF sees posting a deficit of 11
percent of GDP this year, has enjoyed stronger economic growth
than Europe, making investors less concerned about its fiscal
outlook, Cottarelli said.  
 Treasury Returns  
 U.S. Treasuries gained 2.1 percent in the two months before
the European rescue plan, according to bond indexes from Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit. Since then, U.S. government
debt has returned an additional 2.2 percent as investors
continue to seek safe assets amid concerns that global economic
growth will slow.  
 Still, keeping U.S. debt at high levels would hurt the
economy over the longer term, Cottarelli said.  
 “The status of a reserve currency is not something that
can be decided by law,” Cottarelli said. “You can have it for
some time but you cannot abuse it. This is why fiscal adjustment
will have to take place in the U.S. like other countries.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        