-- Immelt Stakes GE's Growth on Higher R&D Spending
-- Rachel Layne
-- 2010-07-15T15:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/immelt-stakes-ge-s-growth-on-higher-r-d-as-nbc-finance-shrink.html

          
          
             Jeffrey Immelt  says  General Electric
Co.’s  growth depends on bringing the right technology products
to market, from gearless wind turbines to cancer-treatment tests
and engines that turn cow manure into energy.  
 “I believe that more investment is going to be required to
drive growth,” the 54-year-old chief executive officer said in
an interview. “It’s the way you build big service revenues and
good margin rates.”  
 GE will spend  $20 billion  on technology development in the
two years through 2012, and the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
company is increasing research expenditures 18 percent this year
alone.  
 Even if the products debut as planned, Immelt needs them to
become hits quickly. They will make up a larger share of
earnings because the percentage contributed by other businesses
is decreasing as GE sells a majority stake in its NBC Universal
unit to Comcast Corp. and shrinks GE Capital to less than a
third of profit from about half in 2007.  
 GE made a step toward the latter goal with an agreement,
announced today, to sell its BAC-Credomatic unit to  Grupo Aval
Acciones y Valores SA , Colombia’s largest bank holding group,
for $1.9 billion.  
 GE divisions  excluding media and finance provided 57
percent of the parent company’s $156.8 billion in sales last
year, up from 51 percent in 2007. Immelt and other executives
are scheduled to host a webcast tomorrow to discuss the
company’s performance in the second quarter as investors look
for indications R&D investment is paying off.  
 New Product Risks  
 Whenever a company introduces or overhauls a major product
such as a planemaker’s jet engines or a country’s electrical
grid, there are risks: the wrong decision may mean being cut out
of a market by competitors for decades. GE will add 30 percent
more products this year than last with a similar number in 2011,
Immelt said.  
 “It’s a lot more complex for a GE because you have state-
overseen type products -- you get the government involved
because it’s the grid for baseload power, or rail initiatives,
or transport,” said  Nick Heymann , an analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. in New York.  
 Immelt’s push into markets tied to the company’s main jet-
engine, power-generation equipment, locomotive and health-care
businesses was on display this week.  
 Trimming Development Time  
 GE Aviation Systems, via a venture with China’s Aviation
Industry Corp., was chosen as the lead integrator for electric
systems on the country’s C919 jet. On July 13, GE announced new
electric-car charging stations and a home electricity-usage
monitor tied to the so-called smart grid.  
 Other new products on tap include digital pathology
programs to replace traditional microscopes and slides and
software to help railroads and utilities become more efficient.  
 Immelt’s focus on R&D has reduced the time needed to bring
to market some products, such as those developed by the
Jenbacher division, from four years to two, GE said. Jenbacher,
which makes engines that turn waste gases into electricity,
announced this week it had completed nine months of powering the
Ukrainian Milk Co. near Kiev using waste from 4,000 cows.  
 Investors want to see R&D efforts translate into orders,
then sales, in the next two years as profit growth fueled by a
rebound in financial services wanes. In May, Immelt predicted an
“upside” to 2010 results, previously forecast to be little
changed. The company is projected to post adjusted profit of 27
cents a share tomorrow on sales of $38.3 billion, the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Share Performance  
 While a 4.7 percent decline by GE shares during 2010’s
first half was better than the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index or
the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the stock’s five-year
performance through June 30 trailed both benchmarks. GE tumbled
58 percent in that period, while the S&P 500 dropped 13 percent
and the Dow declined 4.9 percent.  
 Analysts  including  Terry Darling  of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. expect sales at the energy unit dropped in the second
quarter. Orders, a measure of future growth, should rise by at
least 10 percent, the first year-over-year gain since 2008,
Darling wrote in a note to clients this week.  
 Research and development this year on new products will
rise to about 5 percent from 3 percent in 2000 for the
industrial divisions, putting GE in line with most rivals when
calculated excluding the finance unit.  Siemens AG , a competitor
in energy, health care and lighting, spent about 5 percent of
sales last year and  United Technologies Corp. , which competes in
jet engines, spent about 3 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  
 ‘Winning or Losing’  
 GE’s four global labs in Niskayuna, New York; Shanghai,
Munich and Bangalore, India, as well as a fifth under
development in Brazil, account for about $600 million in
spending on ideas that take longer to bring to market than those
under study in the company’s divisions.  
 “There is only one measure of success for me, and that’s
how the businesses are doing,”  Mark Little , who oversees global
research, said in an interview. “Our people care deeply about
what’s going on in the marketplace, are we winning or losing,
and when we see our market share going in the right direction.”  
 Developments that lower prices of products in areas such as
ultrasound, while increasing their speed, have helped open up
overseas markets such as India and China,  John Dineen , CEO of GE
Healthcare, said in an interview. Dineen and Little said they’re
concerned with new product sales and picking the right markets.  
 ‘Courage and Endurance’  
 “When you’re going to be successful in these high-tech
types of longer-term businesses, with longer development cycles,
you need courage and endurance to manage programs like that,”
Dineen said.  
 Immelt kept spending steady in areas where products take
longer to come to market than traditional large equipment even
as GE’s shares hit an 18-year low in March 2009 and the
financial crisis loomed.  
 “Last year and the year before, the way Jeff invested here
is absolutely stunning,” said Christoph Hergersberg, who runs
the biosciences labs at the research center in Niskayuna.  
 GE is spending about $100 million to build a large-vehicle
battery factory near the research center in upstate New York,
and the company announced software in June developed with
railroad Norfolk Southern Co. that would shave time from
freight-car deliveries by letting trains travel faster.  
 Six years after Immelt purchased Amersham PLC in what
remains  GE’s biggest acquisition  at about $10 billion, the
bioscience digital-imaging technologies he envisioned are
finding their way to market. The life-science division will
account for about 10 percent of the health-care unit’s revenue
this year, Dineen told investors in June.  
 Now, GE is teaming with Eli Lilly & Co. to develop tests
that help match cancer patients with the treatments that would
work best for them.  
 Strategy’s Risks  
 GE has “expertise in certain areas that we don’t,” Dr.
 Richard Gaynor , Lilly’s vice president of cancer research, said
in an interview. “They are strong in engineering, strong in
mathematics, strong in things like pattern recognition that
other parts of their businesses bring and apply to biology.”  
 Immelt’s philosophy of buying new technology and applying
GE’s marketing resources and know-how hasn’t always worked. He
sold the company’s security business to United Technologies
after cobbling it together via acquisitions on a bet the
technology would benefit from GE’s manufacturing base.  
 Last year, he folded the water unit, another roll-up of
acquisitions, into the energy division to tie it more closely to
utilities after profit and sales stayed stagnant over years.  
 More Scientists  
 In energy, GE’s biggest industrial business, investment has
climbed in power and water,  Steve Bolze , who oversees that part
of GE Energy Infrastructure, said in an interview. Since the
water division was added to his business, the company has
“doubled down” on investment there, he said.  
 The number of scientists and engineers at GE as a whole has
risen to 37,300 this year from 31,602 in 2006. GE’s  total
employment  last year was about 304,000 worldwide.  
 “Between this year and next we’ll be up to between 5 and 6
percent of our industrial revenues in R&D,” Immelt said.
“That’s pretty world class, so I think from a quality and
quantity standpoint, I think we’ve made a lot of progress.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jeffrey "Jeff" Immelt, chief executive officer of General Electric Co. Photographer: Aaron M. Sprecher/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Cells wait to be tested in the NaMx Battery Cycling Lab at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. Photographer: Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Dave Bogdan instruments a cell in the NaMx Battery Cycling Lab at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. Photographer: Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Mike Palleschi connects leads from cells within a thermal testing bath in the NaMx Battery Cycling Lab at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. Photographer: Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       GE Cadmium Telluride Thin Film Solar Cell  
                       
                         
                           Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg 
                         
                         LeAnna Taber analyzes a cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin film cell using a microscope in a Solar Lab at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     LeAnna Taber analyzes a cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin film cell using a microscope in a Solar Lab at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. Photographer: Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Danielle Merfeld displays a cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin film cell in a Solar Lab at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. Photographer: Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A sputter chamber deposits thin film layers to create cadmium telluride (CdTe) thin film cells in a Solar Lab at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. Photographer: Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A screenshot of color-mapped cancerous cells from the Molecular Pathology Research Program is shown at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. Photographer: Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Cell biologist Zhengyu Pang operates a prototype system that automates the staining and imaging of multiple proteins in the Molecular Pathology Research Program at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. Photographer: Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Colored water droplets bead up on a hydrophobic nano-engineered surface that will be used to improve the performance of other industrial products in the Nanocoatings Subscale Lab at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. Photographer: Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Margaret Blohm monitors a turbine blade inside a wind tunnel, which is used to develop new hydrophobic nanocoating technologies used to improve the performance of other industrial products, in the Nanocoatings Subscale Lab at General Electric Co.'s (GE) Global Research Center in Niskayuna, New York. Photographer: Vijay Paruchuru/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
