-- Indian Oil to Invest in Africa in $1 Billion Overseas Push, Chairman Says
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-15T10:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/indian-oil-to-buy-oilfields-in-africa-as-part-of-1-billion-overseas-push.html

          
          
             Indian Oil Corp. , the country’s
second-biggest refiner, plans to acquire oilfields in Africa as
part of a $1 billion overseas investment plan, its chairman said.  
 “Africa is top of our list to buy assets because it is
near India and has good quality crude,”  Brij Mohan Bansal  said
in an interview at his office in New Delhi today. “We are
planning retail outlets in Indonesia.”  
 State-run Indian Oil’s renewed plans to expand overseas
came after the government freed gasoline prices from its control
last month and said it will eventually allow refiners to set
diesel rates, helping to increase cash flow. The refiner has set
aside $1 billion for acquisitions overseas, Bansal reiterated.  
 “Africa offers many grades of crude and gives refiners
security of supplies to have fields there,” said  Vinay Nair , a
Mumbai-based analyst with Khandwala Securities Ltd. “They will
however still need financial support from the government to help
make profits.”  
 The refiner delayed crude-processing and pipeline projects
overseas, including Nigeria and Turkey, because of reduced cash
flow after selling fuels below cost, Bansal said in July last
year. Indian Oil and Turkish builder Calik Holding had planned
to spend $4.9 billion to build a 300,000 barrel-a-day refinery
in Ceyhan on the Mediterranean coast.  
 The companies, with Eni SpA, Europe’s fourth-largest oil
company, had also planned to spend $2 billion on a pipeline from
Samsun on Turkey’s Black Sea coast to Ceyhan to transport as
much as 1.5 million metric tons of Central Asian crude oil a day.  
 Delay in Plans  
 The  shares  have increased 23 percent in Mumbai trading this
year compared with the 3 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange. The stock declined 3.8
percent to 374.45 rupees today.  
 Indian Oil, which owns stakes in ventures in Africa and the
Middle East, had plans to invest in refinery and pipeline
projects in Nigeria, former company spokesman M. Kali Krishna
said in October 2006. The Economic Times reported then that the
company may invest $3.5 billion to build a 300,000 barrel-a-day
crude processing plant in the African nation.  
 The refiner holds shares in exploration ventures in Iran,
Yemen, Gabon, Nigeria and Venezuela. The projects are yet to
produce oil.  
 India’s crude imports increased 20 percent to 153.2 million
tons in the year ended March from a year earlier, according to
the oil ministry’s data. The nation’s energy use may more than
double by 2030 to the equivalent of 833 million tons of oil from
2007, the International Energy Agency said.  
 Increasing Cash Flow  
 “Deregulating fuel prices helps us increase cash flows and
profitability,” Bansal, 59, said. The refiner currently has
 debt  of 470 billion rupees, he added.  
 Indian Oil plans to revive a 200 billion-rupee ($4.3
billion) chemical project in the eastern state of Orissa and
build nuclear, wind and solar power plants as cash flow
increases, Bansal said.  
 “We will bring the petrochemical project out of the
cupboard again since there is more clarity about our finances
now,” he said. “We want to become an integrated energy player
and will spend on renewables.”  
 The refiner plans to build a 1,400-megawatt nuclear power
plant in the northwestern state of Rajasthan at a cost of 120
billion rupees in partnership with Nuclear Power Corp. of India.
Indian Oil would own 26 percent in the venture and the plant may
start producing electricity in 2015, said Bansal, who plans to
seek the approval of his company’s board in two months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Brij Mohan Bansal, chairman of Indian Oil Corp.  
                       
                         
                           Brian Sokol/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Brij Mohan Bansal, chairman of Indian Oil Corp., at his office in New Delhi. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Brij Mohan Bansal, chairman of Indian Oil Corp., at his office in New Delhi. Photographer: Brian Sokol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
