-- 
U.S. Economy: Production Increases, Housing Stagnates

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-02-16T22:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/industrial-output-in-u-s-unexpectedly-increased-0-1-in-june-fed-says.html
Production at U.S. factories climbed
in January for a fifth consecutive month, while builders began
work on fewer single-family houses, showing the expansion
remains driven by manufacturing as housing stagnates.  Manufacturing output increased 0.3 percent after a revised
0.9 percent jump in December that was more than twice as large
as previously reported, figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed
today. Total production, including mining and utilities,
unexpectedly dropped. Single-family home starts decreased 1
percent to a 413,000 annual pace, the fewest since May 2009,
according to the Commerce Department.  Stocks climbed as business investment in new equipment and
improving global sales lead to better-than-expected earnings at
manufacturers like  Dell Inc . By contrast, builders are
contending with a surfeit of unsold properties as unemployment
hovers around 9 percent and foreclosures mount.  “Manufacturing has been an important contributor to growth
and it’ll get stronger,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief
economist at MF Global Inc. in New York. “Given the still-huge
glut of housing inventories, new-home building is unlikely to
contribute to the economy in any meaningful way this year.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,336.32 at the 4 p.m. in New York. The S&P Supercomposite
Machinery Index, which includes manufacturers like  Parker
Hannifin Corp . and Caterpillar Inc., also advanced 0.6 percent.  Unexpected Drop  Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent gain in overall
production, according to the median estimate of 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Projections ranged from a drop of
0.5 percent to an increase of 0.9 percent.  Another report today showed wholesale costs increased for a
seventh consecutive month in January, led by higher prices for
fuel. The  producer price index  rose 0.8 percent, according to
data from the Labor Department, matching the median forecast of
economists surveyed. The so-called core measure, which excludes
volatile food and energy costs, rose 0.5 percent, the biggest
rise since October 2008.  The Fed’s report also showed total production was
unexpectedly restrained by a decline in utilities as milder
temperatures curbed demand for heating. Output fell 0.1 percent
after a 1.2 percent increase in December.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, decreased
0.7 percent last month. Utility output fell 1.6 percent after a
4.1 percent increase the prior month.  Automakers are benefiting from rising sales. Output of
motor vehicles and parts jumped 3.2 percent in January after
rising 0.2 percent a month earlier.  Business Equipment  Production of business equipment rose 0.9 percent after a 1
percent gain. Output of computers and semiconductors rose 0.9
percent after increasing 1.5 percent.  Dell, the world’s third-largest personal-computer maker,
yesterday reported quarterly profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates after companies replaced older PCs with new models
running  Microsoft Corp .’s Windows 7 software -- a boon that will
last a number of quarters, said Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden.  Parker Hannifin, a Cleveland-based manufacturer viewed as a
barometer of global industry, is among businesses seeing an
improvement in orders as the economy recovers. The maker of
components used in construction equipment, aircraft,
refrigeration, and hybrid delivery trucks also projected growth
in the  Europe ,  Asia  and Latin America regions.  ‘Bullish’ on Orders  “We’re pretty bullish as far as what the future order
pattern is,” Thomas Williams, executive vice president and
operating officer, said on a conference call on Feb. 9. “Our
backlog is building,” he said, and “we’ve got ramp-up in
volume.”  The Commerce Department report showed total housing starts,
including single- and multifamily units, climbed 15 percent to a
596,000 annual rate, exceeding the median forecast of economists
surveyed. Work started on 78 percent more dwellings with two or
more homes, overshadowing the drop in single-family construction
that makes up about 70 percent of the market.  “Housing activity is going to remain at depressed levels
this year,” said Ellen Zentner, a senior macroeconomist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York  who forecast a rate of
555,000. “We’ve got  home prices  that have taken another leg
down and will probably stay down through midyear.”  Work on multifamily homes, such as townhouses and
apartments, jumped to an 183,000 annual pace, the most since
February 2009. The surge may reflect the influence of building
code changes this year that caused companies to rush to file
construction applications in December.  Fewer Permits  Building permits, an indicator for future construction,
dropped 10 percent to a 562,000 annual pace last month after
climbing 15 percent in December. Applications for multifamily
units dropped 24 percent in January after advancing 46 percent
the prior month, a sign starts in this volatile category may
fall this month or next.  “Building permits turn into housing starts within one
month,” said Zentner. “A surge in housing starts in January is
simply a factor of those building permits coming through.”    Hovnanian Enterprises Inc . on Dec. 22 reported a fourth-
quarter loss bigger than analysts expected as revenue fell 19
percent. The company has cut about 75 percent of its workforce
in the past four years,  Ara Hovnanian , chief executive officer
of  New Jersey ’s largest homebuilder, said this week on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  “The issue is unemployment, fear and lack of confidence,
and that’s what’s got to turn right now,” Hovnanian said during
the interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  