-- Invesco's New CIO for Japan Favors High-Tech Environmental, Energy Stocks
-- Makiko Asai
-- 2010-07-15T02:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/invesco-s-new-cio-for-japan-favors-high-tech-environmental-energy-stocks.html

          
          
             Invesco Asset Management (Japan)
Ltd. ’s new chief investment officer favors Japan’s environmental
and renewable-energy shares.  
 The nation’s shares are cheap even as corporations raise
their growth outlooks because of increases in overseas demand
and measures to reduce costs, said  Kunihiko Sugio , Invesco’s
chief investment officer.  Share prices  have slumped to
“unexpectedly” low levels since April, on concern over
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, he said. Sugio joined Invesco on
July 5 from Morgan Stanley, where he was a managing director and
oversaw Japan funds.  
 “Companies with advanced technologies can add high value
in solar batteries, nuclear-power generation, hybrid cars and
light-emitting diodes.” said Sugio in an interview in Tokyo.
“These are Japan’s strengths.”  
 Shares in the benchmark  Topix  trade at a price-to-book
ratio of 1 on average, compared with 1.9 for the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  and 1.5 for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . Stocks
in a Topix gauge for electronics companies, which includes some
battery makers, trade at 1.3. Japanese shares will likely climb
as Europe recovers from its sovereign-debt crisis, he said.  
 “A double-dip recession is unlikely because the global
economy is showing signs of a slow recovery,” said Sugio. “And
I expect external demand will boost Japanese companies that have
established a presence in overseas markets.”  
 In Japan’s mature market, companies have to rely on leading
edge technologies to attract foreign investments, Sugio said.
Invesco’s small capitalization fund focuses on stocks related to
environmental technology, Internet, Asian consumer products and
bio technology.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        