-- Investors Expect Wider Spreads in Next Three Months, Bank of America Says
-- Katie Evans
-- 2010-07-15T20:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/investors-expect-wider-spreads-in-next-three-months-bank-of-america-says.html

          
          
             U.S. credit investors expect
“slightly wider” spreads in the next three months, marking the
first time in a year buyers anticipate yields relative to
Treasuries to increase, according to a Bank of America Corp.
survey.  
 The reversal in near-term spread expectations comes as
economic data signals a weakening recovery and investors are
concerned that the European sovereign debt crisis will persist
or worsen, strategists led by  Hans Mikkelsen  wrote yesterday in
the report. Manufacturing in the U.S. contracted in June by the
most in a year, a Federal Reserve report showed today.  
 “Investors are a little bit cautious about the near term
because they see we still don’t have a solution to the economic
issues,” Mikkelsen said today in a telephone interview.
“Still, there seems to be a belief that we can work our way out
of that.”  
 Investors remain overweight credit and expect tighter
spreads over the next 6 and 12 months, according to the report.
More than 80 percent of investors expect the European sovereign
debt crisis to continue at the current level or worsen, the
analysts said.  
 The survey of 109 institutional investors was taken from
June 29 through July 14.  
 Investors have stayed in credit and continue to see inflows
that they are holding in cash, Mikkelsen said. Though they
haven’t necessarily sold a lot of corporate bonds, investors are
sitting in what Mikkelsen calls “a defensive position.”  
 A positive outlook on credit quality contributed to the
continued expectation of medium- to long-term spread tightening.
The majority of respondents to the survey expect credit ratings
upgrades to exceed downgrades over the next six months, in a
continued positive outlook on credit quality.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 Kevans28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        