-- Iranian Scientist Who Says He Was `Abducted' by the U.S. Arrives in Tehran
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-07-15T12:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/iranian-scientist-abducted-by-u-s-arrives-back-in-tehran-press-tv-says.html

          
          
             Iranian scientist Shahram Amiri, who
has accused U.S. officials of kidnapping and holding him for 14
months against his will, arrived in Tehran today.  
 Amiri surfaced two days ago at the Iranian interests
section of the Pakistani Embassy in Washington and left the U.S.
yesterday, according to Iran’s  state television . A month
earlier, the scientist, who taught at a military-run university
in Tehran, said in a video message aired on state television
that he had been abducted by the U.S. last year in Saudi Arabia.  
 “The U.S. for its own objective and in order to put Iran
under pressure has linked me to the country’s nuclear program,”
Amiri  said  after landing at around 5 a.m. local time at Imam
Khomeini Airport outside the capital, in comments broadcast by
state television. Amiri’s wife greeted him along with their son,
who cried as he was hugged and carried by his father.  
 Amiri, who described himself as “a simple academic,”
accused interrogators in the U.S. of subjecting him to “mental
and physical torture.” He said he was pressured to claim that
he had fled to the U.S. with a laptop containing secret data.  
 The interrogators “threatened me to make me cooperate with
the CIA,” he said today. “Otherwise, they said they will
transfer me to secret prisons in the Zionist regime and there
will be no trace of me left.”  
 Intelligence Officials  
 ABC News reported on March 31 that Amiri was a nuclear
scientist who defected to the U.S. in an operation planned by
the Central Intelligence Agency, citing people who were briefed
by intelligence officials. The U.S. and many of its allies say
Iran may be trying to develop nuclear weapons, while the Persian
Gulf country insists its atomic program is peaceful.  
 The CIA paid $5 million to Amiri to provide information on
Iran’s nuclear program after defecting, the Washington Post said
today, citing unidentified U.S. officials. The scientist isn’t
obliged to return the money, though he won’t be able to access
it, the Post reported. Amiri may have returned to Iran out of
concern for his family’s safety, the officials told the Post.  
 “I didn’t do anything against my country,” Amiri said
yesterday in an interview at the airport in Doha, Qatar, on his
way to the Iranian capital. Amiri said he was held in different
locations while in the U.S. and was “not free.”  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has rejected Amiri
allegations. “He’s free to go, he was free to come,” Clinton
said July 13, adding that Amiri would have that day if he hadn’t
had trouble arranging flights through transit countries.  
 Religious Pilgrimage  
 Amiri has said he was on a religious pilgrimage when he was
seized in an operation involving U.S. and Saudi intelligence
services.  
 In an interview aired yesterday by Iranian state television
before his departure from the U.S., Amiri said he had been
approached in the Saudi city of Medina and offered a ride to a
mosque. He said that as he entered the car, a man inside
threatened him with a gun and told him to remain silent.  
 “They gave me an injection and when I became conscious I
was blindfolded, and by the sound of the engine realized that
I’m in a plane,” Amiri said. He said he was taken to the U.S.
in what seemed to be a military plane.  
 Several conflicting videos of men purporting to be Amiri
have appeared since his disappearance. Hours after an Iranian TV
report, in which Amiri said he had been abducted, had been
posted on the YouTube website on June 8, a second video was
uploaded showing a man who said he was the scientist and was
living in the U.S. of his own free will.  
 In a third video, broadcast by Iranian state television on
June 29, a similar-looking man, who also said he was Amiri, said
he had just escaped from U.S. security agents in Virginia.  
 The United Nations Security Council on June 9 approved a
fourth round of sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program.
Israel, a state that the Iranian establishment doesn’t
recognize, sees Iran as a threat to its security and hasn’t
ruled out strikes against Iranian nuclear sites.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        