-- Iran Nuclear-Fuel Talks Should Open in Late September, Minister Says
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-07-15T11:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/iran-nuclear-fuel-talks-should-open-in-late-september-minister-says.html

          
          
             Iranian Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  said that talks between his country and the world powers
on a plan to supply fuel for a Tehran nuclear reactor should
start around late September.  
 Iran has said it is ready for negotiations with the five
veto-holding members of the United Nations Security Council plus
Germany on a deal brokered by Turkey and Brazil in May. It
proposed supplying enriched uranium in a form usable in the
medical-research reactor in exchange for part of Iran’s supply
of the material that has yet to be transformed into fuel.  
 “Turkey and Brazil still adopt the same stance and we
welcome their presence in talks,” Mottaki said today at a
Tehran news conference aired live by state-run  Press TV . The two
countries “will see that the negotiations be held in the proper
way,” he said.  
 The five Security Council members and Germany have pressed
Iran to agree to talks on its nuclear program since the council
voted to impose a fourth round of UN sanctions last month. The
U.S. and the European Union subsequently imposed their own
restrictions on Iran.  
 Mottaki said on July 12 that the world powers had agreed to
let Turkey and Brazil participate in the talks, according to
 Press TV . Western nations last month rejected the plan for a
fuel swap because Iran vowed to continue enriching uranium after
it receives a supply of the material in a form needed to run the
reactor. The facility makes isotopes for medical uses such as X-
rays and radiation therapy.  
 Non-Proliferation Treaty  
 Iran has refused international demands to suspend uranium
enrichment, saying it is entitled to produce the material under
the terms of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which it has
signed. The U.S. and its allies say Iran’s nuclear development
may be cover for a weapons program. The Persian Gulf country
denies the allegation and maintains the work is necessary for
civilian purposes such as power generation.  
 President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said on June 28 that Iran
won’t take part in the talks unless the six powers acknowledge
that Israel already has nuclear-arms capability. Israel’s policy
is to neither confirm nor deny that it has such weapons.  
 The U.S., U.K., France, China, Russia and Germany would be
represented in the negotiations by the EU’s foreign-policy
chief,  Catherine Ashton .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        