-- Iranian Nuclear Scientist Goes Home to Hero's Welcome, Official Greetings
-- 
-- 2010-07-15T01:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/iranian-nuclear-scientist-goes-home-to-hero-s-welcome-official-greetings.html

          
          
              
By Thomas Erdbrink and Greg Miller
     July 14 (Washington Post) -- TEHRAN -- An Iranian nuclear
scientist at the center of a bizarre espionage drama arrived here
to a hero's welcome Thursday morning, including a personal
greeting from several senior government officials.
     Shahram Amiri flashed victory signs to dozens of reporters
as he stepped into Imam Khomeini International Airport, and his
7-year-old son broke down in tears as his father held him for the
first time since Amiri disappeared in Saudi Arabia 14 months ago.
     He was also greeted by Hassan Qashqavi, a high-ranking
Foreign Ministry official, as well as a deputy interior minister
and a deputy science minister.
     Iran's Arabic-language news channel Al Alam extensively
covered the arrival, but it was not shown live on state
television, which does not broadcast in the early morning.
     Amiri's tale has dominated Iranian media since Monday night,
when he surfaced in front of Iran's diplomatic mission in
Washington and asked for a ticket back to his homeland. Amiri,
32, told officials that he had been abducted by U.S. intelligence
operatives and had spent much of the past year in Tucson being
questioned about Iran's nuclear ambitions.
     Amiri's reappearance was as mysterious as his disappearance
and came just weeks after a series of Internet videos added to
the intrigue surrounding the case. In the videos, Amiri claimed
alternately to have been kidnapped by the CIA and to have come to
this country on his own accord to pursue a PhD.
     The case has emerged as a source of embarrassment for both
governments. The Obama administration faced the departure of
someone whose defection had been considered an intelligence coup.
Iran described Amiri's desire to the leave the United States as a
setback for American efforts, but Amiri may have compromised the
secrecy of Iran's nuclear endeavors.
     According to an official familiar with the account Amiri
gave at the mission, his pleas to be released were finally
granted when he was brought to Washington and sent to a
nondescript storefront on Wisconsin Avenue, where Iranian
representatives work in a space officially operated by Pakistan's
embassy.
     Within hours of arriving at the mission, Amiri told
state-run Iranian television that "my kidnapping was a
disgraceful act for America. . . . I was under enormous
psychological pressure and supervision of armed agents in the
past 14 months."
     U.S. officials disputed Amiri's account, insisting that he
defected voluntarily and provided valuable intelligence about
Iran's nuclear program before increased worries over the safety
of his family in Iran prompted him to seek a return. Secretary of
State Hillary Rodham Clinton told reporters Tuesday that Amiri
was and always had been free to go. "These are decisions that are
his alone to make," Clinton said, noting that Iran has refused to
release three American backpackers detained in the country for
nearly a year.
     Amiri's case has provided a rare public glimpse into the
espionage sparring between the United States and Iran, much as
the capture and swap of Russian undercover operatives this month
exposed the extent to which such cloak-and-dagger endeavors have
outlasted the Cold War. The United States and other nations
contend that Iran is secretly developing the means to build a
nuclear weapon, but the Iranian government says its program is
entirely peaceful.
     Amiri has said he worked at Iran's Malek-e-Ashtar Industrial
University, which U.S. intelligence agencies believe is connected
to the country's Revolutionary Guard Corps. Amiri is not believed
to have been directly involved in the most secretive aspects of
Iran's nuclear efforts, but intelligence officials said he
provided significant insights during lengthy debriefings with the
CIA.
     "I don't think the U.S. government goes to great lengths to
help people come over here unless there is significant
intelligence value to be gained," said a U.S. official briefed on
the case, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was
not authorized to discuss it.
     Amiri disappeared under mysterious circumstances in June
2009, about the same time that U.S. officials spoke of an
"intelligence coup" involving a high-profile defector.
     He appears to have been resettled in Tucson, where his
presence was a carefully guarded secret until the scientist
appeared in videos this spring. In the first, which aired on
Iranian television, Amiri stares into what appears to be an
amateur Web camera, claiming to have been tortured and pleading
for human rights organizations to intervene.
     But in a subsequent and more polished video that U.S.
officials said was crafted with help from the CIA, Amiri is
dressed in a suit coat before a backdrop that includes a
chessboard and a globe turned to the Western Hemisphere. Amiri
says he has never betrayed his homeland and asks "everyone to
stop presenting information that distorts the reality about me."
     Amiri also says he knows that the Iranian government "will
take care of and protect my family." U.S. officials said fears
for their safety appear to have been behind his decisions to
release the videos portraying himself as a kidnapping victim, as
well as his effort to return.
     "The Iranians aren't beyond using family to influence
people," said a second U.S. official, who added that Amiri's
ability to appear in the videos, as well as reach the Iranian
mission, "gives the lie to the idea he was tortured or
imprisoned. He can tell any story he wants -- but that won't make
it true."
     Defectors who return to their native countries risk severe
reprisals. In one of the most notorious cases, Saddam Hussein's
son-in-law defected to Jordan in the mid-1990s and began
providing information on Iraq's banned weapons programs. He and
his brother -- another Hussein son-in-law who had defected with
him -- returned to Iraq after being promised that they would not
be punished, but both were killed within days.
     Amiri arrived at the Iranian mission at 6:30 p.m. Monday,
officials said. Only a security guard was present, and the two
spoke in Farsi. In meetings with Pakistani diplomats, Amiri said
he had been drugged after stepping into a cab in Medina, Saudi
Arabia, last summer and woke up in the United States. He said he
wasn't physically abused but claimed to have endured severe
"mental torture."
     Erdbrink reported from Tehran. Staff writers Karen DeYoung
and Tara Bahrampour and staff researcher Julie Tate contributed
to this report.
 
          
          


  


        