-- Israeli June Inflation Rate Falls to 2.4%, Lowest Level Since October 2007
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-07-15T15:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/israel-inflation-probably-declined-to-lowest-in-2-1-2-years-survey-shows.html

          
          
             Israeli inflation  eased in June to
its slowest pace in more than 2 1/2 years as tax rates declined.  
 Inflation slowed to 2.4 percent from 3 percent in the
previous month, the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics
said today in a statement. That matched the median estimate of
11 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices increased 0.3
percent from  the previous month .  
 “I wouldn’t say inflation is low now, I would say that it
was high last year due to an increase in taxes,”  Michael Sarel ,
Ramat Gan, Israel-based chief economist at Harel Insurance
Investments & Financial Services Ltd., said before to the
announcement. “Since then, some of the taxes have been
reduced.”  
 Inflation is likely to approach the upper limit of the
government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target range in the next 12
months, according to  Alon Katz , head of research at Maor-Luski
Investment House in Tel Aviv. The expected increase is due in
part to a Finance Ministry plan to raise taxes on cigarettes and
fuel, Katz said.  
 The government cut the value-added-tax to 16 percent from
16.5 percent on Jan. 1 after raising it one percentage point.  
 The slowing inflation may make it easier for Bank of Israel
Governor  Stanley Fischer  to leave the benchmark interest rate at
1.5 percent at the end of the month,  Ori Greenfeld  , a macro-
economist at Tel Aviv-based Psagot Investment House Ltd., said
before the announcement.  
 Fischer will keep the rate unchanged at the end of July for
a fourth month, four out of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg said at the beginning of the month. The remaining
three predicted a quarter-point increase to 1.75 percent.  
 Economic Growth  
 Fischer kept the rate unchanged at last month’s central
bank meeting as  economic growth  slowed and the European debt
crisis threatened to derail the global recovery. Exports account
for about half of Israel’s gross domestic product, with about
one-third destined for Europe. Growth eased to 3.6 percent in
the first quarter from 4.5 percent in the previous three months.  
 The Finance Ministry lowered its growth forecast for the
year to 3.6 percent on June 6, citing concerns over sovereign
debt in the European Union. Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  had
said a month earlier that growth was likely to be between 3.7
percent and 4.3 percent this year.  
 The benchmark  TA-25 stock index  has surged by more than 27
percent in the past 12 months, led by Perrigo Co., the world’s
largest maker of non-prescription, store-branded drugs, which
almost doubled.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        