-- J&J Reorganizes Plant Tied to Recall, Cuts 300 Jobs
-- Meg Tirrell
-- 2010-07-15T23:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/j-j-reorganizes-plant-tied-to-tylenol-recall-cutting-300-jobs-at-facility.html

          
          
             Johnson & Johnson , the health-
products company under U.S. congressional investigation for a
recall of children’s medicines, said it will reorganize the
plant where the withdrawn drugs were made and cut 300 positions.  
 That’s about 75 percent of the jobs at the Fort Washington,
Pennsylvania, manufacturing facility, J&J said today in a
statement. The plant will be closed until “at least the middle
of next year,”  Bonnie Jacobs , a spokeswoman for the New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based drugmaker, said in a telephone
interview. The moves are part of a plan J&J submitted today to
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on quality improvement.  
 J&J’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare unit suspended operations
at the Pennsylvania plant in April after recalling more than 40
types of over-the-counter pediatric medications because their
quality and potency didn’t meet internal requirements. Most of
the products involved in the recall, such as some forms of
Tylenol, Motrin and Benadryl, aren’t likely to become available
again before the end of this year, the company said.  
 “You don’t close a plant for a long time and make
redundant a lot of people unless you absolutely have to,”  Les Funtleyder , an analyst with Miller Tabak & Co., said today in a
telephone interview. “This isn’t a minor problem.”  
 J&J fell 36 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $60.26 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
 shares  have fallen 6.4 percent this year.  
 The company said it will make a “significant” investment
to renovate the plant with new equipment. Jacobs declined to
comment on costs of the reorganization, including the job cuts.  
 Severance Package  
 Workers who lose their positions will continue to receive
regular pay and benefits through at least mid-September, then
will get a severance package based on the number of years they
worked at the company, J&J said. Employees will be able to bid
for jobs throughout J&J as internal candidates, Jacobs said.  
 Products made at the facility generated average annual
revenue of about $650 million, the company said last month. The
McNeil unit is trying to speed up production of those medicines
by using other plants.  
 Lawmakers on the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee are investigating J&J’s actions in connection with the
April recall and subsequent allegations that the company tried
to hide a recall of defective Motrin tablets.  
 Funtleyder, who is based in New York, recommends buying J&J
shares and doesn’t own any himself. While he said he likes the
company because it’s a “consistent performer,” he expressed
concern that J&J’s manufacturing troubles had reached such a
high level.  
 “How on Earth did we get this bad, to the point where you
have to shut down a plant?” Funtleyder said. “Who was minding
this door looking at the yellow flags before we reached this
point where we have to take drastic action?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        