-- Asian Stocks Retreat as U.S. Factory Output Falls, Google Misses Estimates
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-07-16T10:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/japanese-australian-stock-futures-decline-on-u-s-manufacturing-prices.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  fell, erasing gains for
the week, after U.S. manufacturing contracted, fueling concern
an economic recovery may be faltering. Technology stocks
declined after Google Inc. earnings missed estimates.  
 Hynix Semiconductor Inc. with about 24 percent of its sales
in North America, slumped 6.6 percent in Seoul. Li & Fung Ltd.,
the biggest supplier to retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
and Target Corp., declined 1.5 percent in Hong Kong on
speculation a U.S. slowdown will crimp exports.  Sony Corp. , a
Japanese electronics maker that gets 22 percent of revenue in
the U.S., lost 5 percent in Tokyo as the yen also strengthened.
 Fanuc Ltd. , which makes industrial robots, declined 4.9 percent.  
 “Expectations for the economic recovery were strong but the
momentum is weakening,” said  Kenji Sekiguchi , general manager
of strategic research and investment at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $73 billion in assets. “It
seems spending by both companies and households has leveled off.
We can’t be very optimistic about the economic prospects yet.”  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.9 percent to 115.90 at
7:17 p.m. in Tokyo, with declines led by technology and
consumer-related stocks. The drop erased gains from the first
half of the week. The index is on course for its third 5-day
slide in four weeks.  
 More than two stocks dropped for each that rose on the
measure, which fell 0.7 percent yesterday after U.S. Federal
Reserve members cut their growth forecasts for the world’s
biggest economy, and separate reports showed U.S. retail sales
declined and China’s expansion slowed.  
 ‘Sense of Caution’  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  lost 2.9 percent to
9,408.36. The gauge closed below 10,000 points for the ninth
consecutive week, and today’s slump was the biggest among equity
benchmarks in the Asia-Pacific region  
 Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 0.5. In Seoul, South
Korea’s Kospi Index retreated 0.7 percent, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index  was little changed.  
 Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  was little changed, even as
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s largest by
customers, rose on its first day of trading in the city. The
listing completed the second part of its $19.2 billion initial
public offering after debuting yesterday in Shanghai.  
 “A sense of caution is increasing that a slowdown in
consumer spending in the U.S. may spread to manufacturing,”
said  Toshiyuki Kanayama , a market analyst at Tokyo-based Monex
Inc. “Stocks that rely on profits from the country will likely
decline.”  
 U.S. Stocks  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  decreased 0.2
percent. The gauge gained 0.1 percent to 1,096.48 yesterday in
New York after losing as much as 1.3 percent as BP Plc said it
temporarily halted the flow of oil from its Gulf of Mexico well
for the first time in about three month. Losses were limited as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. agreed to a $550 million settlement
with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Senate
passed a financial-industry regulation measure.  
 The  cost  of living in the U.S. dropped in June for a third
straight month as businesses offered discounts to maintain sales,
economists said ahead of reports due later today. The consumer
price index declined 0.1 percent last month after a 0.2 percent
drop in May, according to the median forecast of 75 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. Another report will show consumer
sentiment dropped in early July, economists said.  
 Technology Companies  
 Hynix, the world’s second-largest computer-memory chipmaker,
retreated 6.6 percent to 23,500 won in Seoul today, the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index ’s second-biggest decline.  Elpida Memory Inc .,
the largest, fell 5.1 percent to 1,356 yen in Tokyo.  
 Google Inc., owner of the world’s most popular search
engine, reported profit that missed estimates as the company
ramped up spending to take on social-networking sites such as
Facebook Inc. Excluding some items, profit was $6.45 a share in
the second quarter, where analysts had estimated $6.52,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 “The economic momentum has eased and markets are cautious
in the light of general investor uncertainty,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1.1 billion at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “We’ll get a better gauge on
valuations as we get further into the reporting season.”  
 Li & Fung retreated 1.5 percent to HK$36.50. In Tokyo, Sony
declined 5 percent to 2,404 yen and Fanuc fell 4.9 percent to
10,210 yen. Japanese automakers also dropped, with Toyota Motor
Corp., the world’s largest that gets 28 percent of its revenue
from North America, slipping 1.3 percent to 3,135 yen and  Mazda
Motor Corp.  dropping 3.3 percent to 206 yen.  
 U.S. Manufacturing  
 Factory output in the U.S. fell 0.4 percent in June, the
most in a year, according to the Federal Reserve’s report. The
Labor Department said in a statement producer prices lost 0.5
percent after a 0.3 percent drop the month before. Other reports
showed factories pulled back in the New York and Philadelphia
regions in July.  
 Separately, the yen gained versus all 16 of its major
counterparts and rose toward the strongest level this year. The
Japanese currency traded at 87.20 per dollar from 87.40 in New
York yesterday, after climbing to 87.17, approaching this year’s
high of 86.97 set on July 1. A stronger yen reduces the value of
overseas income at Japanese companies when converted into their
home currency.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has declined 3.8 percent in
2010, compared with drops of 1.7 percent by the  S&P 500  and 0.4
percent by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at 14 times estimated  earnings , compared
with 13.4 times for the S&P and 11.8 times for the Stoxx.  
 Chipmaker Sales  
 The gauge climbed 1.5 percent on July 14 after Intel Corp.,
the world’s biggest chipmaker, reported record second-quarter
sales and Singapore raised its economic growth forecast.  
 Material and energy stocks fell today as signs of a slowing
economy dimmed the outlook for global commodity prices.  
 In Sydney,  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-biggest
mining company slipped 1.3 percent to A$65.78 after a measure of
primary metals traded in London lost 0.3 percent yesterday.  
 Inpex Corp., Japan’s largest oil explorer, dropped 0.2
percent to 417,500 yen in Tokyo as crude oil traded below $77 a
barrel in New York. In Hong Kong, Cnooc Ltd., China’s third-
largest oil producer, lost 1.1 percent to HK$12.26.  
 Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s largest gold producer,
plunged 3.7 percent to HK$4.64 after it said three managers were
detained for an acid leak that poisoned a nearby river. The
police took away the Zijinshan copper plant’s manager, deputy
manager and the head of environment, company secretary  Zheng Yuqiang  said by phone today.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An investor looks at stock quotes at a securities trading firm in Shanghai. Photographer: Kevin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Anthony Bolton, Fidelity International's president of investments, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the Chinese economy and the nation's property and stock market. 
     Bolton said yesterday China’s "golden era of exports" is over and a bull market will resume for the country’s stocks this year as domestic consumption drives economic expansion. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
