-- Japan's Bonds Set for Biggest Weekly Gain Since November on Yen, Slowdown
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-16T06:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/japan-s-government-bonds-may-rise-as-company-earnings-outlook-dims-on-yen.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  posted the biggest
weekly gain since November as a stronger yen damped the earnings
outlook for exporters and signs the world economy is slowing
spurred demand for government debt.  
 The benchmark 10-year  yield  slid for a third time in five
days as the yen approached its highest level against the dollar
this year, reducing the overseas income of Japanese companies.
Economists said U.S. reports today will show consumer prices in
the world’s largest economy dropped for a third month and
consumer confidence declined.  
 “The U.S. economic slowdown is becoming clearer,” said
 Shinji Hiramatsu , who helps oversee the equivalent of $16
billion as senior investment manager at Sompo Japan Asset
Management Ltd. in Tokyo. “Along with a decline in the stock
market, there is no catalyst for investors to sell bonds.”  
 The  yield  on the 10-year bond dropped 6.5 basis points this
week to 1.085 percent as of 3:06 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
1.1 percent bond maturing in June 2020 rose 0.58 yen to 100.134
yen. This week’s retreat in yield was the most since the period
ended Nov. 13. It gained 0.5 basis points today.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery increased 0.45
to 141.66 this week at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 The yen appreciated to as much as 86.98 per dollar today,
close to this year’s peak of 86.97 reached on July 1. Japan’s
largest manufacturers estimated earnings on the assumption the
yen will average 90.18 per dollar this business year, according
to the Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan  report  released July 1.  
 ‘Slash’ Profit  
 “If the yen stays 10 percent higher than the average
export hedging rate set by Japanese companies for 12 months, it
will slash annual profit by nearly 5 percent on average, and
Japan’s real gross domestic product by 0.4 percentage points,”
said  Tatsushi Shikano , a senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo.  
 U.S. consumer prices dropped 0.1 percent in June, a third
monthly decline, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists
before today’s Labor Department report. Consumer sentiment fell
to 74 this month from 76 in June, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey ahead of today’s Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary  index .  
 Minutes of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s June meeting released
on July 14 showed some officials saw “some risk of deflation.”
Deflation enhances the value of the fixed payments from bonds.  
 “Economies are going to slow down and stall for a longer
period, especially in the U.S.,” said  Satoshi Yamada , chief
quantitative analyst in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.
“That means central banks will keep monetary easing for a
longer time. I expect investors to keep buying bonds.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        