-- Japan's Service Demand Fell in May as Boost From Stimulus Measures Wane
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-07-15T23:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/japan-s-service-demand-fell-in-may-as-boost-from-stimulus-measures-wane.html

          
          
             Japan’s demand for services fell in
May, adding to signs that the export-fueled recovery has been
slow to spread to households.  
 The  tertiary index , which captures 63 percent of the
economy, slid 0.9 percent from April, when it advanced a revised
2.4 percent, the Trade Ministry said today in Tokyo. The median
forecast of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a
0.7 percent decline.  
 Retail sales in the world’s second-largest economy have
started to cool as the effects of government incentives for cars
and home appliances wear off. Today’s data came after government
reports for May showed Japan’s wages declined and the
unemployment rate worsened, a sign the expansion is moderating.  
 Demand is weakening amid “a drop in sales of home
appliances, poor weather and a stock slump associated with
Europe’s sovereign woes,”  Akiko Kosugi , an economist at Dai-
Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said before the report.
“The pace of any pickup in service demand will likely be slack
given the economic recovery is expected to be moderate.”  
 Europe’s debt crisis has roiled markets across the globe.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  slid 14 percent in the last three
months and the yen has gained 12 percent against the euro and
more than 5 percent versus the dollar, threatening exporters’
earnings.  
 A revival in exports, which contributed the most to the
country’s 5 percent expansion in the first quarter, isn’t
bolstering demand at businesses that rely on consumers.  
 Profit Drop  
 Lawson Inc. , Japan’s second-largest convenience store
operator, said this month first-quarter net income fell 32
percent and  Ryohin Keikaku Co. , which operates the Muji retail
chain, posted a 26 percent drop in net income for the period.  
 The government has been offering shoppers incentives to buy
energy-efficient vehicles and electronics to support the economy.
Some of the programs are scheduled to expire this year.  
 The Democratic Party of Japan-led government started
providing childcare allowance in June and introduced a waiver on
high school tuition fees in April to assist households. The
strength of consumer spending depends on those programs, which
may help offset the fading out of government stimulus, said
 Susumu Kato , chief economist for Japan in Tokyo at Credit
Agricole CIB and CLSA.  
 Weakening demand for services contrasts with improvements
in sentiment among manufacturers and consumers. Japan’s
household sentiment rose for a sixth month in June, a government
report showed this week. Confidence among large manufacturers
climbed to a two-year high in June, the Bank of Japan’s
quarterly Tankan survey showed.  
 The decline in service demand in May “would be a pullback
from the jump in April,” said  Kyohei Morita , chief economist at
Barclays Capital in Tokyo. “It doesn’t necessarily signal a
recession.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        