-- U.S. Jobless Claims Fall as Fewer Factories Shut Down
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-15T12:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-15/jobless-claims-in-u-s-fall-more-than-forcast-as-fewer-factories-shut-down.html

          
          
             Fewer Americans than projected filed
applications for unemployment benefits last week, reflecting a
smaller number of factory closings for this time of year.  
 Initial jobless  claims  dropped by 29,000 to 429,000 in the
week ended July 10, the fewest since August 2008, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The government
anticipates an increase in temporary factory layoffs in early
July that did not occur this year, leading to the decrease in
applications, a Labor Department spokesman said.  
 “The key story here is the extreme uncertainty over the
near-term path of claims as a result of the annual retooling
shutdowns,  which throw the seasonal adjustments into chaos,”
Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency
Economics LLC in Valhalla, New York, said before the report.
Shepherdson projected claims would drop to 420,000.  
 It may take another week or two before the claims figures
reflect the true underlying trend, the Labor Department
spokesman said. Other employment data signal the job market will
take time to pick up, restraining consumer spending, the biggest
part of the economy.  
 “The labor market is still improving, but at a slower rate
than desired,” said Russell Price, a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Inc. in Detroit. “Companies are still
cautious about hiring at this point because there are still some
lingering concerns about the strength of the economy in the
second half of this year.  
 Manufacturing Cools  
 Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in July at
the slowest pace this year as measures of orders and sales
cooled, a report from the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York also
showed today. The bank’s general economic index dropped to 5.1,
lower than the median forecast of 18 in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index that covers New York, northern
New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  
 Wholesale prices in the U.S. dropped in June more than
forecast, pulled down by lower energy and food costs, a sign
that the economy is recovering without inflation, another report
from the Labor Department showed today.  
 The 0.5 percent decline in prices paid to factories,
farmers and other producers followed a 0.3 percent drop in May.
Excluding food and fuel, so-called  core prices  climbed 0.1
percent, matching the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  
 Market Reaction  
 Stock-index futures trimmed earlier gains after the reports
on concern manufacturing is slowing. The contract on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent to 1,092.5 at 8:55
a.m. in New York. Treasury securities were little changed.  
 Applications were projected to drop to 445,000, according
to the  median  forecast of 41 economists surveyed. Estimates
ranged from 395,000 to 470,000. The Labor Department revised the
prior week’s figure up to 458,000 from 454,000.  
 The  four-week moving  average, a less volatile measure than
the weekly figures, fell to 455,250 last week from 467,000,
today’s report showed.  
 The number of people  continuing  to receive jobless benefits
jumped by 247,000 in the week ended July 3 to 4.68 million.  
 The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  
 Losing Benefits  
 Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting  emergency  and extended payments decreased by about
255,000 to 4.32 million in the week ended June 26, after
Congress failed to pass legislation extending the assistance.
The Labor Department estimates about 3.3 million people will
fall off extended-benefit rolls by the end of July if Congress
doesn’t pass emergency legislation.  
 The unemployment rate among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, rose to 3.7 percent in
the week ended July 3, from 3.5 percent in the prior week.  
 Twenty-three states and territories reported a decline in
claims, while 30 reported an increase. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  
 Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates. That relationship has broken down in
recent months as some companies continue to cut staff, while
others expand, pointing to an uneven recovery.  
 Auto Retooling  
 The timing of the traditional summer auto-plant shutdowns
to retool equipment for new models is playing a role in the drop
in claims. General Motors Co. said June 17 most of its U.S.
plants will remain open during the traditional shutdowns, a move
that economists said could lower claims because some temporarily
suspended workers usually applied for benefits.  
 The Labor Department spokesman said the decrease in factory
shutdowns this time of year widespread, signaling it was not
just auto plants.  
 Federal Reserve policy makers, who trimmed 2010 growth
forecasts, were concerned about lingering high  unemployment  and
the low pace of hiring, minutes of their June meeting showed
yesterday.  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat,” according
to minutes of the Fed’s meeting, at which policy makers restated
a pledge to keep interest rates near zero for an extended
period. “Participants expected the pace of hiring to remain low
for some time,” as “employers were still cautious.”  
 Lost Jobs  
 The economy lost more than 8 million jobs during the
recession that began in December 2007, the biggest employment
slump in the post-World War II era. The unemployment rate, which
reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October 2009, will
average 9.6 percent this year, according to a Bloomberg survey
taken July 1 to July 8.  
 A lack of jobs and a loss of wealth is limiting consumer
spending. A Commerce Department report yesterday showed  retail
sales  fell more than projected in June, the second consecutive
decline.  
 Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based  Merck & Co.  is among
companies paring staff. The drugmaker last week said it’ll shut
eight research labs and eight manufacturing plants to cut 15,000
jobs globally as part of a previously announced plan. The move
follows Merck’s acquisition of Schering-Plough Corp. last year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. initial jobless claims dropped by 29,000 to 429,000 in the week ended July 10, the fewest since August 2008, Labor Department figures showed today, reflecting a smaller number of factory closings for this time of year. Wholesale prices in the U.S. fell 0.5 percent in June, more than forecast. Bloomberg's Michael McKee reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Lakshman Achuthan, managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about Federal Reserve monetary policy and the outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     Fed officials, in their minutes released today, saw no need to boost stimulus to the economy while trimming their forecasts for growth and noting that risks to the recovery had increased, minutes of the June Federal Open Market Committee meeting showed. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Richard Yamarone also speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
